A list of potential bidders for the Bitcoin auction was accidentally leaked by the U.S. Marshals Service on Wednesday, according to the agency. The Marshals Service confirmed that it accidentally released the names in an email to update interested parties on the auction’s guidelines. "The U.S. Marshals Service inadvertently sent an email today revealing the email addresses of people who had submitted questions about the Bitcoin auction to a general USMS mailbox that had been created for the auction," Lynzey Donahue, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Marshals, said in an emailed statement. "The USMS apologizes for this mistake which was in no way intentional," the statement said. The news was first reported by the New York Times, citing a report from CoinDesk, an online website devoted to Bitcoin. (http://nyti.ms/1lANHXU) The U.S. government said last week it plans to auction about 30,000 bitcoins, the electronic currency, valued at about $17.4 million, on June 27 the U.S. Marshals Service said. FBI seized the bitcoins during a raid in October on the Internet marketplace Silk Road, known as a hub for transactions involving illegal drugs and criminal activities. The seized bitcoins are part of the civil forfeiture and criminal action brought against Silk Roadowner Ross William Ulbrich and the assets of Silk Road, the U.S. Marshals Service said. CoinDesk has a list of people who inquired about the auction, including Fred Ehrsam, the co-founder of Coinbase, a Bitcoin payment processor, the New York Times said. (Reporting by Tanvi Mehta in Bangalore; Additional reporting by Narottam Medhora and Ankit Ajmera; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni American Apparel, Inc.'s Board of Directors voted to replace its founder and CEO and terminate his employment "for cause," the company said in a statement Wednesday evening. "We take no joy in this, but the Board felt it was the right thing to do,” board member Allan Mayer said in the statement. “Dov Charney created American Apparel, but the Company has grown much larger than any one individual and we are confident that its greatest days are still ahead." The statement said the decision stemmed from an ongoing investigation into allegations of misconduct. Charney, 45, founded the popular clothing brand in 1997. While he's being suspended immediately, his employment contract requires 30 days before he can be terminated, the statement said. “He was totally taken by surprise, which is part of the problem,” a source familiar with the matter told the Chicago Tribune. “He’s going to fight like hell to get this company back, but he won’t succeed." Although the company did not expand upon the alleged misconduct, the Tribune detailed some of the accusations Charney had faced in the past: In 2011, American Apparel lashed out when four female former employees filed a sexual harassment suit. At the time, the company told The Times that the four women were friends who were colluding to "shake down" Charney and the company for money and that it had "voluminous evidence" to prove that the allegations were false. In 2012, Charney was accused in a wrongful termination suit of choking and rubbing dirt in the face of a former store manager in Malibu. Charney also allegedly called the employee "a wannabe Jew," a "fag" and asked if he was sleeping with a certain girl. The company denied the allegations. “The Board is working with a search firm to identify candidates for the job of permanent CEO and, based on our initial discussions with the search firm, we expect the list of possible successors will be impressive," David Danziger, who has chaired the Board’s Audit Committee since 2011, said in the statement. For the time being, John Luttrell has been appointed as the company's interim CEO. Here's the full statement &gt; FREE AppDownload
BIILegacy payment hardware companies already have tremendous market share in developed markets. But payments startups are forcing these businesses to become more than terminal providers. They are increasingly becoming full-service providers of sales, analytics and mobile products. Ingenico, one of the largest payment terminal providers worldwide, is rebranding itself to communicate its evolution into a "seamless payment services provider," the company said in a release.  The reason for the pivoted focus is that the market for payment terminals in developed markets has stalled, in part, because of the availability of mobile point-of-sale systems that transform smartphones and tablets into credit and debit card readers. In a new report from BI Intelligence, we take an in-depth look at the global payment terminal market. We examine which regions are driving growth and how market share is shaping up in different regions. We also take a look at the three ways mobile technology could eventually kill the legacy payment terminal and assess how big a threat mobile really poses.  Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt; Here are some of the key elements from the report:  In full, the report: For full access to all our charts, data, and analysis on the payments industry — including downloadable Excel files — sign up and get started. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Pilar OlivaresSpain's goalkeeper Iker Casillas reacts during the team's 2014 World Cup Group B soccer match against Chile at the Maracana stadium in Rio de Janeiro June 18, 2014. Good morning, and welcome to Thursday. Here’s what you need to know… 1. Markets rose in the US session after the Fed signalled no looming change in interest rates in its monthly statement. As Joe Weisenthal writes this morning, Janet Yellen has confirmed her dovish nature, even describing the recent high CPI number as “noise”. What this means is Yellen isn’t, like of Bank of England governor Mark Carney, of a mind that interest rate rises could hit markets sooner rather than later because she isn’t overly concerned about the signs of rising activity in the US economy. 2. The “Dot plot” showing the views of FOMC members on where they think interest rates will be over the coming years is a little more dovish this year, signalling rates are unlikely to rise soon, but that there’s a wider dispersion in next year. Some analysts say this is a signal that the era of super-low rates will end. 3. At the close the Dow was up 0.6%, the S&amp;P up 0.8% and the Nasdaq up 0.6%. The Nikkei rallied more than 0.9% yesterday, while the ASX was down a third of a point which it may recover today on the US lead. The VIX, a predictor of how much the market is going to move, hit a fresh 2014 low on the back of the Fed announcement. 4. The Socceroos almost pulled off a miracle in their World Cup group game against the mighty Dutch, leading The Netherlands 2-1 at one point. But it was not to be; with a final score of 3-2, Australia is out of the World Cup (as is Spain, after a disastrous loss to Chile in the other group game). But they’ve acquitted themselves very well. And best of all, Tim Cahill, who scored a wondergoal first-touch volley on the end of a 43-yard pass, now has more goals than Ronaldo, Messi And Rooney combined. Hats off, gents. 5. And so, too, to the NSW Blues, who won the State of Origin series for the first time in nine years with a come-from-behind 6-4 victory over Queensland in Sydney last night. It was a tense affair, with scuffles breaking out repeatedly in the first half and Queensland looking like they were going to square the series, but NSW lifted in the second half before running in a try to take the lead in the final quarter. At the siren, NSW fullback Jarryd Hayne gathered the ball near his own try line and took it into touch, almost falling towards this this beautiful moment of triumph and relief with the sea of Blues supporters in front of him: The drought’s broken. 6. Amazon launched its first smartphone, the Fire, which could be a nightmare for retailers. A feature called Firefly allows you to scan physical items and encourages you to buy them on Amazon instead. It’s also stacked with features that IT professionals and business users will love, including a Mobile Device Management system that allows administrators to lock and wipe phones remotely, and access to files on a corporate network using a simple login. It also lets you scroll without touching it. 7. Public servants at the Australian Taxation Office are poised to take industrial action over a proposal that means they will have to finish at 5pm, rather than 4.51pm. 8. Overseas incentives. ANZ chairman David Gonski says the federal government should consider extending the dividend imputation system to include foreign taxes. This would encourage companies to invest more and more money overseas. 9. Fish-catching spiders. Scientists have found a new type of spider in Australia that catches and eats fish from ponds. Details – and a photo of one of the spiders catching a goldfish – here. 10. The new ringtone? This technology can make your electric car sound like a spaceship. (This is important in city streets because, as the start of the video shows, electric cars can be dangerously quiet, making them a risk to cyclists and pedestrians.) The fun starts about halfway through. But a horrifying thought: if it can be personalised, people could choose music to rev their engine to. Enya, anyone? This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Touchstone Pictures/IMDBFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Advisors Should Try To Get Clients To Spend 50% Of Every Raise, Instead Of Saving 10% Of Income (Nerd's Eye View)  A retirement planning rule of thumb involves saving about 10% of your income. But doing this "also implicitly means you’re spending the other 90%, and continuing to do so over time means you'll also be saving (only) 10% and implicitly increasing your standard of living by 90% of ever raise you receive in the future," writes Michael Kitces at Nerd's Eye View.  Kitces has an interesting idea that he thinks advisors could pitch to clients. "By contrast, an alternative approach is to try to spend “just” 50% of each pay raise you receive in the future (implicitly saving the other 50%)," writes Kitces. "The end result of such an approach is that increases in the standard of living are more controlled and rise far more slowly, savings grow exponentially (to more than 20% of income within just a decade, even from a starting point of 0%!), and you can even retire early… all while feeling like your lifestyle is steadily rising as you’re still committed to spending more every year, just not increasing as rapidly as saving 10% of your income (and spending the rest)!" What Advisors Should Remember When Reaching Out To Millennials (The Wall Street Journal)  While trying to reach out to young investors, advisors should remember that they are "are far less interested in the seeking out the next big investment opportunity than they are in financial information and knowledge," writes Grant Webster at AKT Wealth Advisors in a WSJ column. He also thinks it is a mistake for advisors to wait for Millennials to come to them "I think that the most successful advisers are going to be those who can reach out to this group and demonstrate their value," he writes. Finally, he said advisors should avoid jargon when speaking with young investors. 2013 Saw A Marked Shift Away From Wealth Preservation To Wealth Growth Among Ultra-HNWIs (Capegemini/RBC Wealth Management)  There were nearly 2 million new high net worth individuals (HNWI) in 2013, according to the latest World Wealth Report from Capegemini and RBC Wealth Management. Wealth among HNWI, which refers to those with over $1 million in assets, grew 13.8% to $52.62 trillion. Among Ultra-HNWI there was a marked shift away from wealth preservation to wealth growth. "A focus on wealth growth instead of preservation gained ground, particularly among ultra-HNWIs," according to the report. "Specifically, their preference for growth increased dramatically to 30.7% from 18.0% in 2013, while the focus on preservation declined from 44.8% to 27.6%." "While HNWIs across the globe are still slightly more focused on preserving their wealth (28.6%) than growing it (27.6%), the percentage of respondents focused on preservation has come down from 32.7% a year earlier." The Emergence Of America's Echo-Boomers Is A Very Under-appreciated Investment Theme (Business Insider)  Everyone's focused on major demographic changes coming with baby boomer retirement. But their children, dubbed the echo boomers, are emerging as a prominent force. "There are more 23-year olds than any other age group in the US today," said Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok.  "This is an underappreciated investment theme across asset classes. The fact that the echo-boomers are coming has implications for household formations and housing demand in coming years, inflows into 401(k) accounts, demand for risky assets (younger cohorts tend to put their retirement savings in stocks rather than bonds), the amount of student debt outstanding (there are more young people and more young people get an education), and as the baby-boomers retire echo-boomers will come in and take the jobs of the baby-boomers but at a lower pay." Deutsche BankFINRA's Proposed Data Collection System Could Hit Investors (Investment News) FINRA's has proposed a data collection system called Comprehensive Automated Risk Data System (CARDS), which aims to collect customer trade data to better detect fraudulent practices. Joyce Hanson at Investment News now reports that SIFMA president Kenneth Bentsen Jr is warning that, "policy makers and regulators must consider that these additional new rules … will have to be absorbed by the firms and ultimately their customers through additional costs or reduced services and choice." FREE AppDownload
Flickr/LWYMany investors had high hopes for Mexico’s market this year given an improving global economic outlook and a slate of planned domestic reforms, but some of the enthusiasm seems to have faded and economic growth has been subdued there year-to-date. I have faith in Mexico’s future, even though there are likely to be a few short-term bumps as Mexico’s reform efforts continue to be implemented—and some challenged. I’ve invited a member of my team based in Mexico City, Rodolfo Ramos Cevallos, to share his insights on our investment outlook for Mexico and the potential opportunities we see there.   Franklin TempletonRodolfo Ramos Cevallos, CFA®Vice President/Investment AnalystTempleton Emerging Markets Group We believe there was a reform euphoria being priced in equity markets in Mexico in the last couple of years, notably in 2012, when Enrique Peña Nieto won the presidency and outlined an ambitious agenda of sweeping changes, many pro-business. His “Pact for Mexico” managed to drive through a number of structural reforms that had proved intractable for decades.Most people agree that, overall, these reforms are likely to have a positive impact on the Mexican economy in the long run. However, in the short term, some reforms could have an adverse effect, including higher tax rates that are likely to hinder consumption as they are assimilated. Another reform that is expected to have a short-term negative impact on parts of the economy is telecom reform; it may create adverse conditions for mobile communications operators. In our opinion, the suite of reforms currently underway in Mexico offers the potential to shift the economy to a new growth path and provide a positive example for other countries. Opposition to reform from vested interests in Mexico is inevitable, but we believe persistence could bring potentially significant positive outcomes, both for the country’s people and for investors. We think the most exciting reform in Mexico to date is the liberalization of the energy sector. The most difficult part of the approval process was a Constitutional Amendment, which was completed last year. Congress is currently debating the secondary legislation; this legislation, together with the later-to-be published standards, will give further detail on the reform implementation. Over the last few months, we have had an opportunity to meet with different companies in Mexico and elsewhere in the Americas in the energy sector (among others), including exploration and production companies, as well as energy regulators. All these players are eagerly waiting for the legislative process to conclude so they can participate in what could turn out to be a great opportunity. It is clear to us that energy sector reform could be the most important development in Mexico since the adoption of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) 20 years ago, and we continue to closely monitor any new developments. We believe successful implementation could lead to a positive spillover effect into the broader Mexican economy in the next few years. Market Valuations    Despite weakness in Mexico’s stock market thus far in 2014, many investors have remained at least somewhat positive; its market has been trading at a valuation premium to many other markets in Latin America, according to our analysis. In the short term, investors seem to have become more cautious on the timing of an economic recovery. Last year was very challenging, with economic activity coming in well below what many forecasters were expecting, partially due to adverse weather, lower government spending, financial distress at three of Mexico’s largest homebuilders and the uncertainty from Mexico’s fiscal reform, among other events. GDP growth came in at a mere 1%1 in 2013. Some investors are concerned that a pickup in economic activity will continue to be delayed and 2014 economic growth could again disappoint. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) currently expects GDP growth of 3% this year.2 Mexico’s fiscal reform had an impact on companies and individuals alike. At the end of 2013, prior to the implementation of the tax reform, we saw a high level of uncertainty among corporations and many of them stopped investing and hiring. Now a quarter into 2014, and with companies already operating under the new fiscal rules, we are more comfortable with many companies’ ability to cope with higher taxes. On the consumer side, there were excise taxes levied on sugary drinks and foods with a high caloric content, among other items, which had a negative impact as Mexico ranks among the highest in the world in terms of soft drink consumption. Additionally, higher-earning individuals saw their income tax rate increase. In spite of these tax hikes, we believe consumer spending should be able to recover toward the second half of 2014 as we begin to see more clarity regarding the new rules and, we hope, the overall economy picks up. Our Investment Focus and Process  As Mexico is currently one of the countries in Latin America with the lowest banking penetration, companies in the financial sector present attractive potential opportunities to us. We believe the financial sector to be a good proxy for the overall economy and also a good vehicle to obtain exposure to potential growth in consumption. We expect the sector could continue growing and operating at attractive profitability levels. The mining sector is another area that we follow closely. Even after accounting for recently implemented royalties, we believe there are low-cost producers with interesting production growth profiles in base and precious metals. Meeting management and visiting companies’ operations are an integral part of our investment process. We also talk to regulators, customers, suppliers and competitors as a reference check. This process has proven critical, especially when trying to assess the impact of the various reforms including telecom, financial, fiscal and energy reforms. Companies we speak to appear to willingly take on the challenges and opportunities that these regulatory changes bring, and they are focusing on the variables they can control. We also look for companies that clearly and promptly communicate with investors and that have good corporate governance practices. Security concerns are valid in Mexico, and it is an issue that should continue to be addressed, in our view. It has been hard for us to assess the extent of the problem, since there have been cases of retaliation from drug cartels against media outlets in recent years. However, these issues have been concentrated in border cities with the United States and two states in southwest Mexico. For example, life in Mexico City, and in other large cities, has largely been business as usual. The current administration has been closely working with the United States in the apprehension of several high-level drug cartel leaders. While we continue to see acts of violence in some areas in Mexico, we expect bilateral cooperation with the United States to continue to try to tackle this problem. Mexico is a challenging market because investor expectations are generally high but, at the same time, the country is experiencing weak economic growth. Historically, Mexico’s growth has been unexciting, averaging less than 3% over the last 20 years.3 President Peña Nieto’s new administration is trying to achieve higher sustainable growth rates by improving the country’s political and economic institutions. These changes are expected to encourage innovation, give entrepreneurs access to credit, increase competition in key sectors and make the political system more pluralistic, among other benefits. We are optimistic that at least some of the administration’s lofty goals and reforms can be achieved, and we believe improving economic trends in the United States, Mexico’s neighbor to the north, could also offer added support. These are a few reasons why we are enthusiastic about Mexico’s long-term outlook. CFA® and Chartered Financial Analyst® are trademarks owned by CFA Institute. Dr. Mobius’ and Rodolfo Ramos Cevallos’ comments, opinions and analyses are for informational purposes only and should not be considered individual investment advice or a recommendation to invest in any security or to adopt any investment strategy. Because market and economic conditions are subject to rapid change, comments, opinions and analyses are rendered as of the date of the posting and may change without notice. This material is not intended as a complete analysis of every material fact regarding any country, region, market, industry, investment or strategy.  What are the Risks? All investments involve risks, including possible loss of principal. Foreign securities involve special risks, including currency fluctuations and economic and political uncertainties. Investments in emerging markets, of which frontier markets are a subset, involve heightened risks related to the same factors, in addition to those associated with these markets’ smaller size, lesser liquidity and lack of established legal, political, business and social frameworks to support securities markets. Because these frameworks are typically even less developed in frontier markets, as well as various factors including the increased potential for extreme price volatility, illiquidity, trade barriers and exchange controls, the risks associated with emerging markets are magnified in frontier markets. Currency rates may fluctuate significantly over short periods of time and can reduce returns.   1. Source: IMF World Economic Outlook database, April 2014. © by International Monetary Fund, All rights reserved. 2. Ibid. 3. Ibid. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his “Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets” blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including “Trading with China,” “The Investor’s Guide to Emerging Markets,” “Mobius on Emerging Markets,” “Passport to Profits,” “Equities—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” “Mutual Funds—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” ”The Little Book of Emerging Markets,” and “Mark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets » This article originally appeared at Investment Adventures In Emerging Markets.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsGeorge Dvorsky once wrote that: Cognitive biases are an anathema to portfolio management as it impairs our ability to remain emotionally disconnected from our money.  As history all too clearly shows, investors always do the "opposite" of what they should when it comes to investing their own money.  They "buy high" as the emotion of "greed" overtakes logic and "sell low" as"fear" impairs the decision making process. Here are 5 of the most insidious biases that will keep you from achieving your long term investment goals. 1) Confirmation Bias As individuals, we tend to seek out information that conforms to our current beliefs.  If one believes that the stock market is going to rise, they tend to only seek out news and information that supports that position.  This confirmation bias is a primary driver of the psychological investing cycle of individuals as shown below. STA Wealth The issue of "confirmation bias" also creates a problem for the media. Since the media requires "paid advertisers" to create revenue, viewer or readership is paramount to obtaining those clients.  As financial markets are rising, presenting non-confirming views of the financial markets lowers views and reads as investors seek sources to "confirm"their current beliefs. Individuals want "affirmation" that they current thought process is correct.  As human beings, we hate being told that we are wrong, so we tend to seek out sources that tell us we are "right." 2) Gambler's Fallacy The "Gambler's Fallacy" is one of the biggest issues faced by individuals when investing. As emotionally driven human beings, we tend to put a tremendous amount of weight on previous events believing that future outcomes will somehow be the same. The bias is clearly addressed at the bottom of every piece of financial literature. However, despite that statement being plastered everywhere in the financial universe, individuals consistently dismiss the warning and focus on past returns expecting similar results in the future. This is one of the key issues that affect investor's long term returns.  Performance chasing has a high propensity to fail continually causing investors to jump from one late cycle strategy to the next.  This is shown in the periodic table of returns below. "Hot hands" only tend to last on average 2-3 years before going "cold." STA Wealth I traced out the returns of the Russell 2000 for illustrative purposes but importantly you should notice that whatever is at the top of the list in some years tends to fall to the bottom of the list in subsequent years. "Performance chasing" is a major detraction from investor's long term investment returns. 3) Probability Neglect When it comes to "risk taking" there are two ways to assess the potential outcome. There are "possibilities" and "probabilities." As individual's we tend to lean toward what is possible such as playing the "lottery."  The statistical probabilities of winning the lottery are astronomical, in fact, you are more likely to die on the way to purchase the ticket than actually winning the lottery. However, it is the "possibility" of being fabulously wealthy that makes the lottery so successful as a "tax on poor people." However, as investors we tend to neglect the "probabilities" of any given action which is specifically the statistical measure of "risk" undertaken with any given investment. As individuals, our bias is to "chase" stocks that have already shown the biggest increase in price as it is "possible" they could move even higher.  However, the "probability" is that most of the gains are likely already built into the current move and that a corrective action will occur first.  Robert Rubin, former Secretary of the Treasury, once stated; Probability neglect is another major component to why investors consistently "buy high and sell low." 4) Herd Bias Though we are often unconscious of the action, humans tend to "go with the crowd." Much of this behavior relates back to "confirmation" of our decisions but also the need for acceptance. The thought process is rooted in the belief that if "everyone else" is doing something, they if I want to be accepted I need to do it too. In life, "conforming" to the norm is socially accepted and in many ways expected.  However, in the financial markets the "herding" behavior is what drives market excesses during advances and declines. As Howard Marks once stated: Moving against the "herd" is where the most profits are generated by investors in the long term. The difficulty for most individuals, unfortunately, is knowing when to "bet"against the stampede. 5) Anchoring Effect This is also known as a "relativity trap" which is the tendency for us to compare our current situation within our own limited experiences.  For example, I would be willing to bet that you could tell me exactly what you paid for your first home and what you eventually sold it for.  However, can you tell me what exactly what you paid for your first bar of soap, your first hamburger or your first pair of shoes? Probably not. The reason is that the purchase of the home was a major "life" event. Therefore, we attach particular significance to that event and remember it vividly. If there was a gain between the purchase and sale price of the home, it was a positive event and therefore we assume that the next home purchase will have a similar result.  We are mentally"anchored" to that event and base our future decisions around a very limited data. When it comes to investing we do very much the same thing.  If we buy a stock and it goes up, we remember that event.  Therefore, we become anchored to that stock as opposed to one that lost value.  Individuals tend to "shun" stocks that lost value even if they were simply bought and sold at the wrong times due to investor error. After all, it is not "our" fault that the investment lost money; it was just a bad stock. Right? This "anchoring" effect also contributes to performance chasing over time. If you made money with ABC stock but lost money on DEF, then you "anchor" on ABC and keep buying it as it rises. When the stock begins its inevitable "reversion," investors remain"anchored" on past performance until the "pain of ownership" exceeds their emotional threshold. It is then that they panic "sell" and are now "anchored" to a negative experience and never buy shares of ABC again. In the end, we are just human.  Despite the best of our intentions, it is nearly impossible for an individual to be devoid of the emotional biases that inevitably lead to poor investment decision making over time. This is why all great investors have strict investment disciplines that they follow to reduce the impact of human emotions. Take a step back from the media and Wall Street commentary for a moment and make an honest assessment of the financial markets today. Does the current extension of the financial markets appear to be rational? Are individuals current assessing the"possibilities" or the "probabilities" in the markets? As individuals, we are investing our hard earned "savings" into the Wall Street casino. Our job is to "bet" when the "odds" of winning are in our favor. With interest rates at abnormally low levels, inflation rising, economic data continuing the "muddle" through and the Federal Reserve extracting their support; exactly how "strong" is that hand you are betting on? This article originally appeared at STA Wealth Management.  Copyright 2014. Follow STA Wealth Management on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
RedfinPhil Maloof, a member of a prominent Las Vegas hotel family, is selling his massive penthouse in Las Vegas for $38 million, making it the most expensive home on the market in the city, according to Curbed. The Maloofs have had a large presence in the business world, as they previously owned the Sacramento Kings and also helped to create the Palms Casino Resort in Las Vegas. The penthouse is located at Palms Place and spans 27,000 square feet of indoor and outdoor space — large enough to fit 500 people. The fully furnished home's high price tag gets you quite a few special features, including an outdoor theater, a DJ booth, and a full gym. Maloof is also throwing in one Dali and one Picasso painting for the lucky buyer. This is the most expensive home for sale in Las Vegas since Wayne Newton's ranch hit the market for $70 million and failed to sell, even after being reduced to $48 million. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ivan Alvarado The VIX put in a new low for the year after the latest monetary policy announcement from the Federal Reserve. The index of implied market volatility fell 12%, or 1.45 points, to close at 10.61. The VIX is a measure of how much the market is expected to move over the next month. The previous closing low for the VIX this year was 10.73. In its latest policy announcement, the Fed stayed the course, cutting its monthly asset purchases by $10 billion and keeping interest rates unchanged.  In her press conference following the announcement, Fed Chair Janet Yellen struck a dovish tone, saying that, "Further, once [the Fed begins] to remove policy accommodation, it is the Committee’s current assessment that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run." Following Yellen's comments, the market rallied and the VIX cratered.  Here's a chart of how the VIX did today. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
The government will start auctioning large chunks of federal offshore lands off the coast of Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket for wind farm development. At 742,000 acres, the area to be sold off is the largest the government has ever dedicated to offshore wind, and nearly doubles the federal offshore acreage available for commercial-scale wind energy projects. The turbines will be located 12 nautical miles south of Martha's Vineyard, and 13 nautical miles southwest of Nantucket. Here's the map: InteriorMassachusetts residents living on the state's shore have spent more than a decade opposing offshore wind development, despite the area's massive potential. Despite the fact that the developments will be well beyond the shores of both islands, it will have taken four years to set this auction up: Mass.govAccording to Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers blogger Dave Levitan, the installations will be far enough away so as not to obstruct residents' views. And he says the output potential here is huge: So how big is [742,000 acres] when it comes to wind development? The London Array, currently the world's biggest offshore wind farm at 630 megawatts (with the eventual goal of 1 gigawatt), sits on a [25,000-acre] area. That means if companies managed to develop all of the new area (not likely, of course), there is at least a potential to install enough turbines to generate 18,000 megawatts. That's enough to power, say, Finland. Or Chile. Or Kazakhstan. The actual date for the auction won't be set until after the comment period ends in August. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / ajariThe reliance on credit bureaus to accurately report an individual’s true credit status is more important now than ever. An error of any kind could drastically affect one’s FICO score, creating unnecessary difficulties toward obtaining credit that might otherwise be no problem. The Fair Credit Reporting Act was a milestone in regulating how credit bureaus operated, and it has been amended as necessary to incorporate changes in technology, reporting, and how credit is used in contemporary America. Up until recently, there were really only two ways to challenge an error on your credit report. Now, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has added new rules to make challenging errors easier, after receiving 31,000 complaints about fixing credit reporting errors. Previously, the first of two methods for fixing mistakes was to file a dispute directly with the credit bureau or bureaus — Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. The dispute, which could be filed by phone, letter, or on the website, was required to be displayed on the item in question. That way, a potential creditor could see the item was disputed, and potentially give the applicant an opportunity to prove the error when a credit decision was being made. The credit bureaus were then required to contact the “furnishing party” – the entity that dinged your credit – to check on the item’s accuracy. The process was mandated to take less than 45 days, and if there’s no response from the furnisher, the item gets deleted. The second method was to file a dispute directly with the furnisher, who is in turn required to tell the credit bureaus the item is in dispute. Even better, the furnisher had to investigate the claim, and if it was an error, the correction had to be made to the credit bureaus. There were many complaints with the old system, especially in regards to it being slow and having a difficult time proving your case. The CFPB has made the process less onerous. Rather than just make a general dispute, you are now permitted to offer supporting information to help prove your case. This includes copies of paid bills, police reports, proof of identity, or detailed correspondence regarding the issue. The more you submit to prove your case, the better – and now the credit agencies have to consider it all. Credit agencies are now required to forward your dispute along with all that information to the furnisher. If it corrects your information as a result of your dispute, it now must do so for each of the reporting agencies. That, in particular, is a huge benefit that wasn’t necessarily available before. All of this follows a very trying period of CFPB supervisory exams, in which the CFPB examined many aspects of how credit agencies operate. This included how they screened information for accuracy and made sure it linked to the right person. That the CFPB only made these changes (so far) after a 121-point exam at all of the big agencies should give consumers faith that the agencies are doing their best to protect our credit information, and report it properly. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yannis Behrakis Stocks closed higher as the Federal Reserve stayed the course, keeping interest rates unchanged and tapering its monthly asset purchases by another $10 billion per month. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: Don't Miss: This Is A Moment In The Housing Recovery That Everyone Has Been Waiting For » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA screen displays a news conference by Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen as a trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on March 19, 2014. Janet Yellen is a dove. That seems like the most obvious sentence in the world. After all, if there's one thing that people know about Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen it's that she's considered to be dovish. What that means is, she's not overly concerned about the economy overheating, and not inclined to tighten policy early. And that's the big takeaway from today's FOMC events. At every opportunity, Yellen &amp; Co. took the dovish turn. First, the context. Unemployment has been falling rapidly, and inflation has begun to tick up. And in England, Mark Carney just suggested that the Bank of England could increase interest rates sooner than expected. So naturally everyone was wondering whether the Fed would take stock of the improving economy, and give a hint similar to Carney's. But there was no hint. To start, there was no policy change. The pace of tapering qualitative-easing purchases will continue at the exact same pace. And there was very little change to the risk outlook. The official statement didn't have any clues that the improving data might lead to a sooner rate hike. Then at the press conference, Janet Yellen continued to hit dovish notes. She used the word "noise" to describe the hot CPI number that we get yesterday, signaling a lack of worry about prices picking up. And when the question turned to unemployment, she expressed skepticism that the official, headline unemployment rate (6.3%) was an adequate reflection of labor market tightness. She said she believes that a lot of the decline in the participation rate is a function of the weak economy, and so therefore there are a lot of shadow unemployed workers who may come back to the labor market as things improving. Stocks are at their highs of the day, as markets recognize what the Fed is saying: There's no nervousness about the improving data, and there's no rush to tighten rates anytime soon. Janet Yellen is a dove. FREE AppDownload
The Argentine stock market, the Merval, is going green after the news that the country will negotiate with a group of hedge fund managers over $1.7 billion worth of debt dating back to 2001. It's up 1.14$% and climbing. Yahoo Finance Earlier this week when the Supreme Court announced that it would not hear the case between Argentina and a group of hedge fund managers known as NML, Argentina's stock market crashed. The case in question had the country's default riding on it. For over a decade, Argentina had said that under no circumstances would it pay a group of "vulture" hedge funds led by Paul Singer, of Elliott Management. The group bought Argentine debt after the country's collapse in 2001. When other bondholders restructured in 2005 and 2010, NML refused. Instead they sued the country for the full amount of their payout. In 2012 NYC Judge Thomas Griesa ruled that Argentina had to pay. The Supreme Court's decision not to hear the case meant that Judge Griesa's ruling stood. When that announcement hit the Merval, everything went south.  Google Finance In other words, crisis averted. For now. FREE AppDownload
Ralph Orlowski/Getty ImagesOnce again, the school season is wrapping up around the country, and it's time for a slowdown in the advisory business, summer vacations, and a lot (or at least a little!) more time for relaxing and reading books. As an avid reader myself, I know I'm always eager to hear suggestions of good books to read, and I suspect many of you are often looking for ideas as well. Accordingly, last year I launched my first "Summer Book Reading List" that was very well received, so I'm updated it again this year (at least, for those of you who are up for reading non-fiction books for fun!). The 2014 edition includes a wide range, from a few books about marketing and practice management, to a couple in the realm of psychology and behavioral finance, and a few other non-fiction reads as well. I hope that you find this suggested reading list to be helpful ... and that you share your own suggestions of what you're reading in the comments at the end of this blog post! This book by Simon Sinek was by far the most inspirational business book I read over the past year. The basic premise of the book is that in business, most of us focus far too much on what we do and how we do it, and don't spend nearly enough time sharing why we do what we do, despite the fact that in the end, especially in a people-relationship business like financial planning, people don't buy what you do, they buy why you do it (or as the old saying goes, people do business with people they know, like, and trust ... and the "why" is foundation for know/like/trust). Though the phenomenon isn't limited to relationship businesses; in fact, Sinek notes Apple as a good example of a company that effectively embodies its "why" to think differently, and over time has attracted many people who share their why and are passionate advocates for their brand (ever tried to argue with an Apple fan about Apple products!?)! Conversely, the railroad companies of the late 1900s are a good example of an industry that failed because it didn't understand its why; they thought they were in the railroad business, when in fact they were in the long-distance mass transportation business, and consequently they were blind-sided by the next long-distance mass transportation innovation (the airline). As you read through the book, the stories are inspiring and will likely stimulate you to think about your own why, the purpose of your business and your own reason for being. For those who want the 'shorter' version, check out Sinek's TED video on his Start With Why concept (which now has a whopping 17 million views!). But it's really worth reading the book all the way through. The concept of this book is that "marketing" isn't really about marketing; it's about connecting with and engaging people, forming a connection to them that makes them want to do business with you. This "stop marketing and start engaging" approach is what the author Scott Stratten has done to build his own business, and the book mixes together short real world stories that illustrates the points and concepts, and some of Stratten's own personal and business experiences along the way. Stratten's engagement-marketing approach is built heavily around social media, and as a result most of the concepts of the book will resonate most with those who are active with social media or looking to build there. However, the concepts have equal relevance for virtually any advisory firm looking to grow — especially given recent research suggesting that client engagement is the best way to drive referrals as well — though advisors not active with social media may have to stretch a bit further to apply some of the book's concepts. This book by Cam Marston (a speaker and researcher on generational trends with a focus in financial services) examines how to apply some of the research on the three biggest generations (Baby Boomers, Gen X, and Gen Y) in the context of financial advisory firms. While many books on generations and demographics just talk about broad differences across the generations, Marston's book focuses in much greater detail on how the concepts can be applied; for instance, Boomers prefer that you tell the story of where you and your firm came from, and prefer tried-and-true well-established businesses and brands, while X'ers are much less patient with background stories and want you to get to the point and be transparent, and Millennials demand instant communication and the latest technology but often prefer to work in groups (and it may be easier to meet with them if you invite them as a group!). This book is a relatively short read (less than 100 pages), and will probably be most relevant to firms that are trying to target clientele outside of their 'traditional' demographic of their existing clients (and/or of a different generation than the primary firm owner) who are looking for perspective on how to better communicate with and connect with a generation different than their own or what they're currently used to. This book by the Heath brothers takes a deep dive into how our brains make decisions, the ways we make mistakes in our decisions, and how to fix these issues. While to some extent you might frame this as a "behavioral finance" book, the reality is that "Decisive" is not just a bunch of theory and research about the dumb mistakes we make because of how our brains are wired, but a remarkably practical look at how we might actually do things differently to combat these challenges. As a result, the book has relevance for everything from how we implement investment decisions (as I've written in the past), to understanding the value a financial planner brings to the table for clients (an outside perspective helps to put distance between our decisions and our emotions), to just making better decisions on practical day-to-day challenges. For instance, the authors note that choosing between two alternatives is far better than just a 'take-it-or-leave-it' decision, so consider "multi-tracking" decisions and creating an opportunity for better side-by-side comparisons (e.g., if you're hiring someone, always have at least two candidates to compare, don't just make a yes-or-no decision on a single candidate). The bottom line: whether you want help making better decisions, or some ideas about how to help clients do so, this book is worth reading. This is a book I'll confess I haven't read yet myself; but after reading several other behavioral-finance-related books, including "Thinking, Fast &amp; Slow" (from last year's Summer Reading list), the aforementioned "Decisive", and Prochaska's "Changing For Good", this book has come highly recommended to me and is already downloaded onto my Kindle as my next read! The core concept is that our habits are a loop that consists of three parts: a cue that prompts us, a routine that we engage in, and a reward at the end. Yet sometimes, habits can have unintended consequences, such as the 'afternoon cookie' routine that turned out to be more about taking a break from work and socializing with peers in the cafeteria than actually doing the eating — which means a solution that captures the reward (a break and some socializing) without the routine (buying a cookie) can change the habit (no more afternoon cookies, and perhaps now a little weight loss!). Accordingly, the focus of this book is on not only what habits are, but how to try to understand them, change them (if necessary or desirable), and how these concepts play out in various contexts from our individual lives to companies to social movements. From statistics wunderkind Nate Silver, now famous for his 538 blog that used statistics to successfully predict the Presidential outcomes of 50 out of 50 states in the last election (and embarrassing the predictions of many pundits along the way), this book is Silver's discussion of the world of statistics and how statistical techniques can be applied to a wide range of real world problems (with a particular focus on Bayesian techniques). Accordingly, the book looks at how statistics has been applied to everything from weather (where we're actually getting a lot more accurate as statistical techniques improve) to predicting earthquakes (where we've basically made no progress in decades), to sports and Poker and even how statistical techniques apply to concepts like whether markets are efficient. Ultimately, the underlying principle to all of these issues — and statistical analysis itself — is trying to separate out the real signals from the underlying noise (thus the name of the book). For those who want some perspective on what we do and don't know about statistics as it's applied to real-world problems, this book is an interesting read, though I'll grant that it really provides much information of direct relevance to advisors (though some of the points Silver makes about the efficiency of markets or lack thereof are notable). Another recent addition to my own still-to-read-this-summer list (after recently covering a review of the book in Weekend Reading), this book provides an interesting look at the investment experiences of the famous economist John Maynard Keynes. While Keynes ultimately died a rather wealthy man (a net worth of approximately $22 million in today's dollars) as a result of his investment success, his path was not without challenges. His first investment syndicate speculated in currencies, in an attempt to leverage his expertise in international finance, but ultimately went bust after an unexpected surge against his short currency positions. His second attempt in the 1920s focusing on commodity speculation based on predictions of supply and demand, yet after a few years of success Keynes was nearly wiped out again when the Great Depression struck. Ultimately, Keynes further adapted his investment approach to focus on long-term deep-value stock picking, which fared far better than his currency and commodities speculation, though I suspect the path of how the greater economic thinker's own investment philosophy developed and evolved may be the most fascinating of all. The hot book in economic circles right now, French economist Thomas Piketty's "Capital in the Twenty-First Century" is a deep dive analysis into the history of income inequality, and comes to the somewhat troubling conclusion that significant income inequality may be an inevitable conclusion in a capitalist economy without government interventions to prevent it. The fundamental problem is that over time, the return on capital (r) tends to be greater than a country's rate of economic growth (g), and as long as r &gt; g the wealth of the wealthy will inevitably compound upwards towards an ever-rising income inequality gap. Piketty suggests that the problem was already underway in the 19th century, but that two World Wars and the Great Depression in the early 20th century (along with extremely high levels of taxation and/or inflation in many countries) broke the trend for a period of time, but it is now underway again. Ultimately, Piketty suggests that the best solution is a concerted globally-coordinated effort to tax (extreme) wealth, and that ignoring the problem will just lead to ever greater compounding of inequality (as long as the r &gt; g dynamic holds). This book is not a light read — weighing in at a whopping 696 pages — but if you want to be up to speed on the latest thinking about income inequality and the potential solutions that may be proposed in the future (as Piketty has been on a "rock star" world tour with world leaders and policy influencers), you can't do better than go right to the source. This book is actually not new (it's a 2009 update of the original 1986 "E-Myth"), but was by far one of the most impactful books on my thinking as a business owner, and is one of the books I recommend highly to any and every financial advisor who's starting/building a practice. The premise of the book is that most businesses are not actually started by entrepreneurs who set out to build a business; instead, businesses are started by technicians who enjoy doing the work of the business, and decided to create a business around what they do. Yet as a result, most small businesses fail, because the technicians have skills at working in the business but no skillset to work on the business. Gerber illustrates this concept with a piemaker who's great at making pies but doesn't really have any ability to run or manage a piemaking business, though the analogy is arguably quite apt to most financial advisory firms as well, which are often run by technicians who may be great financial planners but spend most/all of their time working in their businesses and not working on the business itself. The book then proceeds to provide a wealth of ideas and concepts for how technicians can try to work around these challenges and change their thinking to really figure out how to grow and build their business. If you're trying to build your own advisory practice and you've never read this book, do yourself a favor this summer and read it! This book was just released two weeks ago, and as a result I've only just been able to start reading it. Written by David Grau, founder of FP Transitions (which has facilitated more than 5,000 valuations of advisory firms and over 1,200 transactions), this book details Grau's accumulated views, wisdom, and experience about how best to execute a succession plan in an advisory firm — a notable topic given the demographics of today's financial advisors, especially there is still a remarkable dearth of books and content on best practices in succession planning. In the book, Grau digs into everything from when a formal succession plan should begin, how to structure it to incentivize the next generation and provide a comfortable financial transition for the founder, and how to restructure key aspects of a practice to make it more transition-able in the first place. Notably, though, the book is not "just" for advisory firm owners, but may also have relevance for 'junior' advisors who want to start the ownership and succession planning discussion with the principal(s) of their firm. FREE AppDownload
Federal ReserveEarlier this afternoon, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) unveiled its monetary policy, choosing to taper its asset purchase program by $10 billion, to a monthly pace of $35 billion. The statement was, on the whole, dovish. Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen then took the stage to explain the Fed decision. Economic activity is rebounding in the current quarter and will continue to expand at a modest pace after. "Unemployment remains elevated and underutilization in the labor market remains significant," said Yellen. Inflation is running below the 2% objective, and this could pose risks to economic performance. The committee expects inflation to move gradually back toward its objective. Yellen said a wide range of indicators will trigger rate hikes. When asked if the Fed is behind the curve on inflation, Yellen said, "I think recent readings on CPI index have been a bit on the high side but I think it's the data we're seeing is noisy. Broadly speaking inflation is evolving in line with the committee's expectations." Addressing the new faces in the FOMC, Yellen said there's a very slight decline this time the committee's longer-term normal rate of interest projections. "I would caution you however that we've had turnover and 2 new participants are joining" and offering projections, she said. And that can cause small changes that are difficult to interpret. There's been some slight decline of projections pertaining to longer-term growth and typically estimates of the longer-term interest rates would move in line with growth projections. Yellen reiterated that there is uncertainty about MP the timing and pace of rate increases will respond to unfolding economic developments. "If those were to be faster than the Committee expects, we can see a faster rise in the Fed funds rate," but the opposite holds true as well. When asked why we are stuck with slower growth? Yellen said part of the reason we're seeing slower growth is because capital investment has been weak during the downturn and recovery. "As the economy picks up I hope to see that contribution restored." On long-term unemployment, Yellen said, its possible there is some "permanent damage." "We can see what the costs of the financial crisis were. I think the regulations we've put in place, most of which follow from Dodd Frank, are highly appropriate to create a more robust financial system." When asked if she's confident on the economy she said, "Well when you say confident I suppose the answer is no, because there's uncertainty." Yellen reiterated that she would communicate with the public when appropriate. "There is some evidence of reach for yield behavior. This envy of low volatility is on my radar screen," Yellen said. Yellen doesn't think current trends are a threat to stability. "I don't see a broad based rise in leverage, rapid increase in credit growth … the kinds of broad trends that would suggest to me that the level of financial stability risk has risen above a moderate level." On wage inflation, Yellen said "as the labor market begins to tighten, to a point where real wage growth are rising more rapidly than inflation ... so households are getting a real increase in their take home pay. Within limits that's not a threat to inflation." When asked about bond exit fees, Yellen said: "I am not aware of any discussion of that topic inside the Federal Reserve and that's under the purview of the SEC." Here's Yellen's opening statement:  Good afternoon. The Federal Open Market Committee concluded its June meeting earlier today. As was indicated in our policy statement, the Committee decided to make another modest reduction in the pace of its purchases of longer-term securities. The Committee maintained its forward guidance regarding the federal funds rate target and reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy remains appropriate. Today’s policy actions reflect the Committee’s assessment that the economy is continuing to make progress toward our objectives of maximum employment and price stability. In the labor market, conditions have improved further. The unemployment rate, at 6.3 percent, is four-tenths lower than at the time of our March meeting, and the broader U-6 measure—which includes marginally attached workers and those working part time but preferring full-time work—has fallen by a similar amount. Even given these declines, however, unemployment remains elevated, and a broader assessment of indicators suggests that underutilization in the labor market remains significant. Although real GDP declined in the first quarter, this decline appears to have resulted mainly from transitory factors. Private domestic final demand—that is, spending by domestic households and businesses—continued to expand in the first quarter, and the limited set of indicators of spending and production in the second quarter have picked up. The Committee thus believes that economic activity is rebounding in the current quarter and will continue to expand at a moderate pace thereafter. Overall, the Committee continues to see sufficient underlying strength in the economy to support ongoing improvement in the labor market. Inflation has continued to run below the Committee’s 2 percent objective, and the Committee remains mindful that inflation running persistently below its objective could pose risks to economic performance. Given that longer-term inflation expectations appear to be well anchored, and in light of the ongoing recovery in the United States and in many economies around the world, the Committee continues to expect inflation to move gradually back toward its objective. The Committee will continue to assess incoming data carefully to ensure that policy is consistent with attaining the FOMC’s longer-run objectives of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. This outlook is reflected in the individual economic projections submitted in conjunction with this meeting by the FOMC participants. As always, each participant’s projections are conditioned on his or her own views of appropriate monetary policy. The central tendency of the unemployment rate projections is slightly lower than in the March projections and now stands at 6.0 to 6.1 percent at the end of this year. From there, Committee participants generally see the unemployment rate declining to its longer-run normal level by the end of 2016. The central tendency of the projections for real GDP growth is 2.1 to 2.3 percent for 2014, down notably from the March projections, largely because of the unexpected contraction in the first quarter. Over the next two years, the projections for real GDP growth remain somewhat above the estimates of longer-run normal growth. Finally, FOMC participants continue to see inflation moving only gradually back toward 2 percent over time as the economy expands. The central tendency of the inflation projections is 1.5 to 1.7 percent in 2014, rising to 1.6 to 2.0 percent in 2016. As I noted at the outset, the Committee decided today to make another measured reduction in the pace of asset purchases. Starting next month, we will be purchasing $35 billion of securities per month, down $10 billion per month from our current rate. Even after today’s action takes effect, we will continue to expand our holdings of longer-term securities, and we will also continue to roll over maturing Treasury securities and reinvest principal payments from the FOMC’s holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities. These sizable and still-increasing holdings will continue to put downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and make financial conditions more accommodative, helping to support job creation and a return of inflation to the Committee’s objective. Today’s announced reduction in the pace of asset purchases reflects the Committee’s expectation that progress toward its economic objectives will continue. If incoming information broadly supports the Committee’s expectation of ongoing improvement in labor markets and inflation moving back over time toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will likely continue to reduce the pace of asset purchases in measured steps at future meetings. However, as I have emphasized before, purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee’s decisions about the pace of purchases remain contingent on its outlook for jobs and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. Let me now turn to the framework we will be applying as we consider interest rate policy. In determining how long to maintain the current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will assess progress—both realized and expected—toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This broad assessment will not hinge on any one or two indicators, but will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. Based on its current assessment of these factors, the Committee anticipates that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee’s 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. Further, once we begin to remove policy accommodation, it is the Committee’s current assessment that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run. This guidance is consistent with the paths for appropriate policy as reported in the participants’ projections, which show the federal funds rate for most participants remaining well below longer-run normal values at the end of 2016. Although FOMC participants provide a number of explanations for the federal funds rate target remaining below its longer-run normal level, many cite the residual effects of the financial crisis. These include restrained household spending, reduced credit availability, and diminished expectations for future growth in output and incomes, consistent with the view that the potential growth rate of the economy may be lower for some time. Let me reiterate, however, that the Committee’s expectation for the path of the federal funds rate target is contingent on the economic outlook. If the economy proves to be stronger than anticipated by the Committee, resulting in a more rapid convergence of employment and inflation to the FOMC’s objectives, then increases in the federal funds rate target are likely to occur sooner and to be more rapid than currently envisaged. Conversely, if economic performance disappoints, resulting in larger and more persistent deviations from the Committee’s objectives, then increases in the federal funds rate target are likely to take place later and to be more gradual. Before taking your questions, I’d like to provide an update on the Committee’s ongoing discussions on the mechanics of normalizing the stance and conduct of monetary policy. To be clear, these discussions are in no way intended to signal any imminent change in the stance of monetary policy. Rather, they represent prudent planning on the part of the Committee and reflect the Committee’s intention to communicate its plans to the public well before the first steps in normalizing policy become appropriate. The Committee is confident that it has the tools it needs to raise short-term interest rates when it becomes appropriate to do so and to control the level of short-term interest rates thereafter, even though the Federal Reserve will continue to have a very large balance sheet for some time. The Committee’s recent discussions have centered on the appropriate mix of tools to employ during the normalization process and the associated implications for the degree of control over short-term interest rates, the functioning of the federal funds market, and the extent to which the Federal Reserve transacts with financial institutions outside the banking sector. The Committee is constructively working through the many issues related to normalization and will continue its discussions in upcoming meetings, with the expectation of providing additional details later this year. Thank you. I’ll be happy to take your questions. ------- The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) just unveiled its latest monetary policy decision. As expected it moved to cut its monthly asset purchase program by $10 billion to $35 billion. The Fed also kept its interest rate unchanged, though it lowered its GDP forecast. Despite the recent uptick in inflation, its language on inflation was largely unchanged. Basically, the Fed sees no urgency on the part of the FOMC to tighten monetary policy by raising rates, even though unemployment has come down dramatically, and inflation is picking up. We'll have live coverage of Fed chair Janet Yellen's press conference. FREE AppDownload
wikimedia commons Stocks have gone green after the Federal Reserve announced it would take another $10 billion off its monthly asset purchases and kept interest rates unchanged. The Dow is up 22 points, the S&amp;P 500 is up 6 points, and the Nasdaq is up 6 points. The "Dot Plot," which is included in the Fed's Economic Projections, was also updated, and it showed a slightly wider view of where FOMC members expect interest rates to be. Janet Yellen is holding a press conference following the report, and we have live updates here. In corporate news, FedEx shares are up better than 4% after the shipping giant reported better than expected earnings and revenue. FedEx, however, cut its outlook for 2014 U.S. GDP to 2.2% from 2.6%. Shares of ConAgra Foods are down more than 6% after the company said its fourth quarter earnings will miss expectations.  FREE AppDownload
The Federal Reserve has released its latest monetary policy decision. Mostly it was a non event, as the Fed is not indicating a quicker pace of rate hikes, despite improving unemployment and inflation data. The Fed kept interest rates between 0% and 0.25%, and took another $10 billion off its monthly asset purchases. The Fed also released its latest Summary of Economic Projections, which includes an updated version of its "Dot Plot," and it looks like the FOMC has no idea where interest rates are going. The Dot Plot shows what various members of the FOMC are predicting for the path of future rate hikes. It's a forecast. The latest version of its Dot Plot shows an even wider dispersion among where FOMC members believe interest rates will be, both at the end of the next three years and over the longer run. In other words, there's no consensus about what's going to happen with interest rates. It's anyone's guess. Here's the latest Dot Plot, followed by the previous Dot Plot from March. Federal Reserve Federal Reserve The projections for interest rates at the end of this year remain unchanged. But at least one FOMC member now sees interest rates at the end of 2015 at each rate between 0.25% and 2.25%. Interest rate projections for the end of 2016 are now in a slightly wider range, as the lowest expectation for year-end interest rates moves to 0.5% from 0.75%.  As Tom Diagloma of ED&amp;F Man Capital said following the decision, "No real change to the statement but some disagreement about the DOTS." The updated Dot Plot also shows that over the longer run, FOMC members see interest rates just below 4%, lower than where they had previously seen rates. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesArgentina's lawyer has said that the country will negotiate with NML, the group of hedge funds suing the country for $1.7 billion in bonds. The country met with Judge Griesa, the judge who ordered the country to pay out bondholders back in 2012, Wednesday afternoon around 2 p.m. EST. The Argentine stock market, the Merval, is reacting to this news positively, and is making gains after cashing earlier this week. Argentine bonds due 2015 have also reversed their losses on the news. For over a decade, Argentina has said that under no circumstances would it pay a group of "vulture" hedge funds led by Paul Singer, of Elliott Management. The group, known as NML, bought Argentine debt after the country's collapse in 2001. When other bondholders restructured in 2005 and 2010, NML refused. Instead they sued the country for the full amount of their payout. Argentina fought, and so did the funds, once getting a Ghanaian court to impound an Argentine naval vessel as collateral. This, naturally, upset Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner. The country appealed Judge Griesa's ruling all the way up to the Supreme Court, asking the highest court in the United States to hear their case. On Monday, their request was denied. Now here's the thing. Argentina had to fight until the bitter end, President Fernandez explained why in a televised speech on Tuesday night. She told the entire nation that if the country paid NML, it would be in violation of its agreement with other bondholders and would automatically have to pay not just $1.7 billion, but $15 billion. And according to that agreement, it could not even negotiate with NML until 2015, unless it was forced. Tuesday night, Economy Minister, Axel Kicillof, suggested that Argentina swap 92% of the bonds in question here, and replace them with bonds under Argentine jurisdiction, rather U.S. jurisdiction. It was a risky, last ditch attempt to prevent default. Either way, the country could finally argue that it was forced to negotiate, and sat down with Judge Griesa to figure out a plan to do so. Griesa said that the bond swap was illegal  — so that's out of the way — so now it's all about crafting a payment plan.   FREE AppDownload
The Federal Reserve just released its latest Summary of Economic Projections, and the Fed has revised its 2014 GDP projections lower.  The Fed now expects 2014 GDP to grow 2.1% to 2.3%, down from its previous outlook of 2.8% to 3.0% growth.  The Fed's reduced GDP outlook follows a number of negative revisions to Q1 GDP from Wall Street economists.  The Fed's 2015 and 2016 GDP projections are unchanged.  The Fed also revised its unemployment rate projection lower to 6.0% to 6.1% for 2014, down from expectations for 6.1% to 6.3%.  The Fed also revised its expected unemployment rates for 2015 and 2016 lower. Federal Reserve FREE AppDownload
The FOMC just announced that it will continue tapering its monthly asset purchases by $10 billion. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen is expected to hold a 2:30 press conference following the announcement.  Along with its latest monetary policy decision, the Fed also released its latest Summary of Economic Projections. Included in its Economic Projections is the Fed's "Dot Plot," which shows where FOMC members think interest rates will be at year-end through 2016, and over the longer run. The update Dot Plot shows one more Fed member expecting no interest rate change into 2015, a more dovish positioning than March's plot. This is what the Dot Plot looks like now. Federal Reserve This is what the Dot Plot chart looked like at the March meeting. Federal Reserve FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Susan WalshThe Fed just unveiled its latest policy decision which came in as expected. There's no urgency on the part of the FOMC to raise rates, even though unemployment has come down dramatically, and inflation is picking up. For now, the Fed is content to let the data play out, and perhaps risk being behind the curve. As for specifics, The Fed tapered its quantitative easing program by $10 billion as expected to $35 billion. The $10 billion taper — the monthly reduction in its pace of bond purchases — is the same as we've seen in recent months. In its statement it pointed out that "growth in economic activity has rebounded in recent months." The Fed is acknowledging the strong winter comeback though at the same time the Fed has slightly lowered its growth outlook. Here's the press release: Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April indicates that growth in economic activity has rebounded in recent months. Labor market indicators generally showed further improvement. The unemployment rate, though lower, remains elevated. Household spending appears to be rising moderately and business fixed investment resumed its advance, while the recovery in the housing sector remained slow. Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth, although the extent of restraint is diminishing. Inflation has been running below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable.Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace and labor market conditions will continue to improve gradually, moving toward those the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as nearly balanced. The Committee recognizes that inflation persistently below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic performance, and it is monitoring inflation developments carefully for evidence that inflation will move back toward its objective over the medium term.The Committee currently judges that there is sufficient underlying strength in the broader economy to support ongoing improvement in labor market conditions. In light of the cumulative progress toward maximum employment and the improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions since the inception of the current asset purchase program, the Committee decided to make a further measured reduction in the pace of its asset purchases. Beginning in July, the Committee will add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $15 billion per month rather than $20 billion per month, and will add to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $20 billion per month rather than $25 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. The Committee's sizable and still-increasing holdings of longer-term securities should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative, which in turn should promote a stronger economic recovery and help to ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with the Committee's dual mandate.The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months and will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. If incoming information broadly supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. However, asset purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on the Committee's outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases.To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy remains appropriate. In determining how long to maintain the current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will assess progress--both realized and expected--toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored.When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. The Committee currently anticipates that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run.Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Lael Brainard; Stanley Fischer; Richard W. Fisher; Narayana Kocherlakota; Loretta J. Mester; Charles I. Plosser; Jerome H. Powell; and Daniel K. Tarullo. Here's a look at the latest projections: Federal Reserve   FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderAmazon announced its first smartphone Wednesday, the Fire Phone. The Fire Phone goes on sale July 25, but you can only get it if you're an AT&amp;T customer. It costs $199.99 with a two-year contract. You can also buy it without a contract starting at $649. It has a 4.7-inch screen, which is slightly larger than the 4-inch screen on the iPhone 5S. One of the biggest features in the phone is Firefly. Firefly lets you snap photos of real-world objects and then search for them for purchase on Amazon. In short, the Fire Phone is a device that'll make it easier to buy stuff from Amazon. The phone also has 3-D effects called Dynamic Perspective on the screen that can be used for gaming, mapping, and even shopping apps. (Amazon showed a demo where the Fire Phone let you "peek" around a dress on a shopping site.) Here's a quick snapshot of the other important features: We covered Amazon's announcement live from Seattle on Wednesday. You can read the play-by-play of everything that happened in the live blog below.   Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vivek Prakash Employees walk in the lobby of a Merrill Lynch office building in Singapore September 15, 2008.The Bank of America takeover of Merrill Lynch remains a heartbreaker to the old school Herd guys and this week’s business card dust-up is just one more example. Long story short, the bank has been shrinking the size and prominence of the bull mascot on Merrill brokers’ business cards since 2009 and slowly adding their own imperial red color to the firm’s branding materials. If you’re a thirty year corner-office veteran producer at Mother Merrill with a stable of younger “teammates” doing all your work for you while the checks roll in, this is precisely the kind of thing you have time to fuss and fret about.  The funny part is that Merrill’s spokesbroker actually responded to the Investment News story about the business cards and BofA is already capitulating: In addition, she pointed out that although the bull on the front has gotten smaller, the new cards still feature a large image of the Merrill Lynch bull that fills most of the back of the card. We continue to evolve the look and feel of our communications, including business cards, to deliver ‘one company’ to our clients,” Ms. McCabe said. “The banner at the bottom of our business cards represents our capabilities across the company while the logo and bull icon on the cards prominently represent Merrill Lynch Wealth Management. Ms. McCabe said that the firm is planning on rolling out another iteration in July. This card will have less red on it, and the logo with the bull in the bottom right will be slightly larger. She said the next version was just continuing the evolution, but declined to discuss what feedback the firm had received. This is bull market s--t. In a more trying environment, nobody would be paying attention to the size of cartoon animal on a business card. By the way, what is a “business card” anyway? Read Mason Braswell’s full story here: Do Merrill Lynch’s new business cards diss the brand? (Investment News) FREE AppDownload
moriza via www.flickr.comWe like to think we're rational human beings.  In fact, we are prone to hundreds of proven biases that cause us to think and act irrationally, and even thinking we're rational despite evidence of irrationality in others is known as blind spot bias. The study of how often human beings do irrational things was enough for psychologists Daniel Kahneman to win the Nobel Prize in Economics, and it opened the rapidly expanding field of behavioral economics. Similar insights are also reshaping everything from marketing to criminology. Hoping to clue you — and ourselves — into the biases that frame our decisions, we've collected a long list of the most notable ones. FREE AppDownload
Guys, Argentina isn't going to default. Yes, the media is enjoying the possibility of catastrophe, and Argentines themselves have fatalism in their DNA, but it's not going to happen. Why? Because both parties (Argentina and the group of holdout hedge funds, NLML) want to negotiate, and in this case — no matter how defiant President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner sounds — that's all that really matters. This is the financial case of the decade. On Monday the Supreme Court decided it would not hear the case between Argentina and a group of bondholders that purchased the country's debt after its collapse in 2001. This group, known as NML and led by hedge fund manager Paul Singer, refused to restructure that debt in 2005 and 2010 when other bondholders did. NML is asking to be paid $1.7 billion for that debt. Argentina, calling those hedge fund managers "vultures" has always refused. Partly on principle, and also partly because paying NML (or even negotiating with them) would trigger a clause in their agreement with other bondholders. That trigger would force the country to also pay other bondholders $15 billion — and Argentina can't afford that. It would mean disaster. The only way to avoid the trigger is to show that it was forced to pay NML (keep that in mind). In November of 2012, Judge Thomas Greisa in New York City mandated that Argentina pay NML every last cent. Since then, until Monday, Argentina has appealed every which way in order to avoid default. Tuesday night, Economy Minister, Axel Kicillof, suggested that Argentina swap 92% of the bonds in question here, and replace them with bonds under Argentine jurisdiction, rather U.S. jurisdiction. The bond swap is a risky deal, and some Argentine lawmakers have said that it's impossible to do. Think of it as smoke and mirrors — a part of Argentina showing the bondholders that it is truly exhausting every possible option, that it is being forced to do this. That way, it won't trigger the $15 billion payout. Both Fernandez and Kicillof, in their speeches, made it clear that the country was willing to negotiate. To do that, though, they have to go back to the lower Court that mandated they pay the holdouts and talk to Judge Griesa and come up with a plan. Again, they have to go to the brink before they can negotiate. And this bond swap plan is some out-there-stuff that looks a lot like the brink. According to Argentine paper, La Nacion, Griesa has called for the parties to meet in New York City on Wednesday at 2:00 pm. NML has always maintained that it's willing to negotiate, Argentina just hasn't been able to come to the table til now. In a speech today, Alejandro Vanoli, President of the Argentine Securities Commission, said that the country may try to use the bond swap deal as a bargaining chip. But from the looks of things, this is shaking out exactly the way it has to for the country to avoid default. Sorry to spoil the Doomsday festivities. FREE AppDownload
Michael J. Cooper, Huseyin Gulen, P. Raghavendra RauCumulative abnormal returns to the firms that are in the top and bottom deciles of annually ranked excess CEO incentive compensation distribution over 1994-2011 are plotted in event time.You might think that investing in companies with the highest paid CEOs would be your best bet. Their enormous salaries must reflect the incredible successes that their leadership yields.  However, new research suggests otherwise. Professors Michael J. Cooper, Huseyin Gulin, and P. Raghavendra Rau teamed up to examine the relationship between the CEO incentive compensation and the future stock price performance of his/her company. According to their research, CEO pay is negatively related to future stock returns for up to three years after sorting on pay. In other words, the more CEOs get paid, the worse the stock performs. Their findings show that CEOs in the upper 10% of pay earn “negative abnormal returns” of approximately 8% for the next three years. Additionally, this negative correlation is even stronger for CEOs who receive higher incentive pay compared to their peers. Incentive pay is typically tied to the longer-term performance of the company. So, why does this happen? Cooper, Gulen, and Rau suggest that these enormous salaries lead to overconfidence by the CEO. This leads to aggressive and unnecessary investments and mergers and acquisitions that damage the value of the company. Read the study at SSRN.com. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesYeshiva University's President Richard Joel.Credit-ratings agency Moody's thinks Yeshiva, a private Jewish university located in New York City, will be broke by next year.  Yeshiva lost an estimated $105 million with convicted Ponzi schemer Bernie Madoff, who was also a trustee, but that's not why the university is running out of money. According to an extensive two-year investigation by TakePart's Steven Weiss and The Jewish Channel, the administration blew the school's financial future on bad hedge fund investments over the last decade. At one point before the 2008 financial crisis, the university allocated 65% in hedge funds, which was the third-highest of any university endowment, the report said.  From TakePart:  ...The school lost more than $500 million on its high-risk investment portfolio—after selling off nearly $500 million of ultrasafe U.S. Treasury bonds when the new regime took over a decade ago, plowing the proceeds mostly into hedge funds and corporate stocks. Assuming the strategy of increasing risk in its investment portfolio would pay off with higher returns, the new president and the board that hired him took on a bevy of new expenses, spending down their cash reserves and resting much of Yeshiva’s fate on their hedge fund gambles. Now that those investments have proved to be losses, Yeshiva faces more than $550 million of debt, and it appears to have been tapping into the principal of its investment portfolio to cover annual deficits. On their own, any one of these changes—the half-billion-dollar hit to its portfolio, the diminution of liquidity, and the mass of debt—would be a significant, though bearable, difficulty for a university; together, their effect has been devastating.  The investigation is long, but worth the read. You can read the full TakePart article here »  You can also play with the pie chart infographics to see how the university's investment strategy shifted.    FREE AppDownload
Melia Robinson/Business InsiderSose Aroyan and Karina Aroyan walk Bay Ridge's restaurant row on Third Avenue.For years, young professionals and families turned up their noses at Bay Ridge, a working-class area of southwestern Brooklyn, because of how far it is from Manhattan. But as real estate prices in trendier Brooklyn neighborhoods continue to climb, more and more city slickers are taking a second glance at the "original Gold Coast," as locals call the area. With its phenomenal public schools, copious outdoor spaces, restaurant row, and affordable housing, Bay Ridge has a lot to offer. The influx of young people has also changed Bay Ridge. Trendy, pricey restaurants have popped up on the main drag, a new crowd stays out later, and rents have significantly increased. Suddenly, Bay Ridge's lifelong residents fear being priced out of their homes. The last shred of Old Brooklyn — the grimy, comfortable, working-class borough where a cup of coffee cost a buck — is giving way to "Girls"-era, hipster New Brooklyn. Let's see what all the fuss is about.
Richard Chilton, CEO of hedge fund Chilton Investments, has been on Wall Street since Morgan Stanley's book value was a tiny $30 million (in 1978). That means he's seen and learned a lot. In an interview with Skiddy von Stade, CEO of financial career site OneWire, he shared some of his stories. Chilton began his career in the investment business at Merrill Lynch. From there, he moved to the money management side at Alliance Capital and subsequently Allen &amp; Co., which was really just getting going. “The money management business was very nascent,” Chilton explains, “It was just really starting, as the talent drain came from the big banks and the trust companies into forming independent money managers.” So how was Chilton introduced to hedge funds? His best friend, Robert Williamson, happened to be the nephew of Julian Robertson, the godfather of all things hedge fund. “I remember [Julian] calling me up and saying, which [companies] do you think are going to go broke? Because we’re going to short those … And I said … what’s shorting?” Years later he started his own classic "A.W. Jones style" long/short hedge fund, and the rest is Wall Street history. Watch Chilton’s full interview below to learn more about developments he witnessed on Wall Street and how he founded his own hedge fund, and stay tuned for Part II in the coming days. To watch the whole interview series, visit OneWire’s YouTube channel.  FREE AppDownload
Keith Bedford/ReutersAndrey Kostin, President of VTB Bank, reads his notes during a panel discussion.Russia's biggest banks, VTB and Sberbank, have released their figures for the first quarter of 2014.  The figures turned out to be worse than expected, partly due to Ukraine-related losses. In the first quarter of 2014, VTB's net profit was a mere 400 million rubles ($11.6 million), compared to 15.7 billion rubles ($453 million) in the same period last year.  This equates to a 39-fold drop in the bank's net profit, while analysts had predicted a fall of just 20 percent. The bank's financial results have been seriously affected by developments in Ukraine. In particular, taking into account foreign exchange revaluation and securities investments (mostly, in government bonds and Ukrainian corporate bonds), Ukraine has resulted in 18 billion rubles ($523 million) in losses for the bank.  For its part, Russia's biggest bank, Sberbank, posted a first-quarter net profit of 72.9 billion rubles ($2.1 billion), 17.6% less than last year. The bank's press service attributed the drop "mainly to rising loan-loss provisions." In particular, Sberbank's reserve costs rose by 140 percent to reach 77.1 billion rubles ($2.2 billion), with a further 1.6 billion rubles lost on securities transactions.  According to the Russian Central Bank, as of late May 2014, 25 percent of Russian banks were loss-making, while in March the figure was 20 percent. According to MFX Broker analyst, Sergei Nekrasov, banks have introduced tougher loan requirements after loan non-payment skyrocketed in the past three and a half years.  According to Alpari analyst Anna Kokoreva, the situation in Ukraine has mainly affected large banks that have an extended network of branches abroad. "Currently, their operations in the neighboring country are under threat, as are the operations of any other pro-Russian organization. It is likely that over the next 12 months, Russian banks will wind up their presence on that market altogether," she said. At the same time, according to Mikhail Krylov, director of the analytical department at United Traders, one cannot say that the Ukrainian market has already been lost to Russian banks. Sergei Nekrasov, analyst of MFX Broker, agrees: "At the moment Russian banks are wary of working in Ukraine but these are temporary fears and soon we shall see Russian banks return to the Ukrainian market."  Analysts predict that major Russian banks will continue to experience some difficulties till the end of 2014, which has to do not only with a rise in non-performing loans but also with a drop in credit ratings indirectly resulting from Western sanctions against Russia.  For example, S&amp;P has downgraded the long-term ratings of VTB and its subsidiaries from BBB to BBB-, which affects the bank's financing capabilities and has a negative effect on the Russian banking sector as a whole.  This article originally appeared at Russia Beyond The Headlines.  Copyright 2014. Follow Russia Beyond The Headlines on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Facebook/The Roof GardensRoof Gardens in Kensington.Summer in London is short, so when the warm weather hits, Londoners take advantage of the clear days and warm weather by spending time outdoors.  From the coolest roof gardens to the hippest outdoor markets, here are 27 great activities everyone in London should do this summer. Did we miss one of your favorite things to do in London in the summer? Add it in the comments!
Alejandro BahenaA couple of weeks ago, I visited Mexico City—one of my favorite cities in the world. It’s a remarkable place, not least because of the food, the museums, and the culture, but also because of the incredible economic changes taking place in Mexico right now—both in the capital and all around the country. Every time I visit, I think the same thing: if I were starting my career, especially if I lived in a nation where I couldn’t explore my full potential, I’d try my luck in Mexico. Why? Because Mexico is finally beginning to unlock its true potential as an economic powerhouse. At the heart of this potential lies a sweeping set of reforms. These initiatives include significant changes to move more businesses out of the informal economy, lower the cost of borrowing and modernize the financial sector, educate and train Mexico’s young workforce, and reduce corruption. Perhaps the most important initiative, a key priority of President Enrique Peña Nieto, has been reforms to the energy sector. For decades, Mexico’s energy sector has been a national monopoly. The policies now working their way through Mexico’s Congress will kill the monopoly and open development  to foreign investment. It’s difficult to underestimate the importance of this reform. Mexico has huge energy reserves, but hasn’t had the ability to truly capitalize on them. The important thing to remember is that for all of Mexico’s problems, it is a functioning democracy, and the capital from energy investment will flow to other sectors of the economy far more effectively than in an autocratic oil state. What sets Mexico apart from many other emerging economies is that it has the combination of some key factors for success: a diverse set of resources and industries, its proximity to the world’s largest economy, a relatively stable currency, and—critically—a proactive, democratic government. To be clear, I remain bullish on the U.S., and the May jobs numbers are further proof that the U.S. economy is on the right track. But we could learn a thing or two from our neighbors—in particular, the Mexican government’s willingness to take bold steps in order to foster long-term growth. My enthusiasm about Mexico isn’t without reservations—the government has yet to actually put many of these reforms in place, the drop in GDP growth from 2012 to 2013 is cause for concern, and from an investment perspective, Mexico is a less sure bet in the medium term than some Asian economies. But ultimately this comes down to potential. Over the next few decades, capital is going to flow more effectively in Mexico, the workforce will become better trained, and it will be easier and easier to do business. It’s the ideal environment for both entrepreneurs and established companies. So if you’re beginning your career, do you want to make a mark?  Do you want to be part of something exciting, dynamic, and big?  Ve a México. The opinions expressed are current as of June 2014, and are subject to change.  Reliance upon information in this article is at the sole discretion of the reader. A version of this post first appeared on Larry’s LinkedIn Influencer page. For more from Larry, click here.  FREE AppDownload
BarclaysWe've arrived at a key moment in the housing recovery as more 18-24-year-olds are moving out and forming new households. A hallmark of the Great Recession and its aftermath was the decline in U.S. household formation. Since 2009, household formation was below long-run trends as job loss, lack of employment opportunities, and tough credit conditions saw young adults moving back in with their parents or just never moving out. All of this has been hindering demand for new and existing homes. But that trend is starting to change. The improving labor market is helping U.S. household formation among young adults, according to Michael Gapen at Barclays. The employment-to-population ratio for 16-24-year-olds has climbed to 47.7% in May, from an average of 46.5% in 2013. "While we are skeptical that our macro outlook will be sufficiently strong to fully reverse the softer trend rate of household formation given the tighter post-recession credit environment, recent data do suggest that household formation among young adults is improving," writes Gapen. "In particular, data from the Current Population Survey, which includes extensive information on both the number and characteristics of US households over time, suggest that more young adults are now finding it feasible to move out." While the employment-to-population ratio for those in the 25-34 bracket has also ticked up, they are already less likely to live at home with their parents. "Only 18.8% and 8.9% of 25-29 year olds and 30-34 year olds, respectively, live with parents," writes Gapen. In 2013, 55.3% of 18-24-year-olds lived at home, compared with 56.2% in 2012. Since there were estimated to be 30 million 18-24-year-olds in the U.S. last year, according to Current Population Survey estimates, the one percentage point decline suggests that 300,000 young adults were looking to move out. The crucial thing to note however is that only 20% of young adults under the age of 25 are heads of households and homeowners. In other words, they are more likely to rent. So the rebound in household formation among young adults is likely to reinforce an existing trend: a strong rebound in multi-family starts, stemming from rental demand.  "New household formation that is driven by young adults is likely to support rental demand and multi-family start activity," writes Gapen. "From there, stronger labor markets and time may move households from renter to owner status." This of course is important, because as the housing market continues to recover, fewer households are driving rental demand as "support from the foreclosure pipeline is expected to fade." That being said, the impact of  more young adults moving out will have a "modest and focused" effect on the housing sector. Gapen expects 1.16 million housing starts in Q4 2014 and 1.35 million in Q4 2015. FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockFinancial services professionals appear to be seeking the relative stability of a career in large U.S. institutions, with Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan and BlackRock topping the ranking of desirable firms to work for, according the results of a recent eFinancialCareers survey on career aspirations. This is not surprising – Goldman and JPMorgan regularly battle for the top spots in the global investment banking league tables, they’re still paying bonuses predominantly in cash (even up to $1m) and are among the few banks not to have retreated from any business areas. Given the option of working for any organisation, financial services professionals responding to the survey chose these two banks over any other firm. BlackRock, meanwhile, is the world’s largest asset management firm, with over $4.4 trillion in assets under management, and has been consistently adding to its headcount over the past couple of years. Less obvious entrants to the top ten are HSBC, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, UBS and Barclays, however.  This article originally appeared at eFinancial Careers.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sukree SukplangThai fishermen catch freshwater white tilapia fish at a fish farm in Samut Prakarn province June 6, 2012.BANGKOK — For years, it was a poorly kept secret. Thailand’s fishing industry — a key supplier to the US — is entangled in barbaric slavery. Today, slave labor on Thai trawlers is no longer a secret. It’s a worldwide scandal. Wave after wave of damning investigations — previously by GlobalPost, most recently by The Guardian — have helped reveal an underground trade in which men are press-ganged into toiling on the seas for zero pay. Smuggled from poor villages in Myanmar or Cambodia, with promises of jobs on land, men and teen boys are instead forced onto Thai-owned boats plying distant waters. Quitting is forbidden. Disobedience is punished with beatings, dismemberment and worse. Many of these migrants — and the Thai boatmen who lord over them — have told GlobalPost that murder on Thai trawlers is practically routine. As one Thai crewman explained: “I saw an entire foreign crew shot dead... The boss didn’t want to pay up so he lined them up on the side of the boat and shot them one by one.” This practice’s horrors have become so well known that — after years of giving Thailand a pass — the US may announce sanctions against the Southeast Asian nation this week. The implications could be huge for Thailand’s $7 billion global seafood industry. Thailand is America’s second-largest seafood supplier thanks in large part to Western appetites for cheap shrimp and fish sticks. But there is one commodity churned out by this industry that’s notoriously reliant on forced labor. It’s called “trash fish” — and it’s as unpleasant as it sounds. Trash fish doesn’t refer to a single species. It’s a catch-all term for two types of wild-caught seafood: species that are unpalatable (to human tongues, at least) and species that would grow into big, tasty fish if nets had not snared them so young. Trash fish are only valuable once they’re ground to a mush used to produce livestock feed, pet chow, fish oil and cheap processed food. The link between trash fish and forced labor is clear. The accounts of escaped slaves indicate that victims invariably work on Thai-owned trawlers, small vessels that travel vast distances to dredge trash fish in giant nets. Southeast Asia’s seas are so overfished that high-value species are increasingly rare. The scarcity of quality fish forces trawler captains to scour for loads and loads of trash fish — a grueling, labor-intensive chore. “There is great pressure to drive down costs,” said Steve Trent, executive director of the London-based Environmental Justice Foundation, which has conducted extensive investigations into forced labor on Thai trawlers. “In some people’s minds, that’s practically legitimized the use of slave labor.” “The fisheries are out of control,” Trent said. “There is no effective management. In a relatively short time, since the industrial trawlers were introduced to the region, you’ve had a more than 90 percent decline in catch. They’re crumbling beneath the weight of this mismanagement.” Much of the supply chain from trawler net to supermarket is simply not monitored or properly policed. By the time slavery-tainted fish reaches the shore, the origins have been obscured by a series of fishmongers and middlemen. The system is so murky that seafood companies can’t honestly assert that their trash fish purchases are slavery free. “They’re claimed they don’t know. Or they’re preferred to look the other way,” Trent said. “But now you have clear evidence of abuse in the production of trash fish ... and you cannot be sure you don’t have something on your shelves that does not have slavery or forced labor in its production.” Here are three items reliant on trash fish that you may find in your pantry or freezer: Shrimp: Thailand is the world’s largest shrimp exporter and and America’s largest foreign shrimp supplier. The shrimp aren’t directly farmed using forced labor. But shrimp are often fed the mushed-up sea life collected on slave boats. “That has been proven beyond any reasonable doubt,” Trent said. The Guardian has directly implicated the planet’s largest shrimp exporter — a massive Thailand-based conglomerate called CP Foods — in feeding slave-caught trash fish to shrimp. CP Foods has long sold shrimp to Wal-Mart and Costco as well as Tesco, a UK-headquartered superstore chain, and France’s Carrefour. So far, only Carrefour has stopped buying shrimp from CP Foods following Guardian’s expose. Dog and cat food: Ground-up trash fish are a common ingredient in pet food. No investigation has linked a particular pet chow factory to forced labor but “it’s wholly reasonable to expect that trash fish may be entering supply chains producing cat food and dog food,” Trent said. Last year, $171 million worth of dog and cat food entered the US from Thailand, according to the United States Department of Agriculture. When it comes to dog and cat food in “sealed in airtight containers” — which typically means wet pet food — Thailand is America’s top foreign supplier. Fish sauce: Trash fish is a key ingredient in fish sauce — a savory, amber-colored liquid. In many Asian kitchens, it’s an ingredient no less crucial than salt in Western kitchens. In the US, Thai fish sauce rules 85 percent of the market. Last year, according the US government statistics, Americans consumed more than 35 million pounds of Thai-produced fish sauce. That’s enough to feed two ounces of fish sauce to every American man, woman and child. Fish oil pills: A popular source of Omega 3 fatty acids, fish oil pills are sometimes produced with trash fish. Mackerel and sardines are common species used to make the pills. They’re also common species caught by slaves on Thai trawlers. The Environmental Justice Foundation has looked into links between slave-caught fish and factories and will “examine them further,” Trent said. “I don’t think people in the major consumer markets want to be eating a health product produced by slaves.”   This article originally appeared at GlobalPost.  Copyright 2014. Follow GlobalPost on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Interesting people are so for certain reasons. Here is how to stand out from the crowd.  Sources: Eric Barker/Barking Up The Wrong Tree, Forbes, WikiHow Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
Tootsie CompanyGet ready for The Dot Plot. The FOMC is expected to announce its latest monetary policy decision at 2:00 this afternoon. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen will also hold a press conference at 2:30 following the announcement, and the Fed will also release its latest Summary of Economic Projections. People will be looking not just for a further tapering of the Fed's monthly asset purchases — also known as Quantitative Easing — but also clues for where interest rates might be in the future. For some of these clues, Fed watchers will turn to The Dot Plot. The Dot Plot is a chart that shows where the FOMC's 16 members think the Fed's benchmark interest rate will be at the end of each year through 2016 and over the long term. This is the most recent Dot Plot from the FOMC, released in March. The dots for 2014, for example, show that 15 of the FOMC's members think interest rates will be unchanged at 0.25% at the end of the year. Federal Reserve Michael Hanson at Bank of America expects that Yellen will downplay the Dot Plot as not being a policy tool.  But the market will still be closely looking for any change in the Dot Plot. In March, when Janet Yellen signaled that the Fed would raise rates six months after finishing QE, markets sold off hard. If the Fed stays the course in tapering QE by $10 billion per FOMC meeting, it is scheduled to conclude the taper in October.  And last week, markets were spooked after Bank of England head Mark Carney said rate hikes could come sooner than expected.  It is unlikely the Fed would hike rates by more than 0.25% at any meeting and based on that assumption, the Dot Plot for 2015 still indicates that as of March, 9 FOMC members saw no more than 3 rate hikes in 2015. The FOMC welcomes three new members for the June meeting, and the latest Dot Plot will contain 15 instead of 16 dots. Lael Brainard was confirmed on June 16, after the June 13 deadline for submitting projections.  Yellen may not see the Dot Plot as a policy tool, but Fed watchers hoping to read the tea leaves in the central bank's latest announcement will be closely watching anything and everything the Fed says or releases today. As a primer, here are a couple of Dot Plot scenarios that could roil markets. The red dots on this modified chart show where the dots could lie if the plot strikes a dovish, or more conservative tone. Federal Reserve/Business Insider This red dots on this modified dot plot show where the dots could lie if the plot strikes a more hawkish, or aggressive tone with respect to where interest rates could go. Federal Reserve/Business Insider The reality is that the Fed has been dovish since the financial crisis, and especially accommodative since announcing its latest QE program, which has now been in effect for more than 18 months. The Dot Plot probably won't look much different than it did in March.  But just in case, we'll be watching. FREE AppDownload
At 10:00 am this morning, the MTA posted an alert stating all subway lines will experience delays because of temporary power loss.  Screenshot via Gothamist The MTA has since removed the alert. We'll update this post as we know more. FREE AppDownload
StPetersburgBowlBitPay, the Atlanta-based Bitcoin payments processor, has signed a deal with a unit of ESPN to sponsor the NCAA football playoff game most recently known as the Beef O'Brady's Bowl. It will be called the Bitcoin St. Petersburg Bowl. The deal starts this year and will run through 2016.  Terms of the deal were not disclosed, but CNBC reported in 2012 that the Beef O'Brady's restaurant chain paid $400,000 a year for four years to have their name on the bowl. Here's the full release from BitPay: ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. (June 18, 2014) – ESPN Events,  a subsidiary of ESPN, has announced BitPay, the world’s leader in business solutions for the bitcoin digital currency, as the new title sponsor for the annual college football postseason game played in St. Petersburg (Fla.).   Beginning with this year’s December 26 game, the bowl will now be known as the Bitcoin St. Petersburg Bowl.  BitPay will serve as title sponsor for three years through the 2016 game.  "Our goal is to continue to move bitcoin into the mainstream and sponsoring the St. Petersburg Bowl offers us that opportunity," said Tony Gallippi, Executive Chairman for BitPay. "College football fans and the bitcoin community represent a similar target demographic - tech-savvy men between the ages of 18 and 40." By sponsoring the bowl game, BitPay is not only hoping to stimulate the bitcoin community around the event, but also to further promote interest in the digital currency on a national scale. The bowl game will be an exciting opportunity to enable fans to use bitcoin in a fun, collegiate sports environment.  With a rapport of over 33,000 merchants and growing, BitPay has led the bitcoin economy by allowing businesses around the world to easily accept bitcoin.   The attention brought to bitcoin by the game will only further boost its ascension into the mainstream.  "We’re extremely excited to welcome BitPay to college football and our bowl home in St. Petersburg," said Brett Dulaney, Executive Director of the Bitcoin St. Petersburg Bowl. "We look forward to a long and mutually beneficial arrangement." The 2014 game will be played on Friday, Dec. 26, at 8 p.m. ET at Tropicana Field in St. Petersburg. The game, which will once again air on ESPN, is in its first-year of its new conference affiliation with the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) and the American Athletic Conference.  Tickets for the 2014 Bitcoin St. Petersburg Bowl will go on sale later this year with prices starting as low as just $40. Tickets will be available through Ticketmaster or by phone at 1-800-745-3000.  Tickets and merchandise will also be available to purchase with bitcoin. FREE AppDownload
When Goldman Sachs was forced to come out of the shadows during the financial crisis and become an American household name, people suddenly realized that this mysterious firm was a powerful force that could impact their everyday lives. They also learned an important truth well known on Wall Street — Goldman Sachs never loses. But the world of finance has gone through dramatic changes since that moment. Central Bank intervention has impacted the bond market, regulation has changed how much money banks can make trading for themselves, and stock trading is a different game thanks to technology. This kind of volatility can create a new world order, and according to research firm Coalition, Goldman Sachs is losing ground. Check out the league tables below comparing Goldman's share of Wall Street's business in 2014 and 2013. Coalition Coalition You'll note that Goldman's Investment Banking Division (basically advisory services) is still in its customary place (number one, baby), but that its Equities and Fixed Income Currency and Commodity trading has suffered. Lets talk equities first. In Q1 2014, the bank made $416 million trading equities for clients. That's down 49% from the same time in 2013 when the bank made $809 million. In 2013, a year when the stock market shot up over 30%, Goldman's client stock trading revenue fell from $3.2 billion in 2012 to $2.6 billion. The bank has been public about the fact that it thinks high-frequency trading has something to do with this — and that FREE AppDownload
Yuya Tamai/flickrA German hacker turned data storage systems into "digital slaves" that mined more than $600,000 in Dogecoin, according to Dell security experts. Computerworld's Gregg Keizer reports the hacker targeted systems from Taiwan-based Synology, installing software that over a series of months netted him hundreds of thousands of dollars' worth of the digital currency. "This wasn't unique, we've seen other malware install [cryptocurrency] miners, but we haven't seen anything this big before," Pat Litke, a researcher at Dell SecureWorks' Counter Threat Unit (CTU) told Keizer. "That was mostly due to the infection vector. He could just walk in the door." Dogecoin prices have plummeted nearly 80% to $0.0004 from $0.002 in February.  Click here to read the full story » FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsGalbi, or short ribs marinated in soy sauceKorean food is famous for its hearty spicy stews, bright pickled vegetables, and addictive barbecue. But for novices, a Korean restaurant and its menu can be intimidating. Most dishes don't have names that translate into English. If you're not familiar with the names, you might make your order based on your analysis of the English ingredients and hope for the best. The goal of this feature is to introduce you to a few popular and savory dishes so that you don't have to go into your next Korean restaurant unprepared. FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockLots of countries have fossil fuels, but few have done as well as Qatar to take advantage of them. While Venezuela, Iraq, Libya, Nigeria, and others have fallen victim to the resource curse, when an abundance of resources leads to economic distortions and limited growth, Qatar has done much to reinvest energy money and diversify its economy. Support from the U.S. as well as decades of proven reserves have also fostered stability. The tiny peninsula has  the highest per-capita GDP in the world at $98,800 — and even that number may vastly understate the actual wealth of Qatar's 280,000 citizens. Qatar has enough money to build a huge metropolis in the desert and to win the right to host the 2022 World Cup, allegedly through millions of dollars in bribes. We've gathered photos to tell the incredible story of Qatar. FREE AppDownload
The most talked about demographic in America is the baby-boomers, who are rapidly entering their retirement years. But the baby-boomers also had children who have been characterized as the echo boom. Like their parents, the echo-boomers will have a material impact on the the economy. "There are more 23-year olds than any other age group in the US today," said Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok. "This is an underappreciated investment theme across asset classes. The fact that the echo-boomers are coming has implications for household formations and housing demand in coming years, inflows into 401(k) accounts, demand for risky assets (younger cohorts tend to put their retirement savings in stocks rather than bonds), the amount of student debt outstanding (there are more young people and more young people get an education), and as the baby-boomers retire echo-boomers will come in and take the jobs of the baby-boomers but at a lower pay." Keep an eye on the echo-boomers. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chris Watt/PoolThe Bank of England was unanimous in its decision to maintain its record-low interest rates earlier this month, minutes showed on Wednesday. The central bank's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted 9-0 to keep its key lending rate at 0.50 percent, where it has stood since March 2009 to stimulate growth, amid Britain's strengthening economic recovery. The MPC was also united in keeping the bank's quantitative easing stimulus amount at £375 billion ($636 billion, 469 billion euros), according to minutes from the June 4-5 gathering. BoE governor Mark Carney had hinted last week that the bank could lift rates sooner than expected, prompting analysts to price in an increase by the end of the year. That is in contrast to the European Central Bank, which launched radical and unprecedented easing measures earlier this month to bolster fragile eurozone growth and ward off the threat of deflation. BoE policymakers added that they were "somewhat surprised" that markets had attached a "relatively low probability" to an interest rate hike before the end of 2014. "The (British) economy was starting to return to normal. Part of that normalisation would be a rise in bank rate at some point," the minutes read. "The precise timing of the rise would depend on the outlook for inflation. That, in turn, would depend on the data flow, and in particular what that implied for the degree of slack, the prospect s for its absorption, and the broader outlook for wages." The BoE has already stated that it will not consider raising interest rates until all the spare capacity, or slack, in the economy has been absorbed. "All members agreed that, in the absence of other inflationary pressures, it would be necessary to see more evidence of slack being absorbed before an increase in bank rate would be warranted," the minutes added. They also noted that there was "considerable uncertainty around the current level of slack, and a range of views on the committee." Last Friday, Carney had declared that the first rise in interest rates could be delivered sooner than expected. "There's already speculation about the exact timing of the first rate hike and the decision is becoming more balanced," Carney had said. "It could happen sooner than markets currently expect." Some experts are calling on the bank to use other tools at its disposal to help dampen soaring British house prices, particularly in London. Meanwhile, official data showed Tuesday that Britain's 12-month inflation rate slowed to 1.5 percent in May, which was the lowest level for four and a half years. The latest figures mark the sixth month in a row when the rate has been at or below the BoE's 2.0-percent target. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Jeff Zelevansky / GettyPaul Krugman is out with a review of Tim Geithner's book, 'Stress Test,' and he is skeptical with some of Geithner's claims. Geithner argues he would've preferred additional stimulus and debt relief during the financial crisis, but was prevented from acting further because of political and practical problems. Krugman, winner of the economics Nobel prize, has consistently argued that more stimulus and easy monetary policy was — and still is — needed for the U.S. economy to fully recover from the financial crisis.  Krugman writes that Geithner would have readers view the response to the financial crisis as a success. The only way to consider the recovery to the financial crisis a success, writes Krugman, is by comparing it with the Great Depression.  But Krugman does not believe clearing this bar is worth celebrating. Krugman's primary problem, it seems, with Geithner's response to the crisis is that it responded to a financial crisis, not an economic one. And once the banks were recapitalized and stress-tested, banks and markets recovered but the real economy did not. After the financial sector was steadied, Krugman writes, the government did too little fiscal stimulus and provided no debt relief, writing that, "the administration's efforts to help homeowners were so ineffectual as to be risible." Krugman writes that as an account of the financial crisis the book is worth reading, but ultimately Geithner is wrong about the outcome of the economy's proverbial "stress test." Krugman: "You can argue that a bigger stimulus plan would have failed to pass Congress; you can argue that mortgage refinancing would either have proved impossible to implement or have provoked a huge political backlash. The truth is that we’ll never know, because the Obama administration never really tried to push the envelope on either fiscal policy or debt relief. And Geithner’s influence was probably an important reason for this caution. Geithner saw the economic crisis as more or less entirely a matter of lost confidence; he believed that restoring that confidence by saving the banks was enough, that once financial stability was back the rest of the economy would take care of itself. And he was very wrong." (via The New York Review of Books) FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesFedEx earnings came in at $2.46/share, against expectations for $2.36.  The firm guided to full-year earnings of $8.50-$9.00, against $8.73 forecast. Revenue came in at $11.8 billion versus estimates of $11.66 billion.  CEO Fred Smith said he sees "continued modest economic improvement" in 2015. But the firm actually slashed its outlook for U.S. GDP to 2.2% from 2.6%. They said growth this year will have been affected by weather. But they boosted 2015 GDP to 3.1% from 3%. Global GdP is projected at 2.7% in 2014, and 3.1% in 2015.  Shares were up about 3% pre-market. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
BloombergBusinessweekBusinessweek's Tim Higgins and Nick Summers report that a code of silence prevailed during the years that design flaws allegedly led to at least 13 deaths and 54 crashes. The pair tell the story of Courtland Kelley, a 30-year GM employee and former head of the firm's nationwide inspection program. He sued GM in 2003 under a Michigan whistleblower law, alleging that the company repeatedly ignored or dragged its feet on his reports of design flaw dangers. The case was dismissed on procedural grounds, but Kelley says that his career at the firm began to stall — and that others interpreted how GM handled his case as a warning Businessweek: Kelley’s fate has taught other GM employees to be less vocal about their concerns—and specifically influenced a GM safety inspector for the Cobalt named Steven Oakley. Oakley is quoted in the Valukas Report as having been too afraid to insist on safety concerns with the Cobalt after seeing his predecessor 'pushed out of the job for doing just that.' Businessweek has confirmed that predecessor is Courtland Kelley. Higgins and Summers find other examples, writing that "speaking up was actively discouraged, and workers saw that pointing out safety flaws could derail their careers. When a GM employee did blow the whistle, the nation’s largest automaker shut him down." CEO Mary Barra returns to Washington to address Congress today.  Click here to read the full story on Bloomberg Businessweek » FREE AppDownload
The TelegraphAn eccentric Chinese billionaire has announced plans to invite 1,000 impoverished Americans for a slap-up meal in Central Park in a bid to show fellow tycoons there is more to life than “luxury goods, gambling and prostitution”. Chen Guangbiao, a recycling magnate from the eastern province of Jiangsu, issued the invitation to his “charity luncheon for 1,000 poor and destitute Americans” through two prominent adverts placed in the New York Times and Wall Street Journal this week. Guests will be given $300 (£177) to spend on “occupational training” as well as lunch at the Loeb Boathouse restaurant in Manhattan’s Central Park. The restaurant, which featured in the 1989 comedy When Harry Met Sally, describes itself as “the ultimate urban oasis” and “a haven for romantics and nature lovers”. Mr Chen said he hoped the lunch, which he expects to cost around $1 million (£590,000), would boost relations between China and the United States and change people’s perceptions of wealthy Chinese. “I want to spread the message in the US that there are good philanthropists in China and not all are crazy spenders on luxury goods,” he told Hong Kong’s South China Morning Post on Wednesday. The tycoon, whose past stunts include selling canned air to raise awareness of pollution and smashing a Mercedes Benz to draw attention to global warming, also hoped to serve as a role model for Chinese billionaires with a penchant for squandering their fortunes on “luxury goods, gambling and prostitution”. “There are many wealthy Chinese billionaires but most of them gained their wealth from market speculation and colluding with government officials while destroying the environment,” he said. “I can’t bear the sight of it, because all they do is splurge on luxury goods, gambling and prostitution and very few of them sincerely live up their social responsibility.” It was not immediately clear whether Mr Chen’s guests would be offered a set menu at the Central Park feast or be allowed to choose from the restaurant’s à la carte lunch menu which features dishes such as Lemon-Oregano Crusted Salmon and Yellowfin Tuna Sashimi with Tobiko Caviar and Jalapeno Wasabi Vinaigrette. In a 2010 interview with The Telegraph Mr Chen said he hoped to build a “charity army” of wealthy Chinese business people who would pump large chunks of their profits back into society.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vivek PrakashA man arranges fruits at his stall at a wholesale market in Mumbai, January 14, 2013.NEW DELHI (Reuters) - India's new government on Tuesday imposed export restrictions on certain farm commodities and ordered a crackdown on hoarding to control rising food prices, a day after wholesale price inflation hit a five-month high. A jump in prices of potatoes and onions last month drove inflation to 6.01 percent from 5.20 percent in April, contributing to a sell-off in financial markets. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was elected last month amid widespread anger over rising prices, has made tackling inflation his top priority. Forecasts of weak monsoon rains that irrigate much of India's food production have added to inflation fears, and volatile vegetable prices have risen by double digits. Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, who held a meeting on Tuesday to decide steps to control food inflation, said the government was keeping a close watch on the price movements of 22 commodities and would offload additional rice stocks in the market to prevent a build-up in inflationary expectations. The government is planning to release 5 million tonnes of rice from state stockpiles to curb inflation, Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan told reporters. "The government would be releasing additional rice stocks from government warehouses for supplies to the state governments," Paswan told reporters. The government also imposed a minimum export price on onions of $300 per tonne from $150 per tonne to discourage overseas shipments and Jaitley said a similar curb would be imposed on exports of potatoes. "Even though the increase (in food prices) has only been marginal, we don't want anybody to exploit the situation," he told reporters after the meeting. "And therefore, in anticipation of any further market reaction, a series of steps have been decided and they are being put into place." The weather department predicts below-average rainfall between June-September this year, which could hit summer crops such as rice, corn, soybean and cotton. In addition to fears of food inflation, lower grain production could reduce the volume of rice exports from India, the world's top supplier. "There are not many new contracts being signed for Indian rice as Thailand is selling rice at much cheaper prices," said one Singapore-based trader. "They have food inflation now and if there is El Nino, India might be forced to keep its rice at home." A decline in rice exports from India could underpin global prices, although gains will be capped by plentiful world supplies, traders said. &lt;RICE/ASIA1&gt; Summer monsoon rains are vital for 55 percent of India's farmlands that lack irrigation facilities. In 2009, patchy rains led to the worst drought in nearly four decades and drove annual food inflation up to more than 21 percent. India has stockpiles of staples like rice, wheat and sugar that can be released, but the government has limited means to control surges in the cost of fruit and vegetables, which have the largest impact on food inflation. Jaitley asked Indian states to amend their laws to crack down on speculative hoarding in anticipation of a weak monsoon and boost the supply of fruit and vegetables in open markets. New Delhi will also extend a line of credit to state governments to import pulses and edible oil to bridge the shortfall in the domestic market, he said.   (Additional reporting by Naveen Thukral in Singapore and Mayank Bhardwaj; Editing by Sonya Hepinstall and Jeremy Laurence) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Zainal Abd HalimMohamed El-ErianAt this week’s Fed meeting, six items are likely to be discussed at some length by officials who continue to carry the bulk of America’s policymaking responsibilities. Some will make it to the policy statement that will be issued on Wednesday; some will come up during that day’s press conference by Chair Janet Yellen; and the rest will not be made public until the minutes and transcripts of the meeting are released later. Yet all are relevant for markets influenced by Fed policy. So here they are, arranged in increasing potential importance. The dots: They represent the summary expectations of Fed officials going into this week’s meeting. As noted by Chair Yellen a few weeks ago, their ultimate influence on policy outcomes is limited. Yet markets love them. This time around, the dots are likely to point to some slippage in the timetable for rate hikes on account of tame inflation and unchanged to somewhat softer growth expectations. QE: There have been no major developments since the last FOMC to disrupt what, by now, is a well-telegraphed QE exit. As such, look for the Fed to maintain its gradual pace of “tapering” with a view to a complete stop of its securities purchase program by the end of this year. Growth and unemployment: The statements’ summary of the collective view of the FOMC – as opposed to the individual “dots” – is likely to reflect some softening in the shorter term growth projections but no material change to longer-term expectations. The Fed has not bought into the “secular stagnation” hypothesis; and it is unlikely to do so at this meeting. Instead, it will maintain its focus on the potential for a cyclical growth pick up and a further reduction in labor market slack. It will also note the importance of removing the slack given its more holistic assessment of the labor market (which includes part time activities, long-term joblessness, and wage growth). Financial instability: In the last few weeks, three Fed officials have raised the possibility that the current policy approach involves a trade-off between economic immediate stimulus and possible financial instability down the road. This is a topic that will attract more attention in the weeks and months ahead. In the meantime, it is more likely to appear in the minutes and transcripts than in the statement. Inflation: This has migrated up in the list of indicators that are particularly relevant for the calibration of monetary policy. The FOMC is likely to note the lack of both an imminent inflation threat and an immediate deflation risk. Forward policy guidance: Don’t expect any major changes to the Fed’s current interest rate guidance; but do look for it to continue to evolve the overall communication framework as the FOMC integrate the new Fed governors. Putting all this together points to an FOMC meeting that is unlikely to have a material and durable impact on markets. Instead, look for officials to signal a “steady as she goes” approach with the one potential disruptor – namely, concerns about future financial instability should the current phase of asset price inflation not translate strongly enough into higher growth and lower unemployment – being rather small on its radar screen for now.   Mohamed A. El-Erian is the former CEO/co-CIO of PIMCO. He is Chief Economic Advisor at Allianz and member of its International Executive Committee, Chair of President Obama’s Global Development Council and author of the NYT/WSJ bestseller “When Markets Collide.” Follow him on twitter @elerianm FREE AppDownload
AFPNo tuition fees and generous grants give young Danes an opportunity that would make most green with envy -- a university education without a massive debt yoke. But many, in both industry and politics, feel it's become a free lunch that's giving indigestion to Scandinavia's already weakest economy. Too many pursue "fulfilment" and too few the science and engineering degrees needed in well-paid growth sectors critical for the nation's future, they say. Typical is 23-year-old Ali Badreldin, who is enrolled at the Royal Danish Academy of Music to become a saxophone player. "Music was always part of my life growing up so it was a natural choice," he said. His courses are free and he gets a monthly stipend of 5,839 DKK (782 euros, $1,074) in a system where class sizes are rarely limited. The result has Denmark spending more proportionally on education than any other country in the OECD club of 34 advanced nations. Yet biotech firms like Novozymes say they cannot find enough engineers. Engineering opportunities have soared in recent years in Denmark, but its youth have shunned the sector, with only one-third the OECD average contemplating an engineering career amid top-heavy enrolment in arts and humanities programmes. Novozymes, along with toymaker Lego and healthcare products manufacturer Coloplast, felt it was time to hit back with a major advertising campaign to woo students. "Many young people want a meaningful job, and I think we need to become better at explaining the difference engineers are making," said Novozymes human resources director Michael Almer. Conservative critics, meanwhile, say all is too easy in a cradle-to-grave welfare state where youth unemployment, at 14 percent, is noticeably lower than the EU average of 22.8 percent, according to Eurostat. They point to "Lazy Robert", or Robert Nielsen, an erstwhile student of social sciences, philosophy and Chinese, now 45, who shot to notoriety after proudly stating on TV that he prefers living off social benefits than taking a job he didn't find "meaningful". For Mads Lundby Hansen, an economist at free market-leaning think tank CEPOS, students should pay at least part of their studies . "My advice is to introduce a limited tuition fee because it would make young people consider what kind of job and salary they will get. You begin to think about education more like an investment," he told AFP. Countries like Britain have used the financial crisis to justify tuition fee hikes, but talk of even nominal fees has proven a political hot potato in Denmark. Last year, Venstre, the largest opposition party, was roundly accused by the ruling Social Democrats of "gambling with the welfare and equality ... we have built up over generations" when they suggested a school fee proposal, which was promptly killed. As the debate heats up, Danish universities have pledged to reduce admission to fields where unemployment among graduates is high. Not all agree. "The problem is not as serious as some people would have it," said Palle Rasmussen, a professor of education and learning research at Aalborg University. "If there are some courses that don't lead to jobs, students will eventually avoid them," he said, arguing that unemployment benefits are no longer as cushy as they once were in Denmark. Overall, only 48 percent of Danish graduates end up working in the private sector, compared with an EU average of 60 percent. Some say only major change, both fiscal and ideological, will encourage more students towards well-paid growth sectors. With one of the highest tax rates in the world -- at 56 percent for top earners -- big salaries mean mostly bigger taxes to sustain the welfare state. Many young Danes just don't see the point of putting in years of effort into studying for a bigger salary eaten up by taxes. Others, like music student Ali, remain convinced that all will work out if they follow their dream. "If you study something you are passionate about you have a greater chance of making a living from it later," he said. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary CameronA tourists uses a video camera atop a Big Bus double-decker tour bus as the tour passes the Federal Reserve Building headquarters in WashingtonGood morning! Here's what you need to know: Here Comes The Fed. The Federal Reserve's two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting ends at 2 p.m. ET today, at which point the Fed will publish its monetary policy statement and its summary of economic projections. Economists broadly expect the Fed to announce a further $10 billion tapering of its monthly asset purchase program. The Fed's also expected to keep its benchmark short-term interest rate target at near-zero. Tweaks To The Forecast. Since the last FOMC meeting, the economic data has indicated that the inflation has picked up as the labor market continued to improve. Meanwhile, GDP growth was much slower than expected in Q1. In a column for Business Insider, Allianz's Mohamed El-Erian writes that "The statements’ summary of the collective view of the FOMC ... is likely to reflect some softening in the shorter term growth projections but no material change to longer-term expectations." The Dots And The Presser. "What does matter is any shift in tone at the press conference (three new members join the FOMC), and the picture painted by the infamous "point" forecasts," said UBS's Paul Donovan. All of this relates to the timing of monetary policy tightening, or when the Fed will begin to raise interest rates. Carney-Style Carnage? Last week in his monetary policy statement, the Bank of England's Mark Carney said, "There’s already great speculation about the exact timing of the first rate hike and this decision is becoming more balanced. It could happen sooner than markets currently expect." Some experts like Citi's Steven Englander warn that given the current signals in the currency markets, should the Fed's Yellen adopt a similar tone, "the word 'carnage' would not be inappropriate." In other words, we could see major moves in the currency markets. The Amazon Phone. "On Wednesday, Amazon will announce one of its biggest, riskiest new products ever: A smartphone," reports Business Insider's Jillian D'Onfro. "While Amazon hasn't come out and officially said it's releasing a phone, we're 99.99% certain it's happening. Amazon released a teaser video last week for the event, and if you look closely, you can see a phone in the video." Japanese Exports Fall. Japan's exports fell 2.7% year-over-year in May, which was worse than the 1.3% decline expected by economists. This was the first decline in 15 months. Chinese Home Prices Fall. Prices for new homes fell in 35 of 70 Chinese cities, reports Bloomberg. This comes amid slowing growth and elevated concerns about the health of China's financial markets. Markets Are Up. The world's stock markets are in the green ahead of today's FOMC announcement. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.4%, Germany's DAX is up 0.1%, and Spain's IBEX is up 0.3%. Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.9%. U.S. stock market futures are marginally higher. GM CEO Heads To The Hill Again. Mary Barra will get grilled by Congress today over the handling of safety concerns, which have led to the recall of over 20 million autos since the beginning of the year. The World's Most Expensive One Cent Stamp. "An incredibly rare 19th century postage stamp, a tiny one-cent magenta from British colonial Guyana, sold for $9.5 million in New York on Tuesday, setting a new world record," reported the AFP's Jennie Matthew. "Bidding began at $4.5 million and it took just two minutes to sell the stamp to an anonymous bidder on the phone, although the auction house Sotheby's had valued the tiny specimen of British colonial memorabilia at $10-20 million." *** BONUS: Barclays' Latin America research team believe politicians may take advantage of the ongoing World Cup in an unexpected way. "The distraction of public opinion with the World Cup might be an opportunity for some governments to pass measures that face some resistance," they write. "In Mexico, the World Cup has been taken as an excuse by some Congressmen to delay the discussion of the secondary laws for the energy and telecommunications reforms ... Venezuela is not and has never been in the World Cup, but for Venezuelans, any excuse is good to celebrate. We think that the government could take advantage of public opinion being distracted and students being on vacation from their universities to announce some of the adjustments that they have been delaying." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSold homes are seen in the southwest area of PortlandNEW YORK (Reuters) - Applications for U.S. home mortgages fell sharply last week as interest rates increased, an industry group said on Wednesday. The Mortgage Bankers Association said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity, which includes both refinancing and home purchase demand, fell 9.2 percent in the week ended June 13. The MBA's seasonally adjusted index of refinancing applications dropped 12.7 percent, while the gauge of loan requests for home purchases, a leading indicator of home sales, fell 4.7 percent. Fixed 30-year mortgage rates averaged 4.36 percent in the week, up 2 basis points from 4.34 percent the week before. "Interest rates increased relative to the previous week as incoming economic data continues to suggest a pickup in the pace of growth," said Mike Fratantoni, MBA's chief economist. The survey covers over 75 percent of U.S. retail residential mortgage applications, according to MBA.   (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA truck is filled with sand at Wellsboro & Corning Railroad in Wellsboro, PennsylvaniaHOUSTON (Reuters) - Super-sized hydraulic fracturing jobs, which use vast amounts of sand to coax more oil and gas from shale, have led to astronomical returns for investors in companies that mine the tiny particles. The question is whether those super-sized gains can continue. Demand has jumped for the sand used in hydraulic fracturing, which blasts it, along with water, chemicals, into wells to crack rock and release crude oil and natural gas. The increasing practice of "superfracking" requires much more sand, and investors have taken notice. Emerge Energy Services LP, a master limited partnership that produces sand for use in hydraulic fracturing, began trading a little more than one year ago at $17 per unit. Today the units trade at about $109. Shares of two other sand miners, U.S. Silica Holdings Inc and Hi Crush Partners LP, have more than doubled in the past year. And Fairmount Minerals Ltd, one of the largest providers of sand to the oil and gas industry, is considering a $1 billion initial public offering, according to sources familiar with the situation. Still, investing in these companies carries risks. A drop in crude prices would slow drilling. And the market for sand itself is opaque, requiring investors to make a leap of faith as contract terms, prices and supply and demand are not fully disclosed. Also, some oil and gas companies, such as EOG Resources Inc, are cutting out the middleman by buying their own sand mines. At the same time, RBC Capital Markets says U.S. demand for raw frack sand will climb 30 percent from 2013 to 2015. Houston oil and gas company Rice Energy Inc, which operates wells in the eastern United States, says it has benefited from using at least 7 percent more sand than its competitors. "It's something that we've found really effective to help stimulate the well" to produce more oil and gas, said Julie Danvers, director of investor relations. Demand for sand is expected to outpace the number of rigs drilling new wells for the foreseeable future, but valuations for the sand miners are rich. Their enterprise value – market capitalization plus debt – is about 10 times expected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. An investor looking for a way to profit indirectly from the fracking boom could buy shares of Martin Marietta Materials Inc, which provides gravel to build roads at frack sites and whose enterprise value is 11.7 times EBITDA. Analysts at Baird Equity Research say Emerge has a good growth outlook but rate its units "speculative." "If you buy (Emerge Energy) here, do not do it with the milk money," Baird cautioned in a June 5 note to clients. Not every oil and gas producer is convinced that super-sized sand fracks are needed. Chesapeake Energy Corp Chief Executive Officer Doug Lawler said that while the company was tinkering with the amount of sand it used in some areas, greater quantities do not work on all wells. "With every shale, the reservoir is different," Lawler told a shareholder who asked about sand at the company's annual meeting on Friday. Sand miners also face the risk of an energy glut and corresponding drop in oil and gas prices, which could reduce drilling. While crude prices have gotten a substantial lift from worries over violence in Iraq, there is lingering concern that producing oil from shale will leave the domestic market oversupplied. In 2013, U.S. crude production climbed to a 24-year high and is forecast to grow more this year with the help of oil pumped from shale, according to government data.   MURKY MARKET Investors in sand miners must also accept the lack of information available to them. Thomas Dolley, a mineral commodity specialist at the U.S. Geological Survey who tracks the sand market, said the industry was fragmented, and participation in the government's supply and demand surveys was not mandatory, resulting in what may be incomplete data for investors. Because most sand companies are privately held, Dolley tracks sand mine openings through industry contacts and the media, he said. "I would say we could use a little more transparency," he said. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics' latest producer price index shows frack sand prices in May reached their highest level in more than two years, according to a report from Cowen and Co. But Cowen called the government's data for short-term trends "unreliable" because some prices in the sample include transportation costs and others do not.   (Reporting by Anna Driver; Editing by Terry Wade and Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
Marcos Brindicci/ReutersBUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - Argentina's battle with investors who rejected its proposals to restructure debt risks pushing the nation into a new default that would wreck its attempts to return to credit markets but not have the same economic effect as its catastrophic 2001-02 default. The U.S. Supreme Court declined on Monday to hear Argentina's appeal against lower court rulings that ordered it to pay in full the hedge funds which refused 2005 and 2010 debt swaps on $100 billion in debt. As the risk of default rises, Argentina must now either negotiate a deal with the funds it dismisses as "vultures" or quickly find a way around the court rulings that would prevent it from paying holders of its restructured debt if it doesn't also agree to pay the holdouts. Argentina's battle with investors who rejected its proposals to restructure debt risks pushing the nation into a new default that would wreck its attempts to return to credit markets but not have the same economic effect as its catastrophic 2001-02 default. The U.S. Supreme Court declined on Monday to hear Argentina's appeal against lower court rulings that ordered it to pay in full the hedge funds which refused 2005 and 2010 debt swaps on $100 billion in debt it issued in 2001. As the risk of default rises, Argentina must now either negotiate a deal with the funds it dismisses as "vultures" or quickly find a way around the court rulings that would prevent it from paying holders of its restructured debt if it doesn't also agree to pay the holdouts. Economy minister Axel Kicillof announced Tuesday the government is taking first steps to swap restructured debt to place it under Argentine law and make payments in Argentina. He also said he sent Argentine lawyers to talk to U.S. District Court Judge Thomas Griesa in New York about his ruling, as it's pushing the country into a default, even when Griesa said he doesn't want to do that. Still, a new default won't likely bring on the same economic devastation the 2001-02 default did, policymakers and economists said. "The economic situation was different," said Jorge Todesca, the deputy economy minister in 2002, noting that the economy had shrunk 10 percent over three years, the country had a trade deficit and "commodity prices were half of what they are now." The state and banks were heavily indebted and industry had been battered by a decade of the peso pegged to the dollar. At the end of 2001, thousands of Argentines lined up at banks to withdraw their savings, sensing the whole system was on the verge of bankruptcy. The country defaulted at the end of 2001, the currency crashed and the economy shrank 10.9 percent in 2002. Now, while the economy is set to decline this year and inflation is high, the country has been growing at an average of 6.2 percent a year for a decade. Banks are solid, with low capital ratios, and Argentina still boasts a trade surplus, albeit a shrinking one, thanks in large part to high prices for soy. It is the world's third biggest soybean and corn exporter, at a time of booming international food demand. "This is not going to be a default because of a lack of capacity for payment, this will be a technical default because of the courts," said analyst Mauro Roca of Goldman Sachs. Roca and other economists said a possible default might exacerbate the expected decline this year but not cause a meltdown. Corporate and public credit would become even more expensive, uncertainty might put a further brake on already cautious consumption and investment, and the peso would come under more pressure. Commodity exports would unlikely to be affected much, economists said. Lack of access to capital markets wouldn’t be anything new: the country has been cut off from global capital markets for more than a decade. Foreign debt is lean, amounting to 8 percent of GDP in dollar terms, Kicillof said today. A new default would, however, destroy Argentina's recent push to get back into international credit markets in view of its dwindling foreign reserves, which slid 30 percent last year. Over recent months, the country has reached deals with Spain's Repsol and the Paris Club of creditor nations to regain international investors' trust, a strategy that helped lift stocks and bonds. "This has come at completely the wrong time," said Neil Shearing at London-based Capital Economics, noting the driver of Argentina's economic weakness was strains with the balance of payments forcing the government to implement capital controls and devaluation. "Had they been able to regain market access, they could have brought to an end this crisis in balance payments." With little prospect of accessing markets any time soon and declining dollar reserves, the government might further tighten capital controls and import restrictions, former head of the central bank Aldo Pignanelli said. Shearing said that access to capital markets and a few tweaks in policy like a tightening of fiscal spending could restore the economy to a situation of strength, unlike in 2001 when it needed a major overhaul. "That's the infuriating point, Argentina is near and yet so far," he said.     (Editing by Kieran Murray and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressUnited States Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen speaks at the 2014 National Interagency Community Reinvestment Conference in Chicago, March 31, 2014. The Fed's next monetary policy decision is today, and one of the questions going around is whether Fed Chief Janet Yellen is going to go "Carney" or maybe even "The Full Carney." Last week, Bank of England chief Mark Carney warned that interest rate hikes could come sooner than markets currently expect. Specifically he said: The MPC’s current guidance makes clear that we will set monetary policy to meet the inflation target while using up that spare capacity. This has implications for the timing, pace and degree of Bank Rate increases. There’s already great speculation about the exact timing of the first rate hike and this decision is becoming more balanced. It could happen sooner than markets currently expect. But to be clear, the MPC has no pre-set course. The ultimate decision will be data-driven. So the big question is whether Yellen says anything similar. In a note to clients, Citi's currency analyst Steven Englander asked: Will FOMC/USD have a Carney/GBP moment? For those not up on their jargon and acronyms, the question is, will the Fed cause the dollar to spike the same way Mark Carney caused the spike in the British pound in the immediate aftermath of his comments? Englander thinks that any indication from Yellen that the tightening in policy could come sooner than expected could have a dramatic effect on currency markets. As evidence, he points to today's currency reaction from one hot inflation report. Note the kicker to Englander's comments here: Today’s FX intraday trading pattern shows G10 having been relatively resilient, with only AUD dropping by more than 0.2% since the inflation release. By contrast EM high yielders have come under significant pressure with MXN, TRY, ZAR and BRL all down by 0.4% or more. US 2yr yields are up 1 bp, but 5yr yields are up 5bps. Fed funds now fully prices in a hike at the July 2015 meeting, whereas that hike had been about 80% priced in earlier this week. Dec 2016 yields have gone from 1.75% at the end of last week to 1.83% today. Equities are up on the day so and flat since the CPI release (as of 1PM EDT). G10 FX volatility is close to long-term lows and has not been affected by today’s data. Fixed income volatility is up a bit and the VIX is down. These FX and rate moves are significant but not overwhelming, so were the FOMC to really signal a fundamental shift in its thinking, the word ‘carnage’ would not be inappropriate. Meanwhile, UBS (via @fiquant) asks whether Yellen might pull the "semi-Carney." Their view is that nothing is likely, but there's a shot that the FOMC does something interesting to deviate from the boring consensus. Anyway, we think "Going Carney" is going to be a useful term for awhile, because it's the perfect phrase to describe unexpectedly hawkish comments coming out of nowhere. And at some point it will happen, so be ready for that. FREE AppDownload
Screen shot from ISIS propaganda video BAGHDAD (Reuters) - Sunni militants have taken control of most of Iraq's largest oil refinery, located in Baiji in northern Iraq, an official at the refinery said on Wednesday. "The militants have managed to break in to the refinery. Now they are in control of the production units, administration building and four watch towers. This is 75 percent of the refinery," an official speaking from inside the refinery said. He says clashes continue near the main control room with security forces.  (Reporting by Ahmed Rasheed; Writing by Oliver Holmes; Editing by Toby Chopra)   FREE AppDownload
Google Images Elon Musk believes it's feasible a "Terminator"-like scenario could erupt out of an artificial intelligence. In an interview with CNBC on Tuesday, Musk said he's an investor in an artificial-intelligence company called Vicarious — but not because he's trying to make any money. Rather, it's because he likes to "keep an eye on" various technological developments. Like killer robots. Here's the full exchange, with the network's Kelly Evans and Julia Boorstin leading the discussion. It's wild: JULIA BOORSTIN: Now, I have to ask you about a company that you invested in. As you said, you make almost no investments outside of SpaceX and Tesla. ELON MUSK: Yeah I’m not really an investor. JB: You’re not an investor? EM: Right. I don’t own any public securities apart from SolarCity and Tesla. JB: That's amazing. But you did just invest in a company called Vicarious Artificial Intelligence. What is this company? MUSK: Right. I was also an investor in DeepMind before Google acquired it and Vicarious. Mostly I sort of – it's not from the standpoint of actually trying to make any investment return. It's really, I like to just keep an eye on what's going on with artificial intelligence. I think there is potentially a dangerous outcome there and we need to – KE: Dangerous? How so? EM: Potentially, yes. I mean, there have been movies about this, you know, like "Terminator." KE: Well, yes, but movies are — even if that is the case, what do you do about it? I mean, what dangers do you see that you can actually do something about? MUSK: I don't know. JB: Well why did you invest in Vicarious? What exactly does Vicarious do? What do you see it doing down the line? MUSK: Well, I mean, Vicarious refers to it as recursive cortical networks. Essentially emulating the human brain. And so I think —  JB: So you want to make sure that technology is used for good and not "Terminator"-like evil? MUSK: Yeah. I mean, I don’t think — in the movie "Terminator," they didn't create A.I. to — they didn't expect, you know some sort of "Terminator"-like outcome. It is sort of like the "Monty Python" thing: Nobody expects the Spanish inquisition. It’s just — you know, but you have to be careful. Yeah, you want to make sure that — KE: But here is the irony. I mean, the man who is responsible for some of the most advanced technology in this country is worried about the advances in technology that you aren't aware of. MUSK: Yeah. KE: I mean, I guess that is why I keep asking, So what can you do? In other words, this stuff is almost inexorable, isn’t it? How if you see that there are these brain-like developments out there can you really do anything to stop it? MUSK: I don't know. JB: But what should A.I. Be used for? What's its best value? MUSK: I don't know. But there are some scary outcomes. And we should try to make sure the outcomes are good, not bad. Yeah. KE: Or escape to mars if there is no other option. MUSK: The A.I. will chase us there pretty quickly. See below for the video. The clip starts at 14:45.  FREE AppDownload
Jonathan Ernst/ReutersGood morning!  Markets are pretty quiet today, as the world waits for the latest decision from the FOMC, which will be this afternoon. Everyone is wondering whether the Fed — or Janet Yellen in particular — will give some kind of hint that the first rate hike might be a little sooner than the market currently anticipates. It's unlikely she'll say anything too dramatic, so there's likely to be a lot of Kremlinology, and picking apart her words in order to ascertain meaning. Like we said, markets are quiet, which is in a way surprising. Concerns over missing metals are rising in China, as a state-owned firm says half of the aluminum it was holding in one location has gone missing. Meanwhile, rebels have attacked Iraq's biggest oil refinery, though the price of oil hasn't moved much on it. FREE AppDownload
