High Gear MediaTesla Motors sales in China are "robust," and the company may have as many as 4,000 reservations for its Model S — which it only started selling in China five months ago. The upbeat assessment came from Patrick Archambault, a Goldman Sachs analyst who has followed Tesla Motors since its initial public offering several years ago. Tesla only releases sales figures quarterly, so we won't know its sales from July through the end of this month until sometime in November. DON'T MISS: Tesla In Deal To Build 400 Charging Stations In China With the Chinese national government discussing and planning strong incentives for zero-emission electric cars, and the appetite for brand-name luxury goods seemingly limitless among wealthy buyers, Tesla could be poised to do well in China. Tesla CEO Elon Musk has said in the past that China could prove to be the Silicon Valley carmaker's largest single market over time. Every luxury brand in the world is avidly targeting China, and most are now assembling cars there or planning to do so in the near future. Maurizio Pesce/flickr"Model S demand in China is robust with wait times having expanded out to six months post the 3Q shutdown," wrote Archambault in the report issued last week. ALSO SEE: Tesla Will Build Electric Cars In China; Model S On Sale There This Week "Adding service centers is a key priority," he said, "with delivery teams working around the clock to meet increasing delivery targets." Archambault cites "industry sources" to whom he attributed an estimate that as of mid-September, Tesla had reservations for 4,000 Model S electric cars in China. A reservation requires an initial deposit of Rmb 15,000 ($2,400), with a subsequent payment of Rmb 250,000 ($40,700) required within two weeks to have a production slot assigned. The balance of the payment is due on delivery, although Chinese buyers are billed once the vehicle ships from Tesla's assembly plant in Fremont, California. MORE: Tesla &amp; China: Priced At $121,000, Country Could Be Biggest Market, Musk Says The company has said that it expects to build cars in China in the future. Today, Tesla does not receive the same tax breaks that are offered to certain domestic electric-car makers, most notably BYD. REUTERSA visitor looks at BYD E6 electric car on display at the New Energy Auto Expo in NanjingBut BYD will likely never be viewed as a luxury brand, whereas Tesla has that opportunity--especially if it uses its Silicon Valley technology roots to set itself apart from the more traditional German makers. Healthy sales in China are likely to be required if Tesla is to meet its stated goal of building and selling 2,000 cars a week — or 100,000 a year — by December 2015. FREE AppDownload
Visual CapitalistThe market for precious metals is not as big as you might think. One year's worth of mined platinum is only the size of a car. But it's worth about $8 billion. Visual Capitalist took one year's production of eight commodities, lumped each of them into a three-dimensional cubes, and put them next to landmarks around the world.  They also calculated the value of each cube. FREE AppDownload
Oil crashed Tuesday, with crude oil prices dropping from about $95 to $91 in a matter of minutes. There were various theories for why, but the most compelling one is that there seems to be a lot more production than estimated. Morgan Stanley sent out a note Tuesday evening from the analyst Adam Longson that contains this table of production numbers/estimates for key producers. The key thing is that production is on the rise almost everywhere. Check out Libya, where output for the month surged to its highest level of the year. Everyone was freaking out about Libya earlier in the year, and now it's surging. FinViz So in addition to a strengthening dollar and weakening China (and possibly weakening Russia and Europe) you have some serious production numbers now. It all adds up to a crash. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA worker stacks bundles of cotton at a farm beside the MS-306 road in Chapadao do Sul, Mato Grosso do Sul stateBRASILIA/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The United States will pay Brazilian cotton producers $300 million to settle a decade-old dispute over cotton subsidies, two officials familiar with the settlement said on Tuesday, the first concrete step to repair ties hurt by an espionage scandal. The agreement will be formally signed on Wednesday morning in Washington after Brazilian Agriculture Minister Neri Geller and Foreign Minister Luiz Alberto Figueiredo traveled to the U.S. capital to finalize details. “Everyone is relieved that this case is finally being put behind us and that Brazil and the U.S. can now move on to the many common interests that unite us," one of the officials familiar with the settlement said. In exchange for the one-off payment to the Brazil Cotton Institute, or IBA, Brazil agreed not to take any further trade measures against the United States. The official said the United States could implement a new farm bill without concerns about retaliation. "When you consider what was on the line for both sides, this is a win-win deal," he said. U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman and Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack are expected to sign the agreement for the U.S. side. Relations between the United States and Brazil were strained last year by revelations the National Security Agency spied on President Dilma Rousseff with secret Internet surveillance programs made known in documents leaked by former NSA analyst Edward Snowden. Diplomatic talks on a wide range of subjects - from double taxation to visas aimed at facilitating business between the Western Hemisphere's two largest economies - ground to a halt. Rousseff canceled a state visit to Washington and demanded an apology from President Barack Obama. The United States said publicly it regretted the incident, but has stopped short of issuing a formal apology. The cotton breakthrough comes just days before Sunday's presidential election in which Rousseff's two main rivals have vowed to rebuild ties with Washington to open markets for exporters in a country hit by recession. In 2004, Brazil won a challenge against U.S. cotton subsidies at the World Trade Organization, giving it the right to impose $830 million in sanctions against U.S. products. Brazil agreed to suspend the penalty if the United States paid into an assistance fund for Brazilian cotton farmers. The United States stopped paying the monthly compensation in October last year due to budget disagreements in Congress, prompting the Brazilian government to threaten to slap higher tariffs on U.S. products. The retaliation would have deepened diplomatic tensions between both countries, officials and experts said at the time. Reports earlier this year said the United States was willing to pay at least $460 million in compensation to Brazilian growers to end the dispute, according to Brazilian diplomatic documents obtained by hackers and leaked to the local press. U.S. Vice President Joe Biden traveled to Brazil and met with Rousseff in June in hopes of turning the page on the spying dispute. He assured her that Washington has changed the way it conducts electronic surveillance. In another sign that relations are starting to move forward, Brasilia and Washington signed a tax information exchange pact last week that could lead to a tax treaty to avoid double taxation of U.S. companies operating in Brazil and Brazilian businesses in the United States.   (Editing by Anthony Boadle, Ken Wills, Matthew Lewis and Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stringer Five men sit on a electric bicycle as they cross a street in Changde, Hunan province.China's official manufacturing PMI was unchanged at 51.1 in September. This was a bit higher than the 51.0 expected by economists. Any reading above 50 signals growth. This comes as the world's second largest economy continues to lose momentum amid a cooling property prices and moderating credit. According to the report, China's large enterprises are in the best shape; their PMI climbed to 52.0 from 51.9. Medium enterprises PMI climbed to 50.0 from 49.9. Meanwhile, small enterprises PMI fell to 48.6 from 49.1. On Tuesday, we learned that HSBC's manufacturing PMI fell to 50.2 in September from a preliminary estimate of 50.5. "Overall, the data in September suggest that manufacturing activity continues to expand at a slow pace," HSBC's Hongbin Qu said. "We think the risks to growth are still on the downside and warrant more accommodative monetary as well as fiscal policies." Markets in China are closed for the Golden Week holiday. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man stands outside Fannie Mae in Washington(Reuters) - A U.S. federal judge on Tuesday dismissed claims seeking to stop the U.S. government from making Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac pay a quarterly dividend to the U.S. Treasury. The dividend equals the entire net worth of each entity, minus a small reserve that shrinks to zero over time. The lawsuits were filed by investors Perry Capital LLC, Fairholme Funds Inc and Arrowood Indemnity Company. The judge stated that Congress had given the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Treasury Department the power to take the companies' profits as a provision of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act. The judge also said that the Housing and Economic Recovery Act's "unambiguous" statutory provisions, coupled with the "unequivocal language" of the plaintiffs' original GSE stock certificates compels the dismissal of all of the plaintiffs' claims.   (Reporting by Sudarshan Varadhan; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Cisco CEO John Chambers didn't get hit his sales and profit targets so the board trimmed his pay. Chambers earned about $16.5 million for fiscal 2014, compared to the $21 million he earned for fiscal 2013. The board dinged his stock awards to $12.9 million from $15.2 million last year. His bonus fell to $2.5 million from $4.7 million, according to documents filed with the SEC. The board trimmed the pay of other top execs, too. "Based on Cisco’s performance at 95% of target during fiscal 2014, the incentive cash awards paid for fiscal 2014 to the named executive officers were on average 40% less than fiscal 2013," the company said in its documents. Cisco had $47.1 billion in sales in fiscal 2014, missing the company’s target of $49.5 billion. Its operating income was $13.4 billion, not the $14 billion target, reports Bloomberg's Peter Burrows. Although Cisco slashed Chambers' pay compared to last year, he's still up from his paycheck two years ago, when Cisco paid him $11.6 million. FREE AppDownload
@RudyHavensteinPIMCO CEO Doug Hodge (L) and CIO Daniel Ivascyn.PIMCO CEO Doug Hodge and its new CIO Dan Ivascyn — Bill Gross' replacement at PIMCO — appeared on CNBC Tuesday in their first public appearance since Gross suddenly left the firm last Friday.  Gross was one of the biggest personalities in the financial world and served as basically the sole public face of PIMCO, especially after the departure of Mohamed El-Erian earlier this year. Now, Hodge and Ivascyn will fill that role as the firm, which has nearly $2 trillion in assets under management, faces life without its founder. Hodge told CNBC's Brian Sullivan, "We had in place a succession plan that had been in process all during the course of this year. Bill Gross was going to leave eventually. We all knew that... We are moving forward." Ivascyn, who is taking Gross' role as global CIO, said that investing with PIMCO won't change now that Gross is gone. "Pimco has a pretty long-standing, highly-structured investment process," Ivascyn said. "And even though Bill Gross is no longer with us, we plan to use that highly-structure process for us going forward." Ivcascyn also reiterated that the firm still sees a "new neutral" of low interest rates for an extended period of time.  On life at PIMCO after Gross, Hodge added that, "Bill has been an important contributor. He was the founder of this firm, he has made enormous contributions to PIMCO, but we are moving ahead." Sullivan also asked Hodge if Paul McCulley, the firm's chief economist would be sticking around, and Hodge simply said that he looks forward to McCulley being a part of the firm going forward, but added that, "we all make our own decisions." It seems then that at PIMCO little has changed; or maybe everything has.  You can find clips from Hodge and Ivascyn's interview over at CNBC here » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman holding a parasol stands as passers-by walk past an electronic board showing Japan's Nikkei average, outside a brokerage in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares got off on the back foot on Wednesday as continued civil unrest in Hong Kong sapped confidence, while the dollar index was in sight of a four-year high after marking its best quarterly gain in six years. Trading in Asia was expected to be more subdued than usual, with China closed for National Day and investors warily monitoring developments in Hong Kong's pro-democracy unrest, as thousands of protesters stepped up pressure on the city's pro-Beijing government. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; was down 0.4 percent, while Japan's Nikkei stock average &lt;.N225&gt; fell 0.2 percent. Japan's benchmark rose 4.9 percent in September, the biggest monthly rise since last November. The Bank of Japan's closely watched tankan survey of business sentiment released before the market opened showed big manufacturers' confidence improved slightly in the latest quarter, but service-sector sentiment worsened, adding to evidence that a sales tax hike continues to weigh on the economy. The dollar index &lt;.DXY&gt;, which tracks the greenback against a basket of rival currencies, touched a four-year high of 86.218, and last stood at 85.939. The euro skidded as low as $1.2571 &lt;eur=&gt; on Tuesday after data showed cooling euro zone inflation, the culmination of a dismal month in which the currency slipped 3.82 percent - its biggest decline in over two years. It was last steady on the day at $1.2629. "The EUR/USD gapped lower by a big figure, falling toward 1.2570, before finding support and partially rebounding to 1.2630 this morning," said David de Garis, senior economist at National Australia Bank. Data on Tuesday showed annual inflation cooled to 0.3 percent last month, well below the European Central Bank's target of just under 2 percent, increasing speculation the bank will take more easing steps. The dollar added about 0.1 percent against the yen to 109.67 &lt;jpy=&gt;, after rising to a six-year high of 109.86 yen on Tuesday. Oil crawled off overnight lows but remained pressured by the dollar's momentum. World oil prices tumbled to their lowest in more than two years, with U.S. crude posting its biggest daily decline since 2012. Brent crude added about 0.2 percent on the day to $94.82 a barrel, after marking a 16 percent loss for the quarter, the biggest in two years. U.S. crude added about 0.2 percent to $91.34 a barrel after shedding 12 percent for the quarter, also its biggest quarterly loss in two years.   (Additional reporting by Ian Chua in Sydney; Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPIMCO's offices at Newport Beach.NEW YORK (Reuters) - Influential pension consultant Mercer Investment Management has downgraded its ratings on five Pimco funds, possibly triggering another wave of institutional investor outflows from the Newport Beach, California, bond fund manager. It was the latest blow after Morningstar downgraded its analyst rating on the flagship Pimco Total Return Fund to "bronze" from "gold" late Monday, citing uncertainty about outflows and the reshuffling of management responsibilities after the exit of co-founder Bill Gross last Friday. "We have been and will continue to be in close contact with our clients to address their questions. We have long-term and deep relationships with our clients and strong partnerships with consultants around the world, and are confident that the vast majority will continue to stand with us," said a PIMCO spokesperson on the Mercer news. The Financial Times was first to report that Mercer cut the Pimco Total Return Fund and four other portfolios to a B grade on its A-to-C scale. Billions of dollars have flowed out of Pacific Investment Management Co, which had $1.97 trillion in assets as of June 30, since the news of Gross's departure sent shock waves through the fixed-income world. Gross, the bond market's most renowned investor and sometimes called the Bond King, quit Pimco for distant rival Janus Capital Group Inc &lt;jns.n&gt; on Friday, a day before he was expected to be fired from the firm he helped found more than 40 years ago. The Pimco Total Return and other Pimco funds are widely held in pension systems, university endowments, retail investment accounts and more. Since the start of the year, investors have pulled $25 billion from the Pimco Total Return Fund, the world's largest bond fund, according to Morningstar data as of the end of August. Its sister exchange-traded fund, the Pimco Total Return exchange-traded fund &lt;bond.p&gt;, saw $448 million in outflows Friday after news of Gross hit, but outflows slowed on Monday to $98 million. Already a number of institutional investors have placed Pimco on their watch lists, a possible precursor among some investors to pulling funds out of a company. A watch list does not always mean money will be removed from a manager and in some cases is resolved without a change. The Texas Municipal Retirement System has placed Pimco on its watch list because of Gross's departure, a spokesman said. The system has about $2 billion in a core plus fixed income mandate to Pimco, about 8.51 percent of the total portfolio. The New Hampshire Retirement System, which does not use a watch list, had already been moving out of Pimco this year as the system overhauls its fixed income strategy, said spokesman Marty Karlon. The New Hampshire system has about $7.3 billion in total assets, about $200 million of which is invested with Pimco. "Definitely the news will affect us as we go forward, but nothing's been decided at this point," Karlon said.   (Reporting by Luciana Lopez; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersNEW YORK (Reuters) - Pimco intends to expand its equities business and there will be no difference in the firm's portfolio management following the departure of former Chief Investment Officer Bill Gross, two top Pimco executives said on Tuesday. Pimco plans to "absolutely grow" its equities business, Chief Executive Officer Doug Hodge told CNBC. There will also be "no difference" in the way money is managed now compared with when Gross was still at Pimco, group Chief Investment Officer Dan Ivascyn told the cable television network. "At least for the coming weeks and even the next couple of months, expect us to be very comfortable and only make incremental change across most client accounts," Ivascyn said. Ivascyn said the firm was still following its "New Neutral" thesis of interest rates globally remaining low for a prolonged period of time, and that the 10-year Treasury note yield offered "reasonable value" and would likely hit 3 percent over the next few years. He also said the U.S. dollar would continue to strengthen against many global currencies. The 10-year yield was last at 2.505 percent in Tuesday afternoon trading. Gross, the bond market's most renowned investor, quit Pimco for distant rival Janus Capital Group Inc &lt;jns.n&gt; last Friday, the day before he was expected to be fired from the huge investment firm he co-founded more than 40 years ago. Hodge told Reuters on Sept. 28 that Pimco was moving away from a founder-led model and that the asset manager's flagship fund, the Pimco Total Return Fund, formerly run by Gross, "does not define Pimco.” Gross managed the world’s biggest bond fund, with $222 billion in assets, since 1987. He co-founded Pimco, a $2 trillion asset management firm, in 1971. Newport Beach, California-based Pimco is a unit of German insurer Allianz SE &lt;alvg.de&gt;     (Reporting by Sam Forgione; Editing by Diane Craft and Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman walks past a logo at the office of the Bank of New York Mellon in Brussels(Reuters) - Bank of New York Mellon Corp &lt;bk.n&gt; told a group of employees on Tuesday that it is shutting its derivatives sales and trading business, Bloomberg reported. The decision affects about 50 people, almost all in New York, Bloomberg said, citing a person familiar with the matter. Employees were told in a meeting earlier this month to expect changes so that BNY Mellon could focus on its core business of custody and collateral services, said the person. About 20 positions will be cut this year, another person briefed on the plans told Bloomberg. BNY Mellon has decided to exit the derivatives sales and trading business that operates as part of its global markets group, Bloomberg quoted BNY Mellon spokesman Ron Sommer as saying. Bank of New York Mellon was not immediately available for comment after regular business hours.   (Reporting By Sudarshan Varadhan) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man walks past an American Apparel store in New York(Reuters) - American Apparel Inc's  board is increasingly open to letting its ousted founder, Dov Charney, stay at the company, Bloomberg reported, citing people familiar with the matter. The U.S. retailer is also considering giving Charney a new role, Bloomberg reported. He currently serves as a consultant to the company. American Apparel's shares were up 2.4 percent in extended trading. American Apparel said on Monday it hired Scott Brubaker, a managing director at turnaround firm Alvarez &amp; Marsal, as interim chief executive, replacing John Luttrell, who had been serving as both interim CEO and CFO since Charney's exit. Luttrel's departure could make it easier for Charney to make a come back, Bloomberg said. Brubaker has also been in talks with Charney, the news service reported. Charney, who was removed from the chairman and chief executive position in June for alleged misuse of corporate funds and his role in disseminating nude photos of an ex-employee, in July joined hands with hedge fund Standard General LP and raised his stake in the company to 43 percent. The hedge fund and Charney soon thereafter reached a deal with the company to remake its board and bolster its finances. Standard General gained control of Charney's entire stake after Charney transferred it to the hedge fund as collateral for a loan. The hedge fund, which also has voting rights over Charney's stake, is leading the company's efforts to avoid bankruptcy. American Apparel was not immediately available for comment.  (Reporting by Ramkumar Iyer in Bangalore; Editing by Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
Official recession calls are the responsibility of the NBER Business Cycle Dating Committee, which is understandably vague about the specific indicators on which they base their decisions. This committee statement is about as close as they get to identifying their method. There is, however, a general belief that there are four big indicators that the committee weighs heavily in their cycle identification process. They are: The Latest Indicator Data  According to the Bureau of Economic Analysis, Personal Income (PI) in August rose 0.3%. Transfer Payments (TP), which includes Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, government &amp; private pensions and miscellaneous welfare programs) rose 0.7%. If we subtract the latter from the former (PI less TP) the monthly increase drops to 0.2%. If we adjust for inflation using the PCE Price Index, the increase rises to 0.3%, thanks mostly to lower gasoline prices, which contributed to a disinflationary month-over-month decline in the BEA's PCE Price Index. The chart and table below illustrate the performance of the Big Four with an overlay of a simple average of the four since the end of the Great Recession. The data points show the cumulative percent change from a zero starting point for June 2009. We now have the three indicator updates for the 61th month following the recession. The Big Four Average is (gray line below).  Current Assessment and Outlook The overall picture of the US economy had been one of slow recovery from the Great Recession with a clearly documented contraction during the winter, as reflected in Q1 GDP. Data for Q2 supported the consensus view that severe winter weather was responsible for the Q1 contraction -- that it was not the beginnings of a business cycle decline. However, the average of these indicators in recent months suggests that, despite the Q2 rebound in GDP, the economy remains near stall speed.  The next update of the Big Four be the month-end Real Personal Income less Transfer Payments. Background Analysis: The Big Four Indicators and Recessions The charts above don't show us the individual behavior of the Big Four leading up to the 2007 recession. To achieve that goal, I've plotted the same data using a "percent off high" technique. In other words, I show successive new highs as zero and the cumulative percent declines of months that aren't new highs. The advantage of this approach is that it helps us visualize declines more clearly and to compare the depth of declines for each indicator and across time (e.g., the short 2001 recession versus the Great Recession). Here is my own four-pack showing the indicators with this technique.   Now let's examine the behavior of these indicators across time. The first chart below graphs the period from 2000 to the present, thereby showing us the behavior of the four indicators before and after the two most recent recessions. Rather than having four separate charts, I've created an overlay to help us evaluate the relative behavior of the indicators at the cycle peaks and troughs. (See my note below on recession boundaries).  Click for a larger image The chart above is an excellent starting point for evaluating the relevance of the four indicators in the context of two very different recessions. In both cases, the bounce in Industrial Production matches the NBER trough while Employment and Personal Incomes lagged in their respective reversals. As for the start of these two 21st century recessions, the indicator declines are less uniform in their behavior. We can see, however, that Employment and Personal Income were laggards in the declines. Now let's look at the 1972-1985 period, which included three recessions -- the savage 16-month Oil Embargo recession of 1973-1975 and the double dip of 1980 and 1981-1982 (6-months and 16-months, respectively).  Click for a larger image And finally, for sharp-eyed readers who can don't mind squinting at a lot of data, here's a cluttered chart from 1959 to the present. That is the earliest date for which all four indicators are available. The main lesson of this chart is the diverse patterns and volatility across time for these indicators. For example, retail sales and industrial production are far more volatile than employment and income.  Click for a larger image History tells us the brief periods of contraction are not uncommon, as we can see in this big picture since 1959, the same chart as the one above, but showing the average of the four rather than the individual indicators.  Click for a larger image The chart clearly illustrates the savagery of the last recession. It was much deeper than the closest contender in this timeframe, the 1973-1975 Oil Embargo recession. While we've yet to set new highs, the trend has collectively been upward, although we have that strange anomaly caused by the late 2012 tax-planning strategy that impacted the Personal Income. Here is a close-up of the average since 2000.  Click for a larger image   Appendix: Chart Gallery with Notes Each of the four major indicators discussed in this article are illustrated below in three different data manipulations: Industrial Production The US Industrial Production Index (INDPRO) is the oldest of the four indicators, stretching back to 1919, although I've dropped the earlier decades and started in 1950.  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Real Personal Income Less Transfer Payments This data series is computed as by taking Personal Income (PI) less Personal Current Transfer Receipts (PCTR) and deflated using the Personal Consumption Expenditure Price Index (PCEPI). I've chained the data to the latest price index value. The "Tax Planning Strategies" annotation refers to shifting income into the current year to avoid a real or expected tax increase.  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Transfer Payments largely consist of retirement and disability insurance benefits, medical benefits, income maintenance benefits (more here). The chart below shows the Transfer Payment portion of Personal Income. I've included recessions to help illustrate the impact of the business cycle on this metric.  Total Nonfarm Employees There are many ways to plot employment. The one referenced by the Federal Reserve researchers as one of the NBER indicators is Total Nonfarm Employees (PAYEMS).  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Real Retail Sales This indicator is a splicing of the discontinued retail sales series (RETAIL, discontinued in April 2001) with the Retail and Food Services Sales (RSAFS) and deflated by the seasonally adjusted Consumer Price Index (CPIAUCSL). I used a splice point of January 1995 because that date was mentioned in the FRED notes. My experiments with other splice techniques (e.g., 1992, 2001 or using an average of the overlapping years) didn't make a meaningful difference in the behavior of the indicator in proximity to recessions. I've chained the data to the latest CPI value.  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Note: I represent recessions as the peak month through the month preceding the trough to highlight the recessions in the charts above. For example, the NBER dates the last cycle peak as December 2007, the trough as June 2009 and the duration as 18 months. The "Peak through the Period preceding the Trough" series is the one FRED uses in its monthly charts, as explained in the FRED FAQs illustrated in this Industrial Production chart. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJP Morgan Chase & Co sign outside headquarters in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - A federal judge on Tuesday said JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. must face a class action lawsuit by investors who claimed the largest U.S. bank misled them about the safety of $10 billion of mortgage-backed securities it sold before the financial crisis. U.S. District Judge Paul Oetken in Manhattan certified a class action as to JPMorgan's liability but not as to damages, saying it was unclear how investors could value the certificates they bought, given how the market was "not particularly liquid." He said the plaintiffs could try again to certify a class on damages. Oetken ruled 10 months after JPMorgan reached a $13 billion settlement to resolve U.S. and state probes into the New York-based bank's sale of mortgage securities. The class consists of investors before March 23, 2009 in certificates issued from nine of 11 trusts created by JPMorgan for the April 2007 offering. The other two trusts attracted only a handful of investors, and are the subject of other lawsuits. Oetken named the Laborers Pension Trust Fund for Northern California and Construction Laborers Pension Trust for Southern California as lead plaintiffs, and their law firm Robbins Geller Rudman &amp; Dowd as lead counsel. A JPMorgan spokesman did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The plaintiffs' lawyer did not immediately respond to a similar request. The lawsuit said that JPMorgan misled prospective investors about the underwriting, appraisals and credit quality of the home loans underlying the certificates. It said that by the time the litigation began in March 2009, six months after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc failed, the certificates were worth at most 62 cents on the dollar. Oetken rejected JPMorgan's arguments that the case could not be a class action because it was based on the practices of many originators and more than 8,000 underwriting guidelines, some investors were more sophisticated than others, and the MBS had evolved too rapidly during the two-year class period. He also said he had no basis to accept JPMorgan's request that he disqualify Robbins Geller because one of what the judge called the firm's "confidential sources" for the lawsuit, a former employee at a loan originator, later withdrew his testimony - something the bank said had occurred in other cases handled by the firm. The case, whose caption names a different plaintiff, is Fort Worth Employees' Retirement Fund v. JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 09-03701.   (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Grant McCool) FREE AppDownload
CNBCCharles Nenner Nenner, who developed the "Nenner cycle," which he says can time the ups and downs of any market, said on CNBC that "for the next many years, you will not see the S&amp;P more than 5% higher than [current levels.]" But he warns this period of low returns will be followed years of large losses. "And there's a major thing coming down — I'm talking about far in the future — a major collapse coming down starting in 2018 to 2020," he said. Fortunately for investors looking for a long-term buy signal, Nenner sees the next bull market starting in 2020.  Earlier in the segment, Nenner had a contentious exchange with CNBC host Scott Wapner reminiscent of the exchange CNBC anchor Jackie DeAngelis had with Bill Fleckenstein earlier this month.  Wapner challenged Nenner regarding some of his past market calls, including a call back in 2010 for a "major crisis" after 2013 due to sunspot activity, and a 2009 call that the Dow would hit 5,000 in the next "two to two-and-a-half years." Fortunately, those calls did not come to fruition. Currently, Nenner said he is "totally" out of the market. Nenner sees the primary catalyst for a crash being deflation, which he believes is already starting to take hold across the world's economies and cripple growth. "I think the big problem is in deflation, which I'm saying every year," Nenner said. "Europe is close to deflation, Japan is still in deflation, China has very low inflation, and if the dollar continues to rise in the United States, we'll get deflation over here. And I don't think investors are ready for it." Nenner said that there is deflation in most of the world already, and that a strong dollar will see that deflation get exported here, making it hard for indebted governments to pay off their debts.  Below is the clip from Nenner's appearance on Tuesday. Unfortunately, Nenner's more contentious exchange with Wapner was not available from CNBC.        FREE AppDownload
Executives are worried about what's in frontpage news these days.  McKinsey's Economic Conditions Snapshot for September shows that a record number of business executives are concerned about the impact that geopolitical instability could have on economic growth. More than 80% of respondents said that geopolitical crises in North Africa and the Middle East are "likely or extremely likely to shock the global economy in the coming year." The last time the category had this many votes was in September 2013, when the US was considering possible military intervention against Syria for its use of chemical weapons.  Their current survey had responses from 1,202 executives around the world. This chart shows that just less than a year ago in December, conflicts were not the most important thing on their minds. McKinsey There hasn't been a shortage of headlines in the last few weeks, from airstrikes against ISIS in Syria to massive protests in Hong Kong.  Business leaders in North America are the most worried that all this would dent their local economies, as this chart shows. McKinsey The report continues: "After nine months of mostly positive sentiments on the progress of the world economy, executives have changed their tune. Now only 37 percent say global conditions have improved in the past six months, down from 56 percent in June—and a much smaller share than the 53 percent who, in March, believed global conditions would improve by now."  FREE AppDownload
Daniel KriegerThe dining room at Le Bernardin.Michelin released its 2015 ratings for New York City today, and only six restaurants received a highly coveted three-star rating. Daniel Boulud's Daniel, which had received three stars for each of the past five years, lost a star in the new guidebook. That means there are just nine restaurants in the U.S. with top ratings from the prestigious guide, which uses anonymous inspectors to judge restaurants around the world. It's important to note that Michelin only publishes guides for three U.S. cities: New York, Chicago, and San Francisco, so the company's ratings are not all-encompassing. The remaining three-star restaurants in the U.S. are:  Ripert's Le Bernardin also recently topped Business Insider's list of the 45 best restaurants in America. Eleven Madison Park came in second on that list, followed by The French Laundry, Per Se, and Daniel. There are also only six New York City restaurants with four-star rankings from The New York Times, the paper's highest honor. They are Del Posto, Eleven Madison Park, Jean Georges, Le Bernardin, Per Se, and Sushi Nakazawa, a highly acclaimed sushi bar in the West Village that some are saying was snubbed by Michelin after it was not recognized in its 2015 guide (and which The Times named the best restaurant of 2013). Melissa Stanger and Melia Robinson contributed to this story. FREE AppDownload
APLate last week, Marissa Mayer got the kind of letter a public company CEO never wants to get. It was an open letter from a major shareholder, telling her what to do…or else. The letter was from a type of shareholder known as an "activist investor." Activist investors buy lots of stock in public companies they believe are being run incorrectly. Usually, there is one specific thing the activist investor would like their public company targets to do, e.g. spin-out a division, merge with a rival, or commit to cost cuts. After they buy their stake, activists will often launch media-friendly campaigns to convince the people running the public company to change their ways. Behind these recommendations there is a sometimes explicit, sometimes implicit threat: Take my advice, or I will convince enough of your shareholders that you are a fool and together, we will vote out your board of directors and get you fired. The letter Mayer got last week was from an activist named Jeff Smith. His firm is Starboard Value. Starboard is the same firm that thinks Olive Garden is doing a bad job executing its unlimited breadsticks strategy. A couple years ago, Jeff Smith and Starboard put so much pressure on AOL CEO Tim Armstrong that he promised to make a division of his company, Patch, profitable by the end of 2013. When Patch wasn't, Armstrong spun it out. Smith wants Mayer to do four things: In his letter, Smith pointedly does not say that Yahoo's board should fire Marissa Mayer or that she should resign. The most threatening he gets is in his conclusion, when he writes, "We hope, and expect, that the management team and the Board will execute on the suggestions in this letter." But the truth is, behind those polite words there's a very clear message. If Yahoo doesn't do what Smith says, he is likely to propose an alternate slate of directors for the Yahoo board. If shareholders voted those directors onto the Yahoo board — and kicked some of its current directors off — Marissa Mayer would, in effect, have new bosses to report to, bosses that want her to do the things Smith is demanding. She would have a very short leash, and could easily be out of a job. The good news for Mayer is that this activist campaign doesn't have to go that far. In fact, she can diffuse the whole situation by taking some sort of bold action that pleases Smith and/or the rest of Yahoo's shareholders so much that there is no support for changing up the board. Under similar pressure a couple years ago, Microsoft announced that it would increase its dividend. Apple also increased its dividend after activist investor Carl Icahn lobbied it to do so.  Here are some things Mayer could do: Pretty much the only thing Mayer can't do is nothing. If there's no sign that Yahoo will be able to monetize its stakes in Alibaba or Yahoo! Japan, and Yahoo's core revenues remain stagnant, shareholders will flock to Smith. Nicholas Carlson is the author of Marissa Mayer and the Fight to Save Yahoo!, on sale January 6. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsOnly a few Monopoly properties really matter.McDonald's kicked off its annual Monopoly sweepstakes today, so of course we are thrilled to devour the stats.  Lottery probabilities are a ton of fun, and Monopoly statistics are even more interesting, so a Monopoly-themed lottery may as well be Christmas for stat geeks.  Here's how it works. Every time you purchase certain items at McDonald's over the next couple weeks —  any one of 26 different menu items — you'll get to peel off a game piece comprised of two stamps.  These game stamps can correspond to either an instant prize, or they can correlate to a space on the Monopoly board. For spaces on the Monopoly board, if you get all the properties of a single color — or the Railroads — you win a prize.  So, let's take a look at your odds of winning prizes by buying McDonald's.  Before we get into the stats, there are a few basic elements of the game you need to know.  First of all, nobody cares about the online sweepstakes games. This is the last we will mention it, ever, because it's boring. All we care about is the in-store game, where you peel game pieces and win.  If you win a prize on McDonald's Monopoly, it is probably going to be a food prize.  There's 1 in 4.45 odds — a 22.5% chance — you win a food prize when you get a McDonald's game piece.  As we mentioned earlier, the odds you win any prize is approximately 1 in 4, a probability of 25%.  So what does this mean?  Well, comparing the two probabilities, 89.9% of the prizes will be food prizes. Hope you're hungry.  In fact, 4 out of every 11 prizes allocated will be a medium fries.  So let's look at the potential food prizes: Since there's a 25% chance of winning an instant prize, and a 22.5% chance of winning a food prize, that means that there is roughly a 2.5% chance of winning one of the other instant prizes. These range from a red box DVD (1 in 101 chance) to a pair of headphones (similar probability of drawing the Ace of Spades from a shuffled deck of cards four consecutive times) to $100,000 (drawing the Ace of Spades five consecutive times). But let's get to the real fun.  Here's the secret to McDonald's Monopoly.  Many people assume that all the spaces are equally likely. For instance, most people think if McDonald's wants the Brown prize probability to be 1 in 1,000,000, they'll make the probability of drawing Baltic 1 in 1,000 and Mediterranean 1 in 1,000, making the probability of getting both 1 in 1,000,000.  Instead, McDonalds was much smarter about it. They make Baltic show up 1 in 10 times and Mediterranean show up 1 in 100,000 times. This means that almost all the game pieces are entirely worthless, and only one game piece from every set is actually tantamount to winning the prize. It's easy to get a hold of some of the worthless properties. They're outstandingly common, most with a 1 in 10 or so chance of popping up. Just hit Craigslist or something. So here are the only game pieces that are actually very valuable. Don't trade these away: FREE AppDownload
Flickr/NIAIDColorized scanning electron micrograph of filamentous Ebola virus particles (green) attached and budding from a chronically infected VERO E6 cell (orange) (25,000x magnification). Shares of Tekmira Pharmaceuticals, which is working on a treatment for Ebola, are surging in after hours trade after the Centers for Disease Control confirmed the first case of Ebola in the US. Shares of Tekmira were up as much 11% on Tuesday evening. Shares of BioCryst Pharmaceuticals, which is also working to develop an Ebola treatment, were also up more than 14% in after hours trade on Tuesday. Other pharmaceutical companies, including Sarepta Therapeutics, up 7%, and NewLink Genetics, up 14.5% were also higher following the news. All of these companies, in some form or fashion, have been working on treatments for Ebola.  FREE AppDownload
The protests in Hong Kong don't seem to be coming to an end anytime soon, and thousands of people have taken to the streets so far, some of whom are camping out all night. Drone footage taken at night shows just how big the demonstrations have gotten: The protestors have taken to holding up lit smartphone screens toward the sky, which explains the tiny blinks of light you see in the drone footage. REUTERS/Carlos BarriaProtesters hold their mobile phones as they block the main street to the financial Central district, outside the government headquarters in Hong Kong. The protests — dubbed "Occupy Central," or the "Umbrella Revolution" — have primarily been fueled by younger Hong Kong residents who are angry at what they see as Beijing's slowly taking away Hong Kong's democracy. China recently placed restrictions on Hong Kong's 2017 election of its top civil leader, saying the candidates would have to be vetted by Beijing, according to CNN. There are also economic concerns relating to inequality and the price of housing. As many as 50,000 protestors are blocking streets in the busy city. (via Carmen Ng) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Wealth Managers Are Setting Up Shop In Silicon Valley (Financial Planning) Silicon Valley's tech fortunes have attracted the attentions of one of the world's largest independent wealth managers, the London-based deVere Group. That group has over $10 billion in assets, 80,000 clients, and offices in 50 countries.  They just opened a new San Francisco office, and are planning on expanding to Silicon Valley, Seattle and San Diego within the year. "This is a boom time for these markets," said Adrian Flambard, deVere's area manager in San Francisco. "We were impressed by the variety of industries that are on the US West Coast and the fact that you have both some of the largest corporations in the world here as well as a large number of start-ups and entrepreneurs." So far deVere has 1,400 clients in the US with over $100 million in assets under management, Charles Paikert reports. And they're hoping to greatly expand those numbers on the West Coast. Foreign Bonds Will See Lower Returns Because Of The Stronger US Dollar (Charles Schwab) The US dollar surged more than 6.5% against other currencies in recent months because of "prospects of strong US economic growth and rising interest rates relative to most other major development markets," according to Charles Schwab's Kathy Jones. The stronger US dollar "helps keeps inflation down by reducing the cost of imported goods, and also makes US markets more attractive to foreign investors," Jones writes. So that means that investors who hold foreign bonds may want to adjust their portfolios. Because of the US dollar, foreign bonds will see increased risk and will also have the "possibility" of lower return. On the flip side, "a domestic bond portfolio may benefit from a stronger dollar because it helps hold down inflation and boost foreign investment in the US bond market." Last Week's Sell Off Suggests That Volatility Is On The Rise (BlackRock Blog) There's was "no significant or obvious catalyst for the sell-off" last week, but it appears to "have been a case of lingering geopolitical risks running into market complacency and some stretched valuations," according to BlackRock's Russ Koesterich.  The recent sell-off does signify two things about the markets. First, that volatility is the on the rise. Although volatility is still low by historical standards — the VIX peaked around 16, "still 20% below the long-term average" — but the anticipated rate hike and "slightly less benign" credit conditions will likely change that soon. And secondly, "valuations are likely to matter more as markets become less driven by momentum. While equities in general have been struggling since the S&amp;P 500 Index first crossed the 2,000 threshold in late August, various market segments are behaving differently. In a sign that investors are paying closer attention to the importance of relative value, segments that still appear to be relative bargains are outperforming those with more expensive valuations," writes Koesterich.  Because Many Inverted Companies Merge For The Wrong Reason, Investors Shouldn't Necessarily Invest In Them (Wealth Management.com) Lots of US companies have recently announced plans to merge with international firms. Many companies do this in order to lower their taxes  — think Burger King's union with Canada's Tim Hortons. Although, it's important to note that the company must still pay taxes on all products sold in the US. An inverted company's lower taxes means higher after-tax earnings. Consequently, many investors automatically think that it's a great idea to invest in these inverted companies. However, the problem is that because companies merged for the wrong reasons (namely, taxes — rather than because its the best choice for the company) it may actually be a bad idea to invest in these companies. "A recent study that looks at all inverted companies for the past 30 years found that half outperformed the market and half underperformed." Advisors Shouldn't Blog About Investing If They Want To Attract Clients (Advisor Perspectives) "Many advisors have embraced the idea that blogging should be part of their marketing strategy. Yet they often struggle to come up with new ideas for blog posts. After all, how many times can you talk about 401(k)s, retirement planning and diversification? There's a lot to say about such worthy topics, but after a while, you could feel like you're repeating yourself. Worse, your audience may feel the same way and tune out," writes Megan Elliott. Although many advisors want to blog in order to market themselves or build a reputation, blogging only about investing often drives away clients because they get bored. Instead, investors should use the blogging medium to write about the clients' interests, Elliot suggests. That way, you can make connections with your clients and they will feel like they can trust you. "Maybe a movie you just saw has lessons that could help people better prepare for retirement. Perhaps you can make a connection between last week's big game and how you manage money for clients," Elliot suggests.   FREE AppDownload
FordBuilt Ford tough?Ford got clobbered on Monday, dropping almost 8% after the company announced that it was going to lose billions in Europe and South America in 2014.  Ford also announced a recall of 850,000 vehicles that could cost $500 million this year and further erode the bottom line.  On the plus side, Ford expects to make money in the U.S., as the auto market continues to surge.  Ford dipped another 2% in trading on Tuesday, closing at just under $15 per share. Prior to Monday's selloff, Ford watchers on Wall Street and in the media were preoccupied with how a major redesign — a re-engineering, really — of the F-150 pickup truck, using aluminum instead of steel to shed weight, might affect Ford's business. Concern has now shifted to how the company's overall operations will perform for the rest of the year and into 2015. Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas credited Ford management with being gutsy enough to dispense bad news and get it over with ahead of third-quarter earnings, which won't be reported until the end of October. In a note published Tuesday, he wrote: Ford management did indeed highlight those macro factors, specifically the failure of the Russian market to make up for overall weakness in Europe (no surprise given that Russia is currently enduring economic sanctions as the crisis in Ukraine grinds on) and well as problems with inflation and foreign exchange rates in South America. Jonas added, "Investors may not like the message, but it was genuine, it was real and, in our view, absolutely reasonable."  However, he sounded a moderately ominous note about the new F-150, suggesting that production difficulties could eat into Ford's profits for what is after all the bestselling vehicle in America, historically.  But overall, his note expressed confidence in Ford after a rough trading session on Monday. Sterne Agee's Michael Ward affirmed his $20 per share target price, which looked reasonable Monday morning when Ford was at about $16 but seems riskier now that the stock has dropped to $15 (What a difference a dollar makes!). He trimmed earnings expectations for 2014 and also expressed concern about the F-150 revamp while restating his views on the truck's critical importance to Ford's success going forward. UBS analysts Colin Langan revised his price target on Ford to $19 from $22 on Monday's news but continued to stress a bullish thesis overall — and broke slightly with the F-150 worriers by arguing that Wall Street isn't anticipating enough upside from the new truck. He pointed to a survey, released by UBS in July, that indicated a strong appetite among consumers for the new F-150 and predicted increased cost from the switch from steel to aluminum of only about $600 per vehicle. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaA man walks along an empty street near the central financial district in Hong Kong September 30, 2014.Stocks finished lower, but little changed, on the final trading day of the month and the third quarter. Tuesday saw a volatile session for the market, with the Dow making a 130-point roundtrip from its morning lows to afternoon highs and back again, before finishing with a slight loss. Each of the major stock indexes, however, finished the quarter with gains. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. Housing prices grew at a slower than expected pace in July, according to the latest S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index. The report showed that month-over-month home prices were down 0.5%, and on a year-over-year basis, home prices were down 6.75%. These were lower than expectations for no change on a monthly basis and a gain of 7.4% year-over-year. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "The downshift looks alarming but it won't last." 2. The Conference Board's consumer confidence report for September came in at 86.0, missing expectations for a reading of 92.5. This was the first decline for the report following four straight months of gains. Uncertainty in the job market weighed on this report, with Lynn Franco, director of economic indicators at The Conference Board writing that, "A less positive assessment of the job market, most likely due to the recent softening in growth, was the sole reason for the decline in consumers' assessment of present-day conditions." 3. The Chicago purchasing managers index fell to 60.5 in September from 64.3 in August, a bit worse than the 62.0 expected by economists. "Despite September's fall, the Barometer stands above Q1's level and the 10-year average of 55.8, with respondents deeming activity levels as 'strong' and 'surging,' aided by ongoing demand, successful sales promotions and organic growth, all of which called for inventory builds," ISM-Chicago wrote following the report. 4. Oil prices got slammed on Tuesday, falling more than 3% to nearly $91 a barrel. Market participants pointed to a number of potential factors that lead to this decline, including a Reuters story indicating that OPEC production is surging and headlines that economic growth in Europe continues to flag.  5. The situation in Hong Kong remains unsettled, with protests continuing ahead of a national holiday in China on Wednesday. Geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer told Business Insider's Michael Kelley that if the government can't get the protestors to disperse, we're likely to see violence.  6. Also in China news, Macau published its worst gaming revenue numbers since the financial crisis, with revenue for the gambling hub potentially falling 12%-13% in September. Some casino stocks, including Las Vegas Sands, MGM, and Wynn all surged on Tuesday, however, as a report from China Daily said that China will wind down an anti-corruption drive.  7. The euro continued to lose ground against the dollar as economic news out of Europe earlier on Tuesday continued to disappoint. Perhaps the most dreary economic situation in the bloc is in Italy, which is experiencing outright deflation, an exceedingly high youth unemployment rate, and a "triple-dip" recession.  8. The situation in Russia is also still a mess, as the ruble made new lows against the dollar today after reports said that Russia is weighing capital controls — or legal limits on how much money you can take out of a country — to stem the outflow of money from Russia.  9. The biggest stock story of the day was news that eBay will spin off its Pay Pal unit into a separate publicly-traded company. The deal is expected to be complete in the second half of next year. Additionally, eBay CEO John Donahoe will step down after the completion of the spinoff. eBay shares gained more than 7% on Tuesday, and Carl Icahn yet again showed why investors follow him into stocks: he gets results. Icahn had long sought to get eBay to separate its PayPal business.  Don't Miss: ROBERT SHILLER: Our Anxieties Are Now Driving Up The Stock Market » FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThere are infinitely many numbers, and infinitely many ways to combine and manipulate those numbers. Mathematicians often represent numbers in a line. Pick a point on the line, and this represents a number. At the end of the day, though, almost all of the numbers that we use are based on a handful of extremely important numbers that sit at the foundation of all of math. What follows are the eight numbers you actually need to build the number line, and to do just about anything quantitative. FREE AppDownload
ReutersProtesters rally next to an umbrella as they block the main road at Causeway Bay shopping district in Hong Kong September 30, 2014. Tens of thousands of pro-democracy protesters extended a blockade of Hong Kong streets on Tuesday, stockpiling supplies and erecting makeshift barricades ahead of what some fear may be a push by police to clear the roads before Chinese National DayOn Wednesday and Thursday China will celebrate the China National Day — a commemoration of the founding of the People's Republic of China. That means no one goes to work. And that means everyone in Hong Kong and can join the protesters in the streets who are calling for a reversal of China's decision to select all the candidates for Hong Kong's 2017 chief executive elections. "We cherish the core values of Hong Kong," said Edward Chin, a hedge fund manager and one of a group of finance vets within the so-called Occupy Central protest movement. "Freedom of speech, freedom of press and also the rule of law." The world started paying attention to unrest in Hong Kong this weekend, when images of protesters holding umbrellas to block police pepper spray showers flooded the media. More bodies on the ground means more potential for escalation, though many of Occupy Central's own protesters, including Chin, don't know exactly what that might mean. One option, says George Chen, a 2014 Yale World Fellow and author of the book, 'This is Hong Kong I Know', is copying protests in Taiwan. In March of this year thousands of Taiwanese protesters occupied the country's legislature for the 'Sunflower Movement.' They were protesting a trade agreement between Beijing and Taipei that they believed would give China too much influence over Taiwan's affairs. "Certainly there are some talks about upgrading the [Hong Kong] action to occupy more physical buildings, " said Chen. If students were to occupy government buildings that would be a very dangerous situation because it would give police a reason to use force." Chen isn't alone in that belief either. "The Hong Kong leadership has made clear that they’re not going to accede to the protesters demands," Geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer told Business Insider in an email. "They want to avoid a broad show of force ... but if they can’t get the demonstrations to disperse through threats and some strategic arrests, we’re likely to see violence." The only factor here, says Chen, that could check government violence protesters is the market. Hong Kong is still a global financial center. If China sees that in jeopardy, it may pull back. The country's economy is already slowing down — a slew of bad numbers reaching across industries from the gambling to housing to industrial production, confirm that. China is not in the best position to handle a Hong Kong out of commission. "If you pay attention to the timeline of the whole developments so far," Chen said, "Hong Kong police stopped using tear gas after the market opened on Monday.... If you want to stop using tear gas why do you need to wait until market's open? I think this means market means more than people to the Hong Kong government." At a certain point, though, not even saving the market will hold China back from clamping down on Hong Kong. Xi has made no secret about his regime's desire to tighten its grip on power all over the country. A massive anti-corruption drive has taken down high-level figures, and the office of the President has more powers under Xi than it did under his predecessors. "Xi is pretty much like Putin," Edward Chin told Business Insider. His China is more like a totalitarian regime. That is a red flag to people in finance, I see the shadow of Chairman Mao." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim Urquhart Jason Williams was a money manager at PIMCO. Then he got fired. Then he sued the firm, dropped the suit, moved to Montana and bought a bar. According to a new report from Bloomberg's Mary Childs and Greg Farrell, Williams was fired by PIMCO in March 2012, three weeks after Williams reportedly told PIMCO he had spoken to US officials regarding what he believed was price manipulation in the company's Total Return ETF. Last week, reports surfaced that the SEC was looking into manipulation in this fund.  This inquiry is reportedly focused on whether or not the fund bought small lots of bonds at a discount and then marked up the price of these holdings in the fund, goosing returns. Bloomberg's report said it couldn't be known if there was a link between Williams' suit and the SEC's inquiry.  Williams left the industry and when reached by Bloomberg declined to comment on why he dropped the suit.  (via Bloomberg) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Mark LennihanThe author isn't sure that Tesla's market cap is justified, and neither is CEO Elon Musk.Reasons to short a stock fall broadly into two “buckets”: fraud and valuation. Fraud shorts are stocks where the (short) investor believes the company is misleading the public about its business. This can range from mild and small-scale, such as aggressive but GAAP-defensible accounting, all the way up to massive and brazen fraud, such as fictitious revenue and profits.  Let’s Gowex is a recent and spectacular example of the latter. Valuation shorts, on the other hand, are stocks that the investor thinks are simply too expensive based on the underlying value of the business. For example, I read a pitch about a year and a half ago that pointed out that Tesla (TSLA) was trading at over four times what Geely (a Chinese automaker) paid to acquire Volvo, and there was no way Tesla could be worth four Volvos ... I remember thinking the pitch sounded interesting. It was certainly well-researched. I’m still not sure Tesla’s current market cap is justified (apparently, neither is the CEO, Elon Musk), but I’m so glad I passed on this short 18 months ago: TSLA is up more than 500% since the pitch. Valuation shorts have a bad reputation on Wall Street. You may be right in the long run, but you may not be able to hold the position long enough to get there. As David Einhorn puts it, “We have repeatedly noted that it is dangerous to short stocks that have disconnected from traditional valuation methods. After all, twice a silly price is not twice as silly; it’s still just silly.” Valuation shorts are a dicey proposition on intellectual grounds, too. John Hempton, who is the chief investment officer at Bronte Capital and publishes one of my favorite investment blogs, puts it this way: “In a valuation short we are working on the same information as everyone else has. This makes me uncomfortable. There is an arrogance in suggesting we can analyze the information better than anyone else. We find it harder to answer the question of what we see when others don’t and hence harder to justify the position at all.” I was curious whether valuation shorts work as a whole, and have recently had occasion to test this question using a new research service called Activist Shorts Research. They have compiled data on more than 400 campaigns by noted short-sellers from 2002 to the present. The returns look like this: CFA Institute The mean price change (not including dividends), indicated by the blue line, was -14.2% over an entire “campaign,” which can be arbitrarily long. Additionally, 65% of campaigns were “successful” in the sense that the price of the target stock dropped since the campaign was announced. In 4% of campaigns, the price dropped 99% or more. These figures sound quite good, but it is important to note the sample is biased because the service does not cover all short-sellers, only the “best” and “most public” ones. These two groups likely overlap but not completely. Despite the biases of the overall sample, the question I was most interested in was whether valuation shorts work better than fraud shorts. For each campaign in the dataset, we have a “Primary Allegation” which is the reason the short-seller used to publicly justify the short call. The reasons provided are many and varied, but I have grouped them into the two buckets we are interested in. The results are stark: CFA Institutes Short campaigns that allege a stock is overvalued are wrong as a group: the target stock rises 3% over the life of the campaign, on average. Shorts that allege fraud are much more effective: the target stock drops 30% on average. We can see this result in some more detail by comparing return distributions: CFA Institutes Fraud short campaigns are much more likely to identify stocks whose prices ultimately drop to zero. This skews the entire return distribution to the left, as compared with that of valuation shorts. In conclusion, it seems the poor reputation valuation shorts have is at least partially deserved. Even when we look at some of the best-known and most-memorable short campaigns of the past decade, valuation shorts significantly under-perform fraud shorts. FREE AppDownload
We've recently looked at how college majors compare with one another in terms of earnings. Here is a look at how they vary by geography. We used data from the Minnesota Population Center's 2012 IPUMS, an individual-level set of responses to the Census Bureau's 2012 American Community Survey (ACS), slightly modified for statistical and privacy reasons. Among the many subjects covered on the ACS is educational attainment: Respondents are asked to give their highest level of education and, if they have a bachelor's degree, what field they majored in. Based on this data, we were able to find the most disproportionately popular major (among majors with at least 1,000 degree holders) in each state. These are degrees for which the rate of people holding that degree in a state is much higher than the rate of people holding that degree in the US overall, as explained in more detail below: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Minnesota Population Center IPUMS These are not the most common degrees held by the residents of the states, but instead degrees held at a disproportionately high rate. For example, 23,977 Floridians hold a degree in Criminology, out of 3,759,154 residents of that state who have at least a bachelor's degree. This gives a rate of about 64 Criminology degree holders out of every 10,000 bachelor's degree holders overall in Florida. Meanwhile, for the United States as a whole, 98,475 people have a degree in Criminology, out of 63,954,947 degree holders overall. This gives a national rate of about 15 Criminology majors out of every 10,000 bachelor's degree holders. The location quotient of Criminology majors in Florida is the ratio of these two rates: 64 ÷ 15, which is a little above 4. So, there are about four times as many Criminology majors per 10,000 degree holders in Florida as there are in the nation as a whole. The map, then, shows the degree with the highest location quotient in each state. Taking our data and finding the most commonly held degree in every state leads to a much more monotone result: In 35 states, the most common major is Business Management and Administration, which is also the most common major in the US as a whole: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz   
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaEven though everybody wants a piece of his time, Warren Buffett stays focused. Here's his approach. The secret to the Buffett's success? If you look at how rigorously empty he keeps his calendar, you get the impression that he's a master prioritizer — and a story we spotted on Scott Dinsmore's productivity blog shows how we might gain that mastery.  While we haven't confirmed the story with Buffett, it goes like this: One day Buffett went up to his pilot named Steve and jokingly said to him that "the fact that you're still working for me tells me I'm not doing my job." "You should be out going after more of your goals and dreams," Buffett reportedly said.  To help him with that, Buffett asked Steve to list the 25 most important things he wanted to do in his life. Then Buffett asked that he review each goal and choose the five most crucial ones. After considering a moment, he drew circles around five fantastic goals, confirming with Buffett that yes, indeed, they were his highest priorities.  And the rest?  "What about these other 20 things on your list that you didn't circle?" Buffett asked. "What is your plan for completing those?"  Steve knew just what to say.  "Well, the top five are my primary focus, but the other 20 come in at a close second," the pilot said. "They are still important, so I’ll work on those intermittently as I see fit as I'm getting through my top five. They are not as urgent, but I still plan to give them dedicated effort."  Buffett suddenly turned serious.  "You've got it wrong, Steve," he said. "Everything you didn't circle just became your 'avoid at all cost list.' No matter what, these things get no attention from you until you've succeeded with your top five." Here, Buffett shows that he doesn't just understand the value of companies, but also the value of time. Similarly, he once urged Bill Gates to keep his schedule as clear as possible, keeping himself free of the crush of requests that come to a person with the stature of Gates and Buffett.  "You've gotta keep control of your time," Buffett said, "and you can't unless you say no. You can't let people set your agenda in life."  And with figuring out your priorities — and sticking to them — you can set your own agenda. So decrees the Sage of Omaha.  Thanks to Lifehacker, where we first saw the story.    FREE AppDownload
The Tie BarConsider this short a public service announcement. On Wednesday and Thursday of this week online men's accessory shop, The Tie Bar, is teaming up with Michael Carl of Vanity Fair to give men a 15 minute wardrobe boost. We're not talking a full-on suit change. Carl will just be upgrading the little things — socks, neckwear, suspenders, pocket squares... subtle stuff. The event was created with Wall Street — and any other guy who has to show up to work in a suit, we suppose — in mind. "When The Tie Bar offered me the opportunity to talk to finance guys about updating their looks I instantly said yes," Carl told Business Insider. "Guys that work in finance have been experimenting with tie and shirt combos for a while and I think are ready for the next step…how to pair the shirt and tie with a pocket square or a tie bar. Just because you work on Wall Street doesn't mean you cant be creative with the way you dress." Show up in at least a dress shirt and slacks, walk away with some goodies. It's that simple. On Wednesday Oct. 1st, the van will be parked in the Financial District by Stone Street and Hanover Square from 11am – 7pm. On Thursday, Oct. 2nd, it will be parked in Bryant Park from 11am – 7pm. Check out The Tie Bar on Twitter for more details on location. You're welcome. FREE AppDownload
muramatsub/FlickrInside the kitchen at Thomas Keller's Per Se, which retained its 3-star rating for 2014. So far, there don't appear to be any huge surprises. Six of the seven restaurants that earned three stars — the guide's highest designation — in 2014 retained those rankings. They are Le Bernardin, Chef's Table at Brooklyn Fare, Eleven Madison Park , Jean Georges, Masa, and Per Se. Chef Daniel Boulud's Daniel was downgraded to two stars.  Three restaurants were elevated from one stars to two; they are Brooklyn's Blanca, Nordic-insired Aquavit, and Ichimura, known for its sushi and sashimi. There are 17 new restaurants on the one-star list, including two in Queens. Michelin's ratings are determined by anonymous food inspectors.    In anticipation of the New York guide, Michelin released its "bib gourmand" list for the city last week. That list includes the city's best affordable restaurants. The complete 2015 Michelin rankings:  Three-Star Restaurants: Two-Star Restaurants FREE AppDownload
Saeed AmenIt has been six years ago this week, when I could say that green was our color. It wasn’t a bright green, but a dark, somewhat dignified green, like the shade which adorned British racing cars for much of the twentieth century. It was the green of the leaves of Californian redwoods, standing in the way of the winds for thousands of years. It was the green of the grass, rising up from the rich soils of the prairies of the Midwest and the cotton fields of the Deep South. It permeated all around, carefully threading its way through the carpets, upon the upholstery of the chairs, up the walls of marble meticulously veined with streaks of white, on the booklet covering my business cards. Maybe green was our color, because our competitors were envious that we were so good or at least that’s the impression you would have listening to our management. I never found out for certain, but most likely I suspect green was our color as a nod to the fabled greenback, the American dollar. Those crisp green banknotes were partially composed of cotton, that commodity we traded over one hundred and fifty years ago. Each one of them emanated from a printing press in Washington D.C., telling a story of the American Dream, of great presidents, from Washington to Lincoln, who built the American nation, through independence and the pain of Civil War, freeing the nation of slavery. They were Uncle Sam's gift to the world: the object of our desire, our raison d'etre and our purpose was to accumulate as much of them as possible. Lose a million of them in a day, then luck could be the only blame for us, but gain fifty million of them in a year, then genius beckoned, along with adulation. You were the rock star whose audience was the trading desk. Together, we could make millions, no billions or as we called billions in the financial market slang: yards. Whilst billions and millions sounded similar, saying yard was unambiguously different and made the amount of money somehow more real. Supposedly the term yard was derived from the French for billion, milliard. Throughout the boom years, like our competitors, we ran through “yards” and “yards” of profits, the alchemists of the early twenty-first century, but we had seemingly found a way to make gold, unlike our predecessors. Our leader was the man, the man with millions to his name, who signed his e-mails to us with simply, Dick, scrawled in his own hand, his signature forgoing the use of his surname Fuld. He didn't need two names: he was like a rock star, needing simply his first name to make him recognizable, like Elvis. But he was our Elvis, the man who'd been with us since the time when Elvis himself was the cream of Las Vegas and man had first walked on the moon, in 1969. When he eventually left the building, so had we. He was the man who clearly told my graduate class that one of his proudest moments was overriding his whole board, to bring back smart dress, after a brief experiment with business causal. For him, appearance was paramount: the fine silk ties on our necks, the slick suits carefully tailored, the polished black leather Italian shoes. This carefully crafted image was perhaps designed to set us apart from the rest of Wall Street. We were Goldman's number one rival, or at least that was the notion which was cultivated by management. We were supposedly as good as them, but with a green tint, although our undoing ultimately proved this not to be the case. As well as explaining his sartorial preferences for us, he also told us that we survived the crisis of 1998, the Russian default, which nearly destroyed us. We overcame the tragedy of 9/11, clocking up one hundred and fifty years of service. We strove to regain our independence from American Express, gaining it in 1994, when we were spun off back into an independent company. In amongst all this, there was always chatter on Wall Street, even in the bull years, that we were too small, that we would ultimately lose our independence once again. I started working there, my first real job out of university, in the summer of 2005. In less than a month: I had received news that I had attained a first class honors degree from Imperial College whilst on holiday in Boston; heard that my hometown London had been awarded the Olympics on return; been in London during the terror of the bomb attacks, before finally starting on July 14th, which was coincidentally Iraqi Independence Day (and also coincidentally Bastille Day for the French). I’m British and of Iraqi origin, the birth country of my father and mother. Maybe it was a sign that my life was changing on such an auspicious day, in the same way that Iraq had changed that same day in 1958. So the rigors of work began, that July 14th, sweeping away the academic freedom and dreams of university. There were first a couple of weeks of training, a time also for posturing amongst the graduates, to secure a role on the most popular trading desk and also to get to know our fellow graduates, some of whom became good friends. In our graduate intake, the Holy Grail, the place where we all wanted to work, was the collateralized debt obligations desk or as it was known more succinctly the CDO desk, which had apparently discovered a mystical way of printing greenbacks. I even bought a book all about these new-fangled credit derivatives, hoping it would help me gain the edge. I never ended up reading that rather expensive book. I never even managed to get past the first stage of the interview process: I was never destined to be a hotshot CDO trader. I was disappointed. I continued my rotations around other such fashionable desks, such as the equity derivatives desk. It was always the derivatives desks, which were of interest to our class, for they were the ones making the most money. In the end, I secured a job at the comparatively staid foreign exchange desk, doing research. It was not the most fashionable of areas, dealing mostly with one of the most vanilla of products, foreign exchange spot, simply buying one currency and selling another. In the process, I had turned down a role as a trader on the fund derivatives desk, a role which sounded attractive, having the fabled derivatives postfix. However, I had little inkling of what it precisely involved, which looking back on it, explains my reticence in joining that desk. By contrast foreign exchange was more tangible, it was something familiar, at least to anyone who has traveled abroad at some point. After all, even I knew what dollars, pounds and euros were and I had even handled them in my hands. The currency markets had been trading as they do today since the early 1970s, when the dollar was allowed to float by Nixon. The role of currency changers had been around in some form, for many years, as long as man has traveled. So maybe if a market had been around for that long, it served as sufficient proof that it would last throughout my career. In return for the early 6:30 a.m. starts every weekday, waking up in dark in the winter and leaving similarly shrouded in darkness, I was rewarded with those greenbacks. Once a year, I would be called to Jim's office, for a chat, where I would be handed a paper. On it would be my salary, which I already knew, and next to it my discretionary bonus, the figure I had been waiting for, all in dollars, but kindly converted into sterling at some aforementioned exchange rate. I always preferred to read the figure in dollars, because numerically it was always bigger, somehow making me feel I had been paid more. As Jim, my boss, would read the number, in his relatively soft American accent, he would ask what I thought of the figure. I usually didn’t say much, but as the years passed, I would voice more of an opinion during these chats with Jim, which was widely nicknamed the “comp discussion”. Contrary to popular believe, not everyone was paid millions there, although internal documents made available to the public later by the Los Angeles Times, showed that more people than I expected were paid such amounts. Obviously, as a junior I never was one of this group. The (somewhat less than serious) plan was for my career to evolve towards an apex which was meant to occur around the time of my thirtieth birthday, a time by which I would be able to retire and enjoy my life, swimming in a cascading waterfall of riches, a life that was a fairy tale of joy, enveloped in the love of a beautiful woman, preferably with long deep satin hair, a face like that of Shakira, a smile able to wipe away any woes, who presumably would not be with me purely for my planned riches, whilst in the background the sounds of laughter would seem omnipresent. Oli Scarff/Getty ImagesLehman Brothers auctioned off all of its wallhangings after the bankruptcy. Today, a few years later, my hairline has receded considerably, somewhat prematurely I feel necessary to add, through a myriad of stress and genetics, although it’s impossible to decipher which of them is more responsible. I’m often told that the lack of hair is a result of an excess of testosterone (ladies, surely that’s an attractive trait, if you can ignore the shiny glow of my balding head beneath lights?). At times, I’ve shaved my hair to create an even feel to my head, which some (overestimate) have deemed as attractive, although admittedly it does give me the look of the famous EastEnders character Phil Mitchell, giving my usual smiley face an edge of seriousness. Grey hairs have also begun to seize their moment to shine amongst the sea of those black hairs which have successfully battled against baldness. In this state, with my status still very much un-retired, if such a word exists, I have started working full time at the Thalesians, a company I co-founded, still largely doing foreign exchange research, without a terrifyingly seductive woman at my side with a ring encrusted with diamonds grasping her finger, it is difficult to say that my tongue-in-cheek plan ever succeeded. But maybe that’s not the point, whether or not my plan came to fruition. The point is simply to have a plan or an idea, whether or not it succeeds. Without a plan or some hazy image of a destination in your mind, you are a traveler without a map and accordingly your progress is hampered. In any case, even if my plan did not succeed and years have toiled to whisk away my twenties, I’m still broadly happy, a result most likely to my close-knit family, I’m more knowledgeable than I was those years ago, I’m still yearning to learn, I can call upon close friends both in the good and more importantly in the bad times, so surely these are all things that I should be thankful for? As the years passed working there, my interest in foreign exchange markets grew, learning mostly from my senior colleagues at Lehman in my team, such as Jim and Alexei, who as the name might suggest, was Russian, and also colleagues on the trading desk. True, reading books can give you insights into the markets, but are a poor second compared to working with willing mentors, whose years of experience are so evident. No one needs to teach you at work. No one needs to share his or her time. But some do and I was lucky to have somehow found myself working with people who did (and also did at Nomura, where I worked for several years after Lehman). For that I shall always be grateful. Our research team grew under the thoughtful leadership of Jim and the foreign exchange desk increased its profits in the years that I was there, ironically reaching record levels at the time of our demise in 2008, moving from a peripheral player to one of the major currency dealers. In spite of the success of our desk, in the summer of 2007, we could see problems within the company as a whole. I remember distinctly during that time, we had a meeting, more commonly known as a town hall. Town halls were essentially large-scale presentations, where traditionally, we were told how successful our company was by someone senior, roughly once a month. He (for the speaker was nearly always male) would stand in front of a screen of illuminated PowerPoint, with charts peppered with our trademark green color, relating to profits, which always seemed to be composed of rising lines. This town hall was different. The specter of the subprime crash had reared its head and the markets had begun to take note. There was chatter that we would suffer, given we were the ones with massive exposure to the US property market. We were reassured, that we could survive a year, without tapping markets for funding. That proved correct, although not in the way we would like it to be. The company declared bankruptcy just over a year later in the middle of September 2008, so in a way our presenter was right. In the end, our company collapsed, when we failed to persuade the US Treasury to spare us a couple of “yards”, to bail us out. I do not wish to enter into the debate of whether this decision not to bail us out was right or wrong, even though many other institutions were bailed out during the financial crisis. It has now happened. It is far more important to acknowledge, that our institution failed because of the actions of some of those people who worked there, rather than complaining that we were not bailed out. The cause of our failure was excessive leverage, a deliberately fancy way, of saying our company borrowed too much to gain exposure to a US property market which collapsed. Strangely, the experience of our failure, although shocking, didn’t seem to hurt me, most likely, because of other issues at home, which illustrated what really is important in life: the loss of a job, a salary, a few company stocks weren't those important facets of life. I also managed to find a job relatively quickly afterwards, another important reason for me to avoid complaining. I remember my last day there at the end of September 2008. On the address system, a loud message was delivered to the members of the fixed income division, which included the foreign exchange desk, to assemble in the auditorium. We knew what was coming, given the company had already filed for bankruptcy two weeks earlier and there hadn’t been any agreement for the purchase of our division by another company. Upon arrival, in the auditorium, the bankruptcy receivers announced that we were fired and we should vacate the building by the end of the working day. I wondered how many times the team of receivers had delivered this news to employees of a bankrupt institution. For them, it was a regular occurrence I presumed, a necessary consequence of working in the field of bankruptcy. For us, that was it, a clear change in our lives, rather than some purely administrative process. We all left the building, carrying white plastic bags or boxes, filled with the detritus of years of employment there, including peculiarly, in my case, an emergency evacuation kit, emblazoned in that green color. I still have it somewhere, some place; a memory stored in a dusty box, in a cupboard, its contents decaying with the passing of time. It was as though taking it was somehow compensating me for what had happened. One strange side effect of the bankruptcy was that I started to go to the gym regularly, rather than halfheartedly. This seems to suggest that if you want to lose weight, work for a company, which will want to go bankrupt, although as mentioned earlier, you might also lose your hair at the same time. The bankruptcy did also have another effect, apart from conditioning my weight and what can be optimistically termed as toning my muscles via a sojourn at the gym. I remember whilst working there, people outside the banking industry never knew the name of my company. But after the bankruptcy they did. After all, we were the biggest bankruptcy of all time, which tipped the world into financial crisis, which has lurched ever since, becoming superseded by the Eurozone crisis. But clearly, whatever, weird positives I draw from the bankruptcy, they were massively outweighed by the negative impact of the whole episode on the market and more importantly the subsequent follow through into the wider economy, on people who had nothing to do with Wall Street. On a personal level, I made many friends there, who to this day are some of my best friends, and as such I don’t regret choosing to work there. I shall always look back fondly on my time working there, as a Brother, one of the Lehman Brothers, even if it ended in a way I had never wanted. A mistake is only a mistake if you regret making it, otherwise it’s called an experience. Has my plan changed now? Yes, now the plan is to create the perfect burger — they taste better than greenbacks. Saeed Amen is a co-founder of The Thalesians, a quant trading consultancy, and has been working in currency markets for a decade. He is also the author of the forthcoming book "Trading Thalesians - What the Ancient World Can Teach Us Today" (Palgrave Macmillan). This article originally appeared at The Thalesians.  Copyright 2014. Follow The Thalesians on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesThe Securities and Exchange Commission has charged two guys for insider trading in Herbalife shares after one of them allegedly learned about Bill Ackman's infamous short position from a Pershing Square analyst who was his roommate.  Filip Szymik of New York City and Jordan Peixoto of Toronto were named in the SEC's complaint for insider trading. According to the SEC, Szymik learned about the short from his roommate, a Pershing Square analyst. Szymik then told Peixoto, the SEC alleged. Peixoto made $47,100 in illicit profits, the SEC alleged. Szymik faces a $47,100 civil penalty. The SEC is still determining the appropriate relief for Peixoto, the release said. The Pershing Square employee hasn't been named. The New York Times reported earlier this year that it was a junior-level Pershing Square employee who told his roommate about the fund's Herbalife short position before it was publicly announced. That employee has left the firm.   Here's the full release:  The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced charges against two individuals for insider trading on a prominent hedge fund manager’s announcement that his hedge fund had formed a negative view of Herbalife Ltd. and taken a $1 billion short position in its securities.  The SEC’s orders find that Filip Szymik of New York City and Jordan Peixoto of Toronto engaged in insider trading in Herbalife securities in advance of hedge fund manager William Ackman’s December 20, 2012 announcement of the views of his hedge fund, Pershing Square Management, L.P.  According to the SEC’s orders, Szymik learned from his roommate, then a Pershing analyst, that Pershing planned to publicly announce its negative view of Herbalife.  Szymik tipped Peixoto, who purchased Herbalife put options on December 19, 2012, one day before the announcement. As a result of his unlawful trading, Peixoto reaped $47,100 in illicit profits.  “Szymik and Peixoto chose to engage in illicit tipping and trading in advance of the announcement of market-moving information and today they are being held accountable for those offenses,” said Sanjay Wadhwa, senior associate director of the SEC’s New York Regional Office.  In a settled order against Szymik, the Commission found that he violated antifraud provisions in federal securities laws and SEC rules and ordered him to cease and desist from further violations and pay a $47,100 civil penalty.  In the litigated order against Peixoto, the Commission instituted cease-and-desist proceedings against him to determine whether he violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and to determine what relief is appropriate. The SEC’s investigation has been conducted by Liora Sukhatme, Sheldon Mui, Diego Brucculeri, and Gerald Gross, and the matter is being litigated by Jack Kaufman.  The case has been supervised by Mr. Wadhwa.   For more than 20 months, Ackman's Pershing Square has been crusading against Herbalife. In 2012, Ackman publicly declared that he was shorting $1 billion worth of Herbalife, with a price target of $0. He believes the company operates as a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower-income individuals. As a result, he believes regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, will shut it down. Back in March, the FTC said it was probing the company.  FREE AppDownload
Kawaii Kiri / Flickr, CCLas Vegas Sands, MGM and Wynn all surged 4%-5% Tuesday on the news that China will wind down an anti-corruption drive within the ruling Communist Party. China Daily reports that the campaign was meant to curb "misbehavior by party officials."  "The campaign has reached its goals... but Party organizations at all levels must not let up on the drive to improve working practices and should continue to deal with the problems exposed by the campaign," said a statement released Tuesday after a meeting of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee. What does that mean for casino stocks? It's very simple — it means the party is back on in the high roller space. "Misbehavior" included spending money at VIP clubs and entertainment spots, like the lavish casinos of Macau. The timing for this couldn't be more perfect. Today Macau officials announced that the pleasure playground's gambling revenue would decline 12%-13% from September of last year. Those are the worst number since the global financial crisis. Indeed all of China's economy is slowing down. August economic data showed a full-on routing, with the worst industrial production figures since 2008. Analysts started talking about the country missing its target 7.5% GDP growth rate. That would be something we haven't seen in a while. Usually in a situation like this China might use government stimulus to get the economy back on track, but President Xi has showed signs that he wants to stay on the reform track, at least monetary policy-wise. Corruption-wise perhaps we're seeing another story.  FREE AppDownload
Jeff Zelevansky / GettyPaul Krugman, Nobel Prize-winning economist.If you've been following the same people on Twitter for the last five years, you're probably missing out. An engaging Twitter feed should provide an intersection of interests from thought leaders across fields.  For that reason, we've gathered 22 intellectual heavyweights in areas like design, neuroscience, management, and economics. Start following them and get your ideas flowing.  If we missed anybody, tell us in the comments. Aimee Groth, Kim Bhasin, and Danielle Schlanger contributed research to this story.  The "Ungifted" author always has the latest on the science of imagination and creativity.&nbsp; If you want to learn more about learning, follow Kaufman. His research has helped us redefine our understanding of intelligence. Eisenberg takes the sometimes stuffy world of design and makes it delightfully accessible.&nbsp; Of special note is the&nbsp;Friday Link Pack, her weekly digest of the finest detail-oriented content around. Her feed is also one of the best places to track down tickets to CreativeMornings, her creativity-oriented monthly conference series.&nbsp; Abumrad&nbsp;stands at&nbsp;the intersection of curiosity, science communication, and public radio. He has 2 million follows on air and 245,000 on Twitter, and he's worth listening to. He'll give you quirky musings on science, technology, and the world around us. &nbsp; The Wall Street Journal and New York Times bestselling author wants to change the way we think about our jobs and careers. His books &mdash; including "Drive," "To Sell Is Human," and "A Whole New Mind" &mdash; provide distillations of whole fields of psychological research. You'll find the same highly readable popularizations on his Twitter.&nbsp; Wolfers interprets real-world events using economic research in ways&nbsp;regular people can (mostly) understand. What's amazing about Wolfers &mdash; beyond that mane of his &mdash; is the way that he curates charts, tracking down graphics that make phrases like "health care price growth" make some sort of sense. While the rest of the internet is consumed with the latest in everything, Popova is a fountain of timelessness &mdash; meditation, comic books, and particularly delectable psych studies all find a home on Brain Pickings, her potpourri of a blog, and on her Twitter.&nbsp; If you need more hot air balloons and Zen philosophy in your life, look to her. Not only does Walk know what's brewing in Silicon Valley, the venture capitalist is also hilarious, as in: "Can we solve #bendghazi before it becomes a nerd Halloween costume?"&nbsp; Before he got into funding, Walk spent years at Google, working his way up to being&nbsp;director of product management.&nbsp; If you are a fan of Wired, you've got to follow Anderson, who now heads 3D Robotics, the drone company. The guy is brimming with intel about the hottest gadgets and weirdest science research.&nbsp; Anderson is a fascinating follow for the way he crosses editorial and entrepreneurship.&nbsp; He's one of the most popular behavioral economists tweets about far-ranging issues, from why we lie to the psychological factors that led to corruption on Wall Street. If you're interested in social science as it happens, follow him.&nbsp; Although she spends most of her time in New York, the Lebanese founder knows what's going on in the Arab tech startup world. She'll make you excited and hopeful about what technology is doing to change the world, and her feed gives a first-person account of growing a consumer goods company. Bell's Twitter feed is an extension of his fascinating blog, mindhacks. He shares a smattering of articles on the latest trends in psychology, such as suicide as a global issue and changes made to the DSM. Bell is also a calm, careful voice among the shouts of "neuroscience breakthroughs" that dominate social science writing.&nbsp; Rubin wrote historical biographies before dominating the happiness market with "The Happiness Project" and "Happier at Home."&nbsp; She's a source for pithy quotations, insights into human behavior, and the odd kid's lit recommendation. &nbsp; Brockman is on a mission to provide people with "the edge of the world's knowledge," and put out a book, "This Will Make You Smarter."&nbsp; Following Brockman is like being a fly on the wall of the intelligentsia, but with less pretension. Gross has founded 100 companies in the past 30 years, and he knows what people are talking about in Silicon Valley &mdash; and he wants you to know, too.&nbsp; He also has great taste in selfies. If you need more brain science, follow Lewis. She cuts away the psychobabble and makes mind science clear. She's a sleep and obesity specialist, so if you're interested in being well-rested and slim, read her. Krugman is possibly the most influential left-leaning economic commentator alive, so you should probably know what he has to say. He won a Nobel Prize in 2008 for "for his analysis of trade patterns and location of economic activity," but what he shares on Twitter is much less technical.&nbsp; Writing about media is not just for jerks anymore.  Friedman's feed is composed of pie charts, hilarity, and the smartest (and least pretentious) media/journalism criticism you'll come across. She'll also ask you some uncomfortably important questions, like: "Should white people actively try to make more friends who aren't white? And if so, how?"&nbsp; An Apple and Autodesk veteran, Merchant is now an up-and-coming voice in business strategy, authoring "11 Rules for Creating Value in the Social Era" and writing for HBR and Time.&nbsp; Paul's&nbsp;strategies on "how we learn and how we can do it better" appear in her Twitter feed, and she may just tweet at you asking if you have a question about learning. The author of "The Cult of Personality"&nbsp;proves that if learning throughout life is a path to success, learning how to learn will make you more successful. "The Red Bull of management thinkers" and "lover of capitalism" has written a ton of business books, including "In Search for Excellence,"&nbsp;and he tweets on business empowerment and problem-solving. Unlike other members of the management elite, Peters is always in conversation with his followers. So throw a quandary his way.&nbsp; Salmon is a whipsmart financial blogger whose brought his previously Reuters-centered commentary to Fusion.&nbsp; On Twitter he slices apart financial trends, tracks the quirks of media, and makes a handful of fine jokes. Coates wrote one of the standout articles of the year with his&nbsp;"The Case for Reparations" cover story. You'll find that same thoroughness in his Twitter.&nbsp; FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMicrosoft CEO Nadella addresses the media during an event in New DelhiSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Microsoft Corp said on Tuesday the next version of its operating system will be called Windows 10. The system, expected to be released next year, three years after its last release, Windows 8, will be the "most comprehensive platform ever," said Terry Myerson, Microsoft's head of operating systems, at an event in San Francisco.   (Reporting by Bill Rigby; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaA protester sits under umbrellas as she blocks the main street to the financial Central district outside the government headquarters in Hong Kong, September 30, 2014.Pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong have entered their fourth day, and the situation is increasingly tense as demonstrators and global spectators expect a crackdown from authorities at some point. The student-led protests demand that Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying resign and that Beijing retract its decision to restrict the number of candidates in the the city’s 2017 chief executive poll to candidates approved by a pro-Beijing panel. "The people on the streets are here because we've made the decision ourselves and we will only leave when we have achieved something," a 20-year-old student told the Associated Press. "We are waiting for the government to respond to our demands for democracy and a say in what the elections will be like." The authorities, however, are not backing down either. "The Hong Kong leadership has made clear that they’re not going to accede to the protesters demands," Geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer told Business Insider in an email. "They want to avoid a broad show of force ... but if they can’t get the demonstrations to disperse through threats and some strategic arrests, we’re likely to see violence." Demonstrators have been targeted with tear gas and pepper spray, but police have generally resisted cracking down with force and the government says it has no plan to bring in the People’s Liberation Army. The protest movement, dubbed "Occupy Central with Love and Peace," has embraced the strategy of using peaceful civil disobedience to change the government's mind with sheer numbers. But the prospects for success aren't great. Bremmer notes that Chinese President Xi Jinping supports transformational economic reform "but also the consolidation of his own political rule," and the demonstrations "stand in direct opposition to his intentions." Consequently, Beijing will not wait forever while the central financial district in Hong Kong is blocked by thousands of protesters for the world to see. "Allowing the protests to persist (and expand ... into Taipei, Macau, and potentially even parts of the mainland) is completely unacceptable to Beijing’s leadership," Bremmer said. Bremmer added that the international community has shown widespread support for the protestors but can do little when push comes to shove. "Beijing has much more ability to resist (and react to) any potential western 'punishment' than, say, Russia," Bremmer said. "Think of Hong Kong as China’s Crimea … multiplied by a factor of five. They’re not going to back down." When asked if the protesters can realistically get what they want, Bremmer said "No." REUTERS/Carlos BarriaA man looks at the protesters around him as they block the main street to the financial Central district, outside the government headquarters in Hong Kong, September 30, 2014. REUTERS FREE AppDownload
FinViz Whoa! Oil just totally crashed. One possible culprit is this Reuters story, showing that OPEC production is surging. There are a host of other factors that might be driving down oil as well. Dave Lutz of JonesTrading said these are some of the things being discussed in relation to the move: Libya Output jumps to highest since 2013OPEC September Output higher, and revised higherHong Kong sparking concerns greater Asia slowdownRussia headlines sparking more EU slowdown concernsPMIs from China, Japan and EU tonight should all come in very weak.chatter that PEMEX is hedging for lower OilTechnical – Brent has taken out September Lows…..   WTI eyeballing a “outside” reversal dayOf course, could just be a massive commodity markdown into Q End.  Crude, Silver, Gold, Wheat, Soy all off 1%+ Indeed it has been pretty ugly across the commodity complex Tuesday. Silver is getting smoked, too. It's down 3%. Natural gas, soybeans, palladium ... you name it, it's all going down. Of course, the flipside to all this is that the dollar is on a tear, surging to multiyear highs. FinViz FREE AppDownload
He thinks the next step, if PayPal wants to really get ahead in payments, is to help consolidate the payments industry through an acquisition or a merger.  "In light of the development of strong competition such as the advent of Apple Pay, the sooner these consolidations take place, the better," he says.  Apple notably partnered with Stripe — not PayPal — to power Apple Pay.  Icahn made about $180 million because of the eBay-PayPal split.  Here's his full statement: We are happy that eBay’s board and management have acted responsibly concerning the separation — perhaps a little later than they should have, but earlier than we expected. As I have said in the past and have continued to maintain, it is almost a “no brainer” that these companies should be separated to increase the value of these great assets and thus to meaningfully enhance value for all shareholders. It also continues to be my belief that the payments industry, of which PayPal is an important part, must be consolidated — either through acquisitions made by PayPal or a merger between PayPal and another strong player in the industry. It is possible that this could be accomplished through a reverse Morris Trust structure because, in light of the development of strong competition such as the advent of Apple Pay, the sooner these consolidations take place, the better. As one of the largest shareholders of eBay, I intend to have discussions in the near future with John Donahoe who, as I have said in the past and continue to believe, has the interest of enhancing value for all shareholders as his major concern. FREE AppDownload
Google Images“It is better to abolish serfdom from above than to wait for it to abolish itself from below,” Alexander II once said.There are always politicians who say that things were better in the past. And the top judicial official in Russia is one of them — he appears to be advocating a return to serfdom. Valery Zorkin, the head of Russia's Constitutional Court, wrote an article that was published in the Rossiyskaya Gazeta in which he praised serfdom. (In Russia, Zorkin is the equivalent rank of the US Supreme Court's Chief Justice John Roberts.) In the article he says the global situation is becoming increasingly more dangerous and that the system of international law is now based on "free interpretations from a position of strength." He doesn't agree with the "free interpretations" of international law and suggests that it must be corrected by increased legal authority. And then he switches gears to serfdom. He advocates for serfdom and says that it was the main "staple" holding Russia together in the 19th century. He justifies his argument by saying that serfdom is beneficial for the serfs. In the article he writes (translated from the original Russian by Business Insider): Even with all of its shortcomings, serfdom was exactly the main staple holding the inner unity of the nation. It was no accident that the peasants, according to historians, told their former masters after the reforms: 'We were yours, and you — ours.' The roughly translated term "staple" (in Russian "<U+0441><U+043A><U+0440><U+0435><U+043F><U+0430>") is significant. It's an older word that has become popular in recent years after Putin used it in a news conference in 2012.  Prior to the conference, that word was basically never used in speech. In the news conference, Putin said there was a "lack of a spiritual staples" among Russians — meaning there was no spiritual unity. And he subsequently indicated that Russia needed a "spiritual cleanse." "Putin essentially used the term '<U+0441><U+043A><U+0440><U+0435><U+043F><U+0430>' to mean the 'spiritual staples that unite the Russian society.' He was saying that we need a spiritual unity amongst the whole Russian society," a Moscovite told Business Insider. Following Putin's news conference, Russian politicians and citizens have started using the word all over the place. And Zorkin is following suit by using the Putin terminology to indicate that serfdom is the "spiritual staple that unites the [Russian] society." Agrarian reforms were led by the former prime minister Pyotr Arkadyevich Stolypin. Serfdom was officially repealed in 1861 in Russia. Zorkin argues in his article that: "Stolypin's reform took away communal justice from the peasants in exchange for individual freedom, which almost none of them knew how to live and which was depriving their community guarantees of survival." He closes the piece by comparing the "abrupt" repeal of serfdom to the "abrupt" changes of the late 20th century following Boris Yeltsin's reforms. In case your history is a little shaky, Boris Yeltsin is the former Russian president who transitioned the country from the communist Soviet Union to the pre-Putin capitalist Russia. FREE AppDownload
via CornellElizabeth Garrett is Cornell University's 13th president.University of Southern California provost Elizabeth Garrett will be the 13th president of Cornell University, the Ivy League school announced Tuesday. Garrett is currently the second-ranking officer at USC, with a background as a law professor. According to Cornell's press release, in addition to Garrett's responsibilities as president, she "will be a tenured faculty member in the Law School with a joint appointment in the Department of Government in the College of Arts and Sciences." She will replace outgoing Cornell president David Skorton, who is leaving at the end of the academic year to head the Smithsonian Institute. "I am honored to have been selected as the next leader of this remarkable institution," Garrett said in a statement. "Cornell is one of the world's truly great universities, with a stellar commitment to excellence in teaching, research, scholarship, and creative activity, linked with a deep commitment to public engagement. I am excited to join the Cornell community and to work with the faculty, staff, students, and alumni to chart the next chapter in its illustrious history. Andrei and I also look forward to joining the vibrant Ithaca community." According to her biography on USC's website, Garrett "specializes in the legislative process, direct democracy, the federal budget process, the study of democratic institutions, statutory interpretation, and tax policy. She is an expert on state, national, and presidential politics." One of Garrett's biggest responsibilities during her tenure will most likely be ensuring the success of Cornell's New York City technology campus, set to open on Roosevelt Island in 2017. According to Cornell's press release, Garrett currently serves on the board of trustees of Internet2, which "aims to accelerate research, advance education, and improve the delivery of public services through innovative technologies." Garrett is Cornell's first female president. When she takes over in 2015, half of the Ivy League universities will be led by women. She received her B.A. in history from the University of Oklahoma and her J.D. from the University of Virginia School of Law. FREE AppDownload
Jeff Bezos, Warren Buffett, and Bill Gates all credit their success to luck. Peter Thiel, the serial entrepreneur, venture capitalist, and billionaire, has a different take on it. In his new book "Zero to One," Thiel explains why he rejects the idea that success is dependent on luck and how to build a better, more definitive future for your company.  Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional Camera by Graham Flanagan. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
Mario Anzuoni/ReutersCostco says sales of televisions, coffee, beer, and wine are especially good.Costco is consistently outperforming competitors like Wal-Mart and Target.  The warehouse discounter has reported quarter after quarter of great financial results. Meanwhile, Wal-Mart and Target are grappling with a lull in business.  Costco has a simple strategy for winning — concentrating on driving sales.  The company believes that if sales are good, "everything else will take care of itself," Goldman Sachs writes in a recent report.  The Motley FoolThe company is outperforming competitors. While Wal-Mart and Target pour money into marketing, Costco has a no-frills approach and doesn't advertise.  The company also sells a limited number of items.  Despite Costco's large store volume, it has been known to sell a fraction of the number of toothpaste brands as Wal-Mart, according to The New York Times. Selling fewer items increases sales volume and helps drive discounts.  Costco's focus on driving sales also helps explain why it offers better pay and benefits than competitors.  Many retailers drive profits by paying workers less, but Costco wants to retain good employees who will motivate customers to come back.  ReutersWal-Mart and Target have blamed current woes on the cash-strapped American consumer. In a note earlier this year, Goldman Sachs predicted the slow decline of Wal-Mart and Target.  "Consumers appear more focused on some combination of value and convenience," the analysts wrote.  Huge Wal-Mart and Target stores lack the convenience of smaller dollar chains and drugstores. They also can't offer the deep discounting of warehouse clubs like Costco.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA view of the Exxon Mobil refinery in Baytown, TexasHOUSTON (Reuters) - The World Bank arbitration tribunal will give its final ruling this week on a multi-billion dollar claim by Exxon Mobil Corp against Venezuela over a 2007 nationalization, legal sources said on Tuesday. "The final ruling will be delivered to the parties on Thursday, October 2, according to a notification they received last week," one of the sources told Reuters.  (Reporting by Marianna Parraga; Writing by Andrew Cawthorne; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Google MapsThe exterior of Muchmore's in Williamsburg.Muchmore’s — a music venue, bar, and coffee house in Williamsburg — is challenging a New York law that prohibits its patrons from dancing, according a New York Post report. The suit references NYC’s cabaret laws, which require all venues to have a license if they plan to host dancing by more than three people at a time.  The restrictions date back to Prohibition when police were targeting New York’s (booze-serving) dance halls, and speakeasies began to pop up all around the city. But bar owner and real estate attorney Andrew Muchmore argues that the law has become arbitrary in the 21st century and infringes on his customers’ First and 14th Amendment rights (free speech and equal protection). Muchmore'sInside Muchmore's where the owner wants his patrons to dance.According to The Post, the suit claims that without the license, Muchmore has been forced to play “folk music, rock music, experimental electronic music, jazz and other forms of music that are not conducive to dancing” at his bar. But he believes it’s the constitutional right of customers to get down. Muchmore argues in his suit that cabaret laws prevent him from playing a certain type of music that would encourage dancing.  So why doesn’t he just get the cabaret license? Muchmore claims that he would have to set up “elaborate digital security systems and to jump through a mass of bureaucratic hoops.”   The Post also notes that the licenses are usually only issued to larger nightclubs than tiny bar establishments. FREE AppDownload
September has been a terrible month for bonds. According to data from S&amp;P, every type of US bond tracked by the firm had lost money in September as of last Friday. Overall, this year has been pretty kind to fixed income investors, with only the S&amp;P Green Bond index — which tracks only bonds that have been used to finance environmentally friendly projects — in the red year-to-date. An ugly month for bonds.  Fortunately, September ends on Tuesday. S&P FREE AppDownload
Michelle McLoughlin/ReutersRobert Shiller. Shiller also talked about the stock market. Author of the investing classic "Irrational Exuberance," Shiller gave a great insight into the current psychology of the stock market rise and an alternative theory about why the market keeps going up. "It's something about anxieties," Shiller said.  "You might think this should be the reverse, that the stock market should go down when people are anxious. People are anxious because of (geopolitical unrest), because of inequality, and people are worried about being replaced by a computer. All these things are on people's minds." But because of these anxieties, Shiller said, people want to save more, and because the economy has been weak, investors bid up the price of everything, and the stock market has been a major beneficiary of that. To Shiller, the stock market is overvalued, but this doesn't mean it's a bad investment, given that Shiller sees a world full of bad investments. Shiller's Cyclically Adjusted Price-to-Earnings ratio, or CAPE ratio, is currently near 27, up from 23 a year ago and well above the long-term median average of 16. This has many people wondering if the stock market is overvalued or if a correction, or worse, is looming. Shiller says he doesn't know: the CAPE ratio could keep going higher, or it might not.  "I don't know how to time the market," Shiller said. "I wish I did." Stock markets are near record highs, bond yields are historically low, and while the pace of home-price increases per the Case-Shiller index has slowed some this year, prices have been climbing for the past three years. People often invoke the title of Shiller's book when thinking about why markets go higher, but it seems that you might be able to replace "exuberance" with "fear" and find not dissimilar results.  You can watch Shiller's comments on CNBC below. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Federal ReserveJerome PowellWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Federal Reserve board member Jerome Powell said on Tuesday he feared any move for the Fed and the U.S. Treasury to cooperate on debt management and other issues would undermine the central bank's independence and should be avoided. Powell was responding to research by a team of Harvard economists concluding that the Treasury's effort to ramp up its sales of longer-term bonds in recent years undercut the Fed's effort to bring down long-term rates through quantitative easing. The economists, including former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers, suggested the two agencies coordinate - particularly in a crisis - to be sure the government's debt management plans and the Fed's monetary policy are in synch. That proposal "seems to me to be fraught with risk for the Federal Reserve," said Powell, noting that when the Fed and Treasury did cooperate in the years after World War Two it cut into the Fed's independence. "There is considerable evidence that monetary policy independence leads to better macroeconomic outcomes. Any active collaboration between debt management and monetary policy, even in a crisis, would risk calling into question that independence," Powell said. He downplayed the group's conclusion that Treasury's debt management undercut the impact of the Fed's quantitative easing. He said, for example, that quantitative easing sent a strong signal to markets that the Fed would stand behind the economy, providing a psychological boost to markets.   (Reporting By Howard Schneider; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
WSJ Live Paulson, who shot to fame after making billions betting against subprime during the housing crisis, was part of a panel at NYU Stern called the "Future of Finance" with Citigroup CEO Michael Corbat and Warburg Pincus' Joe Landy. The Wall Street Journal's Francesco Guerrera was the moderator.  Early on in the panel, Paulson discussed how the hedge fund industry had changed since he launched Paulson &amp; Co., which now manages over $20 billion in assets. It's a big number even by today's standards, but compared with previous decades, it's absolutely massive. Paulson pointed out that in the early 1990s, a large fund would have about $100 million to $200 million. These days, the largest funds have billions in assets. The increase in assets also contributes to a manager's yearly take-home pay.   When Paulson discussed the massive paychecks some of the top fund managers take home, you could see folks in the audience grin. Fund managers are paid through a compensation structure commonly known as the "2 and 20," which stands for a 2% management fee and a 20% performance fee charge. More specifically, “2 and 20<U+2033> means a hedge fund manager would charge investors 2% of total assets under management and 20% of any profits. "So hedge funds have grown, the fee structure has stayed the same," he said. "The capital of the partners has become a more and more significant part of the earnings of the hedge fund managers. The total compensation to hedge fund managers has really grown enormously."  Paulson pointed out that Institutional Investor's Alpha magazine had a list featuring estimates of the top 25 highest-earning managers. He said the lowest paid, No. 25, took home about $300 million, and the top five averaged more than $2 billion.  "After this little ah quick John Paulson math, I am tempted to send my résumé," panel moderator Guerrera joked. Paulson ranked No. 3 for the "rich list." His take-home pay in 2013 was $2.3 billion. He was just behind Steven Cohen and David Tepper.  Here's the clip:   FREE AppDownload
Since the financial crisis, businesses reluctant to invest in its operations have been using much of their cash to reduce debt or are pay shareholders in the form of dividends. "The tide is turning," Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders writes. "The private sector is largely through its painful deleveraging process; business confidence indexes have turned up; and bank lending—notably commercial and industrial (C&amp;I) lending—is on the rise." Much of the recent economic data suggest tha business spending boom has already begun. Look forward, surveys show that business spending plans haven't been this high since 2007. "While consumption growth has slowed this year, and tight credit has led to disappointing housing activity, we’re finally seeing at least a temporary burst of stronger business capital spending," Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart said. "Beyond the recent acceleration, we look for capital spending to grow at a 4% to 5% pace over the next couple years." Importantly, corporate America's capital equipment is getting old. Aging equipment combined with economic growth will necessitate an increase in business spending, which in turn should be good news for economic growth. "The average age of private fixed assets is at a 50-year high," Sonders writes. Schwab FREE AppDownload
Reutershe Sands casino and hotel is seen in Macau October 31, 2009. Las Vegas Sands Corp, which is expected to launch a public offering of its Macau operations in November, posted a net loss of $123 million, or 19 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier loss of $32.2 million, or 9 cents a share. Picture taken October 31, 2009. Macau officials have announced that the island will post the biggest decline in gaming revenue since the global financial crisis. Macau’s Secretary for Economy and Finance Francis Tam said that year over year casino revenue for the world's largest gambling destination could fall 12%-13% in September.  August also saw a record year over year decline of 6.1%. In June 2009, as the world scrambled to get back on its feet again, Macau gaming revenue declined 18.1%. There are two main reasons for this — first, an overall slow down of the Chinese economy, and second President Xi Jinping's corruption crackdown. To the first point, China knew that it would have to let its economy cool, tighten policy, and face slower growth at some point — but things are happening fast. Numbers are coming ugly. On Monday night HSBC's China Manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index missed expectations, falling to 50.2 from 50.5. That means it's just hovering above contraction. August industrial production weakened to its slowest pace since 2008.  China, in response, did a "targeted stimulus" – nothing major to inject cash into the system — so it seems the government may be waiting to see how bad things get before engaging in any major intervention.  All of China will feel the burn in the meantime — Macau's potential high rollers, and its increasingly important potential mass market customers alike. In other words, a Macau revenue drop isn't going to help China reach it's targeted 7.5% GDP target for 2014 at all. Morgan Stanley The other factor at play here is President Xi Jinping's corruption drive. Flashy high rollers aren't letting the cash flow as freely as before, afraid that the government will start asking questions. The mass market player doesn't like those questions either.   FREE AppDownload
Nick DeWolfWith all the interest surrounding Hong Kong in the past few days as pro-democracy protests continue to erupt, it's easy to forget how much change the city has seen in the past 50 years. Hong Kong has undergone major growth, moving from a small city to one filled with massive skyscrapers, making it one of the most densely populated areas in the world. Photographer Nick DeWolf captured daily life in Hong Kong during a trip to Asia in 1972. His photos show just what it was like in a time when the Pearl of the Orient was still transitioning into what it is today. DeWolf has shared his photos with us below. Check out what Hong Kong was like more than 40 years ago. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AP/Damian DovarganesThe Conference Board's September consumer confidence reading came in at 86.0, missing expectations. Expectations were for the report to come in at 92.5, up just slightly from last month's 92.4 reading.  This is the first decline for the reading after four straight months of gains. The expectations component of the release fell to 83.7 from 93.1 the prior month. Lynn Franco, Director of Economic Indicators at The Conference Board, said of the report: “Consumer confidence retreated in September after four consecutive months of improvement. A less positive assessment of the current job market, most likely due to the recent softening in growth, was the sole reason for the decline in consumers’ assessment of present-day conditions. Looking ahead, consumers were less confident about the short-term outlook for the economy and labor market, and somewhat mixed regarding their future earnings potential. All told, consumers expect economic growth to ease in the months ahead." Via Pantheon Macro, this chart shows the Conference Board's consumer confidence measure coming back into line with the University of Michigan consumer confidence.  Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockMore than 40 million Americans have student debt.This post is sponsored by Citizens Bank. Many of us remember the joy of receiving our first real (adult!) paycheck ... and the disappointment that kicked in when we realized a lot of it would go toward paying off student loans. Though it's a common dream to attend a prestigious college, achieving that goal can be a financial nightmare. According to the College Board, the average cost of tuition for the 2013-2014 school year was $30,094 at private colleges and $22,203 for out-of-state residents attending public universities. It stands to reason that leaving school with significant debt can have an impact on your life. Fortunately, there's a relatively new option — the ability to refinance your student loans — that could make paying off that debt more bearable. In an ideal world, everyone would have an ample college fund set up in advance, but that's often not the case. The reality is that most students need to rely on student loans, of which there are two types: private loans, which are provided by financial institutions, and federal loans, which are sponsored by the government. Of course, paying for college takes a financial toll not just on students but also on parents. According to a survey from Citizens Financial Group, 94% of parents with a child in college reported feeling "an increased burden from their child's college debt" — 54% were afraid it might even jeopardize their retirement plans. A New Kind of Solution For those grappling with student debt, there's an option many don't know about: refinancing. Similar to refinancing a mortgage, refinancing a student loan provides you the opportunity to lower your interest rate based on the current market. By exploring this option, you can consolidate your current federal or private student loans into a single monthly loan payment at a lower rate, potentially saving you thousands of dollars on interest. Citizens Bank recently launched its own refinancing solution: the Education Refinance Loan. This loan allows those with student debt to refinance their private and federal student loans into one new loan at current market rates. Citizens offers a choice of either a fixed rate or variable rate loan, both with flexible repayment terms. To date, private student loan borrowers have saved an average of $127 per month — one customer even saved close to $1,200 per month through the Education Refinance Loan. There are no application, origination or disbursement fees, nor is there a prepayment penalty. If you're unsure of whether refinancing is a good fit for your situation, consult Citizens' comprehensive guide. Managing student debt can be challenging, but it doesn't have to be impossible. Refinancing your student loans can help make them both easier to manage and, more importantly, less costly. Learn more about Citizen Bank's Education Refinance Loan. Find out more about Sponsored Content. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressThe Chicago purchasing managers index fell to 60.5 in September from 64.3 in August. This was a bit worse than the 62.0 expected by economists. Any reading above 50.0 signals growth. "Despite September's fall, the Barometer stands above Q1's level and the 10-year average of 55.8, with respondents deeming activity levels as 'strong' and 'surging,' aided by ongoing demand, successful sales promotions and organic growth, all of which called for inventory builds," ISM-Chicago writes. "The undershoot to the consensus is not significant, given the volatility of the index; it remains at a very high level," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson said. "Swings in the Chicago PMI in the short term are heavily influenced by the flow of Boeing aircraft orders, with a lag of a few months." Here's an interesting nugget from ISM-Chicago's report: "There was a surprisingly sharp increase in stocks with firms adding inventories of finished goods at the fastest pace since February 1973. Feedback suggested firms were preparing for robust sales forecasts and potential spikes in unplanned orders." Here's to hoping that inventory actually gets sold. FREE AppDownload
Russia's currency and stock market have been getting bludgeoned lately, as sanctions and capital outflows have damaged the domestic economy. And it's getting worse. Bloomberg reports that Russia is weighing capital controls to stem the rush of outflows from the country. Capital controls are legal limits on how much money you can take out of an economy, a dramatic measure that countries sometimes take to rescue a currency or financial system in the midst of a crisis. Of course, talking about stemming the rush of outflows only encourages outflows (as people try to get ahead of the restrictions), and so the ruble is tanking on the news. FinViz FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe July S&amp;P/Case-Shiller home price index showed prices fell 0.5% over last month against expectations for no growth. On a year-over-year basis, home prices rose 6.75%, also less than expected. Expectations were for prices to be flat month-over-month and rise 7.4% on a year-over-year basis. Last month, the June report showed home prices unexpectedly fell 0.2% month-over-month, while home prices rose 8.1% year-over-year, a 17-month low.  In a note to clients following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said: "In one line: The downshift looks alarming but it won’t last... The trend in the CS home price index has turned around in just a few months; as recently as the first quarter, price gains were averaging 1.0% per month… The deterioration lags the abrupt softening in the median price numbers from the existing home sales report between last summer and the end of the severe winter. But median prices have since rebounded sharply and we expect the CS numbers to follow suit by year-end. The declining proportion of foreclosure sales will boost the price numbers too." This chart from S&amp;P shows the slowing uptrend in home prices, which has been in place for most of this year. S&P FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogYesterday, we learned that personal income rose 0.3% during August, while the personal consumption expenditures deflator decreased less than 0.1%. On a y/y basis, the former is up 4.3%, while the latter is up 1.5%. So real incomes are growing at a solid pace. There is a widespread myth that real incomes have been stagnating for many years. That’s apparently true based on mean real income for households. I have lots of issues with this statistical series, including the impact of demographic trends on it. Consider the following: (1) While real mean income per household has been stagnating since 2000, real pre-tax compensation per payroll employee (including wages, salaries, and supplements) is up in record-high territory at $61,307 during August, which is an increase of 16.8% since the start of 2000. (2) Real wages and salaries in personal income is also in record-high territory, up 1.8% y/y and 14.6% since the start of 2000. Real average hourly earnings of production and nonsupervisory workers is up 1.1% y/y and 13.4% since the start of 2000. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Life After QE. (1) Will end of QE kill the bull? (2) Market is getting nervous about Fed rate hikes next year. (3) Can Richard Fisher really move markets? (4) More Fed doves than hawks, especially next year. (5) Charles Evans gets to vote in 2015. (6) Bullard says time to drop “considerable time.” (7) Dudley puts the dollar on the table. (8) More tightening tantrums ahead. (9) Profits for accountants. (10) Regional surveys showing very strong economy during September. (11) The wage stagnation myth. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidCarl Icahn.This is why you follow Carl Icahn. On Tuesday morning, eBay said it would spin off its PayPal unit in 2015 in an announcement that most investors hadn't expected to come until sometime next year.  Earlier this year, Carl Icahn bought a stake in eBay and began agitating for the company to spin off PayPal. Icahn exchanged a series of letters with the company's management, questioning conflicts of interest among some board members and within the broader Silicon Valley community of investors.  Ultimately, Icahn relented, kept a stake in eBay, and agreed to support management.  But Icahn had spoken, and a few months later, after hearing nary a peep from Icahn on the status of his eBay investment: BOOM! EBay spins off PayPal, and the deal is a huge win for Icahn and all eBay shareholders.  In early trading on Tuesday, eBay shares were up about 8%.  And this is just the latest win on what has been a series of victories for Carl Icahn. Icahn bought a huge stake in Netflix back in fall 2012 and made about $800 million after the stock rose from about $58 to about $340 in a little more than a year. It was one of the great trades of all time, and Icahn still holds a sizable stake in Netflix. And earlier this year, Icahn bought a stake in Family Dollar and urged the company to seek a sale. That came to fruition and has been, so far, a big win for Family Dollar shareholders. In September, Icahn cashed out and took a roughly $200 million win on the investment. On Monday, shares of McDonald's spiked intraday, and some isolated Twitter chatter indicated that maybe Icahn was getting involved in the company. So far, nothing has come of that. And last month, shares of Whole Foods also spiked on rumors that Icahn was getting involved. Nothing came of that rumor, but it shows the power of even mentioning Icahn's name with regard to a stock.  To go a bit further back, Icahn took a stake in Apple and urged the company to increase its share buyback program as a way to return cash to shareholders. Icahn didn't get the $50 billion buyback that he wanted, but Apple shares are currently just below their split-adjusted all-time high.  Right now, as has been the case for the past few years, when Carl Icahn is involved in a company, investors are following. And even the mere suggestion that Icahn might be getting involved in a company has sent the stock higher.  Tuesday morning is the reason why.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsLONDON (Reuters) - The biggest scramble for dollars and sharpest rise in currency volatility for years were the hallmarks of financial markets in the third quarter, developments which have intensified worries that the final three months of the year might be equally bumpy. The dollar's 7-percent surge was its biggest quarterly rise since the same period in 2008, when the collapse of Lehman Brothers triggered the global financial crisis and a worldwide rush into the U.S. currency. The swing of such a magnitude in the world's reserve currency, which is used to price almost everything in global commerce from Apple shares to zinc, permeated all financial markets. It lifted volatility, and crushed the value of commodities and emerging market currencies in the process. The biggest gainer from 22 assets and market instruments tracked by Reuters was China-listed A-shares, which rose 16.1 percent, and the biggest loser was Brent crude oil futures, which fell almost 14 percent. More than half of the 22 fell. Much of what the fourth quarter holds will hinge on how much faith investors retain in their collective belief that the U.S. economy will outperform its peers, the Federal Reserve will soon raise interest rates, and the dollar will strengthen further. Contrast that to the euro zone, where deflation fears grew in the third quarter, the European Central Bank eased historically loose policy even further and, remarkably, 10-year German government bond yields fell below 1 percent. "The dollar move is not going to hurt the U.S. economy in any appreciable way, certainly not at this point," Deutsche Bank chief U.S. economist, Joe LaVorgna, said, noting that the United States is producing much more of its own energy and so slashing its import bill and trade deficit. "This is all good. The Fed has been perpetually disappointed by the evolution of the economy, but monetary policy has to be forward-looking," he said.   Investors buying the dollar against a basket of six major currencies on July 1 would be 7.4 percent better off today and almost 8 percent in the black if they had bought the dollar against the Japanese yen. The dollar also rose against the euro, which buckled under the weight of grim views on euro zone growth and inflation. Throw in the a late flurry of jitters around the Scottish independence referendum this month, and implied volatility in major exchange rates hit their highest levels this year. In the case of short-dated pricing, especially in sterling, it was the most volatile period in years. Morgan Stanley, global head of currency strategy, Hans Redekerat, expects this to remain a feature of the coming months as the dollar rises further and exchange rates provide the shock absorber to shifting global economic plates. "Economic decoupling never takes place, so in an environment of non-synchronized global growth the exchange rate always comes back under the spotlight," he said. "Two thirds of global funding costs is determined by U.S. dollar funding rates. Volatility is going to stay with us and is going to normalize," he said. European assets suffered across the board. The euro fell to a two-year low against the dollar, euro zone stocks lost almost 10 percent and peripheral sovereign bonds slipped. The exception, of course, were German bonds. The surge in demand for the safest of all euro zone bonds pushed the 10-year yield below 1 percent, and 2-year yields turned negative. A stronger dollar and rising volatility bodes ill for emerging markets, as investors become less inclined to take risks and more inclined to put their cash in relatively safe and attractive developed markets, notably the United States. Emerging market local currency bonds fell about 5 percent in the third quarter and most emerging currencies suffered. Brazil's real fell to a 6-year low on Monday, posting a fall of about 10 percent on the month. Similarly, high-yield bonds, which had seen unparalleled inflows in the first half of the year, also started to feel the pinch. They fell more than 3 percent in the third quarter. But some analysts point out that the spike in volatility and the dollar later in the quarter followed the slump in volatility across many equity, bond and currency markets earlier in the period to lows not seen for years, if ever. "Seen through the lens of history and economics, the recent dollar move is small," according to Goldman Sachs.   (Editing by Louise Ireland) FREE AppDownload
Formally called Occupy Central with Love and Peace, the movement is promoted as a peaceful civil disobedience campaign in which the leaders would mobilize protesters to stage a mass sit-in to blockade Central district as a means to force Beijing to allow Hong Kong what they consider genuine universal suffrage. Occupy Central is led by University of Hong Kong law professor Benny Tai Yiu-ting, Chinese University sociologist Dr. Chan Kin-man, and Baptist minister Reverend Chu Yiu-ming. Meanwhile, student groups — the Federation of Students and Scholarism — are also playing a big role in the campaign. Benny Tai raised the idea of Occupy Central last year in a commentary titled “Civil disobedience is the most powerful weapon.” ReutersA protester prepares for a possible tear gas attack as hundreds of protesters gather at Hong Kong's Mongkok district. The leaders had planned to start the protests on Oct. 1. But they announced the campaign had officially kicked off in the early hours of Sunday after clashes at government headquarters between police and student activists during a rally in which three of the student leaders were arrested. Organizers said more than 30,000 people were on the streets during the early stage of the first day of the campaign. Crowds reportedly grew to more than 50,000 as anger was fanned by the police use of tear gas against unarmed protesters. Protesters started occupying the main roads outside the government headquarters in Admiralty. Crowds grew, spilling over into Central, Wan Chai, and Causeway Bay on Hong Kong Island. Separate crowds spontaneously blocked a section of Nathan Road in Mongkok in Kowloon. ReutersProtesters block pepper spray using umbrellas. They demand Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying resign and that Beijing retract its decision on the city’s 2017 chief executive poll, which would restrict the number of candidates to two or three approved by a 1,200-strong nominating committee. They have also called on workers and teachers to strike, students to boycott classes, and shops to close for business. Pro-Beijing politicians have called the movement illegal. Business groups warn it will hurt the economy. Some local residents also complain about disruption to daily life because of road blockades. The protesters show no sign of leaving. The government has said it has no plan to ask the People’s Liberation Army to help clear the blockade. Some protesters used umbrellas to defend against the use of pepper spray by police on the first day of the protests. FREE AppDownload
Walgreens(Reuters) - U.S. drugstore chain operator Walgreen Co reported a 6.2 percent rise in quarterly sales, helped by higher prescription sales, sending its shares up more than 3 percent in premarket trading. Prescription sales, which made up nearly two thirds of the company's total sales, rose 9.3 percent in the fourth quarter ended Aug. 31. Total revenue rose to $19.06 billion in the quarter from $17.94 billion a year earlier. The net loss attributable to the company was $239 million, or 25 cents per share, in the quarter, and included an $866 million non-cash loss due to the amendment and exercise of its Alliance Boots call option. Walgreen posted a profit of $657 million, or 69 cents per share, a year earlier. Excluding items, the company earned 74 cents per share in the latest quarter. The company's shares rose 3.2 percent to $61.50 in trading before the bell on Tuesday.  (Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
The hot debate in financial circles at the moment is exactly when the Fed (and/or the Bank of England) will start raising rates as the economic recovery picks up steam. However, the authors of the Geneva Report suggest talk of the crisis being over is seriously premature. Six years on from the financial crisis, people were expecting a global economy less reliant on debt financing and gradually moving back toward trend growth. According to Luigi Buttiglione, Philip Lane, Lucrezia Reichlin, and Vincent Reinhart, we instead have global debt-to-GDP breaking new highs and a permanent decline in output. Why has this happened? Firstly, while the developed world has been gradually reducing its debt overhang emerging market (EM) debt trajectories have been moving firmly in the other direction. China in particular has seen a sharp rise in its debt-to-GDP ratio: Geneva Report Secondly, the projected bounceback of developed economies has disappointed, underwhelmed, and then disappointed again due in large part to the ongoing crisis in the eurozone. The chart below shows the slowdown in growth forecasts for advanced economies from the IMF's World Economic Outlook between 2008 and 2014: Geneva Report The report's authors conclude that those expecting interest rate "normalization" in the near future are likely to miss the mark. This is because: The equilibrium real interest rate — that is, the interest rate compatible with full employment — is poised to stay at historical low levels ... In such a context, and with still very high leverage, allowing the real rate to rise above its natural level would risk killing the recovery. So their message here is clear — the new normal of low interest rates and sluggish growth is here to stay. Better start planning accordingly. FREE AppDownload
ScreenshotGoogle's plan to create a cheap smartphone that can be built from the ground up has already with Project Ara, but now you will be able to swap parts while the phone is still running. The project director for Arak, Paul Eremenko explained how anyone using a Project Ara phone will be able to swap any modules, such as WiFi, camera, and sensors, without turning it off. The only two modules you won’t be able to swap out without turning the phone off are the CPU and the display. This is made possible by using a modified version of Android L, the next update of Google’s OS, which is being developed in collaboration with Linaro, a non-profit engineering organisation which mainly works on free and open-source software. Project Ara is a modular smartphone that is put together using blocks, held together using electro-permanent magnets, which represent certain hardware features like the battery, camera and other sensors. It was originally started by Motorola more than a year ago and teamed up withPhonebloks to help further develop the project. When part of Motorola was sold off to Lenovo for $2.91 billion, the company’s Advanced Technology and Projects (ATAP) division merged with Google and continued working on the project. The first fully functional prototype will be shown off at the second Ara developer conference in December, with the launch taking place in early 2015. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jeff Zelevansky It's a good day to be Carl Icahn. The famed activist investor has been going after eBay for a while, urging it to spin off its PayPal business. And now, they are doing it. EBay announced Tuesday morning that in 2015 PayPal would be spun off and traded separately. Current eBay investors will own shares in both companies after the spin is complete. PayPal is the giant of online payments, and it's also the fastest-growing part of the business, so there's a belief that investors will pay a juicy premium for its shares when unencumbered by the traditional eBay business. So how's Icahn doing Tuesday? Not bad. He owns just over 30 million shares in the company, according to data from Bloomberg. EBay shares are already up about six bucks a piece. So that's a $180 million payday for Icahn. Well done!    FREE AppDownload
Investors like the news that eBay is spinning off PayPal. The stock is surging, as the trading halt is lifted. Here's the stock data from Yahoo. Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
YouTube/calloftreyarchCortana is a disembodied voice on WP8 based on the Halo characterCortana, Microsoft's answer to Apple's Siri, is one of the rare bright spots for Windows Phone users, who (according to IDC) only account for 2.5% of the global smartphone market. The personal assistant, named after the AI female lead of the Halo series and voiced in the U.S. by the actress who portrays the character, has been widely praised for offering more features than Siri or Google Now. Cortana can link reminders to contacts, so a user can be notified of a friend's birthday when he or she calls, and learns a user's interests over time in its "Notebook" -- similar to how Google Now pulls up cards based on a user's searches and visited Web pages. Microsoft has also constantly promoted Cortana as the Windows Phone's killer app with Siri-bashing advertisements. Since Cortana has generated a lot of buzz with positive press, one question has hounded Microsoft -- should it launch Cortana on iOS and Android to expand its Bing ecosystem, at the risk of alienating Windows Phone users? Cortana isn't really about challenging Siri and Google Now to become the ultimate virtual assistant. The real goal is to help Microsoft's Bing ecosystem close the gap with Google. Bing is more popular than most people think. According to comScore, Bing handled 29.4% of all searches in the U.S. in August, with 19.4% coming from Microsoft sites and another 10% coming from Yahoo!. Google controlled 67.3% of the U.S. market for the month. Windows Phones only account for 3.4% of the U.S. market, but Bing's presence on mobile platforms is boosted by Apple, which last year made Bing the default search engine for Siri in iOS 7. Windows 8.1, which NetMarketShare estimates runs on roughly 7% of all PCs, also refers all searches through Bing by default. Windows 9 will go a step further with Cortana installed, which could be a good way to wean PC users off Google and onto Bing. All of these services feed into Microsoft's advertising revenue, which rose 19% year over year to $4.02 billion in 2013 and accounted for nearly 5% of the company's top line. That segment includes Bing, Bing Ads, MSN, Windows Services, and Xbox ads, and is notably larger than the Windows Phone business, which generated $3.07 billion in revenue last year. While display ads are a good source of revenue, Bing's ecosystem hasn't caught up with Google's cohesive ecosystem of apps -- Drive, YouTube, Gmail, Maps, and other services -- which straddle the mobile and PC platforms with the Android and Chrome operating systems. Google's strategy is to tether as many users to its ecosystem as possible, so it can monetize search results through advertising and take a cut of Google Play sales. According to comScore's most recent numbers, five of the top 10 iOS and Android apps in the U.S. come from Google:YouTube, Google Play, Google Search, Google Maps, and Gmail. Microsoft doesn't have a single app on that list. Microsoft tried to expand its ecosystem to iOS and Android before, launching apps for Bing search (which links to Bing Finance, Health, Weather, Travel, and other services), One Drive, Outlook, Office, and other products on both platforms. But the problem is that Apple and Google will promote their own apps -- for example, Apple Maps and Google Maps -- whenever given the chance. Google has been extremely aggressive in expanding its ecosystem. Last April, the company launched Google Now for iOS in a clear bid to kill Siri on iPhones and iPads. That aggression prompted Apple to replace Google with Bing in Siri. Microsoft should imitate Google's strategy and launch an Android version of Cortana. There are already plenty of other "Siri substitutes" in the Google Play store -- including Maluuba, Skyvi, and Robin -- but none are as fully developed or well-known as Cortana. Cortana, like Siri, also has a "sassy" personality, unlike the comparatively lifeless Google Now. Apple might even welcome an iOS version of Cortana with open arms, since Microsoft's personal assistant could be a more reliable way than Siri to prevent Google from taking over iOS. The only real drawback to this plan is that Windows Phone users, who have put up with hand-me-down apps from iOS and Android for years, might be irritated by the fact that its "killer app" will now be available on rival platforms. In June, a Microsoft manager discussed the possibility of launching Cortana on iOS and Android, but the mere idea sparked a fierce backlash on social media (dubbed "Cortana-gate") from loyal Windows Phones owners. But considering how anemic Windows Phone's market share is, the choice between reaching millions of new users or upsetting current users is a no-brainer. Microsoft absolutely needs to capitalize on the hype over Cortana to expand its Bing ecosystem on iOS and Android, or risk being marginalized further by Google on all fronts. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man stands in front of a Google logo in Hong KongSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Google Inc is planning new and revamped streaming-music services in coming weeks, searching for a way to stand out in an increasingly crowded field of rivals from Apple Inc and Amazon.com Inc to Spotify. Nailing music is one way for Google to raise chances of continued success as people spend more time on mobile devices. Google's YouTube service has become a low-profile titan in streaming through the popularity of music videos. Currently, videos must be chosen one track at a time. YouTube in coming weeks will launch new subscription and ad-supported YouTube music services able to play several tracks in a row, a person familiar with the plans said. Google had been expected to launch the YouTube services by the end of summer and had offered few details. Also coming soon: an update of Google's existing $10-a-month All Access subscription-music streaming service. The new version will incorporate technology acquired by Google with the purchase of Songza, a service known for its ability to recommend music, Jamie Rosenberg, Google's Vice President of Digital Content, said in an interview. The variety of approaches risks confusing consumers, said Alex Luke, a venture capitalist at The Valley Fund, who has worked as an executive at music label EMI Music and was the director of music programming at Apple until 2011. He argued that the winners in digital music would offer radio-style programs, downloads and let listeners put together their own playlists. (For a graphic of music sales see here.) “The marketplace hasn’t found itself yet and you’re going to continue to see the big players like Apple and Google experiment,” Luke said. "The thing that Google and YouTube both have in their favor is these huge, active user bases." The latest music push comes 16 months after Google launched its All Access subscription service. Industry observers say All Access has struggled to stand out and set Google into a markedly different business than the free, ad-supported services that have long underpinned its success. Kevin Smith/Business InsiderGoogle’s All Access subscription music service likely draws between 500,000 and a few million users, said Mark Mulligan of research and consulting firm Midia Research. That puts it in the same ranks as rivals Rhapsody and Deezer, but behind Spotify, which has more than 10 million paying subscribers. Apple has a Beats subscription streaming service, acquired with the Beats headphone line in May, and it has free iTunes radio, which analysts say has not been a breakout success. E-commerce giant Amazon launched its music service in June, providing streaming of a limited catalog of music to members of its $99-a-year Prime service. The U.S. music market is worth $7 billion but royalty and marketing expenditures mean most streaming music businesses currently lose money, according to estimates from Brian Zisk, executive producer of the SF MusicTech Summit. Mulligan described Google's music service in a "holding pattern", arguing that Google should be at least as big as Spotify given Google's resources and existing user base. Google’s Rosenberg acknowledged the service is not the market leader, but said Google was encouraged by what he called a "very healthy" portion of consumers who subscribed after a free one-month trial. He saw no need to cut the $10 monthly subscription price. “Is the bigger upside getting more people to try these services, or is the bigger upside dropping the price by a dollar or two?" he asked. "Right now we’re focused on creating broad awareness that the service exists." All Access is now available in 43 countries, he said. To stand out, Google envisions a service "that extends seamlessly to your wearable device or to your car," and that's intelligent enough to play "the right music for the right moment," Rosenberg says. Marc Ruxin, the Chief Operating Officer of Rdio, a competing, privately-held streaming service, said Google wanted to use music to keep its main service, search, top of mind. “Google like any Internet company is in a war for attention, so they want as much user time on a daily basis that they can get,” he said. (Reporting by Alexei Oreskovic; Editing by Sarah McBride and Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michael DalderLufthansa pilots were to strike Tuesday after talks over an early-retirement scheme broke down again.Good morning! Here's what you need to know.  The Euro Is Getting Hit. Poor inflation and unemployment data Tuesday morning have driven the euro down another 0.75% against the dollar, to $1.26.  Hong Kong's Pro-Democracy Protests Are Gaining Momentum. The massive demonstrations, led by China's youth, could get even more dramatic on Wednesday, when most of China celebrates its national day. Apple's Tax Headache Is Getting Worse. Apple could owe $8 billion in back-taxes following The European Commission's preliminary finding that the company's tax deals with the Irish state breached rules over state aid.  Eurozone Inflation Is Still Crumbling. Prices are up just 0.3% in the year to September, the lowest recorded in five years.  Vanguard And Blackrock Could Reap Billions From PIMCO. The firms could be prime destinations for hundreds of billions of dollars in assets that may flee PIMCO in the wake of the sudden exit of Bill Gross. Consumer Confidence Comes Out Later. Case-Shiller house price index figures are out at 9 a.m. ET, with consumer confidence one hour later. Economists expect a 92.5 reading, the best since 2007.  Japanese Industry Is Struggling. The country's industrial production dropped 1.5% between July and August, heightening concern that the economy is struggling after April's sales tax hike.  Asian Markets Took A Beating. The Hang Seng closed down 1.28%, while the Nikkei dropped 0.84% from the previous day's close, following the massive protests in Hong Kong. European markets are mixed, with France's CAC 40 up 0.98%, Germany's DAX up 0.47%, and the UK's FTSE 100 down 0.15%. Lufthansa's Pilots Are On Strike. The 15-hour strike will affect thousands of passengers, following the end of Air France's pilot strike on Tuesday.  China's Economy Is Holding Steady. HSBC's PMI reading hit 50.2 for September, unchanged from last month and indicating modest growth.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeBy Ryan Vlastelica NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures were modestly higher on Tuesday, indicating a rebound from the previous session's decline as investors once again used a pullback as a buying opportunity. * Market volatility has surged of late, with the S&amp;P 500 posting closing moves greater than 0.5 percent in five of the past six sessions. Earlier this month, the benchmark index went 14 sessions without such a move, its longest such streak since 1995, according to MKM Partners. The CBOE Volatility index, a measure of investor anxiety, climbed by more than a third in September. * Despite the outsized moves, the S&amp;P has largely been range-bound between 2,011.36, its record closing level hit earlier this month, and 1,976.76, its 50-day moving average, which it has not closed under for more than one session since mid-August. The S&amp;P is about 1.7 percent away from its record close. * The range has come as investors use market declines as buying opportunities. The S&amp;P has not had a correction, defined as a 10 percent decline from its peak, since 2012. * For the month of September, the Dow is down 0.2 percent, the S&amp;P is down 1.3 percent, and the Nasdaq is down 1.6 percent. For the third quarter, the Dow is up 1.4 percent, the S&amp;P is up 0.9 percent, and the Nasdaq is up 2.2 percent. Both the S&amp;P and Nasdaq are on track for their seventh straight quarterly advances. * Investors continue to keep a close eye on the situation in Hong Kong, where thousands of pro-democracy activists protested against the Chinese government. The Hang Seng Index fell 1.3 percent, having declined in 15 of the past 18 sessions. * While the economic impact to the tension is unknown, investors have paid close attention to the rate of growth in China. If the protests continue for an extended period, that may add to concerns about the country's prospects. * Investors are also looking ahead to data on consumer confidence, seen essentially flat at 92.5 in September, and the Chicago purchasing managers index, which is expected to fall to 61.9 from 64.3 in August. Both reads are due at 10 a.m. * An hour before those datapoints, the July S&amp;P/Case-Shiller report on home prices will be released and is seen showing flat growth.  (Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Karlis Dambrans EBay will spin off PayPal into its own business starting next year. PayPal, the online payments juggernaut, is seen as the real crown jewel of the eBay business. And investors have been clamoring for a way to unlock PayPal's value. EBay's stock shot up 11% on the news. The activist investor Carl Icahn in particular has been a big advocate of spinning off PayPal. AP ImagesCarl Icahn. The New York Times explains why a spinoff was favored from Icahn's perspective: PayPal was a central focus of a lengthy battle between eBay and Mr. Icahn, who demanded a spinoff of the unit as a way to generate value for shareholders. Such a move, the hedge fund billionaire contended, would highlight PayPal’s own strengths while letting its management team and eBay’s focus on their own core businesses. And creating a separate board for PayPal could help remove what Mr. Icahn argued were conflicts of interest with the payment processor’s parent. In the announcement, eBay said that a recent strategic review of the company determined that both eBay and PayPal would be better off with a sharper focus and that the benefits of being together in the past were likely to fade. According to the press release, PayPal revenue grew 19% over the past year to $7.2 billion. The announcement also says that PayPal facilitates one in six dollars spent online. EBay revenue (excluding that of PayPal) is still a little bigger ($9.9 billion), but growth is much slower. This slide from the presentation has the core summary of what's going on. eBay And this slide shows what an incredible run PayPal has had over the past decade. eBay Here's the full press release ... ------------------------------------------------------   Devin Wenig, president of eBay Marketplaces, to become CEO of new eBay company following separation American Express executive Dan Schulman joins PayPal immediately as President and CEO designee for PayPal post-separation  eBay Inc. President and CEO John Donahoe and CFO Bob Swan to oversee separation and serve on boards of new independent companies   Sept 30, 2014 -- eBay Inc. today said its Board of Directors, following a strategic review of the company’s growth strategies and structure, has approved a plan to separate the company’s eBay and PayPal businesses into independent publicly traded companies in 2015, subject to customary conditions. Creating two standalone businesses best positions eBay and PayPal to capitalize on their respective growth opportunities in the rapidly changing global commerce and payments landscape, and is the best path for creating sustainable shareholder value, the company said.  “eBay and PayPal are two great businesses with leading global positions in commerce and payments,” said eBay Inc. President and CEO John Donahoe. “For more than a decade eBay and PayPal have mutually benefited from being part of one company, creating substantial shareholder value. However, a thorough strategic review with our board shows that keeping eBay and PayPal together beyond 2015 clearly becomes less advantageous to each business strategically and competitively. The industry landscape is changing, and each business faces different competitive opportunities and challenges.  “eBay and PayPal will be sharper and stronger, and more focused and competitive as leading, standalone companies in their respective markets,” Donahoe continued. “As independent companies, eBay and PayPal will enjoy added flexibility to pursue new market and partnership opportunities. And we are confident following a thorough assessment of the relationships between eBay and PayPal that operating agreements can maintain synergies going forward. Our board and management team believe that putting eBay and PayPal on independent paths in 2015 is best for each business and will create additional value for our shareholders.”  As the company has previously stated, eBay’s board of directors has a practice of regularly reviewing the company’s growth strategies and structure, and assessing all alternatives. As part of such assessments, the board regularly explores the following questions: Will separation make eBay and PayPal more competitive? Will separation be possible without distracting innovation and execution? And, will separation create sustainable value for shareholders over time?   In its recently completed review, the board concluded:        The future The company expects to complete the transaction as a tax-free spin-off in the second half of 2015, subject to market, regulatory and certain other conditions.  eBay Inc. President and CEO John Donahoe and company CFO Bob Swan will be responsible for leading the separation of each business, with board oversight. This includes determining appropriate management and capital structures for eBay and PayPal, and putting in place appropriate operating agreements. Neither Donahoe nor Swan will have an executive management role in the new eBay and PayPal companies. But to provide continuity, they each expect to serve on one or both of the boards of the two companies.   The “new” eBay Devin Wenig, currently president of eBay Marketplaces, will become CEO of the new eBay company. As CEO of eBay, Wenig will lead the eBay Marketplaces and eBay Enterprise businesses. Revenue over the last twelve months1 for these two businesses grew approximately 10% year-over-year to $9.9 billion, with eBay Marketplaces accounting for about $8.7 billion. eBay Marketplaces and eBay Enterprise collectively handled approximately $85 billion of gross merchandise volume and gross merchandise sales, which grew 13 percent year over year.  Scott Schenkel, currently the CFO of eBay Marketplaces will become the CFO of the new eBay company.  A global commerce leader with 149 million active buyers, eBay is one of the world’s top 30 global brands and a top 10 retail global brand.2   Offering consumers worldwide extraordinary value and selection, eBay has more than 700 million live listings at any given time, and approximately 75% of sold items are new. eBay also is a leader in emerging competitive battlegrounds such as mobile and cross-border commerce. eBay has an installed mobile base of 200 million apps, generating $20 billion in mobile volume. Cross-border commerce represents 20% of eBay’s gross merchandise volume and 61% of Marketplaces revenue is international.  “eBay has been a leading innovator in the world of commerce for almost 20 years; it’s an incredibly special business,” Donahoe said. “Since joining eBay three years ago, Devin has proven to be an exceptional global leader and operating executive. He is steadily enhancing eBay’s unique assets and capabilities and creating new commerce experiences to ensure long-term growth and commerce leadership. He will make a fantastic CEO of eBay.”  The “new” PayPal Concurrent with the announcement of the business separation plan, the company also today announced the appointment of Dan Schulman to be President of PayPal, effective immediately, and CEO-designee of the standalone PayPal company following separation.  Schulman joins PayPal from American Express, where he was president of the company’s Enterprise Growth Group. A seasoned leader in multiple industries, Schulman has held senior executive and CEO roles at AT&amp;T, Priceline and Virgin Mobile, prior to joining American Express.  “As both a leading global technology platform and a financial services business, PayPal requires a diverse blend of leadership skills and operating experience in its president and future CEO,” Donahoe said. “Dan has a proven track record of leading complex technology businesses at scale, driving sustainable growth and understanding how to innovate to drive competitive advantage and deliver compelling experiences for customers. I am thrilled to have him lead PayPal forward as a publicly traded, independent global payments leader, and we welcome him to the team.”  PayPal is a rapidly growing global leader in digital payments and the most trusted digital wallet, with more than 152 million active registered accounts. Accounts grew 15% year-over-year last quarter. Revenue over the last 12 months grew by 19% over the prior year period to approximately $7.2 billion.  PayPal facilitates one in every six dollars spent online today. Total payments volume over the last 12 months increased by 26% to $203 billion, providing merchants and consumers worldwide a faster, safer way to pay and be paid. PayPal is fully localized in 26 currencies, is available in 203 markets worldwide and has relationships with 15,000 financial institutions. Representative of its global reach, PayPal is the No. 1 payments processor for business to consumer exports for Chinese merchants.  With acquisitions such as Braintree and its new One Touch mobile payments experience, PayPal continues to lead and innovate in mobile payments. One Touch is the industry’s first and only single touch payments experience. PayPal processed $27 billion in mobile payments volume in 2013. PayPal expects to process 1 billion mobile transactions in 2014.  A strong record of delivering shareholder value Since 2008, eBay Inc.’s board and management team have led a successful turnaround of the company’s core eBay Marketplace business; have dramatically grown PayPal and drove digital payments innovation; and through 37 acquisitions have built a strong portfolio of global commerce and payments technologies, assets and capabilities.  The company’s board and management team have a clear track record of making the right decisions for eBay and its shareholders.  “Together, eBay and PayPal have delivered substantial value creation for our shareholders,” Donahoe said. “We believe eBay and PayPal will continue to do so as separate, independent companies. Tremendous opportunities exist for each business.”  Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. and Allen &amp; Company LLC are serving as financial advisors and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen and Katz is serving as legal counsel to eBay Inc.   1  Last four public quarters   2 Interbrand   Conference Call and Webcast eBay Inc. will host a conference call to discuss the separation of eBay and PayPal at 8:00 am ET.  A live webcast of the conference call, together with a slide presentation can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations website at http://investor.ebayinc.com. In addition, an archive of the webcast will be accessible for 90 days through the same link. eBay Inc. uses its Investor Relations website at http://investor.ebayinc.com as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor, in addition to following press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls and webcasts. FREE AppDownload
The Eurozone's youth unemployment rate is eye-watering. Figures out Tuesday put the rate at 23.3% this August.  The figure has not even dropped by a percentage point since its peak in February last year. That's a nightmare for the Eurozone's governments, and the future of their economies.  Youth unemployment in some countries is still of the charts (they literally would not fit on the chart below). Greek unemployment for people aged under 25 is still at 51.5%, it's now second to Spain, which comes in at 53.7%.  But the bloc is hugely divided. Germany and Austria have youth unemployment rates of just 7.6% and 8.2%, respectively.   Eurostat, Business Insider The long-term effects of youth unemployment are brutal. A recent post from the Brookings Institute outlines just some of the "scarring" effects of youth unemployment.  "Today’s labor market failures have long-term consequences for unemployed youth. A growing academic literature on the 'scarring' effects of launching a career without a job suggests that young people who endure early spells of unemployment are likely to have lower wages and greater odds of future unemployment than those who don’t. Studies indicate a 10 to 15 percent wage 'scar' from early unemployment, and those earnings losses persist for at least 20 years. These findings hold for individuals with a college degree, and the prognosis for individuals without a college degree is grimmer still." It's hard to see the hope for the Eurozone here. The incredibly weak growth the bloc is seeing at the moment is just not enough to significantly reduce youth unemployment, and this is a comparatively good period for the area — better than the preceding years of crisis and recession, at least.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPIMCO offices in Newport Beach(Reuters) - Bill Gross's sudden departure from Pimco and the Total Return Fund he ran for 27 years was the last straw for Jim Phillips, president of Retirement Resources, a Peabody, Massachusetts-based firm that advises 401(k) plans with $50 million to $100 million in assets. He's advising clients to head for the exits. After 16 straight months of outflows and a 3.49 percent return over the past year, worse than 75 percent of its peers, the $222 billion Total Return Fund &lt;pmbix.o&gt; is failing Phillip's standards when it comes to meeting the retirement needs of his customers. "We do not have ongoing confidence in the way the fund is being managed," Phillips said. "We are recommending to clients that we replace this fund with another one." Philips said he joined a conference call Monday with Pimco chief executive Doug Hodge and some of the company's portfolio managers, but said the conversation "doesn't change any actions that we have planned." About 27,000 of the largest corporate 401(k) plans in the country had money in the Total Return Fund as of the end of 2012, according to the most recent data from BrightScope, which ranks retirement plans. The roster includes Wal-Mart's $18 billion plan, the largest in the country by assets, as well as Raytheon's and Verizon's. Total Return holds $88.3 billion of the $3 trillion in 401(k) assets listed in BrightScope's database of more than 50,000 of the largest plans, the biggest mutual fund in the database. Wal-Mart didn't return calls and Raytheon and Verizon declined to comment for this article. Phillips isn't alone in his dissatisfaction with the fund – investors have pulled $25 billion from Total Return Fund so far this year. But a bad year that began with a public falling out between Gross and top deputy Mohamed El-Erian in January and has now seen the Pimco co-founder quit is causing many 401(k) plan consultants and advisers to put the Total Return Fund on their watch lists, and in some cases start replacing it. Though companies usually make decisions about where to invest their retirement funds during investment committee meetings, which typically occur quarterly, Gross' exit could prompt companies to have meetings or calls sooner than scheduled, said Martin Schmidt of H2Solutions, a Wheaton, Illinois-based consultant for 401(k) plans with assets from $150 million to $4 billion. "I have sent out emails to clients telling them that we need to start looking at alternatives," Schmidt said. He said he hasn't heard from anyone at Pimco. Once an employer decides to switch a fund out of its plan, it can take three to five months to make the change and give employees the required 30-days' notice. JUMP SHIP Gross's new fund, the $13 million Unconstrained Bond Fund from Janus Capital, is unlikely to be the destination for any funds that decide to jump ship on Total Return, given that it's only been in operation since May and has produced a negative 0.95 percent return since inception, according to Morningstar. "We have to see at least a three-year track record and we actually prefer five," said Troy Hammond, president and chief executive officer of Pensionmark Retirement Group, a Santa Barbara, California-based adviser that serves over 2,000 small 401(k) plans across the country. There is also the question of whether Gross will have the same level of support and resources at Janus as he did at Pimco. "If Bill were leaving with the top 10 people from Pimco, like Jeffrey Gundlach did when he left TCW, that would be different," said Mendel Melzer, chief investment officer for The Newport Group, a Heathrow, Florida-based consultant to institutional investors, including 401(k) plans with assets between $20 million and $1.5 billion. "But this is just Bill Gross leaving on his own and it is hard to say that the track record he accumulated at Pimco should translate into the Janus fund." Melzer is advising clients to see how the new Pimco team does with the Total Return Fund, which has been on Newport's watch list since earlier this year. "We will keep it on a very short leash," Melzer said. "If it does not improve in the next two quarters we will look at alternatives." (Reporting by Jessica Toonkel; editing by Linda Stern and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
In its report released today the EC found that tax deals struck in 1990 and 2007 "confer an advantage on Apple" that are not be compatible with rules covering the treatment of companies within the European single market. Here is the key parts of the decision (emphasis added): In the light of the foregoing considerations, the Commission’s preliminary view is that the tax ruling of 1990 (effectively agreed in 1991) and of 2007 in favour of the Apple  group constitute State aid according to Article 107(1) TFEU. The Commission has  doubts about the compatibility of such State aid with the internal market. ... The Commission wishes to remind Ireland that Article 108(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has suspensory effect, and would draw your attention to Article 14 of Council Regulation (EC) No 659/199935, which provides that all unlawful aid may be recovered from the recipient. Ireland corporate tax rate is already low by international standards, at 12.5%. However, according to a report from the US Senate last year on Apple's tax practices the deals with Ireland "facilitated the shift of $74 billion in worldwide sales income away from the United States to Ireland where Apple has negotiated a tax rate of less than 2%". Although the commission can fine companies up to 10% of revenues, which could leave the company facing a bill of some $17 billion, the terms of the legislation suggest that it would seek the "recovery of the aid" rather than a punitive figure. REUTERS/Francois LenoirEuropean Union Competition Commissioner Joaquin AlmuniaHere's some back-of-the-envelope math: Assuming a 2% corporate income tax (on the $74 billion identified by the Senate), Apple will have paid somewhere in the region of $1.48 billion in Ireland. This compares to $9.375 billion that they would have handed over had the company had been on the 12.5% tax rate, suggesting the subsidy could have been in the region of $8 billion ($9.375 billion - $1.48 billion = roughly $8 billion). The Commission also has the also has the power to fine Ireland up to €1 billion ($1.26 billion). Small wonder then that the Irish Department of Finance strongly deny any wrongdoing. It issued a statement on Monday: Ireland is confident that there is no breach of state aid rules in this case and has already issued a formal response to the Commission earlier this month, addressing in detail the concerns and some misunderstandings contained in the opening decision. The EC's move can be seen as part of a broader push to tackle aggressive tax practices. Earlier this month the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) unveiled a historic plan to crack down on corporate tax avoidance. Even though Apple denied to Business Insider that its tax arrangements in Ireland were illegal it did concede that "corporate tax reform is badly needed." FREE AppDownload
Run Monte Carlo simulations in Excel with this simple workaround. Produced by Sara Silverstein Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Beijing has been keen to keep news of the big Hong Kong protests outside of the public eye. Instagram (one of the remaining big social networks that wasn't blocked) has now been blocked to keep images of the protests out of the country. There are reports Tuesday that the South China Morning Post — Hong Kong's big newspaper — has now been blocked in China as well. And in a way that's almost comical, CNBC reporter Eunice Yoon just tweeted: "I guess @SquawkCNBC is still talking about #HK protests because this is what I am seeing in #China after my report." The tweet was accompanied by this photo, indicating that Chinese censors straight up block the feed during Hong Kong segments. Eunice Yoon FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chip EastLaurence Fink, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BlackRock, speaks during the Wall Street Journal Deals and Dealmakers conference, in New York, June 11, 2008. NEW YORK/BOSTON - Vanguard Group and BlackRock Inc could be prime destinations for hundreds of billions of dollars in assets that may flee Pimco in the wake of the sudden exit of Bill Gross, the celebrated "Bond King" of U.S. mutual funds. His new company, Janus Capital Group Inc, may see Gross's cachet attract tens of billions of dollars, investors and analysts said. During the year ended Aug. 31, investors made $64.7 billion in net withdrawals from Pimco funds, according to research firm Morningstar Inc. Those outflows will likely accelerate with Gross's departure. "Lots of Pimco AUM (assets under management) will be up for grabs," analysts at Wells Fargo Securities said, noting that they reckoned the total sum Gross managed at Pimco ranged from $500 billion to $700 billion. If half of that amount turns over - typical when a high profile manager leaves a fund - Gross' departure could translate into a $300 billion market opportunity for rivals, Wells Fargo analyst Christopher Harris said Monday in a research note. BlackRock, the world's largest money manager, and Vanguard, the No. 1 U.S. mutual fund company, provide the performance and the size to attract cash flows from investors unnerved by the infighting at Pimco during the past several months and amid a probe by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Smaller fund companies may also benefit from the fallout. Retail investors tend to shift money quicker than big pensions and other investment institutions, which deliberate more slowly about what to do. Janus, the Denver asset manager with a volatile history, could be in for a surprise if it is expecting Pimco money to flow automatically after the star fund manager. "Gross is a very capable investment manager. He's not God," said Carl Nelson, executive secretary and chief investment officer of the $1.1 billion San Luis Obispo County Pension Trust. Instead, institutional investors such as Nelson, who can take months to make decisions, will want to see how Gross settles into his new role managing the Janus Global Unconstrained Bond Fund, which has about $13 million under management. To be sure, more than a dozen fund representative and consultants told Reuters that they have hesitations about leaving Pimco, which Gross co-founded more than 40 years ago. "We hired Pimco as an organization, we didn't hire Bill Gross as an individual to manage our money," said Stephen Rauh, the chairman of the $4 billion Vermont Pension Investment Committee, which has Pimco on its "watch list." Pimco's Total Return Fund, which Gross ran personally for 27 years and has about $222 billion in assets, appears most vulnerable to poaching, said analysts at Susquehanna Financial Group. "BLK (BlackRock) is likely the biggest beneficiary," analyst Doug Sipkin said. REUTERS/Jim YoungBill GrossMeanwhile, few fund firms have had a harder time than Janus over the past decade as its stock funds fell out of favor. Janus has struggled for years to recapture the status it lost during the dot-com crash. Its assets peaked at more than $300 billion in 2000 and stood at $178 billion at the end of June. Janus CEO Dick Weil hopes Gross will attract money to a stable of bond funds that have just $31.4 billion in assets under management as of June 30. That's up from $9.2 billion four years ago. Janus now could double or triple those bond assets again as money follows Gross, said Dan Sondhelm, partner at SunStar Strategic, a financial services consulting company in Alexandria, Virginia. "No salesman could do that," Sondhelm said. Investor cash flows could start to gather steam by the first quarter of next year, he said. For Gross, the shift to Janus means giving up one of the industry's biggest paychecks, a reported $200 million a year, if for no other reason than the fund he will manage is a fraction of Total Return Fund's size. Gross has a net worth of $2.3 billion, according to Forbes. "He didn't come for big money upfront, he came to build a fund" and other products, said a person familiar with the matter, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the situation. Janus likely has put together a pay plan that would reward Gross for drawing assets into products he oversees, a key measure of success in the fund industry, said Todd Sirras, managing director at pay consulting firm SemlerBrossy, which has worked with Janus in the past. Gross, 70, wasn't available to comment. A Janus spokesman said executives including Weil wouldn't comment. "Janus's move to hire Mr. Gross strikes us as precipitous, coming two days after last week's multiple news reports about the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission investigation of alleged improper valuation and performance reporting in Pimco's $3.6 billion Total Return exchange-traded fund," Moody's said. "If the SEC determines that these allegations are true, it would not be clear what liabilities – both legal and reputational – might attach to Mr. Gross." (Reporting by Ross Kerber and Luciana Lopez; editing by Tim McLaughlin, Linda Stern and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLufthansa aircrafts stand on the tarmac during a strike at Frankfurt airportLufthansa pilots threatened further strike action on Tuesday as they began a 15 hour walkout at Frankfurt airport in a row with management over retirement benefits that stretches back two years. Lufthansa is not the only flag-carrying airline in Europe struggling with labor relations. Air France pilots called an end to a two-week strike over the weekend in a row over low-cost expansion. Unlike Air France's latest work stoppage which led to the cancellation of half of the French airline's flights, the Lufthansa strike will only affect strategic airports and at specific times. It is truly a mark of German efficiency. The pilots, represented by union Vereinigung Cockpit (VC), are walking off the job from 0600 to 1700 ET on long-haul routes from Frankfurt, Europe's third-largest airport and Lufthansa's main hub. The strike, affecting around 9,000 travelers, is the longest since a three-day nationwide walkout in April, and the union threatened more. Three strikes since the end of August have targeted specific operations such as those at Munich or Frankfurt and budget unit Germanwings and have lasted around six to eight hours. "We're not on the same level for talks," VC board member Markus Wahl told Reuters on Tuesday. "If Lufthansa doesn't make a move, then further strikes will happen." REUTERS/Ralph OrlowskiCheck-in counters remain closed during a strike at Frankfurt airportThe pilots are trying to increase pressure on management to maintain a retirement scheme that gives pilots the option to retire from the age of 55 and still receive up to 60 percent of their pay until regular retirement. Lufthansa, in the midst of a cost-cutting plan and trying to set up new low-cost units to battle tough competition, wishes to alter the scheme for new pilots, so that the average age at which its pilots retire rises to around 60. Lufthansa, Europe's largest airline by revenue, has canceled 25 of 57 long-haul flights planned for Tuesday as a result of the strike. In total, around 50 flights have been canceled from Monday to Wednesday in order to ensure crews and planes are not stranded. As in previous strikes, the airline is using managers with pilots' licences to keep planes flying. "We've managed to keep one in every two flights in the air," a spokeswoman said. (Reporting by Peter Maushagen; Writing by Victoria Bryan; Editing by Elaine Hardcastle) FREE AppDownload
Leave Your Daily Hell Of all the eurozone cases, the most miserable might be that of Italy. Sure, Greece had the biggest economic collapse and came the closest to going bust. But there's something about Italy's never-ending downward lurch that's just remarkable. Two stats really stand out Tuesday. One is Italy's youth unemployment, which is SIGNIFICANTLY higher than it was a year ago. Here's the table that shows that. Eurostat Meanwhile, Italy continues to be in outright deflation, as this chart from Edward Hugh shows. Edward Hugh So terrible employment prospects and grinding deflation. A massive mess. And remember, Italy has technically gone into a triple dip, which is something you basically never hear about.    FREE AppDownload
APDrug money: now officially part of Britain's economy. British statisticians have estimated sales of illegal drugs and sexual services before, but this is the first time it has been officially added to figures on Britain's economic spending.  Household spending, or what the ONS calls total household final consumption expenditure (HHFCE) was £12.33 billion ($20 billion) higher in 2012 because of “illegal activities,” primarily “narcotic drugs and prostitution,” the new report found.  The UK is not the only country adding illegal spending to its estimates. Italy's national accounts will also be changed to reflect drugs and prostitution expenditure. But they will have to spend big to beat the UK: between 1997 and 2013, illegal activities have been added about 1.4% to overall British household spending. In the second quarter, spending on drugs added £1.67bn, according to the ONS. That’s slightly more than the UK spent on wine and cider, which came in at £1.54bn for the same three-month period. Prostitution was smaller in the same quarter, with spending at about £1.42 billion. That’s closing in on hairdressing, salons, and personal grooming establishments: ONS, Business Insider The US does not add spending on illegal activities to their economic figures, but it is not off the cards, according to the New York Times. The Bureau of Economic Analysis says that it needs to "look at the issue more closely."    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidLONDON/HONG KONG (Reuters) - Global equity capital markets returned with a vengeance in 2014 as bankers, investors and companies led a charge that culminated spectacularly in Alibaba, the biggest share listing ever. Worldwide equity capital market (ECM) deals, from flotations to rights issues, totalled $678.1 billion in the first nine months of 2014, a quarter more than the same period of 2013 and the highest since 2007, according to Thomson Reuters data. Companies around the world cashed in on strong investor demand and European deals jumped by more than half, hitting the highest level since records began in 1980. Initial public offerings (IPOs) in particular stole the limelight, almost doubling from the same period in 2013 to hit $176.1 billion worldwide. The long-awaited Alibaba flotation finally landed in September, whipping up a frenzy as everyone from founder Jack Ma to kung fu star Jet Li descended on the New York Stock Exchange to watch the e-commerce giant's stock rise 38 percent on its first day of trading. The listing raised $25 billion after underwriters sold extra shares, and helped stock market listings across the Asia Pacific region more than triple to $69.5 billion so far this year. Equity market deals were also buoyed by the resumption of listings in China after a hiatus of nearly a year and half, plus a surge in issuance in Hong Kong and Australia. The ECM rebound has proved lucrative, with bankers netting a juicy $300 million in fees for Alibaba alone. Goldman Sachs topped the global ECM issuance league table by volume, with 300 deals totalling $61.2 billion, followed by rival investment banks JP Morgan and Morgan Stanley. "It's been a fantastic year for some of the banks, but revenue is skewed towards the tech sector and one jumbo transaction," said Mervyn Chow, head of the global markets solutions group in Asia Pacific at Credit Suisse, one of five bookrunners for Alibaba's record sale. "This is a landmark deal in every aspect globally and provides very positive momentum and a textbook roadmap for other Chinese entrepreneurs looking to float," he said. "It will allow other up-and-coming Internet companies to follow." Issuance in the region is expected to continue rising, with large offerings in Hong Kong, Thailand and Australia likely before the end of the year. Key deals include an offer worth up to $6 billion from China's Wanda Commercial Properties, while Australian insurer Medibank Private's flotation could fetch four billion Australian dollars ($3.5 billion).   ROCKET FUEL Share offers from technology, media and telecommunications firms may ease, but deals from others sectors, including healthcare, are expected from a wide range of issuers, Credit Suisse's Chow and his European counterpart Nick Williams said. "We would expect sponsors to account for a significant part of the pipeline, but we're also expecting corporate spin-offs, spin-outs, and a wave of privatizations," said Williams, head of European ECM at Credit Suisse. European deals in 2014 have so far accounted for almost a third of global ECM issuance, rising 54 percent from 2013 to hit $220.3 billion, the highest level for the first nine months of any year since records began in 1980. Following a glut of private equity-backed flotations, major corporate deals are emerging. German drugmaker Bayer announced this month plans to list its plastics division, worth up to 10 billion euros. After a quiet first half, Frankfurt is listing multi-billion dollar Internet firms Rocket Internet and Zalando this quarter. Rocket even brought its offer forward a week citing "exceptional investor demand". In the United States, it was the best first nine months in a year since 2000 and activity does not look to be slowing anytime soon, with Alibaba whetting investor appetite for more deals. "We were all expecting that Alibaba would fuel the market," said Jackie Kelly, Americas IPO leader at Ernst &amp; Young [ERNY.UL]. "In a large transaction investors don't get to buy as much stock as they want. IPOs generally outperform the general market indices, which is what makes them so attractive. Investors are rushing for returns."   (Editing by David Clarke) FREE AppDownload
Europe just keeps getting worse. The latest Tuesday morning is eurozone inflation continuing to slip, with prices rising 0.3% year-over-year, down from the 0.4% gains in previous months. That Europe could slip into outright deflation is a huge worry for the ECB (and everyone else). The more inflation continues to fall, the more pressure there will be on the ECB to do even more, which is causing the euro to collapse. Here's an intraday look at the euro. It's not hard to spot the moment the inflation numbers came out. FinViz And here's a longer look at the euro, so you can see how much of a trainwreck it is. We're starting to get fairly close to the worst levels of the eurozone crisis. FinViz FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesOh, come on!(Reuters) - Morningstar downgraded its analyst rating on the Pimco Total Return Fund to "bronze" from "gold", citing uncertainty about outflows and the reshuffling of management responsibilities after the exit of co-founder Bill Gross. Gross, the bond market's most renowned investor, quit Pimco for distant rival Janus Capital Group Inc &lt;jns.n&gt; on Friday, a day before he was expected to be fired from the huge investment firm he helped found more than 40 years ago. Dan Ivascyn, one of Pimco's deputy chief investment officers, was named Group Chief Investment Officer to replace Gross. With Bill Gross' abrupt departure, Pimco's $222 billion flagship Total Return Fund has been taken over by Scott Mather, Mark Kiesel and Mihir Worah. "The fund's Bronze Morningstar Analyst Rating reflects Morningstar's high level of confidence in PIMCO's resources and overall abilities but also the uncertainty as to exactly how all of these parts will mesh in the wake of Gross' departure," Mornigstar analyst Eric Jacobson wrote in a report on Monday. Since the start of the year, investors have pulled $25 billion from the Pimco Total Return Fund, the world's largest bond fund, according to Morningstar data as of the end of August. This latest downgrade could set off another chain reaction of negative cash outflow momentum for the Pimco Total Return Fund. The Financial Times reported on Tuesday that officials at the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Reserve and the US Treasury, have been talking to investors and warning them of the consequences of pulling their money from Pimco. (http://on.ft.com/1xw1Yui) Pimco CEO Doug Hodge said on Monday that the investment group is bracing for investors to pull out money following Gross's departure but expects the vast majority of clients to stick with the firm and is confident it can handle any outflows. "Mark, Mihir and I intend to harness our individual and collective skills to continue to deliver the same excellence to investors they have come to expect from PIMCO's Total Return Fund," Scott Mather, CIO Core Strategies said in response to Morningstar downgrade. Morningstar evaluates mutual funds based on five key pillars, which it believes leads to funds that are more likely to outperform over the long term on a risk-adjusted basis. A "gold rating" is assigned to a Best-of-breed fund that has garnered the analysts' highest level of conviction. "It will take some time to see how Ivascyn and the new managers will coalesce as a team in their new roles, but there are a number of reasons to believe they will be successful after the dust settles," Mornigstar said.   (eporting by Supriya Kurane in Bangalore and Jennifer Ablan in New York; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
Ulrich Baumgarten/Getty ImagesECB President Mario Draghi.BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Euro zone inflation slowed further as expected in September because of falling prices of unprocessed food and energy, a first estimate by the European Union's statistics office showed on Tuesday. Eurostat said consumer prices in the 18 countries sharing the euro rose 0.3 percent year-on-year, slowing from 0.4 percent year-on-year increases in August and July. The September was in line with market expectations, according to polling data. Unprocessed food prices fell 0.9 percent year-on-year in September and energy was 2.4 percent cheaper. What the European Central Bank calls core inflation - a measure stripping out these two volatile components - was 0.7 percent year-on-year, slowing down from 0.9 percent in August. The ECB wants to keep headline inflation below, but close to, 2 percent over the medium term and the persistently low price growth underscores the bank's difficulties in keeping inflation on target in a stagnating euro zone economy. To accelerate price growth, the ECB cut the cost of borrowing to almost zero and pledged further cheap loans to banks and to buy repackaged debt. ECB President Mario Draghi has emphasized that it could do even more. But going for full-blown quantitative easing, by adding government bonds to the ECB's shopping list, would be politically difficult because of stiff opposition inGermany. Draghi is expected to give further details of ECB plans to buy reparcelled debt, known as asset-backed securities, when the bank’s governing council meets in Naples on Thursday. Draghi has, in the meantime, sought to put the ball back in the court of governments, saying that the central bank alone cannot single-handedly turn around the bloc’s economy and that countries need to make economic reforms. The ECB's job may be made easier by a weakening euro which has broken below its 2013 lows and is down almost nine percent from the peak it hit against the dollar in May. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersECB headquarters are pictured prior to the bank's monthly news conference in FrankfurtBy Francesco Canepa LONDON (Reuters) - Investors hopeful but not entirely confident that next month's European bank check will yield positive results are stacking up derivatives positions to balance optimism about the industry against worry over its performance in a faltering economy. The European Central Bank is expected to publish the outcome of its bank asset quality review on Oct. 26 in a bid to convince investors - after three previous "stress tests" failed to spot subsequent problems - that Europe's lenders have sifted out their risky holdings and now have enough capital to withstand any more financial crisis-style shocks. However recent nasty surprises are still vivid. The euro zone banking index fell nearly 17 percent between April and August as poor economic data from Italy, France and even Germany threw into doubt a euro zone recovery while top banks like BNP , Lloyds  and Royal Bank of Scotland  were hit with hefty fines for misconduct ranging from sanctions violations to manipulation of key interest rates. Portugal's announcement of a 4.9 billion-euro ($6.22 billion) bailout for Banco Espirito Santo  caused more pain. With all that in mind, investors are hedging their bets. As a way of taking a punt without putting much capital at risk, many are turning to call options - which offer the right but no obligation to buy shares at a certain price and time. Derivatives strategists at JPMorgan, Societe Generale and BNP Paribas have all been advising their clients to bet on a modest rally after the results' publication. "Investors ... cannot afford to miss a potential strong rally that could be triggered by this event, but do not always have sufficient conviction to just buy cash equities," said Davide Silvestrini, head of European equity derivatives strategy at JP Morgan. Since the summer, interest in banking sector call options has surged: There are currently more open bets on a 9 percent rise on the Euro STOXX banking index  by December than there are on a roughly equivalent fall, Thomson Reuters data showed. This is an unusual occurrence because investors tend to hedge against a fall rather than a rise in shares. That reluctance to commit money to bank shares is reflected in the current performance of the Euro STOXX banking equity index - currently 10 percent off its March peak. But, say some investors, that dip also means the potential for fresh gains if the ECB publishes a positive report.  STAMP OF APPROVAL? Those expecting a surge in banking stocks are basing their position on the fact that the ECB's asset quality review (AQR) is likely to confirm that banks have got themselves into shape. Sources familiar with ECB thinking told Reuters recently that the central bank is likely to say most banks have improved since the crisis abated last year. [ID:nL6N0RP2QK] That would remove a threat currently hanging over the banks - that of more capital increases, which dilute equity and send shareholders running, pummeling share prices - and instead allow banks to focus again on lending, helping to improve the economy and their own profits. "Post-AQR you'll have a sort of stamp of approval coming from the ECB on the banks' capital levels," said Gerry Fowler, global head of equity and derivatives strategy at BNP Paribas. "Even with the fairly consensus view that the stress tests won’t be bad, you could still see the Euro STOXX banking index up 5 percent just because the deluge of data increases transparency." Derivatives strategists have been advising clients to take out 'call spreads' which typically involve buying a call to be exercised at a price equal to or slightly above current levels, while also selling another call with a higher price, both to cut the cost of the trade and limit potential losses if shares fall. BNP Paribas recommended buying one December call with strike prices of 155 or 160 points, effectively betting on a rally of at least 6-9 percent, and selling two calls with strikes at 165 or 175 points, or 12 to 19 percent above current levels. Some warier investors were looking at longer-dated options. Vincent Cassot, head of equity derivatives strategy at Societe Generale, tipped buying a call with a 150 points strike price, 2 percent above the current level, due to expire in March 2015, financed by selling a call with a 170 points strike. "If you have the sector going up quickly, then you’re going to still do well, if not, you’re going to have more time with the March 15 expiry,” Cassot said.   (Editing by Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload
Peter J Baer / Flickr, CCPayPal founder, hedge fund manager and venture capitalist Peter Thiel isn't much of a fan of Europe, according to a video interview with the Financial Times.  "I think people in Europe are generally pessimistic about the future. They have low expectations, they're not working hard to change things. When you're a slacker with a pessimistic view of the future, you're likely to meet those expectations." Ouch. Thiel did have some recommendations for the continent, at least:  "You don't want to be a pale imitation of Silicon Valley," he added, suggesting that London was more likely to have a competitive edge in financial innovation, rather than tech.  He went on to accuse Brussels of having a "technological angst" over companies like Google, suggesting the firm was too heavily regulated. Thiel is the president of hedge fund Clarium Capital, and is promoting his new book, Zero To One. The subject is innovation and starting up businesses, something Thiel can claim to know something about as the founder of payments firm PayPal. He's known for quirky opinions, and is a major donor to libertarian political movements.  Thiel also told the FT about his his contrarian view on monopolies, using Apple's initial development of smartphones as an example: "Monopolies are bad and deserve their reputation when things are static and the monopolies function as toll collectors... But I think they're quite positive when they're dynamic and do something new"  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaA protester sits next to a defaced cut-out of Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying while blocking a street outside the government headquarters in Hong Kong September 30, 2014. HONG KONG (AP) — Hong Kong's leader said China won't back down from its decision to limit voting reforms in the Asian financial hub as pro-democracy protesters set a Wednesday deadline for a response from the government to meet their demands. The unequivocal statement from Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying on Tuesday dashed hopes that the standoff between demonstrators and authorities could be resolved quickly through negotiations. It does not come as a surprise given that showing a willingness to talk would have made the Chinese leadership appear weak, which could embolden dissidents, critics and separatists on the mainland. As the student-led protests that have snarled traffic and disrupted public transport entered a fifth day, Leung urged demonstrators to show consideration toward other residents and stop the unprecedented show of civil disobedience. Leung, a Beijing appointee who is deeply mistrusted by Hong Kongers, also said that mainland communist leaders would not reverse their stance requiring a pro-Beijing panel screen candidates in the territory's first direct elections, scheduled for 2017, adding he wouldn't resign before then. "The central government will not rescind its decision," Leung said. The protesters don't want nominees to be screened, and see the central government reneging on a promise that the chief executive would eventually be chosen through "universal suffrage." REUTERS/Tyrone SiuPeople sit under umbrellas as they attend a rally along a main street at Mongkok shopping district in Hong Kong September 30,2014.Tens of thousands of pro-democracy protesters extended a blockade of Hong Kong streets on Tuesday, stockpiling supplies and erecting makeshift barricades ahead of what some fear may be a push by police to clear the roads before Chinese National Day.A brief statement from the Occupy Central civil disobedience movement said it had set an Oct. 1 deadline for Leung to meet their demands and step down. The group said on Twitter it would "announce new civil disobedience plans same day," without elaborating. Student leaders, who have played a big role in rallying the young people who've made up the majority of the protesters, planned to make their own announcement Tuesday about further plans and demands. Even larger crowds are expected to flood the streets Wednesday, China's National Day holiday. The government said it was canceling a fireworks display to mark the day. One day after police shocked the city by firing tear gas at the crowds, the protesters passed a peaceful night Monday singing as they blocked streets in several parts of Hong Kong. They also staged a brief "mobile light" vigil, waving their glowing cell phones as the protests stretched into their fourth day. Crowds chanted calls for Leung to resign, and sang anthems calling for freedom. Police arrested a man who drove his Mercedes-Benz through a crowd of protesters occupying a street in the densely populated Kowloon neighborhood of Mong Kok. Local television footage showed people scrambling as the car sped through the crowd while honking just before 2 a.m. Tuesday. No one was injured. Thousands of people, many of them high school or college students doing their homework, gathered on a six-lane highway next to the local government headquarters ahead of the student leaders' announcement. Still, the movement seemed to be taking on a life of its own. Tyrone Siu/ReutersA secondary school student holds up a hand with a yellow ribbon tied around her wrist during a rally against Beijing's election framework for Hong Kong, outside government headquarters in Hong Kong September 26, 2014.  "We aren't going to do whatever student leaders or others tell us to do," said Chloe Cheung, a 20-year-old student at the Hong Kong Institute of Education. "The people on the streets are here because we've made the decision ourselves and we will only leave when we have achieved something. We are waiting for the government to respond to our demands for democracy and a say in what the elections will be like." Police said they used 87 rounds of tear gas Sunday in what they called a necessary but restrained response to protesters pushing through cordons and barricades. They said 41 people were injured, including 12 police officers. "Police cordon lines were heavily charged by some violent protesters. So police had to use the minimum force in order to separate the distance at that moment between the protesters and also the police," said Cheung Tak-keung, the assistant police commissioner for operations. Officials announced that schools in some districts of Hong Kong would remain closed Tuesday because of safety concerns, while dozens of bus routes were canceled and some subway stops near protest areas were closed. REUTERS/Carlos BarriaA man walks along an empty street near the central financial district in Hong Kong September 30, 2014. Tens of thousands of pro-democracy protesters extended a blockade of Hong Kong streets on Tuesday, stockpiling supplies and erecting makeshift barricades ahead of what some fear may be a push by police to clear the roads before Chinese National Day.  The protests have been dubbed the "Umbrella Revolution" by some, because the crowds have used umbrellas to not only block the sun, but also to stop the police from hitting them with pepper spray. Political slogans calling for freedom have also been written on the umbrellas. Many younger Hong Kong residents raised in an era of plenty and with no experience of past political turmoil in mainland China have higher expectations. Under an agreement set in 1984, before most of them were born, Beijing promised to allow Hong Kong residents civil liberties — unseen in the rest of China — after it took control of the city in 1997. China's communist leaders take a hard line against any threat to their monopoly on power, including clamping down on dissidents and Muslim Uighur separatists in the country's far west, but it cannot crack down too harshly on the semi-autonomous territory where a freewheeling media ensures global visibility. Across the border, Chinese state media have provided scant coverage of the protests beyond noting that an illegal gathering spun out of control and was being curtailed by police. ___ Associated Press writers Kelvin Chan, Louise Watt and Joanna Chiu contributed to this report. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerEuropean markets are nudging higher early Tuesday, after a grim performance overnight for Asian stock indexes.  Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40 is up 0.48%. Germany's DAX is up 0.04% Spain's IBEX is up 0.46%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.42% Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.11%  Asian markets took a hit overnight. Nikkei's 225 closed down 0.84% after some dreary economic data, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng Index closed down 0.94%, following the massive protests there. U.S. futures are nudging up a little, with Dow futures up 0.15% and S&amp;P futures up 0.18%. Here's what data is coming out of Europe on Tuesday: At 4.30 a.m. ET there's the second estimate for the UK's Q2 GDP growth, which should come it an around 0.8%. At 5 a.m. ET we have Eurozone CPI for September, with expectations of just a 0.3% increase from last year. And in US data later on: The S&amp;P Case-Shiller Home Price Index is expected to show that home prices fell by 0.1% month-over-month in July or 7.35% year-over-year. The Chicago Purchasing Manager Index, which provides a regional view of business activity, will be released at 9:45 a.m. ET. Economists estimate this regional activity index slipped to 62.0 in September from 64.3 in August. The Conference Board's Consumer Confidence Index is expected to climb to 92.5 in September from 92.4 in August. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chip EastLaurence Fink, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BlackRock. NEW YORK/BOSTON - Vanguard Group and BlackRock Inc &lt;blk.n&gt; could be prime destinations for hundreds of billions of dollars in assets that may flee Pimco in the wake of the sudden exit of Bill Gross, the celebrated "Bond King" of U.S. mutual funds. His new company, Janus Capital Group Inc &lt;jns.n&gt;, may see Gross's cachet attract tens of billions of dollars, investors and analysts said. During the year ended Aug. 31, investors made $64.7 billion in net withdrawals from Pimco funds, according to research firm Morningstar Inc. Those outflows will likely accelerate with Gross's departure. "Lots of Pimco AUM (assets under management) will be up for grabs," analysts at Wells Fargo Securities said, noting that they reckoned the total sum Gross managed at Pimco ranged from $500 billion to $700 billion. If half of that amount turns over - typical when a high profile manager leaves a fund - Gross' departure could translate into a $300 billion market opportunity for rivals, Wells Fargo analyst Christopher Harris said Monday in a research note. BlackRock, the world's largest money manager, and Vanguard, the No. 1 U.S. mutual fund company, provide the performance and the size to attract cash flows from investors unnerved by the infighting at Pimco during the past several months and amid a probe by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Smaller fund companies may also benefit from the fallout. Retail investors tend to shift money quicker than big pensions and other investment institutions, which deliberate more slowly about what to do. Janus, the Denver asset manager with a volatile history, could be in for a surprise if it is expecting Pimco money to flow automatically after the star fund manager.     "Gross is a very capable investment manager. He's not God," said Carl Nelson, executive secretary and chief investment officer of the $1.1 billion San Luis Obispo County Pension Trust.     Instead, institutional investors such as Nelson, who can take months to make decisions, will want to see how Gross settles into his new role managing the Janus Global Unconstrained Bond Fund &lt;juctx.o&gt;, which has about $13 million under management. To be sure, more than a dozen fund representative and consultants told Reuters that they have hesitations about leaving Pimco, which Gross co-founded more than 40 years ago. "We hired Pimco as an organization, we didn't hire Bill Gross as an individual to manage our money," said Stephen Rauh, the chairman of the $4 billion Vermont Pension Investment Committee, which has Pimco on its "watch list." Pimco's Total Return Fund &lt;pmbix.o&gt;, which Gross ran personally for 27 years and has about $222 billion in assets, appears most vulnerable to poaching, said analysts at Susquehanna Financial Group. "BLK (BlackRock) is likely the biggest beneficiary," analyst Doug Sipkin said.   BRINGING IN A STAR Meanwhile, few fund firms have had a harder time than Janus over the past decade as its stock funds fell out of favor. Janus has struggled for years to recapture the status it lost during the dot-com crash. Its assets peaked at more than $300 billion in 2000 and stood at $178 billion at the end of June. Janus CEO Dick Weil hopes Gross will attract money to a stable of bond funds that have just $31.4 billion in assets under management as of June 30. That's up from $9.2 billion four years ago. Janus now could double or triple those bond assets again as money follows Gross, said Dan Sondhelm, partner at SunStar Strategic, a financial services consulting company in Alexandria, Virginia. "No salesman could do that," Sondhelm said. Investor cash flows could start to gather steam by the first quarter of next year, he said. For Gross, the shift to Janus means giving up one of the industry's biggest paychecks, a reported $200 million a year, if for no other reason than the fund he will manage is a fraction of Total Return Fund's size. Gross has a net worth of $2.3 billion, according to Forbes. "He didn't come for big money upfront, he came to build a fund" and other products, said a person familiar with the matter, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the situation. Janus likely has put together a pay plan that would reward Gross for drawing assets into products he oversees, a key measure of success in the fund industry, said Todd Sirras, managing director at pay consulting firm Semler Brossy, which has worked with Janus in the past. Gross, 70, wasn't available to comment. A Janus spokesman said executives including Weil wouldn't comment. "Janus's move to hire Mr. Gross strikes us as precipitous, coming two days after last week's multiple news reports about the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission investigation of alleged improper valuation and performance reporting in Pimco's $3.6 billion Total Return exchange-traded fund," Moody's said. "If the SEC determines that these allegations are true, it would not be clear what liabilities – both legal and reputational – might attach to Mr. Gross."       (Reporting by Ross Kerber and Luciana Lopez; editing by Tim McLaughlin, Linda Stern and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
Pool/Getty Images Hello! Here's what you need to know for Tuesday. 1.  As pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong enter their fourth day, Hong Kong's chief executive Leung Chun-ying has demanded that the Occupy Central founders "stop this campaign immediately." Meanwhile, the Occupy Central movement issued an ultimatum to Chun-ying: Meet their Oct. 1 deadline for greater democracy or step down.  2. Omar Gonzalez, the man who was arrested for breaking into the White House, reportedly made it as far as the East Room, much deeper into the building than the Secret Service originally said.  3. The US is set to become the world's largest producer of petroleum, overtaking Saudi Arabia for the first time in over two decades, the Financial Times reports.  4. Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu compared ISIS to Hamas in a speech to the UN General Assembly on Monday. "When it comes to their ultimate goals, ISIS is Hamas, and Hamas is ISIS," he said.  5. Apple has received the go-ahead to start selling iPhone 6 in China, although it's not clear when the devices will be available for purchase.  6. Islamic State militants have released a third propaganda video featuring captured British journalist John Cantlie.  7. Spain's central government has suspended Catalonia's vote for independence scheduled for Nov. 9.  8. New Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi will continue talks with US President Barack Obama at the White House on Tuesday.  9. A new report by the World Wildlife Fund finds that Earth has lost 50% of the animal population in the past 40 years.  10. Scientists have made a direct link between last year's oppressive heat waves in Australia and climate change.  And finally ... Netflix will release the sequel to Ang Lee's "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" at the same time that the film hits theaters.  FREE AppDownload
