Realizing your passport has expired days or even hours before a flight can be costly, and it can potentially ruin your travel plans.  Most people make the mistake of paying expeditors who charge up to $500.  The New York Passport Agency, with an average 4.5 star rating on Yelp, can turn your paperwork around the same day for just $170. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Warren Buffett, chairman of conglomerate Berkshire Hathaway &lt;BRKa.N&gt;, said on Wednesday that safety is a major priority for the rail industry, after a recent spate of accidents raised concerns about how to transport oil safely. "I can tell you that's all they're thinking about," the investor said in an interview with Reuters. "We're going to move a lot of crude in this country, and we have to learn how to do it very safely," he added. He added that the delay in the construction of the Keystone pipeline was unlikely to prompt additional purchases of tank cars at Berkshire railroad unit BNSF. Earlier this year the railroad said it plans to buy its own fleet of up to 5,000 new crude oil tank cars with safety features that exceed the latest industry standards. Oil by rail has surged in recent years, helped by a boom in North Dakota. Traffic is now running 10 percent ahead of last year at this time, with BNSF accounting for roughly a third of U.S. oil-by-rail traffic. But recent accidents have underscored the dangers of transporting the volatile fuel by train, with Canada now planning to phase out older tank cars to improve safety. COCA-COLA COMPENSATION PLAN Buffett also said, in an interview with CNBC the same day, that he thinks Coca-Cola's &lt;KO.N&gt; equity compensation plan was excessive, but that Berkshire Hathaway abstained in a shareholders vote. Earlier on Wednesday, Coca-Cola said 83 percent of shareholders approved the plan. Critics, most notably activist investor David Winters, said the plan would dilute the holdings of current shareholders too much. As of December 31, Berkshire owned 400 million shares of the company, just over 9 percent of the shares outstanding. Buffett said he and partner Charlie Munger did not want to vote against the plan because he did not want to show disapproval of management, adding that he has enormous respect for Coca-Cola's chief executive, Muhtar Kent. "I love Coke, I love the management, I love the directors, so I didn't want to vote 'No,'" Buffett said. "It's kind of un-American to vote 'No' at a Coke meeting. I didn't want to express any disapproval of management but we did disapprove of the plan. The plan compared to past plans was a significant change." Buffett said he has no intention of selling any Coca-Cola shares. The Coca-Cola board of directors "respects Mr. Buffett's philosophical stance on equity-based compensation," the board said in a statement. "We greatly respect his views and look forward to continuing our productive relationship with him for many years to come," the statement added. Nonetheless, Buffett said that investor activism is getting stronger. "The CEOs are terrified of activists. I can tell you that," Buffett said. "They are all talking to investment bankers and lawyers and saying, 'What do we do about this?'" He denied he had soured on his enormous investment in IBM &lt;IBM.N&gt;, and said Berkshire bought some more shares this year, although the purchases did not come after IBM's most recent earnings report. He said he would not rule out future IBM stock buys. Buffett was in New York for lunch with an anonymous bidder who paid $1,000,100 to win last year's "Power Lunch with Warren Buffett" auction benefiting San Francisco's Glide Foundation. His New York visit comes ahead of the company's annual meeting in Omaha, Nebraska, on May 3. Tens of thousands of people flock to the gathering every year to hear Buffett and Munger answer hours of questions about the company's future. (Reporting by Luciana Lopez and Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Steve Orlofsky and Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
The "Pepsi Challenge" was a legendary marketing promotion in which regular people blind taste test one cup filled with Pepsi and another with Coca Cola. Upon tasting the colas, drinkers are asked which they prefer. Not surprisingly, every Pepsi Challenge concluded that more than 50% of tasters prefer Pepsi over Coke. From its inception in 1975, the Challenge was hugely successful in grabbing market share away from Coke. While Pepsi no longer runs the campaign, we have always been curious about the "over 50%" part of the Pepsi Challenge results. To put that figure to the test, we staged the Challenge right here at Business Insider. The Challenge We had 21 Business Insider employees take a blind taste test of the two cola drinks. We tallied which soda was their preferred brand and whether they could tell the difference between Coke and Pepsi. Our results? It turns out 62% preferred Coke to Pepsi. And while 100% of drinkers were confident they could tell the difference, fewer than 50% actually could. Take a look at how our Pepsi Challenge went down. Produced by Will Wei Follow BI VIDEO: On Facebook
APApple announced Wednesday its iPhone and iPad sales for the first quarter of 2014.  Here's the score: iPhones: 43.7 million units vs. 37.7 million units expected by analysts. iPads: 16.35 million units vs. 19.7 million units expected by analysts. That's a huge miss on iPad sales, and just another demonstration of how growth in Apple's tablet business has stalled. But it was a beat on iPhones. Analysts expected Apple to sell fewer iPhones last quarter because we were coming off the holiday quarter.  Apple said the average selling price for iPhones last quarter was $596. That number gives us a hint as to what kinds of models Apple sold the most. The iPhone 5S retails for at least $649, so Apple mostly sold cheaper iPhones like the iPhone 4S and iPhone 5C last quarter . Apple's cheaper iPhones seem to be more attractive to consumers than its top-of-the-line models. The iPad business is in big trouble though with negative growth. (See chart below.) The theory is that people aren't buying iPads because they don't upgrade them as often as they do iPhones. There are also a lot of competing tablets from companies like Amazon, Samsung, and Google that are much cheaper and do most of the same stuff. Apple CEO Tim Cook said on a conference call with analysts that iPad sales were in line with the company's own internal expectations. He said the reason why the sales may have seemed lower than analysts expected is because the company reduced iPad channel inventory this quarter. As for the iPhone, things are going strong. It's up 17% year over year. There's no doubt about it. Apple is an iPhone company. Everything else is just gravy. Here are some charts breaking it all down. iPhone sales: Business Insider And iPad sales: Business Insider FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Eugene HoshikoFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The First Thing Every Bond Investor Needs To Consider (Morningstar)  In explaining his approach, Tom Dugan, associate director of fixed income with Dodge &amp; Cox, tells Morningstar that one way for investors to think of this as making a loan. So the main thing to consider is the creditworthiness of the issuer. "First and foremost you want to assure yourself that this is a loan that can be repaid. So understanding the creditworthiness characteristics of the issuer is paramount in terms of selecting securities." In this space there are some issuers, like the U.S. Treasury that investors don't need to worry about. "But there are credit issuers where that's the fundamental point of distinction, and we spend a lot of time trying to understand companies, their fundamentals, and their ultimate ability to repay that bond's interest and principal. So that's an absolutely key characteristic in terms of security selection." For government-guaranteed securities however there can be other issues. "Government-guaranteed mortgage-backed securities have cash flow timing issues because of the prepayment option that a mortgage borrower has, that portions of the bond could be prepaid next month or 10 years from now. And so assessing the durability of cash flow and the predictability of those payments is the paramount concern for issues like that." How Advisors Should Go About Bringing In Young Clients (The Wall Street Journal)  The financial advisory industry is facing a generational shift in clients and advisors. But it makes sense to look for younger clients as more baby boomers retire. The problem is it isn't always cost effective to take on young new clients, though they need them in the long run to be sustainable. "The handiest pool of young new prospects is among clients' children and even grandchildren, and having a separate, younger adviser take them on can make sense on a number of levels," writes Corrie Driebusch at the WSJ. Driebusch also thinks its important not to get bogged down with just current assets. They should also factor in " future prospects, both for earned income and an inheritance …but looking too far down the road can be dangerous." To Get More Female Planners We Need To Start Early (Financial Planning)  There is a growing demand for financial planning services but not enough planners, especially female planners, to meed this need. Only 23% of the 70,000 CFP professionals are women, writes Nancy Kistner, chairwoman of CFP Board's Women's Initiative, in Financial Planning. To encourage more women to take up this profession though, Kistner thinks it's important to start early.  "Among other things, the research shows that we need to start presenting financial planning as a desirable career path for women at a young age -- whether it's at Girl Scout meetings, in school or, most importantly, at home," Kistner writes. "That's how I was initially exposed to what has been a terrific career." What Lies Ahead For Interest Rates (Vanguard) The Fed is well into tapering its asset purchase program that is now down to $55 billion in asset purchases a month. The big question on everyone's mind is what's ahead for interest rates which have been held low for some time now. Joe David, chief economist at Vanguard thinks the Fed will move to raise rates in the second half of 2015.  "So we’re critically focusing on wage growth. And so, if anything, inflationary pressures are very mild and tepid, again something we’ve talked about for several years," he says. "So I think it’s a good thing we’re talking about ultimately the Federal Reserve potentially raising rates, but that is neither imminent nor is it likely to be very rash when they start to raise rates."  "They may raise rates to perhaps 1%. They may pause and reassess. Real rates will still be low, which means adjusted for inflation, and it may be another two years before they normalize policy to perhaps even 3%. So I think these concerns of rapid rises in interest rates, that’s not what keeps me up at night." This Chart Shows Exactly How Not To Invest (StockTwits Blog) Stefan Cheplick at StockTwits Blog thinks every market participant needs to be disciplined and needs to have a plan. Without these he thinks investors could find themselves "subject to a vicious journey like this." StockTwits.com   FREE AppDownload
Julie BortMark ZuckerbergTwo seemingly contradictory things are happening at Facebook right now, we learned from the social network's Q1 earnings call. The company is growing really fast — revenues were up 72%, and ad revenue was up 82%. But growth in key areas is slowing, or about to slow, dramatically. The desktop side of Facebook looks like it may have entered a terminal decline (forgive the pun). And the rate of ad revenue growth is about to decline precipitiously, CFO David Ebersman warned, due to tough comparable numbers from the year before. (Business Insider has been warning about this for a while.) The new "slow growth" era of Facebook will be compounded by the fact that both CEO Mark Zuckerberg and COO Sheryl Sandberg said that autoplay video ads and ads on Instagram — both sales products that analysts had presumed would add hundreds of millions in new revenue — won't be happening any time soon. Both those products will be slow to monetize as Facebook is moving very slowly on them, Sandberg said. The fact that both video ads and Instagram won't add meaningful revenue any time soon was a surprise. Observers have been expecting ads in those products for more than a year now. So the takeaway seems to be, that revenue until now has grown really fast. But in the future? Not so much. Here are the highlights: The stock went up more than 5% on the news after hours. Now for some charts! Note that Facebook's desktop business is essentially stagnant, maybe even in decline. All its growth is coming from mobile. This chart from analyst Ian Maude shows that: Ian Maude Maude attributes that mobile revenue growth to mobile app install ads — and we'd agree. These are the poorly understood ads that drive app downloads. Most people just see the non-app ads for brands and local businesses — but app ads, because they monetize instantly, are more valuable. This chart from Maude backs up the case that on desktop, Facebook is essentially over: Ian Maude These users are U.S. only. But the U.S. trends ahead of everyone else when it comes to Facebook because the company was born here and its highest percentage of user penetration is here. This chart, also from Maude, shows that revenue per user is also down on desktop: Ian Maude Revenue: Facebook Here's the ad revenue split over a longer timeframe (from BI Intelligence): Business Insider Intelligence Here are the monthly active users: Facebook The mobile monthly active users: Facebook And the mobile-only people: Facebook And here's how those users split, from Business Insider Intelligence: Business Insider Intelligence Here's Zuckerberg's formal statement on the numbers: "Facebook's business is strong and growing, and this quarter was a great start to 2014," said Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook founder and CEO. "We've made some long term bets on the future while staying focused on executing and improving our core products and business. We're in great position to continue making progress towards our mission." Now some highlights from the Q&amp;A with Wall Street analysts. (Facebook chose some rather stuffy classical music for those of us on hold for the conference call.) The call begins ... Zuckerberg: Starts with the user numbers. Then the acquisition of WhatsApp, Oculus and the Internet.org effort. "These are important efforts that will help us achieve our mission over the long term." "Our core FB app has an audience of over 1 billion people." Next set of apps such as Messenger, Instagram and WhatsApp: IG reached 200m MAUs this quarter. "Monetization isn't our near term priority here." Wants 100 million users on each new app before revenues are attached. Paper is an example. Internet.org: Basic update on progress. Next, "Understanding the world." Says FB has unique data that others don't. More to come at F8 developers conference. "Our mobile app install ads have been one of our best performing products to date. Launched in January of last year." "Advertising and the ability to reach people more broadly is one of the most important" things FB does. He thanks CFO David Ebersman who is stepping down after five years. "I've learned a lot from Dave both personally and professionally and I'm grateful for everything he's done." Sandberg: Also thanks Ebersman. "Great people build great teams and that's what David has done." Ad revenue growth 82%, strongest ad rev growth rate in 3 years. Saw growth from existing advertisers as well. Particular strength with SMB and DR. And packaged goods. Sandberg touts Canadian advertiser Sport Chek that pulled all its paper coupons in favor of Facebook ads — and saw positive ROI. Ad targeting will improve. 10 times more advertisers are using custom audiences than last year. Ben &amp; Jerry's is an example. Simplifying ad tools: Self-serve ad tools are now available to SMB's. Buy now and install now buttons improve responses. Ad network test is positive - but won't have meaningful results this year. Ebersman: Made a personal decision to get back into healthcare where he worked before Facebook. Now we're into the nitty-gritty numbers. Desktop rev up 8%. Decrease in ad impressions due to cont'd shift in mobile use. Price per ad went up as fewer ads are seen in mobile. Shift to desktop is a significant headwind to payments because payments in games business are mostly desktop. Neither WhatsApp nor Oculus deals are yet closed, and haven't his FB's numbers yet. Bad news! "Our y-o-y comparables will get more challenging from here. Over the rest of 2014 our y-o-y ad revenue growth rates will decline ... and be meaningfully lower y-o-y." Questions! Expenses: Ebersman says Q1 is lighter on expenses that usual quarters. Benefits from one time events. Browser tech and native apps, HTML5: Zuck: "Timing matters a lot. "There's nothing wrong with the standard of hmtl5 technically. ... both Apple and Google have made it easier to build hi quality experiences in their proprietary formats than in open web formats ... our bias would have been to push on html5 ... we haven't walked away but a large no. of people have accessed FB on the open web but ... we see the best path .... in the native app experience." Messaging: Zuck: People want experiences to be defined to one medium or app. "You'll see us do more things in private content. ... growing." "The Facebook app by itself is the furthest along. The core of our business." Messenger, IG, and WA: M and IG are both greater than 200 million MAUs. WA: The immediate priority will be getting them to 1 billion people. Facebook Creative Lab apps are just getting started. Those are further along than IG was. IG "is a few years away from being an important business for us." Re-engaging lapsed users and user overlap: Zuck: decline to answer ... no sign of user fatigue on FB. 63% of MAUs use it every day. Where will growth in app install ads come from? Zuck: We saw more diversity in clients now. Not just games. Anyone who needs an app, we're the no.1 delivery vehicle for that. Sheryl: Mobile app install ads prices are up. No specifics. Where the heck are the premium video ads?! Sheryl: Really big opportunity ... also a lot more video from consumers in news feed ... we have a current product in the mkt it's a click to play video ad ... going really well ... we're in early conversations for a cpm autoplay video ad ... we want to see autoplay videos be pretty common in the news feed before we push hard in the ad biz ... we won't see a material contribution from it this year. Another Q about app ads: Sheryl: Our mobile ad rev is v. broad based. DR, brands, SMB, developers ... we're pretty distributed there. When will IG be monetized? Sheryl: Passing 200m, it's also a great ad product, tons of demand because pictures themselves are so visually appealing ... we've seen some great results .... Levi's running beautiful pics targeting 18-34 in U.S., reached over 7m people. drove 24% lift in ad recall, which was 3X control group. "We're v focused on consumer growth and we're moving v slowly on monetization ... we really want to grow it slowly and deliberately." Sheryl: Nearby Friends is being rolled out slowly. Did an analyst just suggest that WhatsApp was based in Russia? It's based in Mountain View, Calif.! So no, turmoil in Russia won't affect that app. [Analyst may be confused that Russian Facebook clone VK was recently taken over by Putin allies.] Payments, whats happening? Sheryl: We've had a payments biz for a while ... nothing new to announce there. How low will this y-o-y decline in ad rev growth be? Ebersman: 82% growth caused by ramp in news feed ads ... meaningfully different ... newsfeed ads really ramped in Q2 ... but there are lots of things that will drive growth: users, more mktr demand. And we are out! The context: It was a huge quarter for Facebook. In the last three (fiscal) months the company has bought messaging app WhatsApp for $19 billion and virtual reality headset maker Oculus VR for $2 billion. It has opened the door for video advertisers, and begun carving out its messaging business into a separate app, Messenger. Lastly, the company has begun rolling out an off-Facebook advertising network. At the same time, Zuckerberg has begun to outline his vision for the future of Facebook, "unbundling the big blue app." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian Snyder7 slices. Same amount of Apple.Apple's board just approved a big stock split, a $30 billion boost to its share-buyback plan, and an 8% increase to its quarterly cash dividend. "The Company expects to utilize a total of over $130 billion of cash under the expanded program by the end of calendar 2015," said management. The stock will undergo a 7-to-1 split. Each shareholder as of June 2, 2014 will receive six additional shares for every share held. And the stock will begin trading on a split-adjusted basis on June 9. Apple closed at $524.75 today, or $74.96 on a split-adjusted basis. And the share repurchase authorization has been increased to $90 billion from $60 billion. The board also approved an 8% increase in the quarterly cash dividend to $3.29 per share, up from $3.05. "We are announcing a significant increase to our capital return program," said Tim Cook, Apple’s CEO. "We’re confident in Apple’s future and see tremendous value in Apple’s stock, so we’re continuing to allocate the majority of our program to share repurchases. We’re also happy to be increasing our dividend for the second time in less than two years." "Agree completely with AAPL's increased buyback and extremely pleased with results," tweeted investor Carl Icahn. "Believe we’ll also be happy when we see new products." FREE AppDownload
APToday, Apple delivered one of its most interesting earnings reports in a while. Just when the world was ready to bury Apple, the company delivered a strong beat on revenue, earnings per share, and, perhaps most important, iPhone sales. Let's get right to the big numbers everyone cares about: Apple also announced a 7-for-1 stock split, and an increase in its buyback program and dividend. On the earnings call, CEO Tim Cook explained the buyback by saying that he thinks Apple is massively undervalued. He believes it has a bright future ahead and that the share repurchases are a sign of the board's faith in Apple's future. He also said the company was splitting the stock to "make it more accessible to a larger number of shareholders." That sounds as if Cook wants the share price to be more affordable for average mom-and-pop investors. Right now, the shares are about $524, which puts them out of range for most people. So, now that we've gotten the hard numbers out of the way, let's talk about the most interesting things from this report and the earnings call. The iPhone was way ahead of expectations. Cook said each category of the iPhone outsold the previous year in that category. In other words, the 5S outsold last year's 5, the 5C outsold last year's 4S, and the 4S outsold the 4 from last year. Cook didn't get into product mix, but it seems as if the iPhone 4S was the real star for Apple. The average selling price of the iPhone was down $41 sequentially, the biggest-ever drop in the company's history. On the call, Cook said the 4S was selling well in greater China. Cook ripped through a bunch of numbers regarding the iPhone business around the world. Through the first half of fiscal 2014, Cook said, iPhone sales in Brazil were up 61%, in Russia up 97%, in Turkey up 56%, in India up 55%, and in Vietnam they were up 262%. Cook pointed out that these are not "historic strongholds" for Apple. He said Apple had record iPhone sales to the BRICs (Brazil, Russia, India, and China) for the quarter. Digging into greater China, Cook said Apple had record revenue over $9.8 billion in the region. He said iPhone sales were up 28% in the area. And he said that 85% of the people who bought iPhone 4Ss were new to the iPhone. Of the people who bought the 4S or the 5C in China, over 60% were coming from Android. Cook was asked about upgrade policies in the U.S. and whether they were hurting Apple. He said there was "some pressure" from strict upgrade policies in the U.S. He said that those policies are changing and could benefit Apple in the future. But then Cook went another direction and said there are 1 billion smartphones out there right now. Eventually, all mobile phones will be smartphones. And he said the big opportunity for Apple remains in winning new customers. His comments on Android users in China suggest there is also an opportunity to take Android users. Analysts had been saying that the future of the iPhone was all about upgrades. Growth from new customers would be nil. Cook's comments dispute their theory. He clearly thinks Apple can grab new users. However, it's the iPhone 4S that's driving the growth, which suggests that Apple might want to lower prices on the iPhone in the future. Moving away from the iPhone, the iPad was the other standout in the quarter — but not in a good way. Apple's iPad business was down 16% on a year-over-year basis. On the call, Cook said it was above Apple's internal expectations, but he realizes that it missed most analysts' expectations. He blamed part of the miss on analysts not understanding the difference in channel inventory this year versus last year. So, what does channel inventory mean? Apple sells products into stores, but that doesn't mean they go into consumers' hands. There was a difference between how many were in stores last year versus this year. Cook attributed some of the decline to that. It wasn't exactly a great answer, and analysts wanted to know more. So Cook gave a big-picture answer on the iPad. He said it's the fastest-growing product in Apple's history. Apple has sold 210 million iPads since launch, which is almost double the iPhone at the same point in its life. He also said that it's seven times what the iPod was at this point in its life. He said customer satisfaction was 98, which is unheard of. He said it's 95% of the U.S. education market. It's in virtually all of the Fortune 500 companies. He says engagement is off the charts and well ahead of Android. And so, if you look at the iPad from that perspective, it's still a strong, healthy business and it has a bright future, says Cook. He still thinks the tablet will surpass the PC in the coming years, and he thinks Apple is positioned to benefit. It's not the most convincing answer, but really, the iPhone is what matters for Apple. It should roll out a lower-cost model, a higher-cost model, and a model with a giant screen this fall, to take advantage of what is clearly very strong global demand. Business Insider Intelligence Business Insider Intelligence FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Marcelo del PozoStudents hold capotes during a bullfight master class for schoolchildren at the Maestranza bullring in the Andalusian capital of Seville, southern Spain, April 23, 2014.The stock market's win streak ended today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange April 21, 2014.Stocks were slightly in the red Wednesday. The S&amp;P 500 was down 4 points or 0.2%. This follows a six-day win streak in the markets, which saw the S&amp;P climb 3.5% during the period. This young trend of low-volatility up-days is welcome after the spike in volatility we experienced in the past month and a half. And it means one popular trading philosophy is still working: buy the dips. Rich Barry of the NYSE MAC Desk discusses in his Mid-Day Market Update note: ...Why the speed bump? Remember, coming into 2014, market-gurus were predicting that this would be the year when the U.S. economy and the global economy finally gained some major traction and began to move under their own power. Under this scenario, the market credo in early January was “sell bonds / buy stocks” as the Great Rotation out of fixed income and into equities was finally going to take place. However, as a seasoned market-watcher once said, “when you think you have the keys to the market, they change the locks on you!” --- and the ‘great rotation’ is looking more like the ‘great pumpkin’ everyday… Instead, interest rates are actually trending lower and investors are bidding up classically defensive sectors like Utilities, Health Care and Energy. What does this tell us??? It tells us that the market is not so sure that the U.S. economy is going to gain ‘major traction’ this year. However, with the ‘Yellen-put’, (formerly known as the ‘Bernanke put’) still firmly in place, smart traders should stick with the trade that has worked so well for the past five years: Keep on buying the dips… Basically, the economy isn't going gangbusters. But then again, that means the Fed won't pull the plug on super-easy monetary policy any time soon. This is a theme market strategist Ed Yardeni touched on this morning. "I’ve previously made the case for a secular bull market in stocks on the premise that subpar economic growth in the US and around the world reduces the likelihood of a recession," wrote Yardeni. "That’s because slow growth is bound to keep a lid on inflation, which means that the major central banks are more likely to maintain their easy monetary policies. In the past, maturing economic expansions often ended when inflationary booms caused monetary policy to tighten. The boom was then followed by a bust." The consensus on Wall Street continues to be "Buy the dips." FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVInvesting legend Warren Buffett, the founder of Berkshire Hathaway, was on CNBC and Bloomberg TV moments ago. It was pretty uneventful.   The "Oracle of Omaha" just wrapped up a charity lunch at Smith &amp; Wollensky. He auctioned off the lunch on eBay to benefit the Glide Foundation in San Francisco. To date, he has raised $15.6 million with his annual lunch auction. Here's a rundown of the the talking points from both financial TV news networks:  Coke Executive Equity Pay Plan The conversation on CNBC began with today's Coke news. Buffett said that he abstained from today's shareholder vote on Coca-Cola's executive equity compensation plan. He told Bloomberg TV's Liu that it was the first time he had abstained. He said his abstention was a vote of sorts. He added that he could never vote against Coke. "I love the company."  He told CNBC that he didn't want to express "any disapproval" with management, but that he didn't agree with the plan. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway is the biggest Coke shareholder. Buffett said he hasn't sold a share of Coke and doesn't plan to either. He also added that he has enormous respect for Coke's CEO Muhtar Kent. "I love the company and that the right CEO is running it and that it has a bright future." IBM The conversation then turned to IBM, another stock owned by Berkshire Hathaway. The company had disappointing earnings in the first quarter. He said that he wasn't surprised by the disappointing earnings report. Buffett said he bought more stock in IBM earlier this year. He added that he hasn't sold a share. Quick asked him if he would buy more. "Depends on the price," he replied. Activists  CNBC's Quick also asked Buffett about the activist investors.  "All CEOs are terrified of activist hedge funds," he said. He told Bloomberg TV that he doesn't see anything wrong with the activists funds speaking out. As for activist David Winters, who has been vocal about Coke, Buffett said, "it''s perfectly proper" for him to go public. "I wouldn't do it myself...I don't see anything wrong with it."  Tech Bubble? Quick also asked him about hedge fund manager David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital who wrote in a letter yesterday we're witnessing another tech bubble. Buffett said on CNBC that doesn't think that the market has a bubble under it. He told Bloomberg TV that tech stocks are largely unappealing. He added that they're not "tempting."  Annual Meeting Bear Berkshire Hathaway's annual meeting in Omaha is the first weekend in May. He tries to bring on a bear at each meeting. It was hard to find a bear this year. One of Morningstar's analysts will be one of the designated bears at the meeting. Housing As for the housing recovery, Buffett told Bloomberg that housing needs a government guarantee.  He said he didn't see a role for Berkshire in Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Jack CusanoWilliam Ackman, right, CEO of Pershing Square Capital Management LP.It's a monster deal with a fair amount of complication and $45 billion on the line — hedge-fund manager Bill Ackman is teaming up with pharmaceutical company, Valeant (VRX), to acquire one of its competitors, Botox-maker Allergan (AGN). Together, they would make a massive pharmaceutical company, and take Valeant a big step closer to achieving its goal of becoming a $150 billion company by 2016. It sounds like business history in the making. But there's another way to tell this story. Allergan sees it, and doesn't like it one bit. It goes like this: Ackman and Valeant aren't buying Allergan — they're swallowing it whole and digesting it quickly. And on the other side Allergan will only be a faint memory. As of last night, the takeover (if it goes through) will be hostile. Allergan's board voted to swallow a "poison pill" to ensure that existing shareholders will receive new powers if any one shareholder (Ackman and VRX) acquires 10% or more of the company. It's a clear message that Allergan wants no part of this deal. So the question is — what could Allergan be so afraid of? Is it the nature of the deal itself? Is it becoming a part of VRX and its business model? There are solid arguments for both. But one thing is clear: Once Allergan goes through this process it will not be able to recognize itself. It will be a completely different company. "No one's being raided," said Ackman in an interview with Bloomberg TV Wednesday morning. "Actually what we're doing is we're helping facilitate a transaction between two companies for the benefit of the shareholders." Yet, as Bloomberg's Matt Levine wrote yesterday, Ackman and Valeant's strategy for taking the company smack of a 1980s takeover tactic called a "toehold." Ackman called it a "strategic block." Ackman and VRX have already teamed to up to buy almost 10% of Allergan. Ackman did it by buying almost $4 billion worth of call options on the stock. Valeant put up $75.9 million itself. Sounds like a win for Valeant, aside from the fact that a big hedge fund will now own a huge chunk of the company it hopes to acquire. If Valeant wanted to avoid that, it could've hired bankers, paid them their fee, and owned all of Allergan. Pearson told Bloomberg Valeant didn't have $4 billion to put at risk — but what about the $45 billion deal? What about its recent $2.6 billion buyout of Medicis or its $8.7 billion Bausch &amp; Lomb deal? Those are mostly financed with debt. "Bill put at risk $4 billion. First of all, we did not have $4 billion sitting at the bank. We do not accumulate cash, we use our cash to build our business," said Pearson in the interview. But Pearson's business model itself is about making acquisitions. He has said that he's trying to build a new kind of pharmaceutical company that capitalizes on consumer-based trends in the market instead of creating them. In Pearson's world — and in our world soon enough — you can see a commercial about how Latisse (an Allergen product) makes your eyelashes look like Bambi, head to your doctor's office, and pick it up. In this world it's the sales reps that do the heavy lifting. Pearson sees this shift happening in the entire pharmaceutical space, and he wants to get ahead of it as fast as possible by acquiring already-popular products. Logically, that means a lot of acquisitions and a lot of debt. "Is the task of growing from $1 billion to $40 billion in six years more difficult than the task of growing from $40 billion to $150 billion in three? I don't know," Pearson said at conversation with Goldman Sachs analyst Gary Nachman earlier this year. "People have always been skeptical and ... our investors are rooting us on and others are rooting against us. That's life." Meanwhile, Valeant prides itself is running a lean business. He told Bloomberg's Stephanie Ruhle that the company doesn't even have a team that integrates its new acquisitions. Once Valeant acquires a company it goes to work cutting costs, especially R&amp;D. Bausch &amp; Lomb was spending about 7.8% of its revenue on R&amp;D before it was acquired. That number will be cut, and for this Ackman compared Valeant to private equity firm 3G and called Pearson "one of the greatest operators in the business." "We spend less than 5% of our revenues on research and development," said Pearson in a 2012 interview with The Wall Street Journal. "Instead, our innovation comes from acquiring companies and products that are already approved and in the market, so we avoid the risk associated with R&amp;D." That isn't necessarily accurate, though. All pharmaceutical products are at the mercy of innovation. One of the reasons Valeant wants to acquire Allergan is its eye- and skin-care portfolio, which includes not only Botox but also the popular Latisse. It's a portfolio that Valeant could use some help with. The company disclosed in its 2013 annual report that its own line of facial-care products, including the popular Retin-A Micro, have been losing share to generic brands to the tune of $286.7 million. These things tend to happen in the world of pharmaceuticals — where time is measured in decades — but that doesn't mean companies do nothing. Valeant's loss in market share contributed to the company's overall 25% decline in profits, specifically led by a 30% decline in developed market profits. Snapping up the ubiquitous Botox should help with that, but who knows for how long. Then Valeant will likely need to do another deal. Who's selling? FREE AppDownload
YouTube / The Elevation GroupJosh Stampfli of Credit SuisseMichael Lewis's new book "Flash Boys," which investigates the unfairness of high-frequency trading on Wall Street, has a great section on how John Schwall, the former RBC global head of equities product management, came to learn that Credit Suisse — among other banks — was operating a "dark pool" that allowed high-frequency traders to get in front of stock trades of less sophisticated brokers, allegedly increasing the cost of investing in stocks. He looked it up on Linkedin — even though it was supposed to be a big secret. The takeaway is that while companies with highly sensitive information may believe their employees are keeping their mouths shut, they're often also using LinkedIn to boast about what they're working on. Schwall had become disillusioned by Wall Street while working at Banc of America Securities during the period when it merged with Merrill Lynch. The deal saved Merrill, which had ruined itself in the credit crisis of 2008. Yet its employees received huge bonuses while many of Schwall's colleagues were laid off. Schwall went to work at RBC to join Brad Katsuyama, who was on a jihad to uncover the way high-frequency traders were cheating retail investors out of the correct prices of stocks. (Briefly, Lewis alleges that because banks with high-frequency trading operations are able to make trades quicker than regular traders do, they can "see" incoming orders at one price, and buy and sell the stock before the order is executed, so that the cost of the investment goes up for the original buyer. Dark pools — non-transparent stock exchanges run by investment banks — let this happen without anyone being able to prove that their trades were manipulated.) While at RBC, Schwall found out from reading the trade press — and searching LinkedIn — that Credit Suisse operated a dark pool but "tried to appear as if it had nothing to do with high-frequency trading," Lewis writes. Credit Suisse declined Business Insider's request for comment on Lewis' characterization of events. But it's a matter of public record that as far back as 2009 Credit Suisse had not been concealing its dark pool. Credit Suisse's head of U.S. equity trading, Dan Mathisson, testified on the topic to the U.S. Senate that year, for instance. And we're told that the bank has opt-out clauses that allow investors to avoid dark pools. YouTube / Elevation PartnersJosh Stampfli, right, sits next to Bernie Madoff at a roundtable on automated trading.Nonetheless, Schwall began looking up Credit Suisse staffers' resumes on LinkedIn. Even though Credit Suisse required its staff to abide by non-disclosure agreements, Lewis says, for some reason staffers listed their accomplishments on their LinkedIn resumes. Lewis writes that Schwall started by looking for Josh Stampfli, "who had joined Credit Suisse after seven years spent working for Bernie Madoff." Stampfli was apparently the executive in charge of electronic trading at Credit Suisse and ran the bank's dark pool. Lewis writes: The Linkedin searches became a new obsession. The former Madoff employee's profile led him to the people who worked for the former Madoff employee, who led him to the people who worked for them, and so on. Even as Credit Suisse tride to appear as if it had nothing to do with high-frequency trading, its employees begged to differ. Schwall dug out dozens of examples of Credit Suisse's computer programmers boasting on their resumes about "building high-frequency trading platforms" and "implementing high-frequency trading strategy," or of experience as a "quantitative trader on equity and equity derivatives: high-frequncy trading." Credit Suisse claimed that its dark pool had nothing to do with high-frequency trading, and yet it employed, in and around its dark pool, a mother lode of high-frequency trading talent. By the time he'd finished, Schwall had built the entire Credit Suisse dark pool organization chart. You can see Josh Stampfli's resume on LinkedIn right here: LinkedIn FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock.com/ostillWhen it comes to luxury real estate, a million dollars goes a lot further in Dubai than it does in Monaco. According to the latest Wealth Report from real estate consulting firm Knight Frank, Monaco has the most expensive luxury real estate in the world, with $1 million buying just 15 square meters (161 square feet) of prime property — about the size of California's smallest legal apartment. In Cape Town, on the other hand, $1 million will buy more than 14 times that much space. The chart below, via Knight Frank, gives a great visualization of what $1 million buys in various luxury housing markets around the globe. Knight Frank At the high end of the spectrum, luxury real estate in Monaco costs as much as $6,800 per square foot. In Cape Town, it's as low as $470 per square foot. See the full range of prices in the table below. Knight FrankNow check out how much square footage $1 million buys in cities around the U.S. FREE AppDownload
Enterprise startup Pure Storage just got a huge vote of confidence from the venture world, even though it's playing in a chaotic market and the 800-pound gorilla, EMC, has been suing it and some of its employees. It just raised a huge $225 million round that valued the company at over $3 billion, Pure Storage announced on Wednesday. That brings the total raised to date to about $470 million, it says. To give you some context: that valuation is way bigger than the market caps of two of its rivals, that both hit troubled times after their IPOs. Fusion-io, the employer of Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak, is trading at below $10/share with a market cap of $1.04 billion. And Violin Memory, which went public in September, is trading at under $4/share, with a market cap of $330 million. As we previously reported, those companies have struggled with growth since their IPOs and have shaken up their executive ranks. In fact, that's one reason why Pure Storage chose to raise more capital this way, instead of an IPO that was expected to happen in 2014. The big raise helps Pure Storage "fend off prospective acquirers," says CEO Scott Dietzen in a blog post. He doesn't explain that, but before a company can go public, it has to show its books to the public. In doing so, a bigger rival could find the an irresistible acquisition price. More interesting is his second reason for raising so much cash when he still has "most of the $150m in the bank from our round last summer," he says. He wants to make employees happy with a big IPO. He writes: But the biggest reason to stay private for a while longer is recruiting: lots of people want to be part of a company when it goes public. First, there’s generally a material uplift in the stock price and each Pure employee has an ownership stake in the business. Second, the IPO is rightly seen as a fun, exciting rite of passage that tech entrepreneurs want to be part of. So the longer we wait to IPO, the more incredibly talented individuals we will be able to recruit to join the Puritan cause. That's especially telling because Pure Storage has been in a legal tussle with EMC over recruiting employees. Over the course of 2013, EMC sued six former employees that joined Pure Storage, Dietzen revealed in a blog post in November, and then sued Pure Storage itself. Dietzen wrote: EMC elected to broaden their legal action to sue Pure Storage, alleging that in aggregate 44 former EMC employees from the sales side have joined Pure over the last two years (which would amount to about 13% of our workforce) and is claiming that these employees and Pure in general have behaved unethically. The legal situation is still ongoing, a spokesperson confirmed to us. But investors aren't scared off because the enterprise storage market is so enormous and undergoing a huge transformation. Companies continue to store ever more data and are starting to buy faster, cheaper flash storage, the kind that runs your smartphone and tablet. Enterprises are expected to spend $1.5 billion on this new type of flash storage device by next year in a market growing at 59% a year, according to IDC. The Pure Storage round was led by institutional investor Wellington Management, with contributions from T Rowe Price, Tiger Global, Greylock Partners, Index Ventures, Redpoint Ventures and Sutter Hill Ventures. FREE AppDownload
During the financial crisis, the Federal Reserve slashed interest rates to help the economy claw its way back to growth. With the economy now humming and the unemployment rate coming down, everyone now wants to know when the Fed might begin raising rates and how high rates will be in the next few years. The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) — the people who set rates — periodically surveys its members for their forecasts for their benchmark Fed funds rate. The responses are published in the Fed's famous "dot plot." Currently, some members see rates substantially higher in two years, while others don't. These forecasts range from 0.5% basis points to 4.5%. While that range appears wide, the dispersion of forecasts is actually much tighter than it was a year ago. Deustche Bank economist Torsten Slok argues this is a sign of improving confidence at the Fed. "One way to measure [confidence] is to look at the standard deviation around FOMC members’ forecasts of where they think the fed funds rate will be in two years time, ie look at the standard deviation of the dots in the Fed’s dot chart," said Slok. "And the picture below shows that at their latest meeting the FOMC members felt more certain about the coming hike in the Fed funds rate than they did a year ago." To be clear, this is not a guarantee that rates will be higher in two years. For years, everyone's been forecasting higher rates within a few years, and they've always been wrong. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
The EU already imposed sanctions on Russia in March over its stealth invasion and annexation of Crimea, but those lacked teeth. More sanctions are ready, but some EU members are displaying a strong reluctance to punishing the Kremlin further unless the Russian overtly invade Ukraine. This map from Reuters shows the basic breakdown:  REUTERS WSJ notes that tough sanctions could include banning arms exports, prohibiting purchases of Russian fertilizer, and curbing imports of Russian gas. The U.S. is urging Ukraine to intensify the sanctions, but there seem to be a lot of political factors at play. For example, here's a map detailing the EU's reliance on Russian gas. Interestingly, several countries that import a significant amount of Russian gas are pro-sanctions while others that do not import any Russian gas are still against sanctions.  REUTERS As tensions continue to simmer in eastern and southern Ukraine as pro-Russian gunman — some of whom are suspected of being Russian special forces — the political resolve of relucant EU members will be a key storyline to watch.
Florida became a state in 1845. Here are seven incredible facts related to its outsize influence across the U.S. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Smith GillSaudi Arabia is expected to begin work on the Kingdom Tower next week.  The building in Jeddah is expected to cost $1.23 billion and stand 3,280 feet tall, according to the Saudi Gazette. That's 568 feet taller than Dubai’s Burj Khalifa. Construction is also underway on Sky City in China, projected to be 2,749 feet tall. Sky City is expected to finish before the Kingdom Tower and will, for a very brief period, hold the title of the world's tallest building. Two years ago, Barclays introduced its Skyscraper Index, which suggests that construction booms, highlighted by record-breaking skyscrapers, coincide with the beginning of economic downturns. In his 2012 report, Barclays' Andrew Lawrence and his team wrote that this is because "the world’s tallest buildings are simply the edifice of a broader skyscraper building boom, reflecting a widespread misallocation of capital and an impending economic correction." But it isn't just the world's tallest building we should be looking at. Lawrence said it's also important to look at the number of skyscrapers being built and their geographic profile. This is because the tallest buildings "rarely stand alone." With this in mind, investors should watch the building booms in China, India, and Saudi Arabia. Here's a look at the Skyscraper Index from Barclays (click the image to enlarge it). Basically, what you see is a series of famous skyscrapers associated with subsequent busts. The most recent one is Dubai's Burg Khalifa. Another notable recent one is Malaysia's Petronas Towers, which presaged the Asian economic crisis of the late '90s. Barclays/Skyscraper Source Media's SkyscraperPage.comDrawing on Barclays' Skyscraper Index, we pulled 10 skyscrapers whose constructions coincided with the financial crises of their times. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSIt isn’t much of a stretch to suggest that McDonald’s has lost its way as a company, let alone a category leader. Last year was a miserable year for McDonald’s … in terms of sales, as well as earnings. Same store sales were up a mere 0.2% in 2013, while profits grew just 2% on a 2% uptick in company-wide sales. And earnings per share of MCD stock fared only a tad better, with a 4% increase in 2013. Broadly speaking, things didn’t get much better last quarter. The company’s Q1 earnings report posted this morning indicated a 1.7% decline in U.S. same-store sales, and a troubling 4% decline in profits. For CEO Don Thompson, who only took the helm in July of 2012 and made some pretty significant changes right out of the gate, it’s the kind of start that can leave a board wondering if they’ve got the right guy steering the ship. Well, while it’s a bit premature to say McDonald’s is out of the woods yet, at the very least (and despite this morning’s news) it’s becoming clear that Thompson now “gets it.” The question is, can he actually do anything about it before it’s too late? The answer is probably yes, but that journey isn’t going to begin where most MCD stock owners are expecting to see it. McDonald’s is Barking Up the Right Tree If you’ve been in a domestic McDonald’s lately, there’s a decent chance you’ve seen a remodeled store. There’s an equally good chance you’ve gotten better, or at least faster, service. But if you think the company is focusing on its U.S. stores because that’s where the biggest opportunity for growth is, think again. As it turns out, Don Thompson and his team see China as the most productive place to foster change … even if only because China is the only place they truly understand how to improve. Take, for instance, the fact that the fast-food chain opened 225 restaurants in the United States last year, and aims to add another 250 domestic units this year. Impressed? Don’t be. McDonald’sopened 275 units in China last year, and aims to open 300 new stores this year in China. It hopes to build another 2000 units there by 2017. Translation: There’s more growth opportunity for MCD stock in China. And to be fair, the company should be working harder in China. For all the strides being taken to rekindle the relevance it enjoyed in the United States as recently as 2011, McDonald’s still doesn’t have a firm grip on its target market here. In China, however, it’s crystal clear who its customer is, what those customers are expecting from eateries, and what the company needs to do to fully capitalize on the opportunity. In short, China’s middle class is still expanding like crazy. A report published by McKinsey &amp; Co. in 2012 calculated that the number of people in China that earned between $17,000 and $35,000 would grow from only 6% of the population in 2010 to more than 50% of China’s populace by 2020. That’s a demographic right up McDonald’s alley. Meet the New Chinese McDonald’s And what exactly is McDonald’s doing to reframe itself in China, where it’s generally only found a lukewarm reception compared to its rival, Yum! Brands (YUM) division KFC? First and foremost, it’s de-Westernizing its stores there. Ten years ago, when China become a hotbed of growth for consumer-oriented American companies, the presumption was that the Chinese wanted a perfect recreation of the typical U.S. eating and shopping experience. Now, however, U.S. companies have learned (some the hard way) that there’s a limit to how much Western culture a Chinese consumer wants delivered when inside a Western restaurant or retail establishment; there are still cultural aspects unique to China that are must-haves for anyone serving consumers there. For McDonald’s, that means remodels and new-builds that incorporate Chinese — and even provincial — flare, like hanging lights and dynasty-era architecture. It also means more food that’s familiar to the locals. Spring rolls and rice are finally on the menu at most of China’s McDonald’s, and much of the focus has been turned from beef and towards chicken or pork; beef is rarely part of the typical Chinese diet. It’s not just the menu and the buildings’ ambiance that McDonald’s is retooling to attract China’s burgeoning middle class, however. A great deal of thought has gone into how that middle class thinks, acts, and dines, and the end result is the installation of large, round tables that can seat ten. It’s something none of its American units would do because it would be waste of valuable floor space; we rarely eat as a party of ten, particularly at a fast-food restaurant. That’s not the case in China, however, where extended families are more apt to eat together. The large, round tables facilitate socialization during mealtime … a lost art in the U.S. Bottom Line for MCD Stock As for the investability of MCD stock, while it’s certainly disappointing that McDonald’s remains befuddled by American consumers, it may be worth considering the possibility that the average American consumer may be disinterested in Big Macs and McFlurrys and McCafes for reasons that go beyond the restaurants’ abilities to deliver a decent customer experience. The reason for the struggle, however, is also moot. What fans and followers of MCD stock may want to appreciate is that McDonald’s is pretty close to hitting the nail on the head in a foreign market that’s going to serve up much more growth for the company than the United States could foster. Although China isn’t likely to be the focal point of the company’s conference call, that doesn’t mean it’s not the critical growth spot for McDonald’s for the foreseeable future. As a modest piece of evidence to that end, while U.S. same-store sales were down 1.7% in the first quarter, same-store sales for the Asia-Pacific, Middle East, and Africa group were up 0.8% in Q1 — and Asia is the biggest piece of that pie. The numbers may feel small, but they underscore a very big trend that just may pull the company’s fat out of the fire. As of this writing, James Brumley did not hold a position in any of the aforementioned securities. FREE AppDownload
That’s not happening this time. The 4/20 WSJ included an interesting article titled, “Sluggish Economic Recovery Proves Resilient.” It reviews the various possible explanations for why the current recovery “is proving to be one of the most lackluster in modern times.” Nevertheless, “[i]t also is shaping up as one of the most enduring.” The Business Cycle Dating Committee of the National Bureau of Economic Research determines the length of economic expansions and contractions (table). The current economic expansion just matched the 58.4 months average length of the previous 11 expansions since World War II. So far, real GDP is up 11.0% since Q2-2009, the trough of the last recession. That’s the weakest recovery of the previous six. That’s mostly attributable to the subpar recovery in real personal consumption expenditures. So why is the recovery so slow? The article notes that Republicans blame Democrats for burdening the economy with taxes, debt, and regulations. Democrats blame Republicans for not agreeing to more fiscal spending and for playing a game of chicken with the debt ceiling. Economists are also a disagreeable lot, with some saying that the financial crisis of 2008 is still weighing on the economy. Others see “secular stagnation.” Not mentioned in the article was income inequality, which has recently become one of the main explanations of progressive economists. I tend to side with the conservatives. I’ve frequently marveled at the resilience of the US economy notwithstanding the meddling of the federal government. I also believe that powerful deflationary forces have been unleashed by the proliferation of globalization and technological innovations. They are keeping a lid on inflation, which lowers the likelihood of a recession caused by tight money conditions. Meanwhile, there’s certainly no hint of a recession in the Index of Leading Economic Indicators, which rose in March to a new cyclical high, and the highest reading since December 2007. The Index of Coincident Economic Indicators has been in record-high territory since last summer, and rose to yet another new high last month. Our Fundamental Stock Market Indicator (FSMI), which tends to track the ECRI index, jumped 7.7% over the past eight weeks to a new cyclical high that nearly matches the previous peak during 2007. That’s a good omen for the stock market, since our FSMI is even more highly correlated with the S&amp;P 500.  Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Moving Forward, Slowly. (1) Q1 earnings growth turns slightly negative. (2) The upbeat Tale of Three Cities. (3) Forward earnings still moving forward. (4) Might slow growth be bullish for valuations? (5) No boom, no bust. (6) Dating Committee data show expansion set to exceed average length. (7) No recession in leading indicators, including ECRI weekly. (8) Our Fundamental Stock Market Indicator is bullish. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Wal-Mart country and Whole Foods country are very different places. Morgan Stanley is out with a retail "atlas" that breaks down retail stores by geography. Based on its data, we made the following maps showing the number of Wal-Marts and Whole Foods per 1 million people in each state. Here's Wal-Mart: You can see it dominates in the center of the country. Arkansas, where Wal-Mart was born, has the most per capita with Oklahoma a close second. Wal-Mart is much less popular on the coasts. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Morgan Stanley Here's Whole Foods: It's not that big in the center of the country, but it's huge on the coasts. Colorado is also huge. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Morgan Stanley There are, of course, far more Wal-Marts than Whole Foods in each state overall, but it's fun to see where the stores are more and less concentrated. Bottom line: Whole Foods America is much more coastal, while Wal-Mart America is much more central. Here are tables showing the number and the population-adjusted number of Wal-Marts and Whole Foods stores in each state: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Morgan Stanley Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Sjors van Berkel/FlickrI totally agree with David Einhorn’s assessment that we are witnessing “our second tech bubble in 15 years.” I agree mainly because of how nuanced his analysis is – he’s not calling the whole market a bubble or even the entire tech sector – he’s speaking about a select group of popular momentum names that had been deified over the course of 2013 but are now starting to look shakier. From the Greenlight Capital Q1 investor letter: Reformed Broker David’s right. But if you’re not riding these highfliers in a race against your fellow investors for short-term gain supremacy, you don’t have much reason for concern, in my opinion. It’s probably their problem, not yours. Most large cap tech stocks are selling market multiples or below. But there are several large and mid-cap tech stocks (mostly tech and biotech) trading as though the laws of physics and finance simply do not apply. I talked about the new bubbles in January of this year – they are everywhere – but there is not a wholesale participation in them across the nation. Only hedge funds and the very wealthy seem to be playing along this time. Which means they will be less societally painful as they pop or deflate. Hopefully. FREE AppDownload
After the unusual harsh winter, some economists expect the U.S. housing market to see a spring rebound.  Some markets may already be there. Trulia has published new data showing the percentage of homes still on the market two months after being listed. They also provide data on year-over-year price gains. We took the inverse of that first data point — that is, how many homes had been taken off the market after two months — and plotted it against year-over-year price increases. We put the top 10 in a chart. Homes in Oakland, California seem to be moving. Check it out: Rob Wile/Business Insider, data from Trulia And here's the full list, ranked by the original datum of % of homes still on the market after two months.   FREE AppDownload
Unprecedented interest in income inequality has sent a complex book by economist Thomas Piketty to the top of the charts on Amazon.com. "Capital in the Twenty-First Century" presents centuries of data on the accumulation and distribution of capital and chilling insights about the present and the future. Income inequality has been getting much worse for decades, and this could just be the start. If Piketty is right, then global politics could get antagonistic, unstable, and potentially dangerous. Rising inequality could also hurt the economy, as Wall Street is starting to notice. As noted by Société Générale strategist Albert Edwards, "you don't have to be a communist to conclude that high levels of inequality not only adversely affects long-term growth, but also increases the economy’s vulnerability to recession." We've gathered charts from Piketty and others that show the scale of the problem. FREE AppDownload
What we are about to present is one of the most shared and coveted charts on StockTwits. It shows the mistakes that traders and investors of all skill levels can make. Two of the greatest attributes any market participant can have are discipline and a plan of action. Without either of those you may find yourself subject to a vicious journey like this: StockTwits.com
REUTERS/Larry DowningNew-home sales plunged 14.5% month over month to an annualized pace of 384,000 units. Economists polled by Bloomberg were looking for new-home sales to rise 2.3% month over month to an annualized pace of 450,000 units. February's numbers were revised down to reflect a 4.5% fall to 449,000 units. The median sales price was $290,000. The seasonally adjusted estimate of new houses for sale at the end of March was 193,000. The months' supply hit a 30-month high of six at the current sales pace. Inventory is up from a 5-month supply in February, and a 4.2-month supply a year ago. The regional breakdown wasn't pretty, with every region showing a monthly decline, except for the Northeast: Bloomberg economist Michael McDonough tweeted this chart showing the trajectory of regional home sales.  Michael McDonough/Bloomberg Housing starts disappointed in March, but as the weather warms up, some economists expect housing starts to rebound in the spring. But Millan Mulraine at TD Securities thinks this report was a "bitter pill" for everyone including themselves, that was expecting a spring rebound. "While some weakening in March may not have been out of the ordinary, given the high level of accumulate snow on the ground in a number of states, the softening on almost all fronts suggests that the housing sector recovery is continuing to struggle," Mulraine said. "And the weak performance in March points to a softening in momentum that may have gone beyond weather factors. Notwithstanding this, we continue to expect the housing recovery to begin gathering steam in the coming months as the overall economy regains some much needed momentum." Meanwhile, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics thinks the "housing market has stalled and won't contribute to GDP growth this year." FREE AppDownload
This post is sponsored by The Principal Financial Group.   Whether your plan is to travel the world, start a business, or relax on an island somewhere, you'll have to do a lot of saving and planning before that becomes a reality. And in an expensive city like New York, it can seem almost impossible. So imagine if a financial expert offered to tell you how to make those dreams a reality — for free. That happened to be the case for a few lucky New Yorkers. As part of The Principal Financial Group's "Take Action On Your Financial Dreams" program, locals were given free financial advice from The Principal experts, all in the back of a cab. In this video, a baby boomer worries whether he can save enough money for retirement to last him 30 years, while another rider shares his retirement travel plans. Watch the video to see the advice the experts had to offer.  Learn more at Principal.com. Find out more about Sponsor Posts.  FREE AppDownload
MarkitMarkit's preliminary U.S. manufacturing PMI survey is out. The headline index slipped to 55.4 in April from 55.5 in March. Economists had estimated the number would climb to 56.0. Any reading above 50 signals growth, which means the numbers are still strong. "Overall this report is consistent with our view that manufacturing activity will pick up throughout 2014," said Barclays Cooper Howes. Here are the key points via Markit: "Manufacturers reported a solid start to the second quarter, with output growing at its fastest pace for over three years," noted Markit's Chris Williamson. "With manufacturing acting as a good bellwether of the rest of the economy, the survey bodes well for further robust economic growth in the second quarter. “Companies are taking on staff to build operating capacity in the face of an increasingly favourable outlook. The April survey recorded ongoing job creation in the region of 10-15k per month in the goods producing sector."   Markit FREE AppDownload
Cold brew has become the go-to summertime drink for caffeine addicts. Making it yourself isn't complicated, but it does involve letting the brew steep overnight. However, if you're looking for a quicker fix, try this simple recipe for Japanese-style cold brew. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis.
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstThe Federal Reserve wouldn't release its employees salaries for Kupiec's research report. American Enterprise Institute (AEI) scholar Paul Kupiec has published a research report comparing the average salaries of regulators and bankers. Politico's Ben White points to it in today's Morning Money.  Kupiec's research found that the average compensation at federal bank regulators was much better than private sector bankers in 2012.   Kupiec breaks it down in an opinion piece for the Wall Street Journal:  The average compensation at the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. (FDIC) and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) exceeded $190,000 in 2012. The staff at the Federal Reserve is likely even better compensated, but the Fed refuses to release employee salaries. You might think high-paying jobs at these agencies require special skills. Not so. At the OCC, secretaries make on average $79,182 per annum. Motor vehicle operators (the agency's limo drivers) at the FDIC earn $82,130. Human resources management trainees at the CFPB make $110,759 a year. In his report, he points out that the average banker salary in the U.S. in 2012 was $49,540, according to the US Bureau of Labor. Of course, Wall Street investment bankers and executives make significantly more than that. But banks also employ thousands of folks across the country who get paid much less.   Kupiec counters that argument by writing, "Don’t banks employ many tellers, and aren’t tellers low-paid? Perhaps, but don’t the federal bank regulatory agencies also employ a lot of relatively low-paid workers? You might think they would, but it turns out that they don’t." He writes that it's unfair for bank regulators to get paid so much. He also writes that the bank shareholders and customers are the ones shouldering the costs of these salaries. "It is totally unclear why individuals that regulate an industry should enjoy much higher compensation than the people they are regulating, both on average and in specific comparable job categories." Kupiec continues: "To add insult to injustice, these excessive regulatory employee compensation costs are passed on to bankers through deposit insurance premiums and bank examination fees levied by the bank regulatory agencies."  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTrader Benedict Willis (L) talks with floor supervisor Yevette Arrington on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange April 21, 2014. Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz has a round up of what traders are talking about ahead of the opening bell. Good Morning!   Yesterday was the 6th consecutive rally in the S&amp;P – The S&amp;P had 4 six-day win streaks in '13.  One week and two weeks later was higher every single time.  The VIX closes close to 13 – we will continue to see pops as people buy “Cheap” protection at the low end of the 12M range - Right now, however, Futures are starting on the back foot as comments from Japan’s Kuroda have the ¥ jumping.  The DAX is off 30bp, but volumes remain very light (20% lower than average) as much of EU / UK and New England are on School Holidays.   We do have some Ukraine Stress, with Russia’s Micex off 60bp (losses since Putin invaded Crimera are at 8%) as the rhetoric sharpens and the Geneva deal unravels.   Over in Asia, the Nikkei did manage a 1% gain – but most focus was on China’s PMI coming in light, hitting Hong Kong for 1% and pressing Emerging Markets lower.   Aussie’s market reacted to the Aussie $ hit sharply on a low inflation print – gaining 70bp, but Miners were the laggers again.   Focus in the US on Earnings – as GILD is bid higher pre-market (9% of IBB) – we have BA, BIIB, DAL, DOW, DPS, EMC, GD, NOC, NSC, PG pre-open while AAPL, CTXS, ETFC, FB, LRCX, QCOM, TXN, and XLNX are after the bell. US Yields are testing overnight lows, as the 10YY failed to stay upside 200dma yesterday, but remains in 20bp range we have seen for the last 3 months.   We have a record Junk Bond Offering today – so watch how “funding trades” could skew other areas of Credit.  Kuroda saying Japanese inflation above BOJ forecast has the ¥ jumping, and a stronger PMI has the € popping as well.  The falling DXY is a tailwind for commodities, but the Weak China PMI print weighs on Copper – but we do have Gold bouncing from a multi-month low.  WTI is lagging Brent as Russia buoys the European Benchmark – and API data showed a nice build ahead of DOE numbers at 10:30 today.   Catalysts scheduled today includes the AIA's Architecture Billings Index for March – at 9:45 we get Markit US Manufacturing PMI, at 10 we get New Home Sales for March – DOE data is at 10:30, we have a decent size POMO at 11, and 1pm brings the Auction of $35 Bln 5-Year Notes FREE AppDownload
Flickr/blackbeltjonesEarlier this month, Amazon.com (NASDAQ: ;AMZN  ) announced that it had acquired the Seattle-based digital comic retailer ComiXology. While this news may have been overlooked as minor by some, this acquisition could mean big things for Amazon moving forward. Not only does ComiXology bring with it a lot of connections in the comic industry, but the potential synergies between it and other Amazon platforms like the Kindle could be significant. Before we get into all of that, though, let's take a moment to look at ComiXology and see what makes it such a powerhouse in the digital comics world. Comic books are a big market, and this has only been helped by the success of comic-inspired blockbusters such as "The Avengers," "Captain America: The Winter Soldier," and "The Dark Knight Rises." When Walt Disney (NYSE: DIS  ) reported its full-year financials for 2013, for example, it attributed the growth in its Consumer Products segment specifically to Marvel's strength. Licensing of comic book characters for toys and other merchandise is a significant source of income, both for the companies licensing the characters and merchandisers like Hasbro (NASDAQ: HAS  ) , which produces toys based on both Marvel and DC characters. With ebooks and digital media seeing increasing market share, both Marvel and Time Warner's (NYSE: TWX  ) DC Comics (as well as a host of smaller publishers) needed to find a way to make that transition or be left behind by the competition. To do so, they turned to ComiXology. The company's platform hosts comics from both major and minor publishers, is the exclusive digital platform for "The Walking Dead" comics, and crossed the 200 million download mark late last year (which is impressive, since it had only hit 100 million the year before.) ComiXology now hosts over 40,000 comics in 50 genres and has clients for a wide range of devices including the iPhone and iPad, Android devices, and Windows 8 devices. The company also offers a web-based platform that users can access over the Internet, as well as related features such as "Pull List," which helps readers find local comic book stores to buy or preorder physical comics. Originally, Amazon was seen as more of a threat to ComiXology than a potential boon. Amazon launched its Jet City Comics imprint as an extension of Amazon Publishing last year, putting its offerings in direct competition with ComiXology since the smaller company also created original comics. This was worrisome to some ComiXology fans, -- a major push by Amazon could provide significant competition to ComiXology's platform and potentially even draw away support from comic publishers that wished to align with the larger Amazon platform. Jet City Comics didn't make much of a splash in the larger comics world, however, despite the appeal of comics based on the works of writers such as George R.R. Martin, Hugh Howey, and the collaborators on "The Foreworld Saga." Martin's "Meathouse Man," for example, is currently no. 24 in the niche genre of zombie graphic novels, while all of the top 18 entries in the category belong to "The Walking Dead" (and two of the other entries above "Meathouse Man" belong to Marvel Comics). It's ranked significantly lower in both the "horror" and "science fiction" niches where it's also listed, and isn't even in the top 70,000 sales in the Kindle store. It's easy to see how the ComiXology purchase is going to benefit Amazon. Access to the ComiXology platform not only provides the company with additional revenues from the growing digital comics market and to the comic series that had the highest-selling single issue in 2013 ("The Walking Dead," which also had five of the top 10 best-selling graphic novels for the year). It could also provide synergy with Jet City Comics and the Kindle, giving both access to the ComiXology publishing platform. Amazon could also use its Kindle platform to further refine the ComiXology's "Comics" app, which is already available for the Kindle Fire but might enjoy more direct integration in the future. Digital comics sales have been growing wildly since 2009, with a 10 times increase between 2009 and 2010 followed by a more than three times increase between 2010 and 2011. Sales tripled again between 2011 and 2012, and ICv2 estimates after the third quarter placed 2013 sales at a 25% increase on top of that. While the growth rate is slowing year to year, this simply shows that the industry is maturing and should continue to be a major segment of the comics industry moving forward. Amazon.com now has a spot at the forefront of this growth, putting the company exactly where it wants to be.  What does $1 billion mean to you? How about $100 billion? Or try this on for size: $14.4 TRILLION. One of the top technology CEOs in the world has talked about a $14.4 trillion opportunity from a single new industry. To find out what this exciting industry is and how YOU could profit from it, click here for a free Motley Fool special report. John Casteele has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Amazon.com, Hasbro, and Walt Disney. The Motley Fool owns shares of Amazon.com, Hasbro, and Walt Disney. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA sample of Botox is seen at the Long Island Plastic Surgical Group at the Americana Manhasset luxury shopping destination in Manhasset(Reuters) - The chief executive officer of Valeant Pharmaceuticals, which made a $47 billion unsolicited offer for competitor Allergan Inc. on Tuesday, said during an interview on CNBC that he was "disappointed" with Allergan's so-called poison pill. Allergan on Tuesday night said that its board of directors had adopted a one-year stockholder rights plan to give it more time to consider takeover proposals. The Valeant offer was made with Pershing Square Capital Management hedge fund, which built up a stake in the company. "We are disappointed but on the other hand, I think this deal will get done," Valeant CEO Michael Pearson said on Wednesday. (Reporting by Caroline Humer; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Jack CusanoA new front has opened in the battle between activist investors and board directors, after Allergan after Bill Ackman and Valeant Pharmaceuticals made a $46bn joint bid for Allergan, a rival drugs maker. Allergan moved late on Tuesday night to fend off the unsolicited approach by adopting a shareholder rights plan that give existing investors increased voting powers should anyone build a stake that exceeds 10pc. Such a move is known as 'poison pill' defence since it makes the stock less attractive to would-be acquirers. Mr Ackman amassed a sizeable stake in Allergan over the last few weeks, building it from below 5pc to 9.7pc in the last two weeks alone, putting the board of the Botox-maker on stand-by for some sort of interference. Typically, activist investors use their leverage to agitate for change, for example demanding a management clear-out, a new strategy and a number of board seats for their own nominees. The practice was relatively unknown before the downturn, but over the last few years it has become of the things the directors of public companies fear most. However, Mr Ackman has now taken a different tactic, likely to mark a new chapter in the battles between board rooms and activist investors. He used his influence as a shareholder to team up with Valeant, a Canadian company which has already made several approaches for Allergan and been rejected. The hedge fund manager, who heads Pershing Square Capital Management, hopes to be able to strong-arm Allergan into doing a deal, now that it has his weight behind it. If the deal goes through, Valeant and Allergan would form a new pharmaceuticals behemoth, specializing in skin and eye care medicines. The businesses were worth $42bn a piece before the offer was made public. Allergan shot up in value by as much as a fifth on Tuesday, meaning that Mr Ackman has already made a considerable return on his investment. Shares in the company closed at $116.63 when Mr Ackman’s stake crossed the 5pc threshold on April 10th. Yesterday afternoon in New York, they were trading at $163.82. However, there is a long way to go before he closes the deal. Analysts expect Allergan to resist the approach, leaving Mr Ackman and Valeant to appeal directly to shareholders to try and force a deal through.  FREE AppDownload
APA Greater Adjutant Stork flies by a ragpicker looking for recyclable items at a garbage dump on Earth Day, on the outskirts of Gauhati, India, Tuesday, April 22, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Apple Earnings. Coming in after the closing bell. "People (including ourselves) are getting impatient with Apple and Tim Cook," BI's Jay Yarow says. "Apple's revenue growth has cratered and is now expected to be flat compared to a year-ago's sales." Read our full preview here » Facebook Earnings. Also after the bell. "We remain constructive on Facebook shares given positive feedback from our recent checks as well as solid user growth and engagement trends,” Wedbush analyst Shyam Patil told clients in a note per Marketwatch. “We believe the company has multiple catalysts ahead, including the recently introduced video ads and Instagram monetization.” Gilead Soars. Shares in the drugmaker are popping nearly 4% before the bell after they announced yesterday afternoon they'd sold a massive $2.27 billion-worth of its new hepatitis C drug Sovaldi. That crushed expectations for $1.13 billion in sales. China PMI Ticks Up. The reading for April hit a two-month high but at 48.3 is still contracting. ""Domestic demand showed mild improvement and deflationary pressures eased, but downside risks to growth are still evident as both new export orders and employment contracted," said Hongbin Qu, HSBC chief economist for China, in a press release. Data. At 9:45 a.m. we get a flash reading for PMI manufacturing for April. Consensus expectation is for a 0.8 point jump to 56.3. At 10 a.m. we get new home sales for May, which are expected to have climbed 15,000 to 455,000. Markets. Stocks in Asia were mostly higher, led by the Nikkei at 1%. They were down in Europe. U.S. futures were higher. Gold and silver were higher. Stronger Europe Business Activity. The Flash PMI for the region hit a new 35-month high in April. Peripheral Europe saw its fastest pace of growth since May 2011, according to the report.  Scalding Coffee Futures. Another commodities house cut its Brazilian coffee yield forecast, the Wall Street Journal said, sending futures close to 3% higher for a 26-month high. We are now approaching a year-to-date doubling of prices.  Ackman Herbalife Payoff. ABC reported Bill Ackman secretly promised to pay a former Herbalife exec up to $3.6 million if he lost his job providing information to the government or media.  Record Junk Bond Deal. A French cable operator is set to raise nearly $12 billion in debt in what the Wall Street Journal says is the largest junk bond deal ever. Numericable has a credit rating of triple C in the U.S.. "The [Numericable] deal is another milestone for the market," said Ben Pakenham, a fund manager at Aberdeen Asset Management, which oversees £186.5 billion ($313.2 billion) of assets, according to the journal. "It shows how much the market is growing and the level of demand there is to take down these bumper deals." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWorld Trade Center developer Larry Silverstein speaks at an event to update the public on the pace of development at the site in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - The "Bridgegate" scandal that rocked New Jersey Governor Chris Christie's administration earlier this year is threatening a deal that would allow developer Larry Silverstein to finish building the next World Trade Center skyscraper. Silverstein needs a guarantee from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to secure a $1.2 billion construction loan for 3 World Trade Center. On Wednesday, the agency's board will vote on whether to approve that guarantee, part of a deal that would provide hundreds of millions of dollars more to the Port Authority and allow it to foreclose on the $2.4 billion tower if Silverstein cannot pay debt service costs. But Silverstein's deal, even with the concessions to the Port Authority, has become entangled in a fierce debate within the agency over its mission, including whether it should be in the real estate business at all. Those questions have emerged since the so-called Bridgegate scandal erupted earlier this year. Operatives loyal to Christie's administration caused massive traffic jams on the George Washington Bridge in September, an alleged act of political retribution against a local New Jersey mayor who did not endorse Christie for reelection. The controversy has led to scrutiny of every corner of Port Authority operations, as well as the resignation of the agency's deputy executive director and board chairman, both Christie appointees. Most pertinent to Silverstein, it has also led to open debate at the authority - something in which it has not frequently engaged - and to the creation of an internal oversight committee examining operations, governance and political meddling. Critics have charged that rebuilding the World Trade Center area, which stalled for years after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks decimated the site, has taken too much time and energy away from other projects that are more critical to its bi-state transportation mission. The rebuilding of the World Trade Center "opened the door" for an expansion into areas outside the agency's mission, said Robert Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association. While the RPA was originally in favor of the authority leasing the site, the association had also hoped the Port Authority would sell the land, he said on Monday during a meeting of the Port Authority's new oversight committee. "The only thing to do now is to finish the project," he said, adding that the agency should then get out of all other extraneous projects. Port Authority commissioner Kenneth Lipper has lobbied openly and repeatedly against the Silverstein loan guarantee. Acting Board Chairman Scott Rechler has said he supports it, however. At least three board members from each state must approve Silverstein's agreement for it to pass. If it fails, the original 2010 deal would remain in effect, and construction of the tower could be indefinitely delayed. Silverstein has so far been unable to raise the senior debt in part because the market for letters of credit had dried up because of the recession. Silverstein has made progress on two of the other four planned towers at the site. The "Freedom Tower" at One World Trade Center is slated to open later this year, and the smaller 4 World Trade Center opened in November. He has already spent about $500 million of insurance proceeds to build the lower eight floors of 3 World Trade Center under the 2010 agreement because some of the below-ground infrastructure there was needed to support a Port Authority transit hub. "To have a dark stump, ad infinitum, sit in the middle of our reborn downtown is going to be incredibly discouraging to potential tenants, to residents, to shoppers, to tourists," said Janno Lieber, Silverstein's head of construction at the site, about what's at stake in Wednesday's vote. Under the revised agreement, which the parties have been negotiating for at least nine months, Silverstein would pay up to about $100 million over many years for the credit enhancement from the Port Authority - something he has never paid the agency for before, according to two sources with knowledge of the deal who requested anonymity because of its sensitive nature. Once the space is open, the agency is also slated to receive a $230 million payment from retail operator Westfield America, as well as additional ground rent of at least $70 million. (Reporting by Hilary Russ; Editing by Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockSlowly but surely, former problem countries in Europe are returning to normalcy. The latest is Portugal, which just sold 750 million euros in 10-year bonds at a yield of 3.5752%, according to CNBC. Just recently, Greece returned to the bond market with a sale of short-term debt. Not only has Portugal successfully floated this debt, its borrowing costs are at an 8-year low, an astounding fact for a country that was once thought to be a default candidate. The story is the same as the rest of Europe: The market believes that governments have an implied backstop from the ECB, preventing default. And with the Eurozone facing possible deflation and more QE, everyone's hungry to snap up all this (relatively) high-yielding peripheral debt. FREE AppDownload
Morgan Stanley is out with its latest retail "Atlas" which shows the breakdown of various retailers by geography. Here's the one for Starbucks: Morgan Stanley As you can see, Starbucks are absolutely everywhere. California has 2468. The state with the fewest is Vermont, which just has four. To really get something out of the map, you should compare it to this "heat map" which shows the average retailer's breakdown by region. Morgan Stanley You can see that Starbucks is overrepresented in the Northwest, as 6% of its locations are in the region, compared to just 3% for the average retailer. That's not surprising, given that Starbucks was started in Seattle. On the flipside, Starbucks is drastically under-represented in the Southeast (11% of its locations are in the region vs. 24% for the average retailer). Again, this is not all that surprising as the Southeast not a region you'd normally associate with yuppie coffee culture.   FREE AppDownload
Mark Lennihan/APRobert ShillerThe other day I posted this story citing a Gallup poll about how Americans think housing is the best possible investment out of most major asset classes.  This is extremely strange considering how widespread the data is on real estate and its poor real, real returns.  But it doesn’t explain why so many people believe this myth. In a piece yesterday at the Washington Post Robert Shiller offered up his opinion: “People remember home prices from long ago better than they remember other prices,” he says. “Ask anybody, ‘What did you pay for your home?,’ and they’ll remember even if it was 50 years ago. It will be some ridiculous number like $30,000. They then compare it to today’s prices, and it makes a big impression, and they forget there has been so much inflation since then.” I think this is an excellent explanation.  It points to a common bias related to asset prices – past price fixation.  Past price fixation is our tendency to focus on past prices as justification for future buy/sell decisions.  The purchase price of a home is obviously an important figure because homes are such an important part of the household balance sheet.  So that price stands out in our minds.  But we only remember the nominal figure.  We don’t calculate anything close to the real, real return (the return adjusted for taxes, fees and inflation).  So we tend to overstate the returns in real estate and consider it to be far superior than it really is.  In essence, our behavioral biases fail us. I think this not only explains the myth behind why people overstate the returns of real estate, but it also strikes another stake in the idea that consumers are in any way efficient or rational thinkers.  In fact, we tend to think in such narrow financial terms that we often make highly irrational decisions.  Our biases play a much more important component in our financial decisions than anything resembling order or rationality … FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Justin Sullivan Apple reports earnings Wednesday afternoon after the market closes.  We'll have full coverage of the results as soon as they're out.  Here, via Bloomberg, are what analysts are looking for: People (including ourselves) are getting impatient with Apple and Tim Cook. Apple's revenue growth has cratered and is now expected to be flat compared to a year-ago's sales.   Here are some big topics we expect to be addressed on the earnings call:  One other thing to watch for: An update on Apple's dividend and buyback program. People are expecting it to be moderately increased. It should be fun as always. We'll have everything as soon as it happens, so tune in at 4 PM! FREE AppDownload
Some decent news out of Europe this morning. The Flash PMI for the region just hit a new 35-month high. The Flash PMI report is a preliminary survey of service and manufacturing companies done once per month, asking them questions about the state of business. Any reading over 50 means the majority are seeing expansion. Here's a summary: Markit Markit Within Europe, Germany was stronger than France (though both showed expansion for the month). Meanwhile, peripheral Europe saw its fastest pace of growth since May 2011, according to the report. FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock.com / Pavel VakhrushevGood morning! Markets are going absolutely nowhere. Everything is quiet. Remember, US markets, after getting hammered at the beginning of April are now riding a 6-day winning streak, something they haven't seen since September. The mood has swung decidedly positive again. Today we've received Flash PMI numbers from Europe and China, that both showed a continuation of the status quo. China is weak. Europe is growing, but not an amazing pace or anything like that. Today's big event will be after-hours, when we get earnings from Apple. FREE AppDownload
