L: Reuters; Top R: Ovidiu Racorean; Bottom R: Wikimedia CommonsCould the behavior of the whole stock market be encoded in a single geometric shape? We're not quite there yet, but one researcher has an idea of how to shape the "stockmarkethedron." (Left: New York Stock Exchange; Top right: stock crossing diagram; Bottom right: hypercube, an example of a higher-dimensional shape). How do you picture the stock market: a bunch of guys yelling at computer screens on Wall Street? A long list of figures in the paper? Or, perhaps, an ever-shifting, higher dimensional jewel? The latter vision is that of Ovidiu Racorean, a Romania-based researcher for a hedge fund. He has an idea for how to encode the behavior of the stock market into an object that he calls the stock market polytope, or the “stockmarkethedron”. It “is not easy to imagine the stock market as a geometric shape,” Racorean writes in a paper published on the pre-press database arXiv (the work has not yet appeared in a peer-reviewed journal, though Racorean has submitted it to several).  “Still the stock market polytope fully encodes all the relevant information about the current … state of the stock market.” So just how do you start transforming stock prices into a complex object? The key to Racorean’s method, he explains, is stock price crossings.  “All the stocks that compose the market are crossing each other -- every time a stock gets higher or under the price of another stock, [that makes] a crossing,” Racorean said in an interview. “And every cross in the market will add a new face on the geometrical shape.” Ovidiu RacoreanA diagram from Racorean's paper, showing the prices of four stocks crossing and recrossing relative to each other as they go off on different trajectories. All those faces upon faces can be added up to form a kind of object called a “positive Grassmannian” – the same class of object that includes the amplituhedron, a higher-dimensional jewel recently described by theoretical physicists that encodes the probabilities of interactions between subatomic particles. “The positive Grassmannian is the slightly more grown-up cousin of the inside of a triangle,” Princeton University physicist Nima Arkani-Hamed, the lead researcher on the team that described the amplituhedron, told Quanta Magazine last September. The “inside” of a triangle is a two-dimensional shape, fenced in by lines. The positive Grassmannian is an N-dimensional space (N is a variable, so it can be any number of numbers, depending on the situation), fenced in by intersecting planes, Arkani-Hamed explained to Quanta. As the amplituhedron is derived from the probabilities of particle interactions, the stockmarkethedron is shaped by “the probability of some stocks to cross each other, to have some kind of shape,” Racorean says. “As the investor computes this volume, they will know with some probability how the market will go.” So, one can see a stockmarkethedron performing like a financial crystal ball: a view of the present with some glimmer of likely futures in its facets. Whatever shape the stock market might take, it would be something that would be constantly morphing as share prices move up and down, crossing and recrossing. A volatile day would have more crosses, so more facets; a more placid day would have fewer. One of Racorean’s next projects is to take his computation of the stockmarkethedron back in time. He wants to look at specific points in stock market history – namely, the time right before the start of the global financial crisis in 2007-2008. “I just want to see how the market looks like when the crisis is near,” Racorean says. Wouldn’t we all? SOURCE: Racorean, Ovidiu. “Crossing Stocks and the Positive Grassmannian I: The Geometry behind Stock Market.” arXiv: 1402.1281, February 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Ajay Verma In 1976, a small experiment was conducted in the poverty-stricken and flood ravaged Bangladeshi village of Jobra. Professor Muhammad Yunus, a lecturer of Economics at Chittagong University visited the village and upon seeing the desperate poverty there he decided to lend about $27 (free of interest) as working capital to a few women he met there. To his surprise, the women used the money productively in their modest commercial enterprises and repaid the loan with thanks. This small experiment was to become the basis for a global revolution popularly known as microfinance. As the new millennium arrived, micro credit had come to be recognised as the ultimate panacea for endemic poverty. In 2005 the UN Secretary General Kofi Annan said it was a critical anti-poverty tool, emancipating women and empowering the poor and their communities. Yunus claimed that thanks to micro credit the next generation will only find poverty in museums. World leaders cheered in unison, overjoyed at the discovery of a market-based mechanism for eradicating poverty. Thousands of NGOs took up micro-lending to poor communities with billions of dollars in development aid flowing through them. The microfinance revolution had well and truly arrived. The UN declared 2005 as the year of microfinance and next year a Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to Yunus and Grameen Bank for “efforts to create economic and social development from below.” Within five years, however, the gloss has started to come off. Long-standing claims of poverty alleviation and female empowerment came to be challenged. Reports of usurious interest rates being charged to desperate borrowers came to light amidst mounting criticism of the high-handed tactics employed by loan officers to collect monthly instalments. Collective defaults by entire villages were reported around the world. Most disturbingly, in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh, a hotbed of microfinance lending, dozens of suicides occurred among borrowers under pressure from large micro-lenders, forcing the state to clamp down on the exorbitant interest rates. Recent studies have found microfinance to have had zero impact on poverty alleviation. While it still has a big presence in the developing world, and undoubtedly helps some entrepreneurs find their feet, the hopes and aspirations that it once aroused are no more. Yes, many grassroots organisations are doing a world of good through embedding themselves deeply within the communities they hope to serve. But the myth surrounding the minimalist model of microfinance favoured by international agencies and private investors, which involves only lending at the “true cost of capital” with no other “intervention” has exploded rather spectacularly. Here is how the minimalist model unravelled: Micro-credit could indeed provide a lifeline for desperate borrowers, if it operated at a small scale and with subsidised interest rates. To some borrowers it could provide a crutch even at relatively high interest rates, saving them from the clutches of moneylenders. But given the huge increases in living costs and the reduced role of governments, especially with respect to healthcare and education, micro credit was never going to be able to stem the tide of poverty. Healthcare is perhaps the number one route to bankruptcy among the poor in many developing countries and education takes an ever-increasing proportion of their income. Painting all the women in the world as heroic entrepreneurs doesn’t actually make them so. They are heroic all right, given the struggle they lead against brutal poverty – but entrepreneurial ventures have always had a high mortality rate. And there aren’t that many which can deliver the kind of returns one requires to be able to pay back interest rates in excess of 40%. Given that much of the loaned money is actually used for consumption, the chances of getting into debt are always high. Realising that poverty alleviation was an unsustainable and unachievable goal, the micro-credit industry shifted the goal posts. “Financial inclusion” was the new aspiration, which in practice meant access to credit, insurance and other financial products. This was based on the old Milton Friedman claim that the only difference between the poor and the rich was access to capital. The term micro-credit became microfinance and poverty alleviation quietly moved out of the spotlight. The fact that most borrowers were using the loans for consumption rather than production was not taken as a failure to achieve the original goal either. Instead, this “consumption smoothing” was celebrated as another achievement. Microfinance then had two different realities. One was the global celebration of this market-based model for poverty alleviation. The other was the cruel reality of many borrowers caught up in debt cycles and struggling against an oppressive neoliberal world order where the proportion of incomes spent on health, education and food kept going up. Either way, it presented an opportunity for investors to “do well by doing good”. Once development agencies and multilateral institutions had paved the way, global investors piled in. Sitting far away in New York and other capitals of the financial world, they were attracted by the tales woven by microfinance providers looking to tap into global equity markets, tales of helping the poor and making a buck at the same time. With international capital, however, came unprecedented pressure for growth and quarterly profits. Those providers who tapped into the equity markets responded by seeking out more borrowers, and then when defaults loomed they tightened the screws to keep things on track. They devised elaborate public shaming rituals and used these ruthlessly to destroy borrowers’ social capital. Even Yunus disapproved, accusing them of making profits off the back of the poorest, neediest members of society. If the minimalist model, fuelled by global capital, survives today it is thanks primarily to desperate poverty that engulfs the world and to bigger loans that target the not-so-poor. Growing polarisation of society that raises the cost of living for the poor, along with wholesale privatisation of social welfare institutions, is putting increasing pressure on the poor. At best, minimalist microfinance provides a bandage where a major operation is needed, and at worst, it deepens the wounds. Socially embedded microfinance institutions that organise entrepreneurs, provide them with training and then deploy them in larger ventures are much more effective though high cost propositions. Interest-free microfinance, based on charity, similarly offers much greater relief. Ultimately, however, both are largely helpless in face of the neoliberal onslaught. Kamal Munir does not work for, consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations.  This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the original article. FREE AppDownload

The global "Risk On" mood continues. Japan's Nikkei is surging in early going, with stocks currently up over 1.2%. Nikkei Stocks around the world are generally riding a solid winning streak. US trading resume tomorrow. FREE AppDownload
Getty It may not be one of the core three (somewhat) realistic and accurate econometric indicators of China's economy (which as a reminder according to premier Li Keqiang are electricity consumption, rail cargo volume and bank lending), but when it comes to getting a sense of capacity bottlenecks in China's fixed investment pipeline - be it in ghost cities or the latest skyscraper building spree - nothing is quite as handy as commodity, and particularly iron ore (if not copper, which as we have explained before has a far more "monetary/letter of credit" function in China's markets), stockpiles at China's major ports. The logic is simple: no stockpiles means end demand by steelmakers is brisk and there is no inventory build up which in turns keep Australia, Brazil and other emerging markets happy. Alternatively, large stockpiles indicates something is very wrong with final demand, and hence, the overall economy. One look at a chart of how much iron ore has been stockpiled at China's 34 major ports (spoiler alert: it just hit an all time high), should explain at which of these two extremes China currently finds itself. Here is what happened as explained by Market News: Weak demand from steelmakers saw iron ore stockpiles at major ports hitting record highs, according to data from industry website umetal.com. Iron ore inventory at China's 34 major ports jumped 4.56 million tons last week to 100.86 million tons as of February 14, the 2nd time it has surpassed the 100 million-ton level and matching the record of 2012. Iron ore imports were also at a record high in January, at 86.83 million tons, as steel traders boosted imports to bet on rising steel prices this year. But data from the China Iron and Steel Association showed crude steel output falling around 2% m/m in January. Average steel prices fell 0.79% last week, according to data compiled by mysteel.com. There is another, more finely spun, explanation: monetary financing, or in other words, when it comes to China's peculiar "generally accepted collateral", iron is the new copper. Bloomberg explains: Iron ore stockpiles in China, the world’s biggest buyer, climbed to a record as traders increased imports to use the steel-making raw material as collateral for credit and domestic demand remained weak.  “Imports kept piling up at ports as more cargoes are being hauled in for trade-financing deals,” Gao Bo, chief iron ore analyst at Mysteel.com, a researcher in Shanghai, said by phone from Beijing today. While this may suggest end demand has not completely imploded, it does bring up a different set of complications: steel mill funding difficulties - perhaps the most sore topic in China nowadays. Steel mills and trading firms in China are contending with increasing difficulty in getting funding, said Mysteel’s Gao. “The funding situation in the steel industry was getting worse last month,” he said. The weighted average lending rate in China was 7.2 percent in December, up from 6.22 percent a year earlier, central bank data released earlier this month show. In December, 63.4 percent of loans had interest rates above benchmarks, up from 59.7 percent a year earlier, according to the central bank. However one spins it though, there is no denying that in addition to its on again, off again infautation with tapering and deleveraging, which usually continues right until the moment yet another shadow bank has to be bailed out, construction in China has slammed on the brakes: Stockpiles of steel products also rose as construction activity remained weak after the Lunar New Year holidays, Gao said. Traders’ stockpiles of rebar, a building material, jumped by 65 percent this year to 8.55 million tons last week, according to Shanghai Steelhome. One thing is certain - the biggest loser, as iron prices are set to tumble, will be Australia. Iron ore may drop more than previously forecast to $118 a ton this year as China will be unable to absorb record supply from Australia as growth slows, Judy Zhu, an analyst at Standard Chartered Plc, said last week. Prices may average $119 a ton this quarter, $110 in second quarter and drop to $100 in the final period of this year, Goldman Sachs analysts led by Christian Lelong said in the Feb. 11 report. Mine supply of iron ore reached a record over the fourth quarter of 2013, “with the natural destination being China,” Macquarie Group Ltd. said in a Feb. 13 report. “With inventory build being evidenced on the back of higher imports, this will act as a buffer to buyers in the coming months,” it said. China’s shipments from Australia’s Port Hedland, the largest ore-export terminal, rose 27 percent to 23.3 million tons last month. Increased supply from Australia, the top ore shipper, may push the global seaborne surplus to 94.2 million tons this year from 9.1 million tons in 2013, UBS AG estimates. Rio Tinto Group (RIO), the world’s second-biggest exporter, said last month that output rose 7 percent to 55.5 million tons last quarter from 52 million tons a year earlier. Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. is boosting capacity to 155 million tons by the end of March. And speaking of Australian iron miners, it was in late summer of 2012 when Chinese iron ore stockpiles were once again in the 100 million ton range, when iron prices crashed so bad, that Fortescue was on insolvency watch. Should the current episode of collapsing Chinese end demand persist and construction freeze persist, it may be time to short to FMGAU bonds once again. Unless of course, China once again unleashes the ghost cities building spree. Which it inevitably will: after all it has become all too clear that not one nation - neither Developing nor Emerging - will dare deviate from the current status quo course of unsustainable, superglued house of cards "muddle-through" until external, and internal, instability finally forces events into a world where everyone now has their head in the proverbial sand. FREE AppDownload
Google Map MakerOne of the big stories in the Bitcoin world these days is the crisis at Mt. Gox, the former undisputed king of Bitcoin trading. In recent weeks, the site has been having trouble with withdrawals, and actually all Bitcoin withdrawals have been halted. Users of Mt. Gox can withdraw real currency, but to do that they'd have to sell their Bitcoins on Mt. Gox to someone willing to have theirs frozen on the site until the technical issues are fixed. This has caused a huge plunge in price on the exchange, to the mid $200s. Meanwhile, Bitcoins that are traded elsewhere remain in the mid-$600s. If you are brave, you can buy a Bitcoin on Mt. Gox on the hope that things become unfrozen and make a huge profit. The massive gap obviously reflects a panic and a lack of faith in the site's ability to reconnect with the broader market. Essentially, Mt. Gox has become Cyprus. Remember, in early 2013, when the Cypriot financial system collapsed, the Eurozone imposed massive haircuts on Cypriot bank accounts (confiscating cash) and instituted capital controls, preventing people from withdrawing their cash and moving it to non-Cypriot banks. For awhile, there was talk about a normal Euro and a Cypriot Euro. And a Cypriot Euro was worth less, because you couldn't move it out of Cyprus easily, or if you did want to move money out, you probably had to pay huge fees to do so through illicit mean. So that's the deal today with the two prices of Bitcoin. There's the normal Bitcoin price and the price of a Bitcoin that's frozen on a site with severe technical problems. If Mt. Gox gets everything fixed, prices should find parity. But the large gap in price reflects a lack of confidence that things will be sorted out soon. FREE AppDownload
In a note to clients, Morgan Stanley credit strategists led by Sivan Mahadevan take a look at which types of market participants trade in the corporate credit markets during each part of the trading day. The charts on the slide below show how trading volume is typically distributed. Morgan Stanley Research
ShutterstockDoha skyline through the arches of the Museum of Islamic Art.The tiny Middle Eastern state of Qatar has come a long way since it gained independence in 1971. Qatar's capital, Doha, was a sleepy pearl fishing community until the '90s, when it began tapping into its vast offshore natural gas reserves. After investing heavily in liquefied natural-gas technology, Qatar is now one of the leading exporters in the world, with a sovereign wealth fund (known as the Qatar Investment Authority) worth over $85 billion, according to CNN Money.  Today, it is home to the headquarters of the country's largest oil and gas companies, and a population of almost 600,000. And the city is not done growing. As a result of Qatar's increasing corporate and commercial activity, 47 new skyscrapers are currently being built in Doha, according to Emporis. New hotels will also be joining Qatar's skyline to attract even more tourists to its spa villages, huge malls, and scenic artificial islands. In 2022, Doha will even host the FIFA World Cup in its brand-new (questionable-looking) stadium. To see how far the country has come since it gained its independence from the United Kingdom just over four decades ago, we compiled some photos of Doha then and now. &nbsp;
Flickr/abrackinNew York Restaurant Week officially kicks off today — much to the chagrin of NYC foodies. For the uninitiated, Restaurant Week is when hundreds of establishments, from fine dining standbys to hip new eateries, offer special prix fixe lunches and dinners for $25 and $38, respectively. The event actually runs three Weeks, through March 7. Restaurant Week was started in 1992 by Tim Zagat and Joe Baum, and has become a massive hit in the past 21 years. Nearly 300 restaurants across the city are participating this winter. There are a few places out there where the special prix fixe is as good a deal as the regular menu. But by and large, foodies groan when the bi-annual event rolls around. At first glance, Restaurant Week seems like a win-win for both restaurants and guests. Customers pay a fixed (and ostensibly lower) price while getting to try a new restaurant and its specialties. But here's the thing: There are a ton of people who turn out for Restaurant Week. "Amateur eaters" are seduced by the seemingly low prices and a desire to experience a high-end or new NYC restaurant. Thanks to them, wait times can stretch on, and service may lag due to the sheer volume of orders and tables. The quality of food often drops, too. Cheaper types of fish like salmon, or meats like chicken breast, that may not appear on the standard menu show up on the prix fixe as a way for owners to save money with the "special" Restaurant Week menus. For example, none of the Restaurant Week entrées offered at Le Cirque this year — like Confit of Salmon and Lamb Navarin — are on either the regular lunch or dinner menus.  Portions are often smaller as well. A common complaint I've heard from friends who go out during Restaurant Week (and experienced myself) is that salads or entrées are reduced to half their size at their favorite spot. Taking all of this into consideration, those $25 and $38 prix fixe costs suddenly don't seem like the best deal. Since drinks, tax, and tip aren't included in those "flat" fees either, diners looking for cheap eats would be better off turning to Groupon, LivingSocial, or OpenTable's Spotlight to get a better deal with items that are actually on the regular menu. Restaurant Week can certainly be great for restaurants — it amps up exposure and brings in new customers during winter and late summer, two of the slowest times of the year. "NYC Restaurant Week is a good opportunity to showcase your restaurant to people who may have otherwise not dined with you," Chris Leahy of Midtown's Lexington Brass told us.  But it can also have the opposite affect. Crowds and long wait times annoy a restaurant's best customers, and those deal-seeking diners are not necessarily going to come back. Which is really bad, given that increasing repeat business for restaurants is one of the main goals of a publicity program such as Restaurant Week. It can also be rough on the servers who schlep for unappreciative diners throughout the three-week event: "In some restaurants, servers aren't so happy," Anthony Mardach, the Director of Operations for Porter House (which offers a similarly-priced prix fixe year-round), told us. "It can lower the check average, and servers can make less money." Once tax and drinks are factored in, guests realize they're spending as much as $50 for that "$25 lunch." With cheap eaters, it's the servers' tips that take the hit. Ultimately, Restaurant Week can be a pain. But if you do decide to go, here are some tips for doing it right: Do your research — some menus might be dumbed down, especially the ones that are usually $100+ a person. Try to find restaurants that stick as close to their main menu as possible (check out what this year's Restaurant Week menus look like here). Make a reservation, especially at your favorite spot. Restaurant Week is always busy, and you might not be able to get in. Don't be afraid to call if a restaurant is booked. Sometimes, restaurants will extend their promotions after Restaurant Week (or offer the prix fixe year round). Plus, it never hurts to make sure there are no cancellations! FREE AppDownload
The U.S. economy wasn't always the biggest in the world. And in a few years, it will most likely lose its position as the biggest economy in the world. Here's an interesting chart from Nomura's Alastair Newton using data from economist Angus Maddison. It shows the evolving global economic shares of the U.S., Western Europe, China, and India. Nomura FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Ints Kalnins(Reuters) -Wanxiang Group, China's largest auto parts company, won a bankruptcy auction for the assets ofFisker Automotive, the defunct manufacturer of the Karma plug-in hybrid sports car, Fisker said on Friday. Wanxiang's bid has been valued at about $149.2 million, representing $126.2 million of cash, $8 million of assumed liabilities, and a contribution of common equity in an affiliate designated by Wanxiang, Fisker said in a statement. The sale will be presented to the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware, on Tuesday for approval by Judge Kevin Gross. Wanxiang outbid an affiliate of Richard Li, a Hong Kong billionaire and Fisker investor, said two sources who were briefed on the auction. The auction began on Wednesday and ended on Friday. Li had presented an initial bid of around $55 million, the sources said. There were 19 rounds of bidding, according to Fisker. California-based Fisker was the brainchild of Henrik Fisker, a former BMW designer. The company's elegant cars were hobbled by cost overruns and tech glitches and in 2012 it stopped production to conserve cash. Wanxiang has been building a U.S. manufacturing presence and last year the U.S. government cleared it to acquire the bankrupt assets of A123 Systems Inc, which made Fisker batteries. Both Fisker and A123 were funded in part with loans from the U.S. government that were meant to foster clean-fuel technologies. Wanxiang outbid Johnson Controls Inc for A123, and the Chinese company also overcame an active lobbying effort to block it from obtaining technology developed with U.S. taxpayer money. Fisker filed for bankruptcy in November with a plan to sell its assets to Li in return for Li forgiving a portion of theU.S. government loan he had bought. Fisker creditors opposed that plan, which would have left them with almost nothing, and instead teamed up with Wanxiang and pushed for an auction. (Additional reporting by Aditi Shrivastava; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
LoCThe Jones Act has struck again. NorthJersey.com's John C. Ensslin reports an emergency shipment of road salt to relieve the state's depleted supplies are stuck in Maine because the vessel carrying them is not flying a U.S. flag. Enacted in 1920, the Jones Act (formally the Maritime Act) dictates that all vessels traveling between U.S. ports be American made and fly American colors. It came into existence at a time when the sinking of the Lusitania, which brought the country into World War I, was still fresh in everyone's minds.  Today that threat has largely vanished.  Yet the law remains on the books, presumably because no elected official would want to deal with the optics of halting something so superficially pro-American. But just in the past few years we've seen several instances of how harmful it is. In the wake of Hurricane Sandy, emergency fuel rations could not be brought into the east coast until a federal waiver was obtained. And many believe the act has kept gas prices elevated, since there is now a shortage of Jones Act-eligible vessels in the U.S. that can deliver the booming crude coming out of the country's midsection. A waiver for the situation in New Jersey is currently under discussion, Ensslin writes. "I’ve not heard from the federal government any reasonable explanation that would preclude a waiver under these circumstances,” Assembly Minority Leader Jon Bramnick said.  Read the full story on NorthJersey.com » FREE AppDownload
GiphyNEW YORK (MainStreet) — Perhaps the most famous pronouncement by a U.S. president on the topic of business was made by the relatively obscure Calvin Coolidge, who called it "the chief business of the American people" in 1925. But Silent Cal's maxim -- part of a speech that expressed his profound approval of the profit motive -- turns out to be not at all representative of presidential thoughts on business and finance throughout U.S. history. Looking back at writings and speeches from George Washington to George W. Bush, we discover a startling number of statements that wouldn't have seemed out of place on a protester's placard in Zuccotti Park. The White House, it seems, has been occupied by some surprisingly radical economic thinkers. Of course, we expect populism from certain famous presidents -- the anti-bank Andrew Jackson, the trust-busting Theodore Roosevelt, the class traitor FDR -- but it can be jarring to read an indictment of capitalism from such a stolid symbol of American power as Thomas Jefferson or Abraham Lincoln. Of course, talk is cheap, and politics expensive; most of these quotations were not given from the so-called bully pulpit of the presidency. Still, they remind us that our present discourse, in which redistribution is a dirty word, is something contingent, not essentially American. Remember the outcry after President Barack Obama criticized "fat cat bankers on Wall Street" in 2009? As we're about to see, that comment was actually pretty tame, by historical standards. Here are 18 remarkable thoughts on money and the public good from American presidents. George Washington on regulation From trade our citizens will not be restrained, and therefore it behoves us to place it in the most convenient channels under proper regulations, freed as much as possible from those vices, which luxury, the consequence of wealth and power, naturally introduces. John Adams on the fourth estate The preservation of the means of knowledge among the lowest ranks is of more importance to the public than all the property of all the rich men in the country. It is even of more consequence to the rich themselves and to their prosperity. The only question is whether it is a public emolument; and if it is, the rich ought undoubtedly to contribute in the same proportion as to all other public burdens--that is, in proportion to their wealth, which is secured by public expenses. Thomas Jefferson on corporations I hope we shall take warning from the example [of England] and crush in its birth the aristocracy of our monied corporations which dare already to challenge our government to a trial of strength and bid defiance to the laws of our country. James Madison on marketmakers The stock-jobbers will become the pretorian band of the Government, at once its tool &amp; its tyrant; bribed by its largesses, &amp; overawing it by clamours &amp; combinations. Andrew Jackson on the influence of money It is to be regretted that the rich and powerful too often bend the acts of government to their selfish purposes. Abraham Lincoln on bailouts These capitalists generally act harmoniously and in concert to fleece the people, and now that they have got into a quarrel with themselves, we are called upon to appropriate the people's money to settle the quarrel. Ulysses S. Grant on financial lawlessness The banks may violate the law and be sustained in doing so. But the President of the United States cannot violate the law. Rutherford B. Hayes on corporate tyranny The real difficulty is with the vast wealth and power in the hands of the few and the unscrupulous who represent or control capital. Hundreds of laws of Congress and the state legislatures are in the interests of these men and against the interests of the workingmen. These need to be exposed and repealed. All laws on corporations, on taxation, on trusts, will, descent, and the like, need examination and extensive change. This is a government of the people, by the people, and for the people no longer. It is a government of corporations, by corporations, and for corporations. -- How is this? Grover Cleveland on capitalism Communism is a hateful thing and a menace to peace and organized government; but the communism of combined wealth and capital, the outgrowth of overweening cupidity and selfishness, which insidiously undermines the justice and integrity of free institutions, is not less dangerous than the communism of oppressed poverty and toil, which, exasperated by injustice and discontent, attacks with wild disorder the citadel of rule. Franklin D. Roosevelt on organized money We had to struggle with the old enemies of peace--business and financial monopoly, speculation, reckless banking, class antagonism, sectionalism, war profiteering. They had begun to consider the government of the United States as a mere appendage to their own affairs. We know now that Government by organized money is just as dangerous as Government by organized mob. Harry Truman on greed We worship money instead of honor. A billionaire, in our estimation, is much greater in these days in the eyes of the people than the public servant who works for public interest. It makes no difference if the billionaire rode to wealth on the sweat of little children and the blood of underpaid labor. No one ever considered Carnegie libraries steeped in the blood of the Homestead steelworkers, but they are. We do not remember that the Rockefeller Foundation is founded on the dead miners of the Colorado Fuel &amp; Iron Company and a dozen other similar performances. We worship Mammon... It is a pity that Wall Street, with all its ability to control all the wealth of the nation and to hire the best law brains in the country, has not produced some statesmen, some men who could see the dangers of bigness and of the concentration of the control of wealth. Instead of working to meet the situation, they are still employing the best law brains to serve greed and self-interest. People can only stand so much, and one of these days there will be a settlement... John F. Kennedy on the president's role The responsibility of the President, therefore, is especially great. He must serve as a catalyst, an energizer, the defender of the public good and the public interest against all the narrow private interests which operate in our society. Richard Nixon on welfare What I am proposing is that the federal government build a foundation under the income of every American family with dependent children that cannot care for itself--and wherever in America that family may live. Jimmy Carter on economic philosophy Powerful lobbyists, both inside and outside government, have distorted an admirable American belief in free enterprise into the right of extremely rich citizens to accumulate and retain more and more wealth and pass all of it on to descendants. Profits from stock trading and dividends are being given privileged tax status compared to the wages earned by schoolteachers and firemen. To quote a Christian friend, the new economic philosophy in Washington is that a rising tide raises all yachts. Where free unions and collective bargaining are forbidden, freedom is lost! George H. W. Bush on working in finance I want to know and understand people, but the people I'd be doing business with in the investment business, I know to some degree now. I am not sure I want to capitalize completely on the benefits I received at birth--that is on the benefits of my social position. Such qualities as industriousness, integrity, etc. which I have or at least hope I have had inculcated into me by my parents, at least to some degree, (I hope) I do want to use, but merely doing well because I have had the opportunity to attend the same debut parties as some of my customers, does not appeal to me. Bill Clinton on studying business law I redeemed myself in Corporate Finance when I aced the final exam. When Professor Chirelstein asked me how I could be so good at Corporate Finance but bad at Taxation, I told him it was because corporate finance was like politics: within a given set of rules, it was a constant struggle for power, with all parties trying to avoid getting shafted but eager to shaft. George W. Bush on Wall Street For most of my time at Harvard, I had no idea how I was going to use my business degree. I knew what I did not want to do. I had no desire to go to Wall Street. While I knew decent and admirable people who had worked on Wall Street, including my grandfather Prescott Bush, I was suspicious of the financial industry. I used to tell friends that Wall Street is the kind of place where they will buy you or sell you, but they don't really give a hoot about you so long as they can make money off you. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidConcerns about a Chinese hard-landing set off by Beijing's efforts to deflate the credit bubble are making headlines again. GDP growth slowed to 7.7% in 2013, the lowest level in 14 years. And the slowdown has played a part in the emerging markets rout we have seen recently. But recent trade and lending data, and Lunar New Year sales have come in better than expected. We reached out to Jim Rogers, chairman of Rogers Holdings , to get his thoughts on the slowdown and on what everyone is getting wrong about China. Rogers told us that we shouldn't be very concerned about the slowdown in the Chinese economy. However, he does worry about China's debt at the local levels. He also took issue with the naysayers calling for a major crash. Business Insider: What worries you the most about China right now? Jim Rogers: The high levels of debt in some areas. Some of the provinces and companies have built up debt in recent years during the recovery, since there has been so very much artificial liquidity all over the world. All the money printing in the developed world is causing distortions everywhere including China. BI: How concerned should we be about the economic slowdown in China? JR: Not much. The government is and has been trying to cool real estate. On the other hand, the Plenary Session in November decided to emphasize several sectors over the next decade or so. Those industries will be doing better no matter what happens in the world. So some will be improving; some declining. The government is trying to cool real estate so I would avoid [that]. BI: What is the one thing people get wrong when they talk about China? JR: Few seem to understand the historical significance of what is happening there. E.g. Gordon Chang has been writing books and articles since 2001 predicting the collapse of China and the disappearance of the Communist Party. Jim Chanos has been predicting the collapse of China since 2009 saying it will be “1000 times worse than Dubai”. [I explained at the time that showed no understanding of Dubai or of China.] Many in China do not fully understand either. As the US was rising to its power and glory during the 19th Century, we had a horrible civil war, 15 depressions [Yes, with a D.], few human rights, little rule of law, periodic massacres in the streets, etc., etc. yet we still became the most successful country in the 20th Century. China will have plenty of setbacks along the way as does every country, company, family, and individual that rises.   FREE AppDownload
Andrew E. Larson via FlickrOne in every 1,058 U.S. homes received a foreclosure filing in January, according to the latest foreclosure data from RealtyTrac. Foreclosure filings were down 18% from a year ago, but up 8% on the month, the biggest monthly increase since May 2012. The rise in foreclosure activity was driven by a surge in foreclosure starts  — properties that have started the foreclosure process and scheduled foreclosure auctions.  "The monthly increase in January foreclosure activity was somewhat expected after a holiday lull, but the sharp annual increases in some states shows that many states are not completely out of the woods when it comes to cleaning up the wreckage of the housing bust," said Daren Blomquist, vice president at RealtyTrac in a press release. "The foreclosure rebound pattern is not only showing up in judicial states like New Jersey, where foreclosure activity reached a 40-month high in January, but also some non-judicial states like California, where foreclosure starts jumped 57 percent from a year ago, following 17 consecutive months of annual decreases." We drew on RealtyTrac's report to highlight the 14 metros with the highest foreclosure rates. Note: The metros are ranked by foreclosure rate, i.e., one in every X homes received a foreclosure filing. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsMIT's Simmons Hall in Cambridge, Mass.Four students at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology are facing a New Jersey fraud investigation for a Bitcoin mining project created at a hackathon. But despite the legality of the students' invention, MIT has been accused of not immediately rallying behind its students and their innovative work.  Two anonymous-yet-prominent university figures are seeking signatures for a letter addressed to MIT president Rafael Reif, which criticizes the university for not supporting the students. According to the letter, MIT’s lawyers told the students they would not get involved in a case that didn’t directly involve the university. However, MIT provost Martin Schmidt said the university advised the students to get their own lawyers and MIT would support them as best they could, according to The Boston Globe. The students’ invention, called "Tidbit," would allow Internet users to loan computing power to website owners for the sake of mining Bitcoins in exchange for not seeing ads on the site. Tidbit is still a prototype, but according to the Globe, New Jersey authorities subpoenaed Tidbit’s developers for source code and documents related to the project, and are investigating whether the project violates New Jersey’s consumer fraud act.  Tidbit’s case parallels that of Aaron Swartz, a former MIT student who killed himself in January 2013 after facing federal felony charges related to downloading millions of academic journal articles on the university’s network. Critics at the time said MIT should have done more to support his legal battle.  In response to the criticism, MIT president Reif issued his own letter claiming Tidbit has the support of MIT and that the university should provide students with better resources for legal counsel.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim UrquhartIn somewhat good news, Bitcoin exchange MtGox has announced that users will soon be able to make withdrawals again.  "We apologize for the inconvenience caused by the recent suspension of external bitcoin transfers," they said in a statement on Monday. "Fortunately, as we announced on Saturday we have now implemented a solution that should enable withdrawals and mitigate any issues caused by transaction malleability." "With this new system in place, MtGox should be able to resume withdrawals soon. At the beginning we will do so at a moderated pace and with new daily/monthly limits in place to prevent any problems with the new system and to take into account current market conditions." MtGox halted withdrawals after it discovered an exploitable glitch in its software. "Thanks to our friends at Blockchain.info, MtGox now has a workaround that will use a unique identifier created by Blockchain to show whether transactions have been modified or not," they said. "This will prevent any fraudulent use of the malleability issue and protect the assets of our customers." Unfortunately, damage has been done to the already fragile relationship the world has with the unconventional currency. "Bitcoin evangelists are surely deluding themselves if they think this week's hacks were anything less than a huge setback for widespread Bitcoin adoption," argued Business Insider's Rob Wile. Things are worse for MtGox, the once dominant Bitcoin exchange, where trading volume has dried up and prices trade at a significant discount relative to peers. Currently, Bitcoin trades at around $365 on MtGox (see chart below). Other exchanges like Bitstamp has it at closer to $645. Clark MoodyThe fall of Bitcoin on MtGox. FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesFor most people, a home is the largest purchase they’ll ever make, so choosing the wrong property can have disastrous implications for their wallets and well-being. Still, many homeowners feel a strong sense of pride in putting their mark on the property, building equity and having a place to truly call their own. Whether you’re a seasoned or first-time buyer, here’s a look at seven home-buying mistakes to avoid. 1. Using the wrong real estate agent. Just because your sister’s college roommate’s friend just got a real estate license doesn’t mean she’s the right agent for you. San Francisco real estate agent Herman Chan suggests vetting agents and looking for someone who does real estate full time and knows the local inventory. “You can lose an offer if you’re not responsive in a couple of hours,” he says. Request the agent’s sales data, and find out how he or she communicates. Chan recommends asking questions like these to gauge the agent’s tech-savviness: “Is it OK if I text you? Is it OK to DocuSign things? If I can’t make an open house on Sunday, can you shoot me a video?” If you prefer to check texts and emails on your phone, you may not want an agent who insists on faxing contracts. SEE ALSO: The Best Online Tools for Your Housing Search 2. Shopping before you get preapproved. Before you get serious about buying real estate, find out how much mortgage you qualify for and get a preapproval letter from your lender. “If you fall in love [with a property], write that offer and then find out you can’t afford it, it’s an emotional roller coaster you can’t afford,” Chan says. Many agents won’t even take buyers to showings until they have a preapproval letter for that very reason. 3. Maxing out your spending power. Qualifying for a half-million dollar mortgage does not mean you should buy a McMansion. Jon Sterling, regional sales manager for Chase International Real Estate in Lake Tahoe, Calif., says he’s seen people, especially first-time buyers, make this mistake. “It’s wiser to be a little more conservative,” he adds. Homeowners have additional expenses such as property taxes, condo fees and maintenance that renters do not, so some first-time buyers fail to budget for these extra costs and assume they can afford a monthly mortgage equivalent to the rent they paid. “If you buy into a [homeowners association], you don’t know what their future plans are,” Sterling says. If, for instance, a storm rips the roof off the clubhouse or the association decides to upgrade the common areas, you may get hit with a special assessment to cover those costs. For these unexpected situations, it’s a good idea to keep a cash reserve on hand. Some dual-income couples choose to qualify based on just one income to give themselves a financial buffer. 4. Taking advice from outsiders. Parents, relatives or friends who haven’t bought property in the local market may not understand local pricing and market conditions. Parents or in-laws who own houses in the suburbs may also have unrealistic expectations about what the equivalent amount of money buys in the city. “Be careful about people that are giving you advice from across the country,” Sterling says. When parents are gifting money for a down payment, their input may be necessary, so Sterling tries to show properties only when “all the decision-makers are in the car.” SEE ALSO: What to Know Before Gifting a Down Payment 5. Skipping the inspection. Home inspections can help alert potential buyers to problems such as structural issues, faulty wiring and other problems a layperson probably wouldn’t spot. But if you’re in a market that moves quickly, you might be tempted to skip an inspection to make the offer more appealing, Sterling says. Insisting on an inspection might slow the process, but as he points out, “any seller that is going to knock you out because of that is probably hiding something anyway. You’re spending hundreds of thousands of dollars, [so you want] to make sure you’re getting what you think you’re getting.” 6. Overdoing contingencies. While home inspections are recommended, Michael Alderfer, a Washington, D.C., agent with the national real estate brokerage Redfin, says some homebuyers include so many inspection-related contingencies that it can scare off the seller and his or her agent. “Some buyers are nervous, so they’re looking for extra ways to change their mind and walk away,” he says. “You can write a competitive offer without all these extra things and leave yourself a couple of ways to get out.” He suggests talking to your agent before submitting the offer, so you’ll feel confident your interests are protected. SEE ALSO: 6 Tips for Boomers Leaving Big Homes Behind 7. Getting too attached to one property. In competitive markets, you may have to put in offers on several properties before one is accepted. Alderfer says some buyers get so infatuated with one property that a rejected offer hits them hard. “It’s OK to feel anxious, but you need to be able to fall in and out of love during a home search,” he says. “If you find a home that you think is perfect for you and you don’t get it, you can’t stay down too long. You have to recognize that wasn’t the house for you.” This article originally appeared at U.S. News & World Report.  Copyright 2014. Follow U.S. News & World Report on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Creative Edge Nutrition, a Michigan-based nutritional supplements company, has come up with an interesting plan to legally sell pot on a large scale. The company believes it could generate as much as $5 billion a year at more than 80% profit by selling medical pot in Canada. Creative Edge launched a Canadian subsidiary, called CEN Biotech, and hopes to grow medical marijuana in that country, up to 1.3 million pounds annually. "1.3 million pounds equates to about $5 billion a year — you're looking at $8 gram — at 80-87% profit," CEO Bill Chaaban told Business Insider. That would be a pretty big feat for Creative Edge Nutrition, which is trading for about 9 cents right now. Creative Edge is an "over-the-counter"/Pink Sheets stock, meaning it's a high-risk stock not traded on a stock exchange.  Creative Edge's application to grow pot in Canada hasn't yet been approved, Chaaban acknowledges. And it's competing with several hundred applicants, industry site Marijuana Index reports.  But he shared these details could the company get the nod: Obviously, the legal marijuana industry is young and full of risk. But here's a look into the reason why this CEO is eager to take on that risk. Business Insider: Tell me how this idea began.  Bill Chaaban: We started in the nutrition supplement business, launched a brand called Cenergy and over the years acquired some e-commerce sites that sell just about every brand of sports and dietary supplements. About a year and a half ago, we decided we wanted to get into medical marijuana. I canvassed the regulatory landscape and I found it was too risky for a public company to grow and sell medical marijuana. Then an opportunity presented itself in Canada. BI: Can you tell me more about the Canadian marijuana model? BC: The Canadian medical marijuana program is run by Health Canada which is like Canada's FDA. They are changing their system in Canada to license large super growers to supply the whole market. You grow it and sell it directly to the patient, there would be no dispensaries. BI: Does that mean that there will only be a few companies supplying all of Canada? BC: There's no limit on the number of companies they are going to license, however getting a license is very difficult. A lot of cities in Canada don't want commercial growers in their cities and you have to have the local police and fire approval. Our license, that we applied for, is for import/export and sale of medical marijuana and we applied to grow and sell 1.3 million pounds per calendar year. BI: Without dispensaries how will this work?  BC: Once you become a licensed producer, you'll be put on the Health Canada website. As of April 1, Canada won't require a card. You go to your health care provider — a physician, a physician's assistant, a nurse practitioner, a dentist — anyone able to prescribe a narcotic — and they write a prescription.  You send the prescription into a licensed producer and you pay the producer directly. It's shipped to your home via courier ... everything is shipped with a secured carrier with chain of custody. In Colorado, there's a growing industry of "edibles," food and drinks that includes pot. Is that happening in Canada? No. Not at all. It's basically just the bud, not edibles. What are your plans to sell marijuana in the U.S. market? We've hired lobbyists in Michigan to support some bills in Michigan, like Bill 660, which actually reflects the Canadian market slightly, where Michigan is calling for super growth authorities ... also Michigan wants medical marijuana to only be dispensed in a pharmacy. Those bills have passed and we've already found locations in Michigan and we're in talks with Michigan legislature. We're just waiting for [a change in] federal law. You mention import/export. What other countries are involved and how? Under the U.N. convention of control of narcotics, there's 29 countries that view medical marijuana as a narcotic. So every single one of those countries will be a market we're going to try to sell to because we'll be backed by the Canadian government. [For instance,] Israel and Canada have a free trade agreement and over the last 25 years, Israel and Canada have been supplying each other's populations with medicine. Health Canada also allows importation. We'll be able to import seeds from any of those countries where growing medical marijuana is allowed: Netherlands, Columbia, Mexico, Israel and other countries. What costs are involved? Our investment in our [Canadian growing] facility. It will cost $12 million to build it. And we're keeping a $4 million war chest for operations, lobbying, etc. Taxes will be remitted to Canada. It can be taxed from 5%-13%, depending on the Province. We'll be growing the marijuana in a sterile environment, using the standards as if we were manufacturing drugs. Any employee comes to work has their temperature measured. If they are ill, they are not allowed into the facility. People wear scrubs, hair nets, uniformed. You have to have third-party lab testing. What kind of revenue and profits do you expect to make? 1.3 million pounds equates to about $5 billion a year. You're looking at $8 gram. You're selling by the gram at retail level. Wholesale will be by the pound, but majority of sales will be retail. Profit margin: 80-87 percent profit. Will it be as lucrative in the U.S. as it will in Canada? That depends on the model. Obviously, if you are growing at scale, the costs come down. The largest players are going to stand out and be more profitable than the smaller players. How did you raise the money you needed? We entered into a collaborative partnership with a company called GrowLife and sold them 25% of our revenue stream. They are funding our operations, providing financing and equipment. They are in the picks and shovels part of the business. They sell lighting and equipment to other growers. It's very hard to get bank financing and it's hard to get VC financing. You can get it from them, but the problem with VCs is that they are all looking at having way too much equity. They wanted upwards of 70%. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange February 4, 2014. (Reuters) - A rapid recovery in U.S. stock prices after the recent slide may be enough to make many investors who remained bullish feel a little smug. That would be a mistake, market strategists say. Investors should instead take the emerging markets scare that drove stocks down about 6 percent at the end of January as a warning of more risks to come. Things have changed from 2013, they stress, and this is no longer a market that will lift all boats indiscriminately. So playing some defense is appropriate. Cantor Fitzgerald, for one, said it was considering new hedges at these levels. Peter Cecchini, global head of equity derivatives in New York, said markets would be "far more sensitive to bad news" in the current environment, which "presents a new volatility paradigm in which risk management will be rewarded rather than punished." With few obvious justifications for stocks climbing further, investors are left in the position they were in at the beginning of the year: unsure about the economy and earnings, but facing an environment where few other assets offer the same potential return as the equity market. Despite the rebound in the past two weeks that has taken the S&amp;P 500 to within 0.5 percent of its all-time closing high, investors have been more circumspect in their approach. Trading volume on down days has far outpaced the action in positive sessions, indicating traders are more eager to unload shares than chase gains. Investment flows have followed a comparable pattern, according to Lipper's fund-tracking data. Investors returned money to equity funds in the latest week, adding nearly $6.9 billion in the period ended February 12, but that pales in comparison to the more than $22 billion yanked from stock funds over the previous two weeks. In another bearish sign, margin debt hit its fourth straight monthly record in December at $444.93 billion, according to Thomson Reuters data, a factor that has historically preceded market pullbacks, including shortly before the pre-financial crisis top in July 2007. Increased debt creates the potential for margin calls, which occur when securities purchased with borrowed money fall below a certain value, forcing the investor to sell assets. For sure, U.S. stock investors are giving the economy the benefit of the doubt for now, with some weak economic data being pinned on the arctic weather and heavier-than-normal snow storms that have gripped much of the country. But if the data for such indicators as payrolls and industrial production doesn't improve as spring approaches, patience may soon run thin. "We need to see pent-up demand released, come late March or the spring," said Michael O'Rourke, chief market strategist at JonesTrading in Greenwich, Connecticut. "If we don't see some kind of bounce back, then people should be concerned." The conditions aren't as bleak as the weather. Emerging markets have calmed somewhat, though they remain on edge, particularly in countries suffering from political turmoil or weak budget and current account profiles. U.S. lawmakers signed off last week on an extension to the U.S. debt ceiling without much fuss - removing some political uncertainty. And some metrics indicate that valuations have not become too stretched. The S&amp;P 500's forward P/E ratio of 15.2 is near its long-term average. The index's earnings yield - the inverse of the P/E ratio and a quick way to compare equity valuations with bonds - is hovering around 6.6 percent. That is slightly above the 6.27 percent yield of junk bonds, suggesting stocks remain a better value than their closest fixed-income equivalent. In the fourth-quarter earnings season, more companies than average have topped analysts' expectations on both earnings and revenue, though those estimates came down before the season began. In a sign of improving momentum, 56 percent of S&amp;P 500 companies are trading above their 50-day moving average, up from about 25 percent on February 3, according to data from StockCharts.com. "The strength in equities over the last few days, in particular, has been quite impressive, and certainly surpassed our expectations for any oversold bounce," Jonathan Krinsky, chief market technician at MKM Partners inGreenwich, Connecticut, wrote to clients. Yet even if markets do avoid a pronounced pullback, the U.S. Federal Reserve's gradual pullback of economic stimulus through cuts in its bond-buying program may limit any upside. Leo Grohowski, who oversees about $185 billion in client assets as chief investment officer of BNY Mellon Wealth Management in New York, recently affirmed BNY Mellon's year-end S&amp;P 500 target of 1,900 to 1,950, the low end of which is less than 4 percent from current levels and is expected to come against a backdrop of modest economic growth and dividends. "Valuations are not terribly exciting here," he said. "While bull markets don't tend to end with multiples in the mid-teens, it won't require much in the way of P/E expansion to hit our target." (Editing by David Gaffen, Dan Burns and Jan Paschal) FREE AppDownload
Mary Cybulski/Paramount PicturesWall Streeters, like any other group of people, have their own language based on what they do and see every day. That means it's a language based on money. Wall Streeters go "long" or "short" on anything and see "upside" or "downside" everywhere.  The same word for clients is also used for girls.  Not all of Wall Street's tribes — the traders, the investment bankers, the analysts, brokers etc. — use all of these phrases. Some of them are specific to each group. For example, if you ever hear someone say they're "junked up" on something, you can bet you're talking to a trader. That's just how they roll. Be aware. Big shouts to Turney Duff, author of The Buy-Side: A Wall Street Trader's Tale of Spectacular Excess, for helping us with some of the definitions for the following 22 phrases you'll hear on Wall Street. This could be handy if you ever find yourself stuck behind some i-bankers waiting for a drink at Ulysses. It's hard to be in a world where you don't know the language. ____________ Long and short, used to describe investments expected to go up or down, respectively, are used to replace positive or negative feelings about anything. A typical usage: Banker 1: "I'm long seersucker, short flannel. Hipsters are a fad, my friend." To communicate absolute certainty, a banker may say they're "triple long" or "triple short" an outcome or object. A sarcastic way to say "absolutely not." A typical usage: Banker 1: Let’s watch ‘Love Actually’ Banker 2: SOLD This indicates that there's a lot of (upside), or no (downside) benefit in a given situation. Banker: "Upside of going to the Hamptons this weekend is that James is throwing a party at Pink Elephant, downside is that he's inviting my ex." A piker is somebody who pretends to know everything about the Street but doesn't actually know anything and makes very little money working for bottom tier firm. This term comes from the late 19th century slang verb "pike" meaning "withdraw from an agreement because of overcautiousness." If you don't know this term, you haven't been anywhere near anyone on Wall Street. The BSD is the person that does the biggest deals, bring in the most money, and is generally a badass everyone looks up to. The term was referenced in Michael Lewis's "Liar's Poker": "If he could make millions of dollars come out of those phones, he became that most revered of all species: a Big Swinging D*ck." Most famously said by Warren Buffett, this means that you're looking for big deals. Here's how he put it after announcing that he would do a deal to acquire Heinz with private equity firm 3G. "I'm ready for another elephant. Please, if you see any walking by, just call me," he told CNBC. "We're prepared. Our elephant gun has been reloaded, and my trigger finger is itchy." Trading big money or a large number of securities. Hedge fund trader: "I have a friend over at Morgan Stanley that trades size all day every day. We should poach him." The money it would take for you to leave your job and never work again. This can be in reference to any security, and it means you're super bullish. Traders could also use it in real life to express enthusiasm for an object. Trader: "I'm junked up on Venezuelan 10-years!" When a sellside analyst upgrades or downgrades a stock for a stupid reason. Trader: "You see that Guggenheim analysts' Twitter clowngrade? You can't monetize that s--- yet!" Traditionally and professionally this means that you're building business, a portfolio of trades or deals. In slang, it means collecting drug deal orders from friends to call them in. Back in the old days, trade orders to be executed by brokers came out on ticker tape — a long roll of paper constantly printing orders and emptying them out to the trading floor. Now all of this is done by computers, of course. However, the phrase has stuck. Now the tape isn't just for stocks or bonds though, it could be for ordering anything from food to drugs. Meaning you're filled on an order and can take no more requests for anything from food to drugs. This means maybe. When placing an order for a client, a trader may say "treat me subject" to indicate that the client may have the order they want after the trader makes a phone call to double check that it's all in the clear. The phrase is also used in everyday conversation to say maybe. Banker 1: "We're going to Nobu 57 after work." Banker 2: "Treat me subject." Girls or clients, either way there are a lot of them in the sea. In trading terms, this means you're free to go to the market. Conversationally, it means "feel free." Banker 1: "Should we order the $300 bottle of Barolo?" Banker 2: "It's not held, so whatever." An upgrade. Say you're partying at PH-D at the Dream Downtown and your Managing Director decides to buy a bunch of bottles of Grey Goose. That is an uptick. You beat someone to the punch. It's a technical term, yes, but if a Banker 1 is eyeing a girl at the bar and Banker 2 goes and talks to her first... The next day at the office, Banker 2 to Banker 1: "Sorry bro, traded ahead." This would usually be salted with expletives, and followed by junior bankers scurrying. The staffer is the usually the very unhappy VP who has to give assignments to analysts and associates, often at night or on the weekends. In most work environments, this could be a friendly question or perhaps a segue into a negotiation about working a bit on Sunday. On Wall Street, from the staffer, it means whatever plans you had are canceled.  This is a request for additional details, something that you'll hear analysts ask on earnings calls. In conversation, it'd more likely be asking for details about a night out.  Looking at YouTube.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Raheb Homavandi (IRAN)Ali Divandari, chairman and managing director of Iran's Bank Mellat, talks to a Reuters correspondent at his office in Tehran February 17, 2009. LONDON (Reuters) - Iran's largest private bank is suing the British government for almost $4 billion in damages after the Supreme Court quashed sanctions imposed against it over alleged links to Tehran's nuclear program. Bank Mellat wants compensation for the "significant pecuniary loss" and substantial reputational damage it sustained as a result of sanctions imposed in 2009, according to a claim filed in London's High Court and seen by Reuters on Monday. It claims the UK government also successfully lobbied other authorities to impose their own sanctions that ultimately caused and continue to cause the loss of profitable business, customers, banking relationships and dealing services. "(Bank Mellat) doesn't want to be in any way vindictive, it just wants justice," Bank Mellat's lawyer Sarosh Zaiwallatold Reuters. A spokesperson for the UK Treasury declined to comment as the case is ongoing. Western governments believe the Islamic Republic is attempting to enrich uranium for use in atomic bombs.Europe and the United States have imposed sanctions against specific Iranian people, state institutions or companies to persuade Tehran to rein in the program and open up to U.N. inspectors. Tehran maintains that its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes only and Western governments are now starting to ease part of the sanctions, after Iran and world powers reached an interim deal in Geneva in November. Some measures will be suspended in the next few months while Iran curtails its most sensitive work on uranium enrichment and tries to negotiate a final agreement. Britain's Supreme Court ruled last June that the government was wrong to have imposed sanctions against Bank Mellat in 2009, arguing that the government had been "irrational" and "disproportionate". The bank also won a legal battle at the European Union's General Court, which quashed the sanctions on grounds that EU governments had failed to provide enough information to support their case that the lender had assisted Iran's nuclear program. EU governments appealed that decision and a new verdict is pending at the highest court, the European Court of Justice. Bank Mellat's European operations remain closed and its assets frozen while the appeal is being considered. Bank Mellat is the first Iranian plaintiff against European sanctions to reach the stage of claiming damages. A number of other Iranian companies are bringing suits and state entities are taking legal action, Zaiwalla said in January. (Editing by Anthony Barker and Jason Neely) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sarah ConardSt. Louis attorney David Wasinger is seen in his Brentwood, Missouri office February 10, 2014.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Before attorney David Wasinger decided to take on two of the biggest global banks in federal court in New York, he had visited the city just twice: once when he was 6, and the second time on a tour bus with his children. As the sole partner at a five-attorney firm in St. Louis, Missouri, Wasinger was mostly focused on local business litigation and had never represented a whistleblower. But in January 2012 an old business acquaintance was ready to go public with accusations of widespread mortgage fraud at Bank of America's Countrywide unit, and he turned to Wasinger. That touched off a series of events that put Wasinger at the center of two of the biggest legal cases to emerge from the 2007-2009 financial crisis, against Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, respectively. In January, the U.S. Attorney's office in Manhattan said it is seeking up to $2.1 billion in penalties from Bank of America after a jury in October found the firm liable for fraud over defective mortgages sold by Countrywide. Wasinger's client, former Countrywide Executive Vice President Edward O'Donnell, was the star witness for the prosecution. And earlier this month, JPMorgan Chase agreed to pay $614 million to settle claims that it defrauded the U.S. government by submitting sub par home loans for federal insurance. The case relied in part on evidence provided by another Wasinger client. "We've been very, very fortunate," Wasinger, 50, told Reuters in an interview. "I am just a country lawyer from Missouri trying to hold Wall Street accountable." It has not been determined how much money Wasinger's firm or his clients will receive. Typically, a whistleblower who exposes fraud against the government can receive 15 percent to 25 percent of the settlement, though a court can cut the award depending on how much the person contributed to the case and other factors. Experts say Wasinger's payout from the JPMorgan case could reach into the millions of dollars, an amount that would be a windfall for his relatively modest firm. His potential gains from the Bank of America case would likely be much smaller, as that case was tried under a law that limits whistleblower recoveries. Wasinger declined to comment on possible earnings. Representing whistleblowers is a lucrative business for lawyers and is hyper competitive, since few corporate insiders who come forward actually have the information that leads to big government lawsuits. What makes Wasinger's situation unusual is that he stumbled into the field. Wasinger grew up two hours north of St. Louis in Hannibal, Missouri, an agricultural community of 18,000 people that is famous for being Mark Twain's hometown. He earned his law degree from Vanderbilt University in Tennessee in 1988, and worked for a short time at a large regional firm in St. Louis. In 1991, Wasinger joined a small law firm with a colleague that has morphed into the Wasinger Law Group. His wife, Colleen, is also an attorney at the firm, which handles real estate litigation and partnership disputes, among other local business matters. It is a small but busy practice, according to Wasinger, who said he typically worked 40 to 50 hours a week. The Bank of America case took him to a whole new world of high-pressure New York trials and 90- to 100-hour work weeks. Prior to that case, Wasinger had never before worked on litigation involving the False Claims Act, the law that allows whistleblowers to collect rewards if they disclose fraud against the government. But Wasinger had known his client for years, having represented another company O'Donnell worked at in an unfair competition case in the 1990s. In February 2012, Wasinger filed a sealed case against Bank of America on behalf of O'Donnell, who accused Countrywide of selling thousands of shoddy mortgage loans to the government-controlled Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Wasinger said he decided to file the suit in New York as the local U.S. Attorney's office did not have much experience with financial fraud cases. He drafted the complaint and traveled to the Big Apple, his third visit. "He is a very dogged and determined lawyer," said Heidi Wendel, who dealt with Wasinger when she was a lawyer in the civil frauds unit at the Manhattan U.S. Attorney's office. She is now in private practices at the law firm Jones Day. "He drafted a solid complaint that could get the government's foot in the door," Wendel said, referring to the Countrywide lawsuit. Wasinger also filed a similar complaint with the Justice Department under another law, the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act (FIRREA). Then he waited. In October 2012, the Justice Department joined O'Donnell's lawsuit. Bank of America decided to fight it, and the trial took four weeks with O'Donnell as the primary witness. It was a much larger trial than any cases Wasinger had been involved with, and one he described as intense and stressful. The government's Countrywide trial team would often stay in the office until midnight or 1 a.m. One Justice Department lawyer slept on an air mattress in the office after his home was damaged by Hurricane Sandy. Wasinger said he was often daunted by the army of Bank of America lawyers that would pull up to court each morning. "It was like a presidential motorcade," he said. "Meanwhile, DOJ doesn't even have a coffee pot in their office." The government and Bank of America are waiting for a judge to determine the bank's penalty. A spokesman for Bank of America, headquartered in Charlotte, declined to comment. A spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney's office also declined to comment. After the Bank of America case became public in October 2012, Wasinger said he received dozens of phone calls from people claiming to be whistleblowers. Most of their tales of corporate fraud were not credible, he said, and turned them away. One of the callers was Keith Edwards, a former supervisor in JPMorgan's government insuring unit in Louisiana. Edwards told Wasinger he had been pushed aside when he tried to improve the quality control of loans submitted for insurance to the Federal Housing Administration or the Department of Veterans Affairs. After hearing so many similar claims, Wasinger was skeptical. "You've got a lot of good lawyers in Louisiana," he told Edwards. If Edwards was serious, Wasinger added, they would have to meet. Edwards drove through the night to St. Louis from Monroe, Louisiana, a nine-hour trip. He was impressed with Wasinger after their initial conversation, Edwards told Reuters via email. In January 2013, Wasinger filed his second False Claims Act case, this time against the largest U.S. bank, on its home turf. The U.S. Attorney's office was already deep into an investigation into JPMorgan's mortgage-lending practices. Edwards provided the government with new information, including about VA loans. Instead of litigating the case, as Bank of America had, JPMorgan decided to settle. A JPMorgan spokeswoman declined to comment beyond its previous statement that the settlement "represents another significant step in the Firm's efforts to put historical mortgage-related issues behind it." Wasinger has yet to be paid for the two cases that he spent much of the past couple of years working on. The government and Wasinger are currently negotiating Edwards' share of the JPMorgan deal. Under the False Claims Act, he can theoretically earn up to $150 million, but is likely to get less than that because the government had already conducted some of the investigation into JPMorgan prior to his complaint. In the Countrywide case, although O'Donnell was a key witness, his payment is capped at $1.6 million under FIRREA because the False Claims Act portion of the suit was dismissed prior to trial. O'Donnell may be able to collect more money if he appeals that ruling. Wasinger said he will get a cut of what his clients are awarded, but declined to give details. The percentage that a lawyer for a whistleblower gets varies widely, but a general rule of thumb is 33 percent to 40 percent, according to Stephen Kohn, executive director of the National Whistleblower Center, a non-profit group that advocates for whistleblowers. There have been only about 25 large cases - more than $200 million - in three decades' worth of False Claims Act prosecutions, he said. In one of the largest payouts ever, a former quality manager at GlaxoSmithKline Plc won $96 million in October 2010 for exposing manufacturing defects at a plant in Puerto Rico. The drug company paid $750 million to settle the charges. As Wasinger awaits payment, he and his firm have continued to work on their usual stable of local business litigation. Wasinger said he has no plans to seek out whistleblowers as clients but could represent another if the case was right. The attorney said he wants some time to decompress. He has had to travel to New York frequently in the past two years, but spent most of his time in conference rooms and the courtroom. With each visit to the U.S. Attorney's office in downtown Manhattan, he has enjoyed watching construction progress on One World Trade Center and the 9/11 Memorial. Once he gets paid, Wasinger said he plans to spend some of the money on his sons: Alex, who just turned 12, and Andrew, who is 10. "I'm taking them to New York City," Wasinger said. (Reporting by Aruna Viswanatha in Washington; Additional reporting by Nate Raymond in New York; Editing by Karey Van Hall, Tiffany Wu and Doug Royalty) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Viktor Korotayev CVI/MARussian President Vladimir Putin (R) stands with Iranian chief nuclear negotiator Hassan Rouhani in the Moscow's Kremlin, February 18, 2005. Putin said on Friday that Russia was convinced Iran did not intend to build nuclear weapons and he said Moscow would continue nuclear co-operation with the Islamic Republic. MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia could build a second reactor at Iran's Bushehr nuclear power plant in exchange for Iranian oil, the Iranian ambassador to Moscow said in remarks published on Monday. Russia could also supply Iran with trucks, railroad tracks, mini-refineries or other goods to pay for the oil, ambassador Mehdi Sanaei told the daily Kommersant, under a deal Reuters revealed was being negotiated last month. Reuters reported Iran and Russia were negotiating to swap up to 500,000 barrels of oil per day for goods in the deal that would undermine Western efforts to maintain economic pressure on Tehran while global powers seek to curb its nuclear program. In an interview published a day before the six powers including Russia resume talks with Tehran on a nuclear deal, Sanaei confirmed Russia and Iran were discussing supplies of "a few hundred thousand barrels per day". "Iran could use some of the proceeds (to pay for) the construction by Russia companies of a second unit at the nuclear power plant in Bushehr," he said. Russia built the first reactor at Bushehr, Iran's sole nuclear power plant. Sanaei said it was possible the oil deal, and a broad memorandum on economic cooperation, could be signed before August. Russian Economy Minister Alexei Ulyukayev is to visit Iran in April for talks on trade. Asked what Russia could supply in exchange for the oil, Sanaei said the sides were discussing a number of possibilities including the construction of small oil refineries, Russian investment in gas fields and supplies of electricity. TRUCKS, TRACKS, GRAIN In addition to the possibility of Russia building a second reactor at Bushehr, he said Tehran was interested in supplies of heavy trucks or their assembly in Iran, and other items. "Iran is interested in buying a huge amount of railroad tracks from Russia, as well as Russian involvement in the electrification of its railways. We are also interested in Russian grain." Western nations fear an oil-swap deal would badly hurt efforts to forge a permanent agreement ensuring Iran's nuclear program could not be used to make weapons in exchange for sanctions relief. An interim deal was reached in January. A top U.S. official said this month she believed the oil-for-goods swap would not go ahead in the near future after the United States warned both sides it would make reaching a nuclear agreement "more difficult if not impossible". Sanaei dismissed the U.S. concerns and said Russia should do the same, warning that European nations have sent business delegations to Iran and that Moscow risked losing lucrative opportunities if it failed to act fast. "Our Russian friends, who have stood by us at difficult moments, should have advantages on the Iranian market ... But Russian companies must hurry to get into their niche in our market and not hesitate out of fear of Western sanctions," he said. Russia approved four rounds of U.N. Security Council sanctions against Iran over its nuclear program but has sharply criticized additional measures imposed by the United States and European Union, calling them counterproductive. The United States for years urged Russia to scrap its contract to build Bushehr, saying the project could helpTehran develop nuclear weapons capability. However, a deal requiring Iran to return spent fuel to Russia greatly eased those concerns. (Editing by Jon Boyle) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Nicky LohLONDON (Reuters) - World stocks hit 3-1/2 week highs on Monday, helped by encouraging news on Chinese lending, while the dollar hit six-week lows following recent weak U.S. manufacturing data. Data at the weekend showed Chinese banks disbursed the highest volume of loans in any month in four years in January, a surge that suggests the world's second-biggest economy may not be cooling as much as some fear. The dollar hit a six-week low &lt;.DXY&gt; against a basket of currencies after U.S. manufacturing output data on Friday showed an unexpected fall in January. The euro hit a three-week high against the dollar after data on Friday, in contrast, showed Germany and Francegrew slightly faster than expected in the fourth quarter, pushing the euro zone's recovery up a gear. Euro zone finance ministers meet in Brussels on Monday. The run of soft U.S. data has affected the market's expectation regarding the Federal Reserve's tapering path, analysts at Barclays Capital wrote in a note to clients. "The market could continue to price in a small possibility of the Fed halting the tapering while the U.S. data remains soft," they said. "But we think the Fed will likely look through the near-term softness in the data and continue to reduce asset purchases by $10 billion in March, as suggested by Fed Chair Yellen's remarks during her testimony to the Congress, which should be dollar-supportive." U.S. markets are shut for a holiday on Monday. The MSCI world equity index &lt;.MIWD00000PUS&gt;, which tracks shares in 45 countries, rose 0.3 percent to 3-1/2 week highs, with European stocks &lt;.FTEU3&gt; also rallying to 3-1/2 week highs. Italy's FTSE MIB &lt;.FTMIB&gt; equity index, which outperformed with a 1.6 percent gain on Friday as investors welcomed the likelihood of center-left leader Matteo Renzi becoming prime minister, rose 0.2 percent. Italian bond futures rose 25 ticks after ratings agency Moody's lifted Italy's ratings outlook to stable from negative late on Friday. Safe-haven Bund futures fell 15 ticks. The denting in tapering expectations and the upbeat Chinese data lifted high-yielding emerging markets &lt;.MSCIEF&gt; by nearly 1 percent, also to 3-1/2 week highs. The dollar edged up against the yen, however, after data showing Japan's economy grew just 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter, confounding forecasts of a 0.7 percent gain. Several once-embattled Asian currencies all gained ground as emerging market sentiment improved. The Indonesian rupiah, one of the so-called Fragile Five deficit currencies that have suffered in recent months, did especially well with the dollar down 4 percent in as many days. The lower dollar in turn tends to be positive for commodities priced in that currency, helping spur gold to a fresh three-month peak at $1,329.55. In energy markets, Brent oil futures rose 7 cents to $109.16 a barrel, while U.S. crude firmed 56 cents to $100.86. (Additional reporting by Wayne Cole and Ian Chua in Sydney and Shinichi Saoshiro in Tokyo and Sudip Kar-Gupta in London; Editing by Jon Boyle) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason Lee/filesChina's growing external debt has once again set off alarm bells. The State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) said the country had $823 billion of external debt at the end of Q3 — about 9% of GDP.   Some have argued that this is evidence of desperation, and that China is now borrowing money from foreigners, having maxed out on domestic credit.  Pointing to China’s international investment position (IIP) data, Standard Chartered's Stephen Green writes that this measure is the most "comprehensive measure of the total liabilities that China Inc. owes the world," and that "China's liabilities are dominated by foreign direct investment (FDI), the best kind of liability."The IIP data puts all of China's liabilities to the world at $3.8 trillion as of September 2013, or about 43% of GDP. This number is much bigger than SAFE's for a few key reasons. 1. SAFE does include liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, but not those denominated in offshore yuan. 2. It excludes FDI. But a breakdown of IIP data shows that the largest part of this debt is driven by FDI which amounted to $2.3 trillion at the end of 2013. Portfolio investment totaled $347 billion. The remaining $1.1 trillion is driven by trade credit, loans from foreign creditors, and deposits of foreign firms in China. "There has been no significant increase in China’s liabilities with the rest of the world – and when FDI is excluded, the absolute number is small and flat," writes Green. "No impending cataclysm here."  Standard Chartered Total foreign debt as a percent of GDP shows "no sign of a substantial ramp-up in borrowing from offshore." Standard Chartered China's foreign bank loans to China amount to 10% of GDP, one of the lowest  among emerging markets. Standard CharteredThe one thing to watch is the pace at which the stock of cross-border loans is growing, currently up 50% year-over-year. But the recent debt expansion "has been the normalization of what was an abnormal situation: a massive economy shutting itself off from offshore funding sources," writes Green. Foreign borrowing of 10-14% of GDP is perfectly normal for the world's second largest economy and one that plans to become an international investor, according to Green. FREE AppDownload
