Thomson ReutersA logo is pictured on the building of Cargill International SA in Geneva(Reuters) - Global commodities trader Cargill Inc [CARG.UL] has sued a former employee, accusing him of stealing trade secrets before he joined rival JBS SA. Privately held Cargill filed the case on Thursday in the U.S. District Court of Colorado, accusing Jason Kuan of breach of contract.(http://1.usa.gov/1lmQx3S) Kuan resigned on Aug. 1 without prior notice. Kuan had worked for Cargill's Case Ready business, which is involved in processing and packaging meat for retailers. He joined JBS, the world's biggest beef producer in early August, after working for Cargill for about 20 years. According to the lawsuit, the company found Kuan's resignation suspicious and conducted a forensic analysis on Kuan's laptop, which was owned by Cargill. The analysis showed that Kuan "downloaded hundreds of highly confidential and proprietary Cargill Case Ready files to an external hard drive." It claims that the hard drive was not returned to the Minneapolis-based company upon Kuan's resignation. Kuan will lead JBS' new stand-alone Case Ready Division, according to an announcement by JBS cited in the lawsuit. "Kuan will inevitably disclose and use the valuable Cargill information in the course of his employment position with JBS because he is developing a Case Ready meat business for JBS; this is the same industry and the same type of position Kuan had for many years at Cargill," the company said. Neither Cargill nor JBS could immediately be reached for comment outside normal business hours.   (Reporting by Tanvi Mehta in Bangalore; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michaela RehleCentral banks purchased 118 tonnes in net gold in Q2 2014, representing a 28% year-over-year increase, according to The World Gold Council. In May 2014, the European Central Bank and other European central banks signed the fourth Central Bank Gold Agreement (CBGA). The agreement says the central banks "currently do not have plans to sell significant amounts of gold," and that it will last for five years starting in the end of September 2014. Country-wise, Russia saw a major increase in official reserves since February 2014, moving its place up two spots in the ranking.  Global official gold holdings totaled 31,812 tonnes as of August 2014, according to the latest report from the World Gold Council. Business Insider identified the 10 countries with the largest gold reserves. Note: CBGA refers to the Central Bank Gold Agreements. The first Agreement (CBGA 1) ran from Sept. 27, 1999, to Sept. 26, 2004. The second Agreement (CBGA 2) ran from Sept. 27, 2004, to Sept. 26, 2009. The third Agreement (CBGA 3) will run for five years from September 2009. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA zoomed illustration image of a man looking at a computer monitor showing the logo of Amazon is seen in Vienna(Reuters) - Amazon Inc is planning to develop its own software for placing advertisements online, The Wall Street Journal reported, citing people with knowledge of the matter. While the in-house platform is initially planned to replace ads supplied by Google Inc on Amazon's own website, the new system could challenge Google and Microsoft Corp's advertising business in the future, the newspaper cited the people as saying. Amazon's system would resemble Google's AdWords, and is planned to make it easier for marketers to reach the company's users, the newspaper reported the people as saying. The retailer is also building a tool that would help advertising agencies buy in bulk for thousands of advertisers, the Journal said, citing the people. (http://on.wsj.com/1v6ZqBw) Amazon is known as a sleeping giant in the ad industry because it has rich consumer data but has been tentative about using it for a lot of advertising. The company already has an advertising service it employs chiefly on its own website. Amazon did not immediately respond to requests for comment.  (Reporting by Ramkumar Iyer in Bangalore; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWilliam Ackman, founder and CEO of hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management, speaks to the audience about Herbalife company in New YorkBOSTON (Reuters) - Hedge fund manager William Ackman said on Friday that a total of 35 shareholders who own 31 percent of Allergan Inc.' s stock have called on the Botox maker to call a special meeting. Ackman, whose Pershing Square Capital Management owns nearly 10 percent of Allergan's stock, has been working with Valeant Pharmaceuticals to try and buy Allergan in a deal valued at $49 billion. Allergan required shareholders owning 25 percent of its shares to submit paperwork. Pershing Square also sued the company in Delaware to compel it to call the meeting.    (Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss; Editing by Chris Reese) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fred ProuserFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Here's One Way To Make Sure You Don't Create A Trust Fund Baby (WealthManagement.com) The topic of trust fund babies is a constant source of debate amongst trusts and estate planning professionals, writes Patricia Angus, founder and CEO of philanthropy and family governance consulting firm Angus Advisory Group, LLC.    Citing research from Columbia Business School Professor Sheena Iyengar, Angus writes that choice or "the ability to exercise control over ourselves and our environment," is "inestimably powerful it is in our lives." Angus believes that "the way in which trusts limit choice present a real risk of harming beneficiaries on emotional and physiological levels."  "This may not be the only cause of the [trust fund baby] problem, but it certainly sheds light on one of the reasons it seems to occur with such frequency.  Too often, trust beneficiaries have little choice over some of the most fundamental aspects of their lives.  One can argue that they shouldn’t be ungrateful for the gifts they’ve received.  But that misses the essential reality that trusts take away choice from the people they’re intended to help." Angus argues that creating choice or even some semblance of choice may help ameliorate the problem.  The Riskiest Thing Bond Investors Are Doing Right Now (Business Insider)  With an increasing number of Federal Open Market Committee member willing to raise rates sooner, Business Insider's Mamta Badkar spoke with JP Morgan's Meg McClellan about "the worst case scenarios for the bond market and the riskiest thing bond investors are doing right now."  McClellan cautioned that the industry's "dramatic reach for yield" could be calamitous. "What I don't like to see is for people to reach for yield and think they've got diversification, because they've got high yield munis, because they own high yield credit, because they own high yield preferreds, because they're all going to act a lot like equities," added McClellan.  In addition McClellan believes that it is dangerous for investors to have short time horizon in a low rate and low interest rate risk environment. "You can't have a short time horizon and you can't be spooked out of the market during times like that, of the things you have conviction in," McClellan told Business Insider. The European Central Bank's Latest Move To Spur Lending Won't Have A Major Effect (Vanguard) David Glocke, Principal at Vanguard Fixed Income Group, says that the ECB's recent move to lower deposit rates to negative 10 basis points is, "trying to encourage banks to go ahead and lend more money." However, "it may be more symbolic than anything else as far as its actual benefit to the overall marketplace," said Glocke. "So we're not expecting a major change to come out of it." Sarah Hammer, from Vanguard Investment's Strategy Group, advised investors to, "maintain discipline," and "to try to tune out the noise as much as possible." When asked about the monetary risks that threatened the European Economy in 2011, Glocke says that, " those risks have started to diminish quite a bit." But added that countries like "Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal, and Spain are still at risk for default."  Here's Why Return Of Capital On CEFs Is More Art Than Science (Morningstar) The return of capital on closed-end funds is a controversial topic for investors. Some abhor it, while others see it as a logical move in some instances. Morningstar's closed-end fund strategist Cara Esser writes that, "the truth is somewhere in the middle."  "It is important to understand why a fund is returning capital as part of a distribution payment," says Esser. "Many fund families believe that investors prefer smooth, predictable distribution payments, meaning the same percentage of net asset value or the same dollar amount each payment period. Because fund firms generally set distribution policies before knowing how much a fund will actually earn in a given period, they make estimates based on a number of criteria, including market forecasts and the fund's underlying strategy." However, "not knowing whether the market was going south for a long time or if this was a short-term blip, many funds resorted to return of capital to make up the shortfall. And this is where return of capital gets sticky." "A rule of thumb for CEF's is to look at the fund’s net asset value over the period of distribution," added Esser. "If a fund’s net asset value rose by more than the amount of the return of capital, the fund is likely relying on unrealized gains to make those payments. In general, this is not bad. Forcing a manager to sell holdings simply to meet distribution payments-even if they believe the asset prices had more room to rise could hurt long-term shareholders." "On the other side of that coin, if a fund's net asset value fell by more than the amount of the distribution, the fund has no potential gains to back this up."  Advisors Can Be A Great Resource For Socially Responsible Investors (The Wall Street Journal)  Although it's wonderful that socially responsible investments (SRI) have become a way to support and encourage responsible corporate behavior, the selection of SRIs have become more subtle and nuanced over the years, writes Dave McCabe, president of Eaton Vance Investment Counsel and Eaton Vance Trust Company in Boston.  McCabe writes, "as investment managers continue developing metrics that allow us to measure and compare a company's social impact and value, the more power we have as advisers to help clients make informed and sophisticated decisions about where they invest their money." McCabe believes that clearer and more detailed communication between advisor and client allows the pair to create more defined criteria for investments.  Even better, "as advisers, you don't need a huge budget to provide clients with this sophisticated approach to socially responsible fund selection. There are a number of nonprofit organizations that provide a wealth of information on these topics. " FREE AppDownload
Six Flags in New Jersey has built something really scary. But we like adventure, so we put a GoPro on and went along for the ride. Watch to see what it feels like to drop more than 400-feet in under ten seconds. Produced by Matt Johnston. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
REUTERS/Tyrone SiuGap sales staff prepare to open at Hong Kong's first Gap Store before its opening in the financial Central district November 25,2011. Gap shoppers have come to expect deep discounts and promotions.  But JPMorgan analysts believe that Gap will stop offering 30% to 50% promotions on items this fall.  The company is "optimistic" that it will be able to sell products at full-price this fall, according to a report led by analyst Brian Tunick.  Gap's new strategy, which includes stocking less inventory and trying a new marketing agency, will probably drive sales, according to the report.  The analysts also believe that Gap's fashion sense will improve under creative director Rebekka Bay.  While cheaper, fast-fashion companies like H&amp;M are gaining popularity with shoppers, they are unlikely to threaten Gap, according to Tunick.  "The company still believes they can offer value in other ways (such as testing a new loyalty program)," the analysts write.  Gap is also testing programs that would allow shoppers to find and pick up items in stores.  Tunick has previously written that Gap has trouble being consistent because of its price points.  The chart shows where apparel retailers rank in terms of fashion and value.  J.P. Morgan In every category, Gap is simply average.  The company isn't the cheapest, like Old Navy and Uniqlo. It isn't renowned for its basics like Everlane, or super-fashionable like Zara. "Another ongoing concern around the Gap brand is where it fits in the fashion-value equation and who the core customer is, as the product and pricing for the brand has been inconsistent and confusing over the past decade," JPMorgan analysts wrote.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyThe July FOMC minutes showed that a rising number of participants were willing to raise rates sooner. Though some point out that hawks have more of a voice in the minutes than on the committee — since the voting members of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) have a dovish rather than hawkish slant. But of course we all remember the taper tantrum last June — when the Fed suggested that rates could rise sooner than expected, causing bond prices to fall. With that in mind, we spoke with Meg McClellan at JP Morgan Asset Management about the worst case scenario for the bond market and the riskiest thing that bond investors are doing right now. In this low interest rate environment, McClellan thinks "the dramatic reach for yield" is a major cause for concern. And in the backdrop of a low rate environment, and interest rate risk, she says the riskiest thing people can do is have a short time horizon. "You can't have a short time horizon and you can't be spooked out of the market during times like that, of the things you have conviction in," McClellan told Business Insider. Here are some of the highlights from the interview: Business Insider: Where are clients taking too much risk when it comes to bonds? Meg McClellan: "It's a really interesting question because it number one, depends on the type of client, and number two, depends on your time horizon and your outcome needed in a bond investment. For example if you're doing an asset liability match and you're looking specifically at rates or investment grade corporates like a pension fund would, you would get a different risk because you would get an offsetting liability, whereas for individual investor and you're desperately seeking yield and you're buying lots and lots of high yielding risky assets that might have more risk to them than you would normally take, that's a different story. So I think it really depends on the investor, and the outcome that the investor is trying to seek, along with their time horizon. You certainly don't want to buy riskier assets with a shorter time horizon, like you would with a longer time horizon. I hate to answer a question with it depends, but dealing with investors from sovereign wealth funds to individuals saving for retirement really does depend." BI: In terms of individual investors then what are you seeing?  MM: "When we look at the mutual fund flows coming into JP Morgan we break this down not just by the United States, but also European and Asian mutual fund flows, and that gives us a pretty good look at what retail investors are doing. So the vast majority of inflows we've seen year-to-date continue to be into unconstrained and absolute return funds. We talked about this at the press breakfast, it's the idea that a benchmark rewards bad behavior. So when you have someone traditionally tied to a benchmark you're rewarding the issuers who are issuing the most debt, at increasingly longer durations, at increasingly lower yields and that's not necessarily who you want to lend to in this environment.  So we're seeing investors continue to move away from that benchmark driven investment, to provide some diversification in their portfolios, whether that's an absolute return type of investment, which is a complement to traditional core bond investing, so something that's meant to protect a portfolio; or whether that's a constrained investment in credit, in global credit, in global bonds for example, that would be more high risk, that would typically sit in more of an extended credit or a riskier part of your portfolio. In multiple locations we're seeing clients, as individuals, move away from benchmark. Where we're seeing retail clients sell across the board is traditional core bond investments, where they felt like last year was kind of a wake-up call in terms of interest rate risk — the global aggregate, it's the U.S. aggregate — and so that's a global theme that we're seeing. And in Asia specifically, we're continuing to see interest in global and U.S. high yield. In Europe, we've seen a big pick-up in emerging market interest. And Europe tends to be ahead of the curve in terms of global flows, and we've seen a good pick up into the EM debt space, that's in the first quarter, as it looked relatively cheap to other higher yielding markets. BI: What would concern you the most when you look at a client's portfolio?  MM: I think what would concern me the most is, in a lot of client portfolios you see this dramatic reach for yield. You see people who are doing things like layering on preferreds with high yield, with maybe not so much emerging market corporates in the U.S., but they'll try to find the highest yielding funds that they find can out there just to try and get some income. And what you're doing to get that income and that yield, is you're going into riskier and riskier places. And certainly we saw that in the municipal market since the beginning of last year, where they were piling on yield, and they were piling into higher yielding muni bond funds and some of those had, as we know, a lot of exposure to Puerto Rico which has turned out be pretty sloppy.  What I don't like to see is for people to reach for yield and think they've got diversification, because they've got high yield munis, because they own high yield credit, because they own high yield preferreds, because they're all going to act a lot like equities. And they'll have a lot more correlation as risk assets. So just because you own a lot of risk in different types of asset classes doesn't mean those things aren't correlated. You still need to own some sort of an anchor in your portfolio, and you can do that through a number of different things, but not everything in your portfolio should behave alike when things get tough. So I would really urge people to look at the historic behavior of the asset classes they're investing in and don't think you're getting diversification just because you're getting high yield from a lot of different places. BI: What would be the worst case scenario for the bond market?  MM: The worst case scenario is something that the Fed is extremely aware of, is really looking at the rate of wage inflation. We've seen unemployment come down pretty dramatically, even faster than growth accelerates, there is some concern that the Fed may be behind the curve on inflation. But what I think the Fed is really watching is the wage inflation number. So if you look at wage inflation now, Janet Yellen thinks 3-4% is a normal range, so if you start to see that wage inflation pick up that's what's really going to drive up consumer prices very quickly, and the Fed's going to act quickly. And we know that the Fed has to act quickly in a way that you know, we've had this really good strong pretty consistent messaging so far. That quick sharp movement would be something that would upset the bonds pretty quickly. We're watching the wage inflation number pretty closely, but again we're at the point in the cycle where both price inflation and wage inflation, are rising very gradually, so we don't see a threat right now but more of a confirmation of recovery, but certainly that's something you want to watch very closely.  BI: What would need to happen for us to not see a disorderly sell-off in the bond market. Could we have a repeat of the 2013 taper tantrum?  MM: During the taper tantrum we saw a short, sharp spike in interest rate. And all of a sudden, everyone that had high yield, realized that it had interest rate risk to it. So they started to sell high yield and you saw those gap out. Then there was concern about the spillover effect in to emerging markets and you started to see those yields and spreads gap it, and you saw a viscous cycle of higher rates beginning higher spreads etc. If you ultimately looked at an investment over the course of the year, instead of just looking at that period of three or four months with the taper tantrum, you saw positive returns in high yield, you saw positive returns in the high yield that people were so worried about in June becoming an underperforming asset class. There was a panic sell in the higher yielding asset classes as rates rose, but ultimately the carry, the yield of that asset class, plus the recovery of the spread compression, people sort of normalized the higher rate environment, that overreaction reversed and ultimately ended up with a positive year-over-year return.  So this goes back to your first question, what is the riskiest thing people are doing right now? Well if your time horizon is a month, two months, three months, and you invest right before the taper tantrum that's bad. However, if you've got a one year holding period, even if rates fell off a 100 basis points again, you're probably not going to see the credit spread compression you saw last time, but certainly carry on higher yielding assets makes up for quite a bit of that spike in interest rate. There can be short periods of volatility, and we expect short periods of volatility, given the declining liquidity, but you know again for people that can buy and hold, and you have to choose your credits wisely, and you can choose credits that will recover from that type of rate movement, that's not a terrible thing for a buy and hold, or longer term investor. You can't have a short time horizon and you can't be spooked out of the market during times like that, of the things you have conviction in. FREE AppDownload
Mark Thiessen/APA tug boat is seen pulling an Alyeska Pipeline barge through the port of Valdez in an oil response drill in Valdez, Alaska.If Barack Obama has to spend his final two years in office using his veto as often as his golf clubs, he will curse Alaska's primary voters. On August 19th Republicans picked Dan Sullivan to run for the US Senate, a safer choice than Joe Miller, who wants to do to government what lumberjacks do to trees.  Mr Miller's unsuccessful Senate campaign in 2010 tested the limits of Alaska's appetite for small-government populism, a cause that was not helped when his security team inadvertently handcuffed a reporter. Fearing a repeat this year, the Republican National Committee and some munificent donors got behind Mr Sullivan instead. For the same reasons, Democrats spent close to $4m trying to put Republican primary voters off him. It did not work. As in all the other competitive GOP Senate primaries this year, Republican voters took a pragmatic turn and picked the candidate with the best chance of winning in November. Paddy Power, a bookmaker, gives the Republicans a 73% chance of capturing the Senate (see chart).EconomistMr Sullivan looks like a strong candidate: he has served as Alaska's attorney-general and natural resources commissioner and as a trade negotiator under George W. Bush. He faces Mark Begich, a Democrat who won only narrowly in 2008, even though his opponent, the late Ted Stevens, spent much of the campaign on trial for corruption. (Republicans are still furious that this trial probably tipped the result. Stevens was found guilty just before the election; the verdict was later struck down because rogue prosecutors had suppressed exculpatory evidence.) On election night the Begich and Sullivan campaigns celebrated in rival pizza restaurants a block apart. Mr Begich told his supporters he was running to save Medicare, to protect the rights of women and to boost the minimum wage. Mr Sullivan was less talkative, though a spokesman said he would campaign on preventing the Environmental Protection Agency from stifling economic development. In a state that is deep red in presidential elections, and in a tough year for Democrats nationally, this match-up ought to favour the GOP. Yet in Alaska, where the highest federal spending per person coexists with a suspicion of Washington's interference, the obvious thing does not always happen. Michael Dinneen/APBallot Measure 1 supporters Nick Moe, left and T.J. Presley lead others in cheers as early returns showed a narrow lead for repealing Senate Bill 21 in downtown Anchorage, Alaska on Tuesday, Aug. 19, 2014.Mr Sullivan is a newcomer to electoral politics. Mr Begich is a better campaigner and benefits from his family's long political history in the state. His father was a member of the House of Representatives who died in office when a plane carrying him disappeared somewhere between Anchorage, the main commercial city, and Juneau, the capital. More importantly, Mr Begich is a pro-gun, pro-drilling sort of Democrat, the kind of political hybrid that Alaskans like. The state's other senator, Lisa Murkowski, is a rare pro-choice Republican and one of the few senators willing to buck her party. Alaskans' love of combinations that would taste odd in the lower 48, as they call the rest of continental America, was also brought out by a ballot measure on taxing oil companies. Hydrocarbons provide the state with 90% of its annual budget. The University of Alaska, Anchorage estimates that on average in 2010 a family of four gained $22,000 of benefits from Alaskan oil, in the form of tax relief, dividends from a fund that doles out petrodollars and more generous public services. This dependence goes along with some resentment of oil firms' influence on politics. US Coast Guard/ReutersThe conical drilling unit Kulluk sits grounded 40 miles (64 kms) southwest of Kodiak City, Alaska. The state's revenues from oil, which track the price of crude, have remained buoyant but oil production has declined steadily since its peak in 1988. This has generated a long-running argument about whether the likes of ExxonMobil and BP should be taxed to squeeze as much revenue as possible from a dwindling asset or more lightly so as to encourage exploration that might boost production. In 2007 the squeezers won when a proposal to increase taxes on oil firms was championed and signed by the then governor, Sarah Palin (pictured). This was later replaced with a tax rate that did not change with the oil price, a formula that oil firms prefer. The ballot measure, which would have brought back the old law, was narrowly defeated, though not before Mrs Palin found herself on the same side as the state's most progressive Democrats. The fight was expensive: the oil companies spent $14m campaigning to persuade a population smaller than that of San Francisco to keep the law as it is. Reporters spotted buses laid on by the firms to get workers to the polling booths. The industry's opponents spent only $500,000 but lost by just 7,000 votes. This is unlikely to settle the question: Alaska has made 19 substantial changes to the way oil production is taxed since 1973, says Gunnar Knapp of the University of Alaska, Anchorage. But the closeness of the campaign suggests that the Senate seat will be harder for Republicans to win than their strategists realise. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Mark Thiessen/APA tug boat is seen pulling an Alyeska Pipeline barge through the port of Valdez in an oil response drill in Valdez, Alaska.If Barack Obama has to spend his final two years in office using his veto as often as his golf clubs, he will curse Alaska's primary voters. On August 19th Republicans picked Dan Sullivan to run for the US Senate, a safer choice than Joe Miller, who wants to do to government what lumberjacks do to trees.  Mr Miller's unsuccessful Senate campaign in 2010 tested the limits of Alaska's appetite for small-government populism, a cause that was not helped when his security team inadvertently handcuffed a reporter. Fearing a repeat this year, the Republican National Committee and some munificent donors got behind Mr Sullivan instead. For the same reasons, Democrats spent close to $4m trying to put Republican primary voters off him. It did not work. As in all the other competitive GOP Senate primaries this year, Republican voters took a pragmatic turn and picked the candidate with the best chance of winning in November. Paddy Power, a bookmaker, gives the Republicans a 73% chance of capturing the Senate (see chart).EconomistMr Sullivan looks like a strong candidate: he has served as Alaska's attorney-general and natural resources commissioner and as a trade negotiator under George W. Bush. He faces Mark Begich, a Democrat who won only narrowly in 2008, even though his opponent, the late Ted Stevens, spent much of the campaign on trial for corruption. (Republicans are still furious that this trial probably tipped the result. Stevens was found guilty just before the election; the verdict was later struck down because rogue prosecutors had suppressed exculpatory evidence.) On election night the Begich and Sullivan campaigns celebrated in rival pizza restaurants a block apart. Mr Begich told his supporters he was running to save Medicare, to protect the rights of women and to boost the minimum wage. Mr Sullivan was less talkative, though a spokesman said he would campaign on preventing the Environmental Protection Agency from stifling economic development. In a state that is deep red in presidential elections, and in a tough year for Democrats nationally, this match-up ought to favour the GOP. Yet in Alaska, where the highest federal spending per person coexists with a suspicion of Washington's interference, the obvious thing does not always happen. Michael Dinneen/APBallot Measure 1 supporters Nick Moe, left and T.J. Presley lead others in cheers as early returns showed a narrow lead for repealing Senate Bill 21 in downtown Anchorage, Alaska on Tuesday, Aug. 19, 2014.Mr Sullivan is a newcomer to electoral politics. Mr Begich is a better campaigner and benefits from his family's long political history in the state. His father was a member of the House of Representatives who died in office when a plane carrying him disappeared somewhere between Anchorage, the main commercial city, and Juneau, the capital. More importantly, Mr Begich is a pro-gun, pro-drilling sort of Democrat, the kind of political hybrid that Alaskans like. The state's other senator, Lisa Murkowski, is a rare pro-choice Republican and one of the few senators willing to buck her party. Alaskans' love of combinations that would taste odd in the lower 48, as they call the rest of continental America, was also brought out by a ballot measure on taxing oil companies. Hydrocarbons provide the state with 90% of its annual budget. The University of Alaska, Anchorage estimates that on average in 2010 a family of four gained $22,000 of benefits from Alaskan oil, in the form of tax relief, dividends from a fund that doles out petrodollars and more generous public services. This dependence goes along with some resentment of oil firms' influence on politics. US Coast Guard/ReutersThe conical drilling unit Kulluk sits grounded 40 miles (64 kms) southwest of Kodiak City, Alaska. The state's revenues from oil, which track the price of crude, have remained buoyant but oil production has declined steadily since its peak in 1988. This has generated a long-running argument about whether the likes of ExxonMobil and BP should be taxed to squeeze as much revenue as possible from a dwindling asset or more lightly so as to encourage exploration that might boost production. In 2007 the squeezers won when a proposal to increase taxes on oil firms was championed and signed by the then governor, Sarah Palin (pictured). This was later replaced with a tax rate that did not change with the oil price, a formula that oil firms prefer. The ballot measure, which would have brought back the old law, was narrowly defeated, though not before Mrs Palin found herself on the same side as the state's most progressive Democrats. The fight was expensive: the oil companies spent $14m campaigning to persuade a population smaller than that of San Francisco to keep the law as it is. Reporters spotted buses laid on by the firms to get workers to the polling booths. The industry's opponents spent only $500,000 but lost by just 7,000 votes. This is unlikely to settle the question: Alaska has made 19 substantial changes to the way oil production is taxed since 1973, says Gunnar Knapp of the University of Alaska, Anchorage. But the closeness of the campaign suggests that the Senate seat will be harder for Republicans to win than their strategists realise. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas Peter Sarah Barrow of Britain jumps to place first during the women's 10 m platform final at the European Swimming Championships in Berlin August 22Stocks were mixed as all eyes were on the Kansas City Fed's annual economic symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen was the headline speaker, with comments from European Central Bank president Mario Draghi. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Friday: 1. Janet Yellen spoke in Jackson Hole, and her speech was primarily concerned with the labor market, which she said still hasn't recovered from the financial crisis. Yellen said that while several indicators suggest a strengthening labor market, she still see "significant" underutilization of labor resources. 2. The general consensus is that Yellen's comments weren't hawkish, but not as dovish as they could've been. In short, Yellen reiterated that she plans to remain flexible with regard to when and where interest rates will go in the future, but did say that, "if progress in the labor market continues to be more rapid than anticipated by the Committee or if inflation moves up more rapidly than anticipated, resulting in faster convergence toward our dual objectives, then increases in the federal funds rate target could come sooner than the Committee currently expects and could be more rapid thereafter." 3. Yellen's comments were also seen by some as "splitting the difference" between two takes on the labor market. This prompted a number of economists to recycle Harry Truman's famous quip about economists: "Give me a one-handed economist! All my economists say, 'on one hand ... on the other.'" An interesting day for economics, not a great day for economic humor. 4. Mario Draghi, president of the ECB, also spoke at Jackson Hole, and outlined some of the major employment issues that the Eurozone faces. As Draghi said at the top of his speech, "No one in society remains untouched by a situation of high unemployment." Draghi's speech also included a number of charts, but one chart that compares the unemployment rate between the U.S. and the Eurozone shows how much of a disaster employment has been in the economic bloc since the sovereign debt crisis.  5. In stock news, power company Dynegy said it would buy more than $6 billion worth of coal and gas power assets from Duke Energy, and shares of the company gained more than 8% following the news.  6. Keurig Green Mountain shares gained more than 13% after the company announced a partnership with Kraft to start selling its K-Cup coffee pods. This deal will allow coffee under the Maxwell House and McCafe brands to be made in K-Cups that are compatible with Keurig's at-home coffee brewing systems. Year-to-date, shares of Keurig are now up more than 75%.  7. Video game retailer GameStop gained more than 6% after the company on Thursday night announced revenue in the second quarter grew more than 25% over the prior year. The company said that strong demand for Microsoft's Xbox One and Sony's PlayStation 4 helped hardware sales more than double in the second quarter.  Don't Miss: The True Story Of How McDonald's Conquered France » FREE AppDownload
APA Rolls Royce Trent powered Boeing 787-9 at the Farnborough Air ShowSEATTLE (Reuters) - The FAA has certified Boeing Co's 787-9 Dreamliner for use with General Electric Co engines, clearing the way for first deliveries of the new aircraft with the U.S.-made engines expected later this month. The 787-9 is a larger version of the original Dreamliner and had already obtained FAA certification with Rolls-Royce engines. The first delivery of that configuration occurred in June. An FAA certification document dated Thursday showed both the Rolls and GE engines as approved on the 787-9. The FAA and Boeing did not immediately respond to requests for comment. The document was first reported by the blog All Things 787.   (Reporting By Alwyn Scott; Editing by Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
Mario Draghi's Jackson Hole speech is out. And there are charts! The first one basically tells the entire story of the US and the Eurozone since the financial crisis. Basically, the US had a severe economic contraction very fast once the crisis started, and then it improved rapidly. Europe just chugged along, getting worse and worse, and now in 2014 has still barely recovered any ground. ECB FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons30 Hudson Street, also known as Goldman Sachs Tower, is the tallest building in New Jersey.(Reuters) - Goldman Sachs Group Inc could pay about $1.1 billion to settle claims from the U.S. housing finance regulator that it sold bad mortgage-backed securities (MBS), the Financial Times reported. Negotiations between Goldman and the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) could be concluded as early as next week, the business daily reported, citing people familiar with the matter. The proposed amount would be almost double of what the Wall Street bank paid to the Securities and Exchange Commission in 2010 over similar issues. Goldman and FHFA were not immediately available for comment. Goldman and Morgan Stanley are also in preliminary discussions with the U.S. Department of Justice about settling allegations that they mis-sold MBS, the British newspaper reported, citing three people with knowledge about the issue. In its lawsuit, the FHFA said Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac bought $11.1 billion of mortgage-backed securities from Goldman, unaware that "significant percentages of the underlying mortgage loans<U+2009>... had materially poorer credit quality than was represented in the registration statements." On Thursday, Bank of America Corp reached a $16.65 billion settlement with U.S. regulators to settle charges that it misled investors into buying troubled mortgage-backed securities. (Reporting By Sudarshan Varadhan; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
David AutorGoogle is trying to teach computers to recognize cats. Right now it needs 16,000 of them. MIT economics professor David Autor wants everyone to calm down about the robot jobs takeover: It's definitely not happening now, and not likely to happen anytime soon. In a paper released for the Kansas City Fed's Jackson Hole economics conference, Autor says that while some occupations are capable of being automated — and have already been — the vast majority of jobs will remain free from machine's claws. One telling anecdote, he says, can be found in a recent New York Times article about Google trying to train computers to pick out accurately pick out an image of a cat from thousands of YouTube videos. It eventually was successful, but it wasn't easy. "The article’s headline ruefully poses the question, “How Many Computers to Identify a Cat? 16,000.” Times reporter John Markoff wrote that the Google researchers admitted the program they'd used to complete the task remained wholly rudimentary compared to the brain.  “It’d be fantastic if it turns out that all we need to do is take current algorithms and run them bigger, but my gut feeling is that we still don’t quite have the right algorithm yet,” Stanford computer scientist and Google researcher Andrew Ng told him. The main jumping off point in Autor's paper is a maxim attributed to Michael Polanyi, a Hungarian philosopher:  "We can know more than we can tell." For Polanyi this meant, for instance, you replace a driver's skill by teaching him about how cars work. Autor says we can apply it to mean that a machine's proficiency will only ever be as strong as our ability to accurately program it.   "At a practical level, Polanyi’s paradox means that many familiar tasks, ranging from the quotidian to the sublime, cannot currently be computerized because we don’t know 'the rules,'" Autor says. "At an economic level, Polanyi’s paradox means something more. The fact that a task cannot be computerized does not imply that computerization has no effect on that task. On the contrary: tasks that cannot be substituted by computerization are generally complemented by it. This point is as fundamental as it is overlooked." The first piece of evidence Autor deploys is a straightforward chart showing investment in machines has returned to pre-DotCom bubble levels of growth: FRED/David Autor "One would expect that a surge of new automation opportunities in highly paid work would catalyze a surge of corporate investment in computer hardware and software. Instead, the opposite occurred," he says. As of the first quarter of 2014, information processing equipment and software investment as a share of GDP was at 3.5%, a level last seen in 1995 at the outset of the “dot-com” era. What happened, he argues, is a temporary "dislocation" of investment during the DotCom era that has since corrected to its historical rate.  "The end of the 'tech bubble' in the year 2000 is of course widely recognized, as the NASDAQ stock index erased three-quarters of its value between 2000 and 2003," he writes. "Less appreciated, I believe, are the economic consequences beyond the technology sector: a huge falloff in IT investment, which may plausibly have dampened innovative activity and demand for high skilled workers more broadly." Besides Google's cats, Autor cites other shortcomings of widely cited examples that allegedly prove the machine takeover. While IBM's Watson won jeopardy, he blew a soft-toss question about Chicago airports. Google Translate and Netflix are still nowhere near the level of accuracy one could achieve from asking a friend to interpret or recommend a movie.  Meanwhile, automation that has come online has often proven as useful and value-added as it has destructive.  "...Tasks that cannot be substituted by computerization are generally complemented by it," he writes. "This point is as fundamental as it is overlooked. Most work processes draw upon a multifaceted set of inputs: labor and capital; brains and brawn; creativity and rote repetition; technical mastery and intuitive judgment; perspiration and inspiration; adherence to rules and judicious application of discretion. Typically, these inputs each play essential roles; that is, improvements in one do not obviate the need for the other. If so, productivity improvements in one set of tasks almost necessarily increase the economic value of the remaining tasks."  Autor even believes that the hollowing out of middle-skilled jobs will soon come to an end. "While many middle skill tasks are susceptible to automation, many middle skill jobs demand a mixture of tasks from across the skill spectrum," he says. Medical technicians are one of the fastest growing occupations in the country. They are relatively well-remunerated, and often don't require more than demand two years of post-secondary vocational training. "Significantly, mastery of 'middle skill' mathematics, life sciences, and analytical reasoning is indispensable for success in this training." Robots can grasp a lot, but not that. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPlosser, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, attends the Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson HoleJACKSON HOLE Wyo. (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve is "mired" in debate over corners of the U.S. labor market that it has little chance of improving, and it should instead prepare the public for an interest-rate rise, a Fed official known for his hawkish views said on Friday. Charles Plosser, president of the Philadelphia Fed, said in an interview that it was better to tighten monetary policy too soon rather than too late. To get on course to tighten policy, he said, the U.S. central bank must first acknowledge that it can't fix things at the margins of a labor market that is otherwise looking much better. Part-time employment, for example, is at the margins of the labor market. "We've got ourselves tied up in a very difficult problem because we focused so much on employment," said Plosser, who dissented from the Fed's last policy statement. "How do we declare success when we don't know what we're measuring, we don't know how to measure it, and even if we could measure it we're not sure what effect we have on some of these things?" he said. He spoke to Reuters on the sidelines of the annual central banking conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, where earlier on Friday Fed Chair Janet Yellen argued there was still room for the labor market to improve. The Fed, in a pledge that started under Yellen's predecessor, Ben Bernanke, has been tying an eventual rate hike to sustained improvement in the labor market.   (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Mario Draghi's Jackson Hole speech is out. And there are charts! The first one basically tells the entire story of the US and the Eurozone since the financial crisis. Basically, the US had a severe economic contraction very fast once the crisis started, and then it improved rapidly. Europe just chugged along, getting worse and worse, and now in 2014 has still barely recovered any ground. ECB FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois LenoirEuropean Central Bank (ECB) President Mario Draghi waits to deliver a speech at a conference for the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the European Monetary Institute, in Brussels February 12, 2014. Mario Draghi is speaking at the Jackson Hole economic symposium.  His speech is titled "Unemployment in the euro area" Some of the notable excerpts from Draghi's statement include his response on what policymakers can do in the face of high unemployment: "So what conclusions can we draw from this as policymakers? The only conclusion we can safely draw, in my view, is that we need action on both sides of the economy: aggregate demand policies have to be accompanied by national structural policies." Draghi also says that given the most recent set of financial conditions, he says, "The risks of “doing too little” – i.e. that cyclical unemployment becomes structural – outweigh those of “doing too much” – that is, excessive upward wage and price pressures." Here's the full text of Draghi's speech: No one in society remains untouched by a situation of high unemployment. For the unemployed themselves, it is often a tragedy which has lasting effects on their lifetime income. For those in work, it raises job insecurity and undermines social cohesion. For governments, it weighs on public finances and harms election prospects. And unemployment is at the heart of the macro dynamics that shape short- and medium-term inflation, meaning it also affects central banks. Indeed, even when there are no risks to price stability, but unemployment is high and social cohesion at threat, pressure on the central bank to respond invariably increases. The key issue, however, is how much we can really sustainably affect unemployment, which in turn is a question – as has been much discussed at this conference – of whether the drivers are predominantly cyclical or structural. As we are an 18 country monetary union this is necessarily a complex question in the euro area, but let me nonetheless give a brief overview of how the ECB currently assesses the situation. Figure 1: Change in the unemployment rate since 2008 – the euro area and the US ECB The first point to make is that the euro area has suffered a large and particularly sustained negative shock to GDP, with serious consequences for employment. This is visible in Figure 1, which shows the evolution of unemployment in the euro area and the US since 2008. Whereas the US experienced a sharp and immediate rise in unemployment in the aftermath of the Great Recession, the euro area has endured two rises in unemployment associated with two sequential recessions. From the start of 2008 to early 2011 the picture in both regions is similar: unemployment rates increase steeply, level off and then begin to gradually fall. This reflects the common sources of the shock: the synchronisation of the financial cycle across advanced economies, the contraction in global trade following the Lehman failure, coupled with a strong correction of asset prices – notably houses – in certain jurisdictions. From 2011 onwards, however, developments in the two regions diverge. Unemployment in the US continues to fall at more or less the same rate. [1] In the euro area, on the other hand, it begins a second rise that does not peak until April 2013. This divergence reflects a second, euro area-specific shock emanating from the sovereign debt crisis, which resulted in a six quarter recession for the euro area economy. Unlike the post-Lehman shock, however, which affected all euro area economies, virtually all of the job losses observed in this second period were concentrated in countries that were adversely affected by government bond market tensions (Figure 2). Figure 2: Relationship between financial stress and unemployment ECB The sovereign debt crisis operated through various channels, but one of its most important effects was to disable in part the tools of macroeconomic stabilisation. On the fiscal side, non-market services – including public administration, education and healthcare – had contributed positively to employment in virtually all countries during the first phase of the crisis, thus somewhat cushioning the shock. In the second phase, however, fiscal policy was constrained by concerns over debt sustainability and the lack of a common backstop, especially as discussions related to sovereign debt restructuring began. The necessary fiscal consolidation had to be frontloaded to restore investor confidence, creating a fiscal drag and a downturn in public sector employment which added to the ongoing contraction in employment in other sectors. Sovereign pressures also interrupted the homogenous transmission of monetary policy across the euro area. Despite very low policy rates, the cost of capital actually rose in stressed countries in this period, meaning monetary and fiscal policy effectively tightened in tandem. Hence, an important focus of our monetary policy in this period was – and still is – to repair the monetary transmission mechanism. Establishing a precise link between these impairments and unemployment performance is not straightforward. However, ECB staff estimates of the “credit gap” for stressed countries – the difference between the actual and normal volumes of credit in the absence of crisis effects – suggest that that credit supply conditions are exerting a significant drag on economic activity. [2] Cyclical factors have therefore certainly contributed to the rise in unemployment. And the economic situation in the euro area suggests they are still playing a role. The most recent GDP data confirm that the recovery in the euro area remains uniformly weak, with subdued wage growth even in non-stressed countries suggesting lacklustre demand. In these circumstances, it seems likely that uncertainty over the strength of the recovery is weighing on business investment and slowing the rate at which workers are being rehired. That being said, there are signs that, in some countries at least, a significant share of unemployment is also structural. For example, the euro area Beveridge curve – which summarises unemployment developments at a given level of labour demand (or vacancies) – suggests the emergence of a structural mismatch across euro area labour markets (Figure 3). In the first phase of the crisis strong declines in labour demand resulted in a steep rise in euro area unemployment, with a movement down along the Beveridge curve. The second recessionary episode, however, led to a further strong increase in the unemployment rate even though aggregate vacancy rates showed marked signs of improvement. This may imply a more permanent outward shift. Figure 3: Evolution of the euro area Beveridge curve over the crisis ECB Part of the explanation for the movement of the Beveridge curve seems to be the sheer magnitude of the job destruction in some countries, which has led to reduced job-finding rates, extended durations of unemployment spells and a higher share of long-term unemployment. This reflects, in particular, the strong sectoral downsizing of the previously overblown construction sector (Figure 4), which, consistent with experience in the US, tends to lower match efficiency. [3] By the end of 2013, the stock of long-term unemployed (those unemployed for a year or more) accounted for over 6% of the total euro area labour force – more than double the pre-crisis level. Figure 4: Evolution of euro area employment by sector and educational level ECB Another important explanation seems to be a lack of redeployment opportunities for displaced low-skilled workers, as evidenced by the growing disparity between the skills of the labour force and the skills required by employers. Analysis of the evolution of skill mismatch [4] suggests a notable increase in mismatch at regional, country and euro area level (Figure 5). As the previous figure shows, employment losses in the euro area are strongly concentrated among low skilled workers Figure 5: Skill mismatch indices for the euro area ECB All in all, estimates provided by international organisations – in particular, the European Commission, the OECD and the IMF – suggest that the crisis has resulted in an increase in structural unemployment across the euro area, rising from an average (across the three institutions) of 8.8% in 2008 to 10.3% by 2013. [5] There are nevertheless two important qualifications to make here. The first is that estimates of structural unemployment are surrounded by considerable uncertainty, in particular in real time. For example, research by the European Commission suggests that estimates of the Non-Accelerating Wage Rate of Unemployment (NAWRU) in the current situation are likely to overstate the magnitude of unemployment linked to structural factors, notably in the countries most severely hit by the crisis. [6] The second qualification is that behind the aggregate data lies a very heterogeneous picture. The current unemployment rate in the euro area of 11.5% is the (weighted) average of unemployment rates close to 5% in Germany and 25% in Spain. Structural developments also differ: analysis of the Beveridge curve at the country level reveals, for example, a pronounced inward shift in Germany, whereas in France, Italy and in particular Spain, the curves move outward. This heterogeneity reflects different initial conditions, such as varying sectoral compositions of employment (in particular the share employed in construction), as well as the fact that unemployment rates have historically been persistently higher in some euro area countries than others. [7] But it also reflects the relationship between labour market institutions and the impact of shocks on employment. [8] The economies that have weathered the crisis best in terms of employment tend also to be those with more flexibility in the labour market to adjust to economic conditions. In Germany, for example, the inward shift in the Beveridge curve seen over the course of the crisis follows a trend that began in the mid-2000s after the introduction of the Hartz labour market reforms. Its relatively stronger employment performance was also linked to the fact that German firms had instruments available to reduce employees’ working time at reasonable costs – i.e. the intensive margin – including reducing overtime hours, greater working time flexibility at the firm level, and extensive use of short-time work schemes. [9] Even within the group of countries that experienced the sovereign debt crisis most acutely, we can see a differential impact of labour market institutions on employment. Ireland and Spain, for example, both experienced a large destruction of employment in the construction sector after the Lehman shock, but fared quite differently during the sovereign debt crisis. Unemployment in Ireland stabilised and then fell, whereas in Spain it increased until January 2013 (Figure 6). From 2011 to 2013 structural unemployment is estimated to have risen by around 0.5 percentages points in Ireland, whereas it increased by more than 2.5 percentages points in Spain. [10] This diverging performance can in part be accounted for by emigration, especially of foreign-born labour [11], which was much higher in Ireland. But it also reflects the fact that Ireland entered the crisis with a relatively flexible labour market and adopted further labour market reforms under its EU-IMF programme beginning in November 2010. Spain, on the other hand, entered the crisis with strong labour market rigidities and reform only started meaningfully in 2012. Importantly, until then, the capacity of firms to adjust to the new economic conditions was hampered in Spain by sectoral and regional collective bargaining agreements and wage indexation. Survey evidence indicates that Spain was among the countries where indexation was more frequent – covering about 70% of firms. [12] As a result, as Figure 6 shows, nominal compensation per employee continued to rise in Spain until the third quarter of 2011, despite a more than 12 percentage point increase in unemployment in that time. In Ireland, by contrast, downward wage adjustment began already in the fourth quarter of 2008 and proceeded more quickly. The upshot was that, whereas the Irish labour market facilitated some adjustment through prices, the Spanish labour market adjusted primarily through quantities: firms were forced to reduce labour costs by reducing employment. And due to a high degree of duality in the Spanish labour market, this burden of adjustment was concentrated in particular on a less protected group – those on temporary contracts. These had been particularly prevalent in Spain in advance of the crisis, accounting for around one third of all employment contracts. [13] In Spain, as in other stressed countries, a number of these labour market rigidities have since been addressed through structural reforms with positive effects. For example, the OECD estimates that the 2012 labour market reform in Spain has improved transitions out of unemployment and into employment at all unemployment durations. [14] Figure 6: Unemployment and nominal compensation developments in Ireland and Spain ECB To sum up, unemployment in the euro area is characterised by relatively complex interactions. There have been differentiated demand shocks across countries. These shocks have interacted with initial conditions and national labour market institutions in different ways – and the interactions have changed as new reforms have been adopted. Consequently, estimates of the degree of cyclical and structural unemployment have to be made with quite some caution. But it is clear that such heterogeneity in labour market institutions is a source of fragility for the monetary union. So what conclusions can we draw from this as policymakers? The only conclusion we can safely draw, in my view, is that we need action on both sides of the economy: aggregate demand policies have to be accompanied by national structural policies. Demand side policies are not only justified by the significant cyclical component in unemployment. They are also relevant because, given prevailing uncertainty, they help insure against the risk that a weak economy is contributing to hysteresis effects. Indeed, while in normal conditions uncertainty would imply a higher degree of caution for fear of over-shooting, at present the situation is different. The risks of “doing too little” – i.e. that cyclical unemployment becomes structural – outweigh those of “doing too much” – that is, excessive upward wage and price pressures. At the same time, such aggregate demand policies will ultimately not be effective without action in parallel on the supply side. Like all advanced economies, we are operating in a set of initial conditions determined by the last financial cycle, which include low inflation, low interest rates and a large debt overhang in the private and public sectors. In such circumstances, due to the zero lower bound constraint, there is a real risk that monetary policy loses some effectiveness in generating aggregate demand. The debt overhang also inevitably reduces fiscal space. In this context, engineering a higher level and trend of potential growth – and thereby also government income – can help recover a margin for manoeuvre and allow both policies regain traction over the economic cycle. Reducing structural unemployment and raising labour participation is a key part of that. This is also particularly relevant for the euro area as, to list just one channel, higher unemployment in certain countries could lead to elevated loan losses, less resilient banks and hence a more fragmented transmission of monetary policy. On the demand side, monetary policy can and should play a central role, which currently means an accommodative monetary policy for an extended period of time. I am confident that the package of measures we announced in June will indeed provide the intended boost to demand, and we stand ready to adjust our policy stance further. We have already seen exchange rate movements that should support both aggregate demand and inflation, which we expect to be sustained by the diverging expected paths of policy in the US and the euro area (Figure 7). We will launch our first Targeted Long-Term Refinancing Operation in September, which has so far garnered significant interest from banks. And our preparation for outright purchases in asset-backed security (ABS) markets is fast moving forward and we expect that it should contribute to further credit easing. Indeed, such outright purchases would meaningfully contribute to diversifying the channels for us to generate liquidity. Figure 7: Expected real interest rate path in the euro area and the USECB Inflation has been on a downward path from around 2.5% in the summer of 2012 to 0.4% most recently. Acknowledging this, the Governing Council would use also unconventional instruments to safeguard the firm anchoring of inflation expectations over the medium- to long -term. Turning to fiscal policy, since 2010 the euro area has suffered from fiscal policy being less available and effective, especially compared with other large advanced economies. This is not so much a consequence of high initial debt ratios – public debt is in aggregate not higher in the euro area than in the US or Japan. It reflects the fact that the central bank in those countries could act and has acted as a backstop for government funding. This is an important reason why markets spared their fiscal authorities the loss of confidence that constrained many euro area governments’ market access. This has in turn allowed fiscal consolidation in the US and Japan to be more backloaded. Thus, it would be helpful for the overall stance of policy if fiscal policy could play a greater role alongside monetary policy, and I believe there is scope for this, while taking into account our specific initial conditions and legal constraints. These initial conditions include levels of government expenditure and taxation in the euro area that are, in relation to GDP, already among the highest in the world. And we are operating within a set of fiscal rules – the Stability and Growth Pact – which acts as an anchor for confidence and that would be self-defeating to break. Let me in this context emphasise four elements. First, the existing flexibility within the rules could be used to better address the weak recovery and to make room for the cost of needed structural reforms. Second, there is leeway to achieve a more growth-friendly composition of fiscal policies. As a start, it should be possible to lower the tax burden in a budget-neutral way. [15] This strategy could have positive effects even in the short-term if taxes are lowered in those areas where the short-term fiscal multiplier is higher, and expenditures cut in unproductive areas where the multiplier is lower. Research suggests positive second-round effects on business confidence and private investment could also be achieved in the short-term. [16] Third, in parallel it may be useful to have a discussion on the overall fiscal stance of the euro area. Unlike in other major advanced economies, our fiscal stance is not based on a single budget voted for by a single parliament, but on the aggregation of eighteen national budgets and the EU budget. Stronger coordination among the different national fiscal stances should in principle allow us to achieve a more growth-friendly overall fiscal stance for the euro area. Fourth, complementary action at the EU level would also seem to be necessary to ensure both an appropriate aggregate position and a large public investment programme – which is consistent with proposals by the incoming President of the European Commission. [17] No amount of fiscal or monetary accommodation, however, can compensate for the necessary structural reforms in the euro area. As I said, structural unemployment was already estimated to be very high coming into the crisis (around 9%). Indeed, some research suggests it has been high since the 1970s. [18] And given the interactions I described, there are important reasons why national structural reforms that tackle this problem can no longer be delayed. This reform agenda spans labour markets, product markets and actions to improve the business environment. I will however focus here on labour markets, where there are two cross-cutting themes that I see as a priority. The first is policies that allow workers to redeploy quickly to new job opportunities and hence lower unemployment duration. Such policies include enabling firm-level agreements that allow wages to better reflect local labour market conditions and productivity developments; allowing for greater wage differentiation across workers and between sectors; reductions in employment adjustment rigidities and especially labour market dualities; and product market reforms which help to speed up the reallocation of resources and employment to more productive sectors. The second theme is raising the skill intensity of the workforce. We have already seen the disproportionate effect of the crisis on low skilled workers, which implies a period of re-skilling will be necessary to get people back into work. The longer-term effects of high youth unemployment also point to this conclusion. The number of unemployed aged between 15 and 24, relative to the labour force of the same age group, increased from an already high level of around 15% in 2007 to 24% in 2013. This has most likely left significant “scarring” as the young have lost access to a crucial step of on-the-job training. The issue of skill intensity is also very relevant for potential growth. While raising labour participation is crucial, demographic prospects imply that it will provide a diminishing contribution to future potential. Lifting trend growth will have to come mainly through raising labour productivity. Thus, we need to ensure that, to the extent possible, employment is concentrated in high-value added, high-productivity sectors, which in turn is a function of skills. What is more, in the global economy the euro area cannot compete on costs alone with emerging countries, if only because of our social model. Our comparative advantage therefore has to come from combining cost competitiveness with specialisation in high-value added activities – a business model that countries such as Germany have successfully demonstrated. Seen from this perspective, insufficient skill levels will effectively raise the non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment (NAIRU) by causing more workers to drop out of the ‘competitiveness zone’ and become unemployable. Raising skills is clearly first and foremost about education, where there is much that could still be done. The percentage of the working age population that has completed upper secondary or tertiary education in the euro area ranges from a high of more than 90% in some countries to a low of around 40% in others. But there is also an important role for active labour market policies, such as lifelong learning, and for eradicating distortions such labour market duality. The latter would, among other things, help reduce inefficient worker turnover and increase incentives for employers and employees to invest in developing job-specific skills. Let me conclude. Unemployment in the euro area is a complex phenomenon, but the solution is not overly complicated to understand. A coherent strategy to reduce unemployment has to involve both demand and supply side policies, at both the euro area and the national levels. And only if the strategy is truly coherent can it be successful. Without higher aggregate demand, we risk higher structural unemployment, and governments that introduce structural reforms could end up running just to stand still. But without determined structural reforms, aggregate demand measures will quickly run out of steam and may ultimately become less effective. The way back to higher employment, in other words, is a policy mix that combines monetary, fiscal and structural measures at the union level and at the national level. This will allow each member of our union to achieve a sustainably high level of employment. We should not forget that the stakes for our monetary union are high. It is not unusual to have regional disparities in unemployment within countries, but the euro area is not a formal political union and hence does not have permanent mechanisms to share risk, namely through fiscal transfers. [19] Cross-country migration flows are relatively small and are unlikely to ever become a key driver of labour market adjustment after large shocks. [20] Thus, the long-term cohesion of the euro area depends on each country in the union achieving a sustainably high level of employment. And given the very high costs if the cohesion of the union is threatened, all countries should have an interest in achieving this. More to come...  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesMark CarneyMark Carney’s honeymoon phase across the pond is most certainly over. The “outstanding central banker of his generation,” as Carney was described by Chancellor George Osborne prior to his arrival at the Bank of England, has recently been dogged by (meritless) allegations that he is in cahoots with the chancellor and won’t hike rates until the next election is over in order to boost the ruling party’s chances. Members of the Bank’s Monetary Policy Committee have also become increasingly willing to express their disagreement with the governor, as evidenced by the two dissenting votes cast during its latest decision. In what The Telegraph called a “rebellion at the Bank of England,” Martin Weale and Ian McCafferty think that the central bank should have raised its policy rate in the face of diminishing slack in the labour market to proactively ward off an acceleration in inflation. The most common critique of Carney that has arisen during his tenure atop the Bank of England, however, is his inconsistent messaging. It’s almost as if the governor is having an identity crisis, and isn’t quite sure what kind of bird he is: a dove, or a hawk. “A couple weeks ago, Bank of England chief Mark Carney sent a chill down the spine of global markets when he said rate hikes might come sooner than expected,” wroteBusiness Insider’s Joe Weisenthal in late June. “In comments today, he’s emphasizing that wage growth has been surprisingly muted and that the system still has slack, meaning inflation isn’t a big risk.” When Carney indicated that the Bank of England would be placing more weight on wage growth to determine the level of slack in the economy, Bank of Montreal senior economist Benjamin Reitzes commented on the dovish nature of the move. “It almost seems as if Mr. Carney is picking out the weakest indicator available in order to avoid tightening policy,” he wrote. “We wouldn’t argue with his reasoning, but changing the focus of policy on what seems to be a consistent basis isn’t the best way to maintain or rebuild credibility.” Now, the governor is singing a bit of a different tune. “We have to have the confidence that real wages are going to be growing sustainably [in order to raise rates],” he told the Sunday Times. “We don’t have to wait for the fact of that turn to do so.” You can see why traders would get confused by all this, and it’s not evident what prompts these shifts in rhetoric. But for an out-of-the-box theory on why the governor has been delivering mixed messages, looking to his past is instructive. At the Jackson Hole Conference in 2009, Carney delivered a speech on a topic that has recently been brought back to the forefront when it comes to discussions about monetary policy: just what should central banks be doing to promote financial stability? A portion of his remarks support an unconventional explanation for why the governor seems to shift from hawkish to dovish at each successive public appearance – that perhaps he’s looking for greater short-term volatility in the interest of long-term financial stability. Here’s the relevant excerpt (emphasis added): How central banks communicate can influence the degree to which low, stable, and predictable inflation fosters excess credit growth. It is important that markets understand how a central bank formulates policy, but that does not equate to perfect foresight. Differences in judgment and the fundamental uncertainties surrounding the economic outlook should mean occasional differences in view. These should be particularly marked during turning points in the economic cycle. As the review of liquidity cycles suggests, wider “markets” in expected economic outcomes (which would mean greater short-term volatility) could promote long-term financial stability. “To prevent asset market overheating while keeping rates low, central bankers may have to introduce more volatility into asset markets,” writes Steven Englander, head of G10 currency strategy at Citi, in a note published near the beginning of June. Complacent investors who are supremely confident about what a central bank is doing and where it is heading are incentivized to increase leverage and risk. If this occurs en masse, it poses a threat to financial stability should reality fail to align with what was in the crystal ball. As such, central bankers like Carney might want to mix things up a bit to keep market participants nimble and wary. If one subscribes to the idea that central bankers are playing chess – trying to manufacture volatility to keep market participants on their toes – events like Ben Bernanke setting off the “taper tantrum” and Janet Yellen’s seemingly off-the-cuff “six months” remark look like shrewd, calculated moves. To be sure, this view is not a commonly held one, and there are plenty of competing explanations for why Carney’s messaging has been rather inconsistent. Avery Shenfeld, chief economist at CIBC, thinks that Carney is simply doing his best to show which way the winds inside the Bank of England are blowing. “Part of the challenge is that he’s not the dictator that he could have always chosen to be at the Bank of Canada, because the Bank of England has voting members and the majority rules,” he told us. “This flip-flopping is an effort to not get too far from the consensus view.” “This is a source of frustration for those in the City, not those on High Street,” Shenfeld added. Meanwhile, TD senior economist Michael Dolega believes that manufacturing volatility would not be a prudent course of action for central bankers. “Volatility can serve an important function, preventing the markets from taking on a false sense of security and potentially underpricing risk,” he explained. “However, central banks should not try to artificially create it through unclear messaging.” For monetary policymakers who might be worried about complacency, Dolega offers a suggestion: just be honest about it. “If anything, the messaging should be clear, and if central banks are concerned about mispricing of risk, then that’s exactly what they should telegraph to the markets,” he said. FREE AppDownload
Harry Truman had a famous quip about economists. He said: Give me a one-handed economist! All my economists say, 'on one hand ... on the other.' Lots of people on Wall Street are recycling that line in light of Janet Yellen's labor market speech today. Basically, she didn't take a very strong stand and used nuance to describe the labor market, which is improving and yet still not where it needs to be. First, here's Ethan Harris and Michael Hansen at BofA/ML: BofA/ML UBS And Jim Pethokoukis tweeted this from JPMorgan: So there you have it. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua Roberts President of the European Central Bank Mario Draghi and U.S. Federal Reserve chair Janet YellenHe will do "whatever it takes".  That was once said by this president of the European Central Bank (ECB).  But he has constraints that differentiate the ECB from the Fed. The Fed deals with a riskless security whose payment is guaranteed by the United States. The ECB has multiple sovereigns ranging from Greece or Cyprus on one end to Finland or Germany on the other. The creditworthiness gap for ECB sovereign debt is huge. The Fed has the power to police banks and the US has a liquidation process (FDIC) that is nationally uniform. The ECB relies on its member sovereign central banks who deal with their respective national banks.  Think through what it means to try to develop a regional policy when the credit standard in Finland and in Greece are supposed to be uniform. So Draghi has a problem. He is facing no growth in the eurozone, no inflation, Russian risk for energy prices and ongoing tension in Ukraine, weakened banks in some countries and questionable collateral. Add to that the need to achieve a consensus and Draghi is forced to move slowly. His "whatever it takes" is in a race with Godot and right now it is a dead heat. The ECB may do some more QE with small business lending pooled loans.  The problem for Draghi is he doesn't trust the credit standard of the collateral that will be pledged and he is dealing with each country's central bank as credit police.  Europe in the broad sense is about the size of US. Only the United Kingdom has a positive story.  Janet Yellen knows this.   Thus the private conversation between Yellen and Draghi in Jackson is as important today as the one held between Bernanke and Trichet in November 19-20 on South Africa in 2008.  That is the speech we will not hear but it is a key driver for policy. It suggests Yellen moves slowly while Draghi maintains a zero interest rate policy for years, perhaps to the end of this decade. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
A ton of money just piled into U.S. stocks. After 16 straight weekly outflows, U.S. equity mutual funds saw inflows of $5.2 billion, according to Morgan Stanley.  Year-to-date, however, U.S. equity mutual funds have seen net outflows of $22 billion.  The recent inflow to U.S. stocks comes as the S&amp;P 500 made a new all-time high this week, finishing Thursday's trading session at 1,992.37.  Money is also coming back into high-yield bonds, with the week ended August 20 marking the highest weekly inflows this year, according to Bloomberg's Sridhar Natarajan and Christine Idzelis.  Investors poured $2.2 billion into high-yield bond funds during the week, though this followed a four-week period that saw $12.6 billion was yanked from high yield bonds. Here's what the huge influx of money into U.S. equity funds looks like, via Morgan Stanley: Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Sarina FinkelsteinWhen photographer Sarina Finkelstein saw a blurb in a newspaper mentioning a new gold rush in Southern California, she had to check it out. What she found was an odd assortment of characters, including a former farmer from Missouri, an out-of-work Hollywood lighting technician, and a retired construction worker. While all were united by the belief that they could change their fortunes with an ounce of gold (approximately the size of a half-dollar coin and currently worth around $1,245), Finkelstein found that the lifestyle was as much about self-reliance as anything else. Finkelstein has collected the photos from four years following the miners in a book, "The New Forty-Niners." She's shared some of the photos with us here, but check out the rest in the book.
Thomson ReutersHIGH VOLTAGE POWER LINES FROM MEXICO CUT THROUGH CALIFORNIA DESERT.(Reuters) - Power company Dynegy Inc &lt;dyn.n&gt; said on Friday that it would buy coal and gas power plants for $6.25 billion to increase its presence in two less regulated eastern U.S. markets. Dynegy shares rose as much as 22.5 percent in early trading. The deals for select assets of Duke Energy Corp &lt;duk.n&gt; and Energy Capital Partners will nearly double Dynegy's national generating capacity and allow the company to retail electricity in Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Michigan, increasing its exposure to the PJM and New England markets. The acquisitions are the latest in a series of deals aimed at minimizing exposure to the volatile wholesale power market, and analysts expect consolidation to continue. Earlier this year, Wisconsin Energy Corp &lt;wec.n&gt; said it would buy Integrys Energy Group Inc &lt;teg.n&gt; for $5.71 billion about two months after Exelon Corp &lt;exc.n&gt; agreed to buy Pepco Holdings Inc &lt;pom.n&gt; for $6.83 billion to cut exposure to the wholesale power market. "The structure of the PJM (Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland) marketplace is more transparent and probably, in the long term, more beneficial to (power) generators," ISI Group analyst Jon Cohen said. Dynegy emerged from bankruptcy in 2012, less than a year after its unit filed for protection from creditors, burdened by costly power plant leases. (http://reut.rs/1oYwc5q) The company said it intends to issue about $5 billion in new unsecured bonds and $1.25 billion in equity and equity-linked securities to fund the deals. At the end of June, the company had long-term debt of about $1.97 billion. Chief Executive Robert Flexon expects the deals to triple the company's 2015 adjusted EBITDA and add to free cash flow per share in 2015 and beyond. Houston, Texas-based Dynegy also expects to realize nearly $500 million in tax savings from the deals. Dynegy will buy Duke Energy's non-regulated Midwest commercial generation business for $2.8 billion in cash. The business includes ownership interests in 11 power plants and Duke Energy Retail Sales, Duke Energy said. Duke Energy said in February that it was looking to sell its Midwest commercial generation business, citing "volatile returns" in a competitive market. Dynegy will also buy some Energy Capital Partners power plants for $3.45 billion. Energy Capital Partners is a private equity firm that invests in North American utilities, oil and gas, and other energy companies. Both deals are expected to close by the end of the first quarter of 2015. Lazard and Credit Suisse acted as Dynegy's financial advisers on both deals. Morgan Stanley was lead financial adviser to Dynegy on the Energy Capital Partners transaction and Goldman Sachs acted as financial adviser on the Duke Energy transaction. Dynegy shares were up 8.2 percent at $32.17 at 11.50 ET on the New York Stock Exchange.   (Reporting by Anannya Pramanick in Bangalore; Editing by Simon Jennings) FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Jon RawlinsonFederal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen doesn't want to follow anyone's rules. On Friday at the Jackson Hole economic symposium, Yellen spoke on the state of the labor market and how these dynamics effect monetary policy. In addition to noting that there still remains "significant" underutilization of labor resources, Yellen said she expects the Fed's understanding of labor markets and their impact on inflation will remain "far from perfect" while emphasizing that "monetary policy is not a preset course." "As a consequence, monetary policy ultimately must be conducted in a pragmatic manner that relies not on any particular indicator or model," Yellen said, "but instead reflects an ongoing assessment of a wide range of information in the context of our ever-evolving understanding of the economy." These comments can on the one hand be read as the careful words of a policy maker. On the other hand, Yellen is fighting off a movement in the House seeking more oversight of the Fed. In July, the House Financial Services Committee held a hearing on the proposed Federal Reserve Accountability and Transparency Act, or FRAT Act. In comments at this hearing, Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX) said: "Let me make one thing clear at the outset. We do not suggest for a moment that Congress, much less the White House or Treasury, should conduct monetary policy operations. We continue to respect the Federal Reserve’s independence in monetary policy. But that independence and discretion must be paired with appropriate transparency and accountability. What we require today in this legislation is that the Fed use a clear map of its own choosing to set the course for monetary policy and share that map with the rest of us." Basically, the GOP wants the Fed to implement some version of the Taylor Rule. The Taylor Rule is a formula that provides "recommendations" for where the Fed should set short-term interest rates. In comments during Yellen's July testimony on Capitol Hill, Hensarling went a step further, claiming that, "Had a clear, predictable monetary policy rule like the Taylor Rule been in place throughout the last decade, it is likely the financial crisis would have been avoided in the first place, or at least downgraded to a garden variety recession." Hensarling said the FRAT ACT "no way, shape or form dictates monetary policy," but in her testimony on Capitol Hill, Yellen clearly chafed at the idea of following the Taylor Rule or a similar formulation. During that testimony, Yellen said, "It would be a grave mistake for the Fed to commit to conduct monetary policy according to a mathematical rule." On Friday, Yellen again sought to give the Fed maximum flexibility for the course of its monetary policy. With respect to the Fed's forward guidance, Yellen said, "the reformulated forward guidance reaffirms the FOMC's view that policy decisions will not be based on any single indicator, but will instead take into account a wide range of information on the labor market, as well as inflation and financial developments." In December 2012, the Fed dropped a 6.5% unemployment rate goal from its forward guidance, and since then has opted for language like, "This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments." The overall tone of Yellen's remarks on Friday are being interpreted as something short of hawkish, but not as dovish as they could've been. Yellen, however, clearly remains focused on giving herself and the FOMC as much flexibility as possible with respect to when and where interest rates go, and part of this flexibility also likely depends on the Fed maintaining its current relationship with Congress: independent. FREE AppDownload
David Autor The above chart says something really stark. Across a range of countries, middle-income jobs have been getting massacred. Low-paying jobs have grown. And so have high-paying ones, over the past several years. But not middle-income ones. The chart comes from a new paper, being presented at the huge economic conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, by economist David Autor. Autor argues that robots (or computers or automation) have most likely hurt middle-skill jobs but that robots cannot currently and may never cause a big problem for high- and low-level jobs that involve more gut feeling (writing a paragraph, straightening up an apartment, etc.). In other words, if your industry job has not already been lost to automation, you may not have as much to worry about as you think. FREE AppDownload
Keurig Green Mountain shares were up nearly 11% Friday after announcing it had partnered with Kraft to start selling that firm's coffee products in K-Cups. Caffeine fiends will now be able to pop brews from Maxwell House and McCafé into their machines. "At Kraft, we have made significant strides in rejuvenating our coffee business across all segments - including mainstream, premium and on-demand - by focusing on driving profitable growth for our brands and our customers," said Dino Bianco, Kraft's Executive Vice President and President, Beverages. "This agreement offers the opportunity for expanded distribution across multiple channels, and is another example of our focus on long-term growth in action." Terms of the deal were not disclosed. Keurig Green Mountain shares are up nearly 60% in 2014 and 360% from lows reached in July 2012 in the months following David Einhorn's announced short position.  Friday shares were trading at $130.56. Yahoo FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaMcDonald's in a shopping mall(Reuters) - McDonald's Corp &lt;mcd.n&gt; named former executive Mike Andres as president of McDonald's USA replacing Jeff Stratton, as part of efforts to arrest falling sales in its home market. The world's biggest restaurant chain by revenue has been struggling in the United States, where tough competition from Wendy's Co &lt;wen.o&gt; and Burger King Worldwide Inc &lt;bkw.n&gt;, as well as sluggish job and wage growth, are hurting sales. U.S. same-restaurant sales, which have been down or flat since November 2013, fell 3.2 percent in July. Andres' appointment is the second change in the position in the last two years. He re-joins from restaurant chain Logan's Roadhouse Inc, where he was chief executive and chairman. Andres, 56, will takeover on Oct. 15 and will also oversee the Canadian market, the company said. In his earlier 30-year stint with the company, Andres worked in various roles including as president of the central division in the U.S. Stratton, 58, who has been the U.S. head for about two years, will retire after 41 years with the company.   (Reporting by Devika Krishna Kumar in Bangalore; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila) FREE AppDownload
TwitterISIS.Bloomberg has published an article detailing the techniques intelligence experts will likely use to try to track down the people who beheaded American journalist James Foley. These include: The Bloomberg article is fascinating As I was reading it, three things occurred to me: The second observation raises an issue that most journalists have to wrestle with: The possibility that your work will hurt the forces of good or help the forces of bad or have other undesirable side effects. If you're going to be a journalist, you have to accept this. Specifically, you have to believe that the benefit of investigating and revealing truth outweighs the negative consequences, and you have to make decisions about what and when to publish as well as you can under those circumstances. In this case, the Bloomberg article doesn't reveal much more than you would learn from a modern intelligence drama like "Homeland," so the risk of revealing any real insights to terrorists probably isn't great. But I wonder whether the same can be said for all the information that Edward Snowden has revealed. And I also wonder whether the recent reminders of some of the threats the U.S. national security techniques were built to minimize will change how some Americans feel about him and what he did. Last year, when Snowden stole and made public many classified intelligence documents that revealed the scope of modern spying techniques, he was hailed in some corners as a hero and patriot. Many Americans were understandably startled when they learned the extent to which digital communications and movements were being stored and monitored and analyzed (I certainly was). And with more than a decade having passed since 9/11, the horror of that attack had largely been forgotten, as had the logic behind the laws and investment behind what Snowden dubbed the NSA's "spying machine." So the revelations seemed disturbing. Snowden and his champions argued that the risks that our national security officials cited to justify the development of these techniques had always been overblown. They also contended that, in any event, privacy was more important. In the atmosphere at the time, many people seemed to agree. Over the past year, however, global tensions have once again heated up. Russia, which is now harboring Snowden, is acting more and more like the Cold War Soviet Union of old. Rebels in the Ukraine just blew a civilian airliner out of the sky. And a new terrorist threat, which by most accounts seems far more organized, dangerous, and powerful than any the West has yet faced, has seized control of a huge amount of territory in the Middle East and is now explicitly targeting Americans. Meanwhile, in the year since Snowden went public, NSA officials have repeatedly said that—by revealing the NSA's secrets to the whole world (including ISIS)—Snowden has weakened the NSA's ability to do its job. Snowden's champions have dismissed these claims as pathetic fear-mongering, but it's easy to see how they might also be true. I know that merely asking the question of whether Snowden's leaks have helped ISIS will likely trigger angry responses from his champions, so let me say that I have no agenda here.  I am ambivalent about Snowden. On the one hand, I think it's positive that our government officials have been reminded that their actions can and will be scrutinized. On the other hand, I hate the idea that America's ability to defend itself and its citizens and control the spread of a group like ISIS has in any way been compromised.  I should also add that, as I said at the time Snowden went public, I am personally willing to trade off some amount of privacy — within the checks and balances of the US legal system — for some additional security.  (See: "I'm Okay With The NSA Collecting My Data") I understand that others — Snowden, for example — have different priorities. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Pool/Sergei ChirikovThe clock at the Spasskaya tower shows 12:00 during the inaguration ceremony of Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow's Kremlin, May 7, 2004.MOSCOW (Reuters) - General Motors Co &lt;gm.n&gt; said on Friday it was reviewing the timing of the expansion of its Russian plant near St Petersburg because of a slump in the auto market. The company opened the $300 million plant in 2008 and planned to launch the second stage in 2015. The plant currently makes Chevrolet Cruze, Opel Astra, and Chevrolet Trailblazer models. "In view of the current business situation in Russia and the lower sales volumes since the start of the year, we are taking a close look at our plans. As part of this, we are also reviewing the timing of our expansion plans at the GM Auto Plant in St Petersburg," GM's spokesman said. The company has not disclosed which models the second stage of the plant would produce. On Thursday, GM said it was to reduce production at the plant to four days a month in August and September, extending to eight in October. Car sales have faltered in Russia this year as economic growth has slowed, causing people to put off large purchases. Consumer sentiment has come under further pressure because of Western sanctions over the crisis in Ukraine. The downturn in Russia's car market gathered pace in July, with sales sliding 23 percent year-on-year after a 17 percent fall in the previous month, according to the Association of European Businesses (AEB). AEB data showed that sales of GM's Chevrolet cars fell 45 percent in July, year-on-year, while Opel sales tumbled 25 percent.   (Reporting by Maria Kiselyova; Editing by Christian Lowe) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Cold brew has become the go-to summertime drink for caffeine addicts. Making it yourself isn't complicated, but it does involve letting the brew steep overnight. However, if you're looking for a quicker fix, try this simple recipe for Japanese-style cold brew. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis.
Twitter.com/officialsigepFall fraternity rush is beginning at college campuses across the country. The reasons people join these groups might vary. Most people probably want to make more friends and have a full social calendar, while others might want to form connections with past and current brothers that could be useful in later life. We combed through a bunch of fraternities' notable members lists to find big Wall Street names, both past and present, who were brothers.   We have included a roundup of frats that have produced some of the biggest, and in a couple of cases some of the most infamous, names on the Street.  If you know of any names we are missing, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com. If anyone knows of sorority alums working in finance, feel free to send those names, too.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the start of trading August 6, 2014. Stocks are mixed as Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen speaks in Jackson Hole. The Dow is down 20 points, the S&amp;P 500 is down 3 points, and the Nasdaq is up 4 points. All eyes the Kansas City Fed's economic symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Yellen, who is headlining the proceedings in Jackson Hole, is speaking on the state of the labor market, and said she still sees "significant" underutilization of labor resources.  In addition to Yellen's comments, European Central Bank president Mario Draghi is also expected to speak at 2:30 pm ET.  Click here for complete coverage of Jackson Hole.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozWilliam Ackman(Reuters) - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc &lt;vrx.to&gt; and Pershing Square Capital Management will submit a request on Friday to Allergan Inc &lt;agn.n&gt; for a special shareholders meeting, sources told CNBC television. Allergan's corporate bylaws require Valeant and Pershing Square to have more than 25 percent of shareholders' votes in favor of holding the meeting. They have support from more than 30 percent, CNBC reported, citing the sources. Allergan is fighting Valeant and Pershing Square's $49 billion offer to buy the company. They want to call a meeting to vote out directors and open discussions on the deal. Pershing Square owns nearly 10 percent of Allergan.   (Reporting by Caroline Humer; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe) FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesFederal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen, right, speaks with Ady Barkan of the Center for Popular Democracy as she arrives for a dinner during the Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium at the Jackson Lake Lodge in Grand Teton National Park near Jackson, Wyo. Thursday, Aug. 21, 2014.Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen is speaking at the Kansas City Fed's economic symposium at Jackson Hole. Yellen's remarks are focused on the labor market, which she said still hasn't recovered from the financial crisis. Among Yellen's notable comments include the sluggish pace of wage growth. First, the sluggish pace of nominal and real wage growth in recent years may reflect the phenomenon of 'pent-up wage deflation,'" Yellen said. "The evidence suggests that many firms faced significant constraints in lowering compensation during the recession and the earlier part of the recovery because of 'downward nominal wage rigidity' — namely, an inability or unwillingness on the part of firms to cut nominal wages." Yellen added that given the labor market outlook, "There is no simple recipe for appropriate policy in this context, and the FOMC is particularly attentive to the need to clearly describe the policy framework we are using to meet these challenges." Yellen said that despite strengthening indicators in the labor market, she still sees "significant" underutilization of labor resources. Here's the full text of Yellen's remarks: In the five years since the end of the Great Recession, the economy has made considerable progress in recovering from the largest and most sustained loss of employment in the United States since the Great Depression.1 More jobs have now been created in the recovery than were lost in the downturn, with payroll employment in May of this year finally exceeding the previous peak in January 2008. Job gains in 2014 have averaged 230,000 a month, up from the 190,000 a month pace during the preceding two years. The unemployment rate, at 6.2 percent in July, has declined nearly 4 percentage points from its late 2009 peak. Over the past year, the unemployment rate has fallen considerably, and at a surprisingly rapid pace. These developments are encouraging, but it speaks to the depth of the damage that, five years after the end of the recession, the labor market has yet to fully recover. The Federal Reserve's monetary policy objective is to foster maximum employment and price stability. In this regard, a key challenge is to assess just how far the economy now stands from the attainment of its maximum employment goal. Judgments concerning the size of that gap are complicated by ongoing shifts in the structure of the labor market and the possibility that the severe recession caused persistent changes in the labor market's functioning. These and other questions about the labor market are central to the conduct of monetary policy, so I am pleased that the organizers of this year's symposium chose labor market dynamics as its theme. My colleagues on the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) and I look to the presentations and discussions over the next two days for insights into possible changes that are affecting the labor market. I expect, however, that our understanding of labor market developments and their potential implications for inflation will remain far from perfect. As a consequence, monetary policy ultimately must be conducted in a pragmatic manner that relies not on any particular indicator or model, but instead reflects an ongoing assessment of a wide range of information in the context of our ever-evolving understanding of the economy. In my remarks this morning, I will review a number of developments related to the functioning of the labor market that have made it more difficult to judge the remaining degree of slack. Differing interpretations of these developments affect judgments concerning the appropriate path of monetary policy. Before turning to the specifics, however, I would like to provide some context concerning the role of the labor market in shaping monetary policy over the past several years. During that time, the FOMC has maintained a highly accommodative monetary policy in pursuit of its congressionally mandated goals of maximum employment and stable prices. The Committee judged such a stance appropriate because inflation has fallen short of our 2 percent objective while the labor market, until recently, operated very far from any reasonable definition of maximum employment. The FOMC's current program of asset purchases began when the unemployment rate stood at 8.1 percent and progress in lowering it was expected to be much slower than desired. The Committee's objective was to achieve a substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market, and as progress toward this goal has materialized, we have reduced our pace of asset purchases and expect to complete this program in October. In addition, in December 2012, the Committee modified its forward guidance for the federal funds rate, stating that "as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored," the Committee would not even consider raising the federal funds rate above the 0 to 1/4 percent range.2 This "threshold based" forward guidance was deemed appropriate under conditions in which inflation was subdued and the economy remained unambiguously far from maximum employment. Earlier this year, however, with the unemployment rate declining faster than had been anticipated and nearing the 6-1/2 percent threshold, the FOMC recast its forward guidance, stating that "in determining how long to maintain the current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee would assess progress--both realized and expected--toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation."3 As the recovery progresses, assessments of the degree of remaining slack in the labor market need to become more nuanced because of considerable uncertainty about the level of employment consistent with the Federal Reserve's dual mandate. Indeed, in its 2012 statement on longer-run goals and monetary policy strategy, the FOMC explicitly recognized that factors determining maximum employment "may change over time and may not be directly measurable," and that assessments of the level of maximum employment "are necessarily uncertain and subject to revision."4 Accordingly, the reformulated forward guidance reaffirms the FOMC's view that policy decisions will not be based on any single indicator, but will instead take into account a wide range of information on the labor market, as well as inflation and financial developments.5 The assessment of labor market slack is rarely simple and has been especially challenging recently. Estimates of slack necessitate difficult judgments about the magnitudes of the cyclical and structural influences affecting labor market variables, including labor force participation, the extent of part-time employment for economic reasons, and labor market flows, such as the pace of hires and quits. A considerable body of research suggests that the behavior of these and other labor market variables has changed since the Great Recession.6 Along with cyclical influences, significant structural factors have affected the labor market, including the aging of the workforce and other demographic trends, possible changes in the underlying degree of dynamism in the labor market, and the phenomenon of "polarization"--that is, the reduction in the relative number of middle-skill jobs.7 Consider first the behavior of the labor force participation rate, which has declined substantially since the end of the recession even as the unemployment rate has fallen. As a consequence, the employment-to-population ratio has increased far less over the past several years than the unemployment rate alone would indicate, based on past experience. For policymakers, the key question is: What portion of the decline in labor force participation reflects structural shifts and what portion reflects cyclical weakness in the labor market? If the cyclical component is abnormally large, relative to the unemployment rate, then it might be seen as an additional contributor to labor market slack. Labor force participation peaked in early 2000, so its decline began well before the Great Recession. A portion of that decline clearly relates to the aging of the baby boom generation. But the pace of decline accelerated with the recession. As an accounting matter, the drop in the participation rate since 2008 can be attributed to increases in four factors: retirement, disability, school enrollment, and other reasons, including worker discouragement.8 Of these, greater worker discouragement is most directly the result of a weak labor market, so we could reasonably expect further increases in labor demand to pull a sizable share of discouraged workers back into the workforce. Indeed, the flattening out of the labor force participation rate since late last year could partly reflect discouraged workers rejoining the labor force in response to the significant improvements that we have seen in labor market conditions. If so, the cyclical shortfall in labor force participation may have diminished. What is more difficult to determine is whether some portion of the increase in disability rates, retirements, and school enrollments since the Great Recession reflects cyclical forces. While structural factors have clearly and importantly affected each of these three trends, some portion of the decline in labor force participation resulting from these trends could be related to the recession and slow recovery and therefore might reverse in a stronger labor market.9 Disability applications and educational enrollments typically are affected by cyclical factors, and existing evidence suggests that the elevated levels of both may partly reflect perceptions of poor job prospects.10 Moreover, the rapid pace of retirements over the past few years might reflect some degree of pull-forward of future retirements in the face of a weak labor market. If so, retirements might contribute less to declining participation in the period ahead than would otherwise be expected based on the aging workforce.11 A second factor bearing on estimates of labor market slack is the elevated number of workers who are employed part time but desire full-time work (those classified as "part time for economic reasons"). At nearly 5 percent of the labor force, the number of such workers is notably larger, relative to the unemployment rate, than has been typical historically, providing another reason why the current level of the unemployment rate may understate the amount of remaining slack in the labor market. Again, however, some portion of the rise in involuntary part-time work may reflect structural rather than cyclical factors. For example, the ongoing shift in employment away from goods production and toward services, a sector which historically has used a greater portion of part-time workers, may be boosting the share of part-time jobs. Likewise, the continuing decline of middle-skill jobs, some of which could be replaced by part-time jobs, may raise the share of part-time jobs in overall employment.12 Despite these challenges in assessing where the share of those employed part time for economic reasons may settle in the long run, the sharp run-up in involuntary part-time employment during the recession and its slow decline thereafter suggest that cyclical factors are significant. Private sector labor market flows provide additional indications of the strength of the labor market. For example, the quits rate has tended to be pro-cyclical, since more workers voluntarily quit their jobs when they are more confident about their ability to find new ones and when firms are competing more actively for new hires. Indeed, the quits rate has picked up with improvements in the labor market over the past year, but it still remains somewhat depressed relative to its level before the recession. A significant increase in job openings over the past year suggests notable improvement in labor market conditions, but the hiring rate has only partially recovered from its decline during the recession. Given the rise in job vacancies, hiring may be poised to pick up, but the failure of hiring to rise with vacancies could also indicate that firms perceive the prospects for economic growth as still insufficient to justify adding to payrolls. Alternatively, subdued hiring could indicate that firms are encountering difficulties in finding qualified job applicants. As is true of the other indicators I have discussed, labor market flows tend to reflect not only cyclical but also structural changes in the economy. Indeed, these flows may provide evidence of reduced labor market dynamism, which could prove quite persistent.13 That said, the balance of evidence leads me to conclude that weak aggregate demand has contributed significantly to the depressed levels of quits and hires during the recession and in the recovery. One convenient way to summarize the information contained in a large number of indicators is through the use of so-called factor models. Following this methodology, Federal Reserve Board staff developed a labor market conditions index from 19 labor market indicators, including four I just discussed.14 This broadly based metric supports the conclusion that the labor market has improved significantly over the past year, but it also suggests that the decline in the unemployment rate over this period somewhat overstates the improvement in overall labor market conditions. Finally, changes in labor compensation may also help shed light on the degree of labor market slack, although here, too, there are significant challenges in distinguishing between cyclical and structural influences. Over the past several years, wage inflation, as measured by several different indexes, has averaged about 2 percent, and there has been little evidence of any broad-based acceleration in either wages or compensation. Indeed, in real terms, wages have been about flat, growing less than labor productivity. This pattern of subdued real wage gains suggests that nominal compensation could rise more quickly without exerting any meaningful upward pressure on inflation. And, since wage movements have historically been sensitive to tightness in the labor market, the recent behavior of both nominal and real wages point to weaker labor market conditions than would be indicated by the current unemployment rate. There are three reasons, however, why we should be cautious in drawing such a conclusion. First, the sluggish pace of nominal and real wage growth in recent years may reflect the phenomenon of "pent-up wage deflation."15 The evidence suggests that many firms faced significant constraints in lowering compensation during the recession and the earlier part of the recovery because of "downward nominal wage rigidity"--namely, an inability or unwillingness on the part of firms to cut nominal wages. To the extent that firms faced limits in reducing real and nominal wages when the labor market was exceptionally weak, they may find that now they do not need to raise wages to attract qualified workers. As a result, wages might rise relatively slowly as the labor market strengthens. If pent-up wage deflation is holding down wage growth, the current very moderate wage growth could be a misleading signal of the degree of remaining slack. Further, wages could begin to rise at a noticeably more rapid pace once pent-up wage deflation has been absorbed. Second, wage developments reflect not only cyclical but also secular trends that have likely affected the evolution of labor's share of income in recent years. As I noted, real wages have been rising less rapidly than productivity, implying that real unit labor costs have been declining, a pattern suggesting that there is scope for nominal wages to accelerate from their recent pace without creating meaningful inflationary pressure. However, research suggests that the decline in real unit labor costs may partly reflect secular factors that predate the recession, including changing patterns of production and international trade, as well as measurement issues.16 If so, productivity growth could continue to outpace real wage gains even when the economy is again operating at its potential. A third issue that complicates the interpretation of wage trends is the possibility that, because of the dislocations of the Great Recession, transitory wage and price pressures could emerge well before maximum sustainable employment has been reached, although they would abate over time as the economy moves back toward maximum employment.17 The argument is that workers who have suffered long-term unemployment--along with, perhaps, those who have dropped out of the labor force but would return to work in a stronger economy--face significant impediments to reemployment. In this case, further improvement in the labor market could entail stronger wage pressures for a time before maximum employment has been attained.18 The focus of my remarks to this point has been on the functioning of the labor market and how cyclical and structural influences have complicated the task of determining the state of the economy relative to the FOMC's objective of maximum employment. In my remaining time, I will turn to the special challenges that these difficulties in assessing the labor market pose for evaluating the appropriate stance of monetary policy. Any discussion of appropriate monetary policy must be framed by the Federal Reserve's dual mandate to promote maximum employment and price stability. For much of the past five years, the FOMC has been confronted with an obvious and substantial degree of slack in the labor market and significant risks of slipping into persistent below-target inflation. In such circumstances, the need for extraordinary accommodation is unambiguous, in my view. However, with the economy getting closer to our objectives, the FOMC's emphasis is naturally shifting to questions about the degree of remaining slack, how quickly that slack is likely to be taken up, and thereby to the question of under what conditions we should begin dialing back our extraordinary accommodation. As should be evident from my remarks so far, I believe that our assessments of the degree of slack must be based on a wide range of variables and will require difficult judgments about the cyclical and structural influences in the labor market. While these assessments have always been imprecise and subject to revision, the task has become especially challenging in the aftermath of the Great Recession, which brought nearly unprecedented cyclical dislocations and may have been associated with similarly unprecedented structural changes in the labor market--changes that have yet to be fully understood. So, what is a monetary policymaker to do? Some have argued that, in light of the uncertainties associated with estimating labor market slack, policymakers should focus mainly on inflation developments in determining appropriate policy. To take an extreme case, if labor market slack was the dominant and predictable driver of inflation, we could largely ignore labor market indicators and look instead at the behavior of inflation to determine the extent of slack in the labor market. In present circumstances, with inflation still running below the FOMC's 2 percent objective, such an approach would suggest that we could maintain policy accommodation until inflation is clearly moving back toward 2 percent, at which point we could also be confident that slack had diminished. Of course, our task is not nearly so straightforward. Historically, slack has accounted for only a small portion of the fluctuations in inflation. Indeed, unusual aspects of the current recovery may have shifted the lead-lag relationship between a tightening labor market and rising inflation pressures in either direction. For example, as I discussed earlier, if downward nominal wage rigidities created a stock of pent-up wage deflation during the economic downturn, observed wage and price pressures associated with a given amount of slack or pace of reduction in slack might be unusually low for a time. If so, the first clear signs of inflation pressure could come later than usual in the progression toward maximum employment. As a result, maintaining a high degree of monetary policy accommodation until inflation pressures emerge could, in this case, unduly delay the removal of accommodation, necessitating an abrupt and potentially disruptive tightening of policy later on. Conversely, profound dislocations in the labor market in recent years--such as depressed participation associated with worker discouragement and a still-substantial level of long-term unemployment--may cause inflation pressures to arise earlier than usual as the degree of slack in the labor market declines. However, some of the resulting wage and price pressures could subsequently ease as higher real wages draw workers back into the labor force and lower long-term unemployment.19 As a consequence, tightening monetary policy as soon as inflation moves back toward 2 percent might, in this case, prevent labor markets from recovering fully and so would not be consistent with the dual mandate. Inferring the degree of resource utilization from real-time readings on inflation is further complicated by the familiar challenge of distinguishing transitory price changes from persistent price pressures. Indeed, the recent firming of inflation toward our 2 percent goal appears to reflect a combination of both factors. These complexities in evaluating the relationship between slack and inflation pressures in the current recovery are illustrative of a host of issues that the FOMC will be grappling with as the recovery continues. There is no simple recipe for appropriate policy in this context, and the FOMC is particularly attentive to the need to clearly describe the policy framework we are using to meet these challenges. As the FOMC has noted in its recent policy statements, the stance of policy will be guided by our assessments of how far we are from our objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation as well as our assessment of the likely pace of progress toward those objectives. At the FOMC's most recent meeting, the Committee judged, based on a range of labor market indicators, that "labor market conditions improved."20 Indeed, as I noted earlier, they have improved more rapidly than the Committee had anticipated. Nevertheless, the Committee judged that underutilization of labor resources still remains significant. Given this assessment and the Committee's expectation that inflation will gradually move up toward its longer-run objective, the Committee reaffirmed its view "that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after our current asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored."21 But if progress in the labor market continues to be more rapid than anticipated by the Committee or if inflation moves up more rapidly than anticipated, resulting in faster convergence toward our dual objectives, then increases in the federal funds rate target could come sooner than the Committee currently expects and could be more rapid thereafter. Of course, if economic performance turns out to be disappointing and progress toward our goals proceeds more slowly than we expect, then the future path of interest rates likely would be more accommodative than we currently anticipate. As I have noted many times, monetary policy is not on a preset path. The Committee will be closely monitoring incoming information on the labor market and inflation in determining the appropriate stance of monetary policy. Overall, I suspect that many of the labor market issues you will be discussing at this conference will be at the center of FOMC discussions for some time to come. I thank you in advance for the insights you will offer and encourage you to continue the important research that advances our understanding of cyclical and structural labor market issues. Refresh This Page For Live Updates » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe walls and towers of the Kremlin are reflected in a window of a closed McDonald's restaurant, one of four temporarily closed by the state food safety watchdog, in MoscowMOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian authorities extended their scrutiny of McDonald's &lt;mcd.n&gt; to several regions on Friday, carrying out inspections at a number of restaurants run by the U.S. fast-food chain, amid a standoff with the West over Ukraine. The inspections are viewed by many businessmen as retaliation for Western sanctions against Russia because of its support for separatist rebels in eastern Ukraine, and they fear the retribution could spread to other symbols of Western capitalism. A spokeswoman for the country's food safety agency, Rospotrebnadzor, said the inspections were not related to the standoff. "The checks are not politically motivated," she said. The agency also said it had no plans to close down the company's business in the Republic of Tatarstan, two days after the agency shut three McDonald's branches in Moscow. Checks in Tatarstan were announced on Thursday. An agency spokeswoman in Tatarstan's largest city, Kazan, said checks were under way at McDonald's, which has 17 restaurants in the region - one of the highest concentrations in Russia outside Moscow and St Petersburg. "We are making checks there. There are some irregularities and we are likely to punish them, but we will not close down their restaurants," she said. The regulators had earlier extended the checks outside of Moscow, including in Central Russia and the Urals. Local press also reported that it plans to begin inspections in the North-West Leningrad region on Aug. 25. A regional official declined to comment. McDonald's operates 440 restaurants in Russia and considers the country one of its top seven markets outside the United States and Canada, according to its 2013 annual report. Almost 1 million people a day use its restaurants in Russia. In Tatarstan, some 1,500 people work for the fast-food chain. A McDonald's Russia spokeswoman said earlier this week the company was aware of the situation and "was open" to any checks.   (Reporting by Vladimir Soldatkin, Olga Sichkar and Maria Kiselyova; Editing by Alexander Winning and John Stonestreet, Larry King) FREE AppDownload
Steve Heap via Shutterstock31,000 single-family homes were flipped across America in Q2 2014 for an average gross profit of $46,000, according to latest report from RealtyTrac.  Flipping refers to the homes that were bought and sold within twelve months of purchase. It accounted for 4.6% of all U.S. single-family home sales, down 6.2% from a year ago. These speculators saw a 21% gross return on initial investment.  “Flippers no longer have the luxury of 20 to 30 percent annual price gains to pad their profits," Daren Blomquist, vice president at RealtyTrac said in a press release. "As the market softens, successful flippers will need to focus on finding properties that they can buy at a discount and efficiently add value to.” But that doesn't mean there aren't opportunities out there anymore. We drew on the report to highlight the 12 metros where investors made the biggest return on initial investment in the second quarter. Note: All data is for the second quarter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Enrique MarcarianProtesters hold up a placard showing a picture of U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa during a protest against layoffs at U.S. automotive supplier Lear in front of its factory on the outskirts of Buenos Aires August 8, 2014.BUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - Argentina on Friday accused the U.S. judge who called the country's new debt restructuring plan illegal of making "imperialist" comments against the South American nation. Latin America's No. 3 economy tipped into its second default in 12 years in July after U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa blocked payments to holders of debt issued under U.S. law that was restructured following its record default in 2002. Griesa said measures announced by Argentina's president this week to make debt payments locally and push bondholders to bring their debt under Argentine law violated past court rulings, though he stopped short of holding the country in contempt. Argentine Cabinet Chief Jorge Capitanich said U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa's choice of words were "unfortunate, incorrect and even, I would say, imperialist expressions". In a statement issued late on Thursday, Argentina's economy ministry said the veteran judge's remarks showed a "complete ignorance of the functioning of democratic institutions." Analysts say that a deal between Argentina and the U.S. investment funds who rejected large writedowns in the wake of the 2002 default is now unlikely before next year's election, in which President Cristina Fernandez cannot run. The country's peso currency has shed 5.2 percent since the tough-talking Fernandez unveiled the draft bill late on Tuesday, its fastest fall since January, plumbing a new record low of 14 per dollar on the black market &lt;arsb=&gt; on Thursday. (This story corrects percentage of currency fall in 7th paragraph)   (Reporting by Jorge Otaola and Richard Lough) FREE AppDownload
Deutsche Bank economist Jim Reid has a very quick preview of what Janet Yellen is expected to say today at her Jackson Hole conference: So what can we expect from Yellen? Our US economists expect the Fed Chair to provide us with an updated assessment on the infamous ‘Yellen dashboard’ in evaluating the ongoing labour market slack and how they have yet to normalise relative to 2002-2007 levels. Some of these alternative measures she monitors include duration of unemployment, quit rate in JOLTS data, labour force participation etc. Any sound bite that touches on the debate of cyclical versus structural drivers of labour force participation will also be closely followed. Unlike some of the previous Jackson Hole symposiums, this is likely not one that will serve as a precursor of any monetary policy changes but the tone of Yellen's speech may still have a market impact and set the mood for busier times ahead in September. Given markets are seemingly expecting nothing but another dovish display from Yellen the risk is perhaps skewed to the other side. For a full preview and full coverage of the speech, check out here &gt; FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesThe 2014 Coachella Music and Arts Festival on Friday, April 18, 2014, in Indio, Calif.Automation and increasingly sophisticated computers have boosted demand for both highly educated and low-skilled workers around the globe, while eroding demand for middle-skilled jobs, according to research to be presented to global central bankers on Friday. But only the highly educated workers are benefiting through higher wages, wrote MIT professor David Autor in the paper prepared for a central banking conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Middle- and lower-skilled workers are seeing their wages decline. That is in part because as middle-skilled jobs dry up, those workers are more likely to seek lower-skilled jobs, boosting the pool of available labor and putting downward pressure on wages. "(W)hile computerization has strongly contributed to employment polarization, we would not generally expect these employment changes to culminate in wage polarization except in tight labor markets," Autor wrote. Any long-term strategy to take advantage of advances in computers should rely heavily on investments in human capital to produce "skills that are complemented rather than substituted by technology," he said. Recounting the long history of laborers vilifying technological advances, Autor argues that most such narratives underestimate the fact that computers often complement rather than replace the jobs of higher-skilled workers. People with skills that are easily replaced by machines, such as 19th-century textile workers, do lose their jobs. In recent years computer engineers have pushed computers farther into territory formerly considered to be human-only, like driving a car. Still, computer-driven job polarization has a natural limit, Autor argues. For some jobs, such as plumbers or medical technicians who take blood samples, routine tasks are too intertwined with those requiring interpersonal and other human skills to be easily replaced. "I expect that a significant stratum of middle skill, non-college jobs combining specific vocational skills with foundational middle skills - literacy, numeracy, adaptability, problem-solving and common sense - will persist in coming decades," Autor wrote. Autor, who has been studying technology and its impact on jobs since before the dot-com bubble burst, notes that some economists have pointed to the weak U.S. labor market since the 2000s as evidence of the adverse impact of computerization. Such modern-day Luddites are mistaken, he suggested. U.S. investment in computers, which had been increasing strongly, dropped just as labor demand also fell, exactly the opposite of what ought to happen if technology is replacing labor. More likely, he said, globalization is to blame, hurting demand for domestic labor and, like technology, helping to reshape the labor landscape. While in the long run both globalization and technology should in theory benefit the economy, he wrote, their effects are "frequently slow, costly, and disruptive." (Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
McDonald's France Fifteen years after farmers infamously ransacked one of its restaurants to protest its "bad beef," McDonald's has conquered France.   Le Figaro calls it the "model student": France is the suburban Chicago-based chain's most profitable country outside the U.S. Sales were up 4.8% through the first seven months of the year, and CEO Jean-Pierre Petit, who is rounding his 10th year as McDonald's France's CEO, has said 2014 will be its greatest absolute sales year ever. In 2013 sales reached 4.46 billion euros. The company now hires 3,000 workers a year and employs more than 69,000 workers in the country. Last year it announced it was going to invest 200 million Euros in expanding further. There are now more than 1,200 locations, including ones at the Louvre and Sorbonne, two on the Champs-Elysee, and all up and down the French Riviera. It has the most locations per capita in Europe and the fourth-highest rate in the world.  The success has been so exemplary that Wharton students did a study about it.  But France is supposed to have an uneasy relationship with American culture at best, and a militant disgust at worse. How did this happen? Google MapsThere are now more than 1,200 McDonald's in France. McDonald's first came to France in 1972, after a French restaurateur convinced Chicago that he could solve the firm's European growth woes. Soon after the first store opened, just outside Paris, a reporter wrote that the American chain would have difficulty catching on as it would have to persuade "the French to eat with their hands."  That correspondent would end up eating his words as the restaurateur, Raymond Dayan, had opened 14 restaurants by 1978, serving six million meals a year, according to L'Express' Benjamin Neumann. A correspondent for Le Point said the chain seemed to be "prospering," thanks, it seems, to the then-novelty of fast food and the lack of competition — "Quick," a Belgian chain and Francophone Europe's first homegrown one, didn't come to France until 1980. But sometime between 1978 and 1982, Dayan refused an offer from Chicago to buy out his group, which had licensed his franchises at 1% commission instead of the usual minimum of 5%. Chicago also began accusing his restaurants of being filthy. Dayan later attempted to sue, but he lost. McDonald's never forgave him, having been forced to shut down its operations throughout the country f0r 13 months. The company's official history now dates the first McDonald's in France to 1979. But by 1988, enough interest had returned that they were able to open the country's first drive-thru ("McDrive") in suburban Paris. The New York Times reported that the French officials had realized the key was to go after families and young adults who had spent time in the U.S. or the U.K.   As the chain slowly expanded into France's breadbasket — and the U.S. and EU negotiated lowering food tariffs — demonstrations picked up. In 1992, protesters lit a bonfire outside a McDonald's to protest the signing of the Blair House Accord, which made it easier for American agricultural products to enter the continent.   Things culminated in 1999, when José Bové, a sheep farmer and activist, lead a group of fellow growers in dismantling a location under construction in the south of France.   REUTERSFrench farm activist Jose Bové holds a cheese made from sheep's milk during a picnic lunch moments after being released from prison on bail September 7.  Bové was protesting retaliatory sanctions the Clinton administration had imposed on imported Roquefort cheese and foie gras after the EU banned American beef treated with hormones (the mutual good feeling of the Blair House Accord had not lasted). He was sentenced to three months is prison.  The stunt made Bové a star of the anti-globalization movement and cemented for some the idea that McDonald's remained intolerable to France. Even Prime Minister Lionel Jospin called the demonstration "just."  Yet even as he sat in jail, France was already approaching 1,000 locations. "The French like to be a little disruptive, provocative," Dennis Hennequin, the former chief of McDonald's France who in 2005 jumped to the head of McDonald's Europe, told The New York Times in 2006. "Yet at the same time they vote with their feet."  TV5MondeFormer ad-man Jean-Pierre Petit has been CEO of McDonald's France for 10 years. The Bové incident may have actually proved the key to unlocking McDonald's France's stunning decade-long takeoff, as it was now under more pressure than ever to correct national misperceptions as well as address valid criticisms.  So, Hennequin said, the company started explaining why it belonged in French society. It heralded items with ingredients that were locally grown, and explained its importance for young job-seekers.  "Without any cynicism, I thank Bové for helping us grow into that role," he said.  Hennequin spent 20 years with the company and helped guide the firm through the Bové incident, but another man may deserve even more credit for McDonald's recent spectacular growth. In 2004, Jean-Phillipe Petit, the founder of one of France's most successful ad agencies and who served under Hennequin through much of his tenure, took the reins after Hennequin left to run Accor hotels. Under Petit, McDonald's continued to ramp up homegrown products, including increasing volumes of Charolais beef, government-certified cheese, and potatoes grown by McCain Group's French affiliate. Petit also expanded the company's product line to include more traditional French items like baguettes and pastries. And he has brought the restaurants into the 21st century: It's possible to order online, or on one's phone, and many now have Wi-Fi.   "'McDo' has succeeded in synthesizing its American DNA with French culture," he said recently according to Le Figaro. WikimediaCharolais cows are known for their muscling, correctness and size. Last year, Petit published a book, "I Sold My Soul to McDonald's," in which he discussed his 20 years in the company's marketing department and 10 as chief, despite not even having eaten his first hamburger until age 30.  "I adapted McDonald’s system to our own society, while saying 'No' to received ideas and leading the change," he writes. "I couldn’t have done it without McDonald's own guidance and without the confidence always accorded to me by American and French shareholders, as well as franchise owners spread out over 958 French communities."  Marketing has played a key role in earning back the French psyche. Petit was able to persuade the home office to change the country's logo to green ... Google Images As well as open McCafés that serve French macarons: McDonald's France Finally, he positioned the company as a cornerstone of the lives of young people. The group says it will create 9,000 net jobs between 2012 and 2014, a pace it says it will maintain between 2015 and 2017, although most of the entry-level positions are minimum wage. Petit recently told an audience that besides school, McDonald's was now the most important source of socialization in France. Having never graduated from college, Petit also touts the chain as a stable source of employment for young adults without diplomas.  McDonald's growth is unquestionable. How it has come up with the money to do so, however, is now an open question. Earlier this year, L'Express reporter Emmanuel Paquette broke the story that McDonald's had allegedly been using a Luxembourg corporation to avoid paying French taxes. McDonald's has denied any wrongdoing and said the inquiry was routine. It did not respond to numerous requests for comment.  "There doesn't seem to be any doubt that the American firm has engaged in actions that could link to fiscal evasion, as opposed to an 'optimization of tax planning,'" David Lair, a French attorney who has studied the case, told Business Insider in an online exchange. "But the fiscal authorities will have to prove it." The Luxembourg entity reported profit of $172 million and taxes of $3.2 million, according to Bloomberg, and it has received more than $1 billion in royalties. Bloomberg also notes the company reported a 4.1 percentage point drop in its 2012 tax rate thanks to “tax benefits related to certain foreign operations.”  If found guilty, Lair said, France would have to pay back what it is owed plus a 0.4% interest rate for each month of liability.  McDonald's faces other challenges, too. Its share of France's "commercialized dining out" sector, which includes any chain restaurant as well as schools and hospitals, stands at just 12.5% and has begun to stagnate, according to Le Figaro. France's dining-out frequency, at one in seven meals, remains far below the U.K.'s one in three and America's one in two. French people average only about 60 fast-food trips a year, compared with 150 for Americans. And, according to Le Figaro, McDonald's has not released data showing what the average performance per restaurant looks like.  For now one can find evidence everywhere that McDonald's has become a highly sophisticated operation whose economic presence is not only immovable but critical to France. Demonstrators recently protested against a local town that had barred the construction of a McDonald's. This November the company became the official partner of Paris Saint-Germain, France's most important soccer team. Nor has it entirely had to shed its American attributes to achieve its status. The company actually ran a contest called "American Summer," its version of the popular Monopoly giveaway in the U.S. Certain foods came with tearaway sheets that could be redeemed for prizes like a Frisbee, headphones, a GoPro, or a Florida beach towel.  McDonald's France Flipping through the company's Facebook page, which has 1.3 million likes and more 772,000 visits, one discovers the same amusing combination of English words and "Euro" concepts first poked fun at in "Pulp Fiction." McDonald's France McDonald's Corp. needs all the help it can get. Shares have fallen sharply in the past two months after suffering its worst monthly sales drop in over a decade, and it is currently fighting through a tainted beef scandal with recalls in China and Russia, two other major markets.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jeff Zelevansky Traders work in the crude oil pit on the floor of the New York Mercantile Exchange in New York January 2, 2008.Cash reserves have been pared back, and monies have been redeployed into exchange-traded fund (ETF) strategies. There are several reasons. What this means is that the two largest central banks in the world, the Eurozone's ECB and the US dollar zone's Fed, will be at zero interest rates for at least another six months and maybe a year or longer. There is no apparent inflation acceleration that would cause the Fed or ECB to act. The current data does not support tightening. At year-end, the Fed will be at neutral, and the ECB will be at neutral or easing. Add that the Bank of Japan appears to be preparing for another round of quantitative easing, and the outlook for continued global monetary ease remains intact. The end result is that monetary stimulus worldwide remains positive. The markets have made substantial corrections. The US economy appears to continue its gradual recovery. It’s not robust, but it is improving and not slipping back into recession. For us that means that the upward bias in stock prices is intact. We took a cash reserve position and cut back our market exposure on July 3 and again on July 16. Those moves were based on the perception of rising geopolitical risk both in Europe (Ukraine) and in the Persian Gulf and Middle East. The risks are still there. The beheading of reporter James Foley is a gruesome reminder. What is different now is that there appears to be some movement in Europe among Ukraine, Germany (really the EU), and Russia towards an accommodation. A potentially positive ingredient is the relationship between Angela Merkel and Vladimir Putin. The outcomes remain to be seen. In the Persian Gulf, the US has now become aggressive. It has introduced the use of air power and selective skilled combat boots on the ground. The White House has recognized that IS is a murderous foe of the US. It threatens every American, every American interest, every American facility, and every American ally worldwide. It appears the Obama White House is now ready to be aggressive in the attack on IS in the same way that it was aggressive in the attack on Osama bin Laden. That means that sharply honed American technology will be directed at strategic IS targets. That’s a good thing. Obama set aside criticism over “mission creep” and acted. Finally, we will not wait for the foe to fire the next shot, we can also shoot first. We expect a lot more precisely targeted firepower to be aimed at IS. So, we are back into the markets with a nearly fully invested posture. We do not think markets are cheap. Fairly priced, perhaps, but not cheap. We think there is an upward bias in stock prices. The US economy is recovering at a gradually improving rate. As John Maynard Keynes said, “When things change, I change with them.” On July 3 and 16 we built a cash reserve to be safe. It appears that amount of cash is too much to hold now that there is a little more clarity. That does not mean risk has gone away. Nimble strategies with ETFs can be accommodative on a very quick basis. For today we are back in, but we are fully prepared to change rapidly if risk premia warrant such action. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsLabor stagnation?   (Reporting by Howard Schneider; Editing by Paul Simao)  This article originally appeared at Reuters.  Copyright 2014. Follow Reuters on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesTyler Lovelady prepares for the Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium at the Jackson Lake Lodge in Grand Teton National Park near Jackson, Wyoming, on Thursday. The Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City is holding the Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium at the hotel.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Russia Moves Into Ukraine; Ukraine Says It Is Being Invaded. "Russia ordered a convoy of aid trucks across the border into eastern Ukraine on Friday apparently without Kiev's permission, raising the danger of direct confrontation with the Ukrainian military, which is fighting pro-Russian rebels," reported Reuters' Dmitry Madorsky. "A Reuters witness said about 70 white-painted trucks, part of a column of about 260 that had been waiting at the border for over a week, had crossed the border and was heading towards the rebel stronghold of Luhansk accompanied by a small number of separatist fighters." Markets Fall. Stocks tumbled but have recovered some losses following the headlines out of Ukraine. U.S. futures are down, with Dow futures down 12 points and S&amp;P futures down 2 points. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.2%, France's CAC 40 is down 0.9%, Germany's DAX is down 0.6%, Spain's IBEX is down 0.5%, and Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.4%. All Eyes On Jackson Hole. The Kansas City Fed's annual Economic Policy Symposium has kicked off. The topic of this year's meeting: "Re-Evaluating Labor Market Dynamics." And the main event will be Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen's opening remarks, which come at 10 a.m. ET. What To Expect From Yellen. In its latest FOMC statement, the Fed said "a range of labor market indicators suggests that there remains significant underutilization of labor resources." Given the vagueness of that assessment, many hope Yellen will offer some more color on that end. "In the spirit of the more academic focus of Jackson Hole, we expect Yellen to give a graduate seminar on the size, sources and slow improvement in labor market slack," Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Michael Hansen said. What Not To Expect From Yellen. For the most part, Fed watchers don't expect any new comments about the path of monetary policy. But that won't stop bond and stock market traders from parsing every last word for clues. "[T]he risk to the markets is that Yellen also acknowledges the better-than-expected labor market data and her comments are seen as less dovish than the markets currently appear to anticipate," Hansen said. "Thus hawkish mis-readings of her remarks remain a risk, but we don't expect any signal of a materially earlier exit from her." No Economic Data On The Calendar. There are no major market-moving economic reports scheduled for release on Friday. All eyes will fall squarely on Jackson Hole. GameStop Had A Big Quarter. Electronic gaming retailer GameStop said sales surged 25% to $1.73 billion, beating expectations for $1.64 billion. Comparable store sales jumped 21.9%. "New software sales grew 15.6% driven by the strong performance of recently released new titles, such as Ubisoft’s 'Watch Dogs' and Nintendo’s 'Mario Kart 8,'" management said. Earnings came in at $0.22 per share, which was higher than the $0.18 expected. Shares are up by about 5%. Home Depot Promotes Menear. "Home Depot Inc. named retail industry veteran Craig Menear as its chief executive, four months after he was appointed as head of the home improvement chain's U.S. retail business," reported Reuters' Siddharth Cavale. "Menear succeeds Frank Blake, who has led the company since 2007. Blake will stay on as chairman, the company said in a statement." What Were GM Lawyers Doing? "Federal prosecutors are scrutinizing whether employees inside and outside General Motors Co.'s legal department concealed evidence from regulators about a faulty ignition switch, potentially delaying a recall of vehicles with the fatal problem, according to people familiar with the matter," reported The Wall Street Journal's Christopher Matthews and Joann Lublin. "The investigation is at an early stage, one of the people said, and it is possible that the probe could end without any charges being brought." Gap's Got Eyes For The Emerging Markets. "Apparel retailer Gap Inc. raised its full-year profit forecast, encouraged by strong sales of its lower-priced Old Navy clothes, and said it would open 40 stores in India as part of its strategy to expand in emerging markets," reported Reuters' Ramkumar Iyer. "Gap has been looking to reduce its dependence on the North American market, which generates more than three-quarters of its sales." FREE AppDownload
ReutersThere are a few theories.For the usually self-assured video games industry, it was a startling admission. In an interview with Eurogamer last week, the head of Sony Worldwide Studios, Shuhei Yoshida — in effect the face of the PlayStation empire — confessed that he had no explanation for the success of PlayStation 4. Since the launch of the console last November, it has sold 10 million units worldwide. The PS3 had sold half that number by this point in its lifecycle, while the PlayStation 2 (the most successful console ever launched) took over a year to hit the mark. And this is supposed to be an era in which smartphones and tablets have eaten into the core gaming market. “It’s just beyond our imagination. We are so happy,” Yoshida-san said. “But I for one am a bit nervous because we do not completely understand what’s happening. You need to understand why your products are selling well so you can plan for the future, right? “Are we exhausting all the core gamers? If we sell this number of units, there are no more consumers we can sell to. That’s a really terrifying prospect. So we want to understand who are these consumers who we do not necessarily consider core gamers, who are purchasing PS4 and why they are doing it?” To help Yoshida-san out, we asked a variety of developers and industry insiders for their theories. Here’s what they came back with. Theory one: it’s all about the launch and distribution In previous console generations, major machines have tended to launch in one territory — usually Japan — months before rolling out across the world. For example, the PlayStation 2 launched in Japan in March 2000 and didn’t hit shop shelves in Europe until that November. Meanwhile, the PS3 suffered various production difficulties because of its early implementation of a Blu-ray drive, which meant supply was strangled for several months. PlayStation 4, however, launched in most of the major territories on its opening day, so more consumers had the opportunity to buy (or at least pre-order) the machine while the hype was at its most intense. And they had waited a long time for the opportunity. “The last generation went on for a very, very long time,” says Chris Dring, editor of industry news site, MCV. “The pent-up demand for new hardware was at an all-time high. The last generation of consoles was really slowing down at the end, we were getting an endless stream of sequels … the market was, frankly, a bit dull. So when new hardware arrived, everyone upgraded incredibly quickly.” Furthermore, the PS4 architecture is much more straightforward than that of the PS3, which means Sony has largely been able to keep pace with demand. It could be argued that PS4 is not actually more popular than its predecessors; it has instead been more readily available. Theory two: it’s all about the failed launch of the Xbox One XboxMicrosoft’s launch of the Xbox One is widely considered a disaster. The unveiling event last May concentrated on the console’s live TV capabilities, as well as revealing that the Kinect camera was mandatory and would need to be switched on continuously. It also looked as though the console would require almost permanent broadband internet access and that the sale of pre-owned games would be heavily controlled. Consumers weren’t impressed. It’s possible many gamers bought PlayStation 4 consoles as an act of consumer defiance. “I think the proposed restrictions on pre-owned frightened off consumers,” says Simon Byron, head of games at Premier Communications. “Months after the idea was canned, I still came across people from outside the industry bemoaning their lack of consumer freedom, with many saying they’d switch to PlayStation. Had the Xbox One been backwards compatible, it would have been a much harder decision to defect.” Veteran developer Ste Pickford of Zee-3 agrees. “Microsoft pitched the Xbox One as a sort of out-of-date expensive TIVO for American sports, with an unwanted spy box on the top, so the gamers went for the PS4, which was, ‘more of the same, but with better graphics’ — a more familiar and more welcome message.” And even though Microsoft quickly u-turned on its more controversial plans, the damage was done. “PS4 had already hit a critical social mass,” says Pat Garratt, editor of VG247. “People buy the consoles their friends own — especially now online play is so standard — and if you get a quick launch with little competition, your growth can be exponential. “There’s nothing particularly wrong with Xbox One, but I think the Microsoft team has been victim to a very unfortunate set of circumstances, some of it self-made and some not. PS4’s a great console, but it’s kind of difficult to screw up when there’s so much going against your main competitor.” Theory three: it’s all about the failed launch of the Nintendo Wii UReuters/Phil McCarten Forget Xbox One, for a moment. Wii dominated the previous generation, shifting over 100 million units and bringing a whole new audience into gaming. But the Wii U, with its difficult-to-explain GamePad, has been a flop. “PS2 was a fast seller and an astronomical success because it appealed to all audiences, hardcore gamers and more mainstream consumers alike,” Dring says. “However, during the life of Xbox 360 and PS3, those ‘mainstream’ consumers bought Wiis. This time around it looks like quite a few have returned to the PlayStation family.” Theory four: it’s all about price In most console generations, it’s the cheaper machine that prospers, rather than the most advanced or feature-rich. PlayStation 4 was cheaper than Xbox One. Game over. “For the first time, both consoles launched at roughly the same time with — in consumers’ eyes — very similar features,” Byron says. “The battle was probably won thanks to the two most immediate differences: an in-box camera and the price — essentially the same thing. With pockets being squeezed ever tighter, the £80 price difference was magnified. “I think it’s really telling that the PlayStation 4 camera was out of stock at launch — consumers like choice, rather than being forced into buying something they’re not certain they’ll need.” Game designer Adam Saltsman agrees. “Bundled with Kinect, the Xbox was super expensive — PS4 launched with what seemed like a lot of games, indie or otherwise, and most AAA games are non-exclusive now anyway. I think anybody sitting around wanting some kind of sexy ‘next-gen’ hardware — are we still allowed to say that? — would have to stomach spending an extra few hundred bucks on a console with less games. I just think that’s a hard leap for people to make.” Theory five: it’s all about gamesYouTubeDestiny is coming out on the PS4 in September. From the start, Sony went out and sold PlayStation 4 as a games machine that, if you really wanted it to, could do other stuff. The company realized that consumers were overloaded with gadgets — phones, tablets, set-top boxes, cable subscriptions, satellite services, smart TVs — that promise a wealth of multimedia features. Only PlayStation gives you LittleBigPlanet, Uncharted, and the rest. The clarity of that message was appealing to consumers who just want to play. “The variety on PS4 has also been very good,” Dring says. “Although there’s been quite a lack of content so far, there have been quite a few new IPs and quirky titles. And the quantity of original software appears to be having the same effect on hardware sales that a ‘triple AAA’ launch would.” Games designer and coder Byron Atkinson-Jones puts it all very simply: “I got a PS4 because I wanted to play games, pure and simple — and the message to me from Sony was that the PS4 is a games machine. “Can it do anything else? I don’t know. But I do know it can play games. The message wasn’t confused or mixed in with a bunch of other superfluous other stuff. Even the name, PlayStation 4, was a clear message: it has got to be better than PS3 because it’s the next number up. There’s nothing confusing about Playstation; it’s a brand with a clear progression. It’s not trying to reinvent itself each time, it’s remaining consistent — and in a world where there are thousands of new things trying to grab my attention and my cash, consistency can be a good thing — a bedrock, an anchor point.” Theory six: it’s all about being cool Cool is unquantifiable — there are whole creative agencies filled with bearded, skinny jeans-wearing brand gurus who can’t define exactly what it is. But maybe PS4 has it. Somehow. And that’s all there is to it. “I don’t think any of these things are things that people are thinking about consciously — except maybe the price thing,” Saltsman says. “It seems more like a kind of ... general overall sense, like the PS4 just has this weird aura of goodwill around it.” Artist Dick Hogg, co-creator of the experimental PlayStation game "Hohokum," has noticed a similar mood. “I have noticed that a lot of people I know who are not massive gamers seem to be very keen to have a PS4. I’m talking about the kind of people who perhaps have a PS3 but only play Fifa and perhaps a driving game. I have seen guys like this visibly disappointed when I tell them that 'Hohokum' is out on the PS3, too, because they were looking for an excuse to buy a PS4. “I have no idea why, but I think it is partly because the PS4 is kind of a sexy object. Literally it is a beautiful, classy-looking console. If you think that is a silly reason for selling 10 million electronic devices, look at what Jonathan Ive does for a living.” Perhaps what it comes down to is a certain simplicity and style. Perhaps PlayStation is gaming’s little black dress. Sleek, pure, and we all know what it means and what it’s for. “The PS4 looks like I imagine a games machine should look like,” Atkinson-Jones says. “If you were to walk into my living room and ask somebody to find the games machine, they are going to point to the PS4 and say ‘that’s it!’ even though there’s an Xbox 360, Xbox One, and Wii also there. We like to think we aren’t shallow and that looks don’t really matter, but when it comes down to it they really do, and the PS4 has it where it counts — it looks like it’s a games machine.” -- Of course, the fight is far from over. Xbox One is selling well, too, compared with its predecessors, and we’re still only eight months into what is likely to be a 10-year lifecycle. Sales of Microsoft’s machine have surged after the arrival of cheaper Kinect-free bundles, and exclusives like "Sunset Overdrive" and "Halo 5" will help. The other, darker possibility is that the new consoles have already reached their ceiling — that all the people who were going to buy them have done it now. “The one worry for the industry is, will this sharp increase in hardware sales result in a steep decline in a few years time?” Dring asks. “That will depend heavily on Microsoft and Sony’s ability to broaden out and actually increase the number of console gamers.” Yoshida-san then, is right to be concerned, because the games industry is in uncharted territory. It’s in rude health at the moment, but the pace of change in the tech economy is breathtaking. Look at Blackberry, look at MySpace — the slightest hint of a dip and things go south pretty fast these days. There are no second acts in digital lives.   This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
FinVizDow futures Markets have moved sharply lower in the last few minutes. U.S. futures, which were up for most of the day, are now in the red with Dow futures down 38 points and S&amp;P 500 futures down 6 points. "Russia ordered a convoy of aid trucks across the border into eastern Ukraine on Friday apparently without Kiev's permission, raising the danger of direct confrontation with the Ukrainian military which is fighting pro-Russian rebels," reported Reuters Dmitry Madorsky. "A Reuters witness said about 70 white-painted trucks, part of a column of about 260 that had been waiting at the border for over a week, had crossed the border and was heading towards the rebel stronghold of Luhansk accompanied by a small number of separatist fighters." "We consider this a direct invasion by Russia of Ukraine," said Ukrainian state security chief Valentyn Nalivaychenko. European markets are in the red. Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.4%, France's CAC 40 is down 1.2%, Germany's DAX is down 1.1%, Spain's IBEX is down 0.9%, and Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.9%. Asian markets closed mixed with Japan's Nikkei down 0.3% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 0.4%. With no economic reports on the calendar, all eyes will be on the Fed's Jackson Hole economic symposium in Wyoming on Friday. Most experts are hoping Fed chair Janet Yellen will offer a more clear explanation of what concerns her about the labor market FREE AppDownload
AFP Photo/Greg BakerMixed martial arts fighter Yao Honggang pins down his opponent Jadambaa Munkhbayar during their bout in the Kunlun Fight tournament in Zhoukou, China's Henan province.As he pinned his opponent down and punched him repeatedly in the head, Yao "The Master" Honggang was –- like other emerging Chinese mixed martial arts fighters -– beating his way out of rural poverty. Yao was once a national wrestling champion, but switched to the uncompromising discipline of mixed martial arts (MMA) a decade ago, when it was barely known in China. It combines grappling with kickboxing and ju-jitsu in a combat where almost anything goes. "My ideal is to get a knockout," said Yao, 33, who has a short, muscle-ripped frame and cauliflower ears. For his latest contest, he returned to his home province of Henan and a sports centre in Zhoukou, just a few miles from the quiet plot of land where his parents still make a living growing corn. A spotlight picked out local businessmen and government officials -- plus a consignment of shield-clutching riot police -- in the audience of thousands, and Yao sprinted towards the ring through clouds of smoke and past bikini-clad cheerleaders. Within seconds of the referee's opening cry of "Fight!" the crowd erupted as he knocked his opponent Jadambaa Munkhbayar to the floor. But the Mongolian slid from beneath Yao's legs and leapt back to his feet, swinging wildly. AFP Photo/Greg BakerMost of the fighters come from rural areas. Yao's long journey to MMA stardom saw him endure years of struggle and deprivation as he trained in obscurity with a Filipino coach in Beijing. To keep his dream aloft, he worked as a restaurant night-watchman and an air conditioning repairman, hanging off skyscrapers to fix leaky units. "Both my parents worked in the fields, my dad also worked as a PE teacher but his salary was low. So I had to depend on myself," he said. Now he competes for prizes of up to $10,000 and fights in the United States and Hong Kong, while the sport's promoters are competing to cash in on what is a potentially huge Chinese market. The gym where Yao trains has already sent several fighters to the US-based Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), whose annual revenues reach into hundreds of millions of dollars. "The UFC is like every other sports league in the world -- they see enormous financial possibility in China," said Jonathan Snowden, author of an encyclopedia of the sport. "What they see are more than a billion possible customers. That's very alluring." The UFC partnered with a Chinese TV channel last year, but life for the dozens of aspiring MMA champions fighting regular bouts around the country remains far from glamorous. Members of one Beijing gym sleep on bunk beds in tiny dormitories, squeezed into unheated slum houses. "Nearly all of us MMA fighters are farmers," said bearded He Nannan, 22, gulping down cabbage soup. "People from cities have money and don't want to fight." AFP Photo/Greg BakerSome have already been sent to compete in Ultimate Fighting Championship.Wu Haotian is one of China's top MMA athletes and has defeated opponents as far away as South Africa, but went unrecognized as he walked home through dilapidated streets, sweating from three hours of afternoon training. While he was growing up in a village in Inner Mongolia, he said, "when it rained and we couldn't work outside, we would gather for wrestling matches, that's how I started fighting". "I thought MMA was great, because there are almost no restrictions." His favourite move is a downward elbow strike, but pointed to his forehead to explain a recent defeat. "I was injured here. It bled a lot and I fainted after the third round." The prizes he competes for are worth up to 30,000 yuan ($5,000), with around a fifth taken by his club. Even so, he said, "We don't have enough money to live in apartments. We're poor." The future of contenders like Wu and He will be decided by the spending habits of Chinese audiences, who pay to see fights and watch TV broadcasts. Yuan Kaifu, a businessman who had traveled from Beijing to Zhoukou said: "I like MMA because it's real. Not fake like some other fighting contests." Backstage, battlers from Australia, central Africa and Russia covered themselves in muscle-heating oil and sparred as a German coach played the "Rocky" theme song "Eye of the Tiger" from a mobile phone. Yao looked relaxed as he secured his gloves with tape and sipped a protein drink. "I don't get nervous in the ring, I'm aware of everything that is happening," he said. After the initial grapple he dodged his opponent's right-handed punch, hoisted him up and brought him crashing to the ground. Stuck in a choke-hold, Munkhbayar's white and gold glove tapped the ground three times, and a bell marked Yao's victory -- after a contest of just 53 seconds. Balanced on the ring's white ropes, the winner drank in the adoration of the crowd, flashing a smile which revealed a gum-shield in patriotic red. "Next time, I'll try and win more slowly," he said. "If I didn't have MMA, I'd probably be doing some small business, construction or working as a cook," he added. "Or installing air conditioners." Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
The Kansas City Fed's annual Economic Policy Symposium kicked off on Thursday. For many, the main event will be the appearance of Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen, who will offer opening remarks at 10:00 a.m. ET. Other heavy hitters at the event include European Central Bank President Mario Draghi and Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda. Here's the full schedule via the Kansas City Fed. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidChairman and CEO of The Home Depot, Frank Blake, speaks during an interview in New York October 11, 2012. (Reuters) - Home Depot Inc named retail industry veteran Craig Menear as its chief executive, four months after he was appointed as head of the home improvement chain's U.S. retail business. Menear succeeds Frank Blake, who has led the company since 2007. Blake will stay on as chairman, the company said in a statement. Menear, 56, joined Home Depot in 1997 as a merchandising manager. He held various management positions before being named senior vice president of merchandising in 2003, according to the company's website. The move comes as Home Depot tries to steer through a slow recovery in the U.S. housing market, where rising interest rates and low wage growth have stifled spending on new homes. The company, on Tuesday, maintained its full-year sales growth forecast but offered a positive outlook for the rest of the year. Home Depot said it expected same-store sales to grow faster in the second half of the year as homeowners spend more on repairing and remodeling their homes after a severe winter season. Menear's move will be effective on Nov. 1, the company said. Before joining Home Depot, Menear worked at furniture companies Ikea [IKEA.UL], Builders Emporium, Grace Home Centers and Montgomery Ward. Blake, who led Home Depot through the financial recession, drove sales at the world's largest home improvement retailer from $66 billion in 2010 to $78 billion in 2013 - levels last seen before the recession. The company's stock more than doubled during his six years at the helm. Home Depot shares were little changed in extended trading after closing at $91.15 on the New York Stock Exchange on Thursday.              (Reporting by Siddharth Cavale in Bangalore; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA GameStop store is pictured in Pasadena, CaliforniaSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - GameStop Corp on Thursday reported its quarterly revenue surged by 25 percent over the prior year, topping expectations, buoyed by the success of new game releases as well as solid sales of gaming hardware from Microsoft and Sony Corp. Revenue for the fiscal second quarter ended Aug. 2 rose to $1.73 billion. Wall Street on average had expected the U.S. game store chain to report revenue of $1.65 billion. Shares of the company gained 6.2 percent to $43 after-hours, from a close of $40.49 on the New York Stock Exchange. Titles such as Ubisoft`s "Watch Dogs" and Nintendo`s "Mario Kart 8" drove a 15.6 percent gain in new software sales and a 21.9 percent gain in comparable-store sales. Strong demand for Microsoft's Xbox One and Sony's Playstation 4 helped new hardware sales more than double. Net earnings for the second quarter more than doubled to $24.6 million, or 22 cents a share, from $10.5 million, or 9 cents a share, a year earlier. For its fiscal third quarter, GameStop forecast comparable store sales growth of 1 to 5 percent. It maintained its outlook for fiscal 2014 diluted earnings per share at $3.40 to $3.70.   (Reporting by Malathi Nayak; Editing by Chris Reese and Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man walks past a MTS shop in St.PetersburgMOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia's biggest mobile phone operator MTS  said on Friday it had increased its contract with Swedish telecom equipment supplier Ericsson  to more than $1.5 billion. MTS said it had signed an additional agreement with Ericsson, on top of their existing $286 million contract.  (Reporting by Maria Kiselyova; editing by David Clarke) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueU.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen as she testifies before the Senate Banking Committee on Capitol Hill in Washington on July 15. Happy Friday! Here's what you need to know today.  1. U.S. Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel called ISIS an "imminent" threat. "They are as sophisticated and well-funded as any group that we have seen. They're beyond just a terrorist group," Hagel said at a press briefing. "We must prepare for everything," he added.  2. GlobalPost, the website that employed American journalist James Foley, released the last email militants from the ISIS group sent to Foley's family before they executed him.  3. The National Guard is withdrawing troops from Ferguson, Missouri, as protests in the St. Louis suburb seem to have simmered down after two weeks of heated riots. The demonstrations were in response to the fatal shooting of an unarmed black teen by a white police officer.  4. Fed Chair Janet Yellen will speak on Friday at the Jackson Hole economic conference. According to Business Insider's Joe Weisenthal: "The overwhelming consensus is that she will acknowledge some improvement in the labor market but will identify enough "slack" in the system so as to warrant continued easy policy from the Fed."5. Bank of America has agreed to pay $16.65 billion to settle accusations that the bank and the companies it acquired misled investors into buying trouble mortgage securities.  6. A day of mourning is being held in Malaysia as the first bodies of victims from the MH17 crash, the Malaysia Airlines plane shot down over Ukraine last month, arrive in Kuala Lumpur. 7. Kent Brantly, the American doctor who received an experimental drug after being infected with Ebola, appears to have made a full recovery, although it was "unclear whether the drug or a blood transfusion Brantly got from a young Ebola survivor in Africa was helpful," the Associated Press said.  8. A Russian convoy of trucks carrying humanitarian aid was seen crossing into eastern Ukraine by an Associated Press reporter early Friday. This follows "more than a week's delay amid suspicions the mission was being used as a cover for an invasion by Moscow," the AP said.  9. The death toll from destructive landslides in Japan is rising, with officials doubling the number to 39 on Friday, while 52 people were still missing. Heavy rain brings the risk of further landslides.  10. Former Irish Prime Minister Albert Reynolds died at age 81 after a long battle with Alzheimer's disease. Reynolds is remembered for the key role he played in "delivering peace to Northern Ireland," the AP said.  And finally... Nick Cannon has confirmed to The Insider With Yahoo that he and singer Mariah Carey are "living apart" after six years of marriage. The couple have 3-year-old twins together. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA view of the headquarters of German utility RWE in EssenFRANKFURT/BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany's economy ministry will approve the sale of utility RWE's  oil and gas unit DEA to a Russian investor despite tensions between Russia and the West over the Ukraine crisis, two people familiar with the matter said. The economy ministry said in June it was investigating whether to block the 5.1 billion euro ($6.9 billion) sale of the DEA unit to the Letter One group of investors led by Russian tycoon Mikhail Fridman, which was announced in March. Representatives of the ministry, RWE and the Letter One consortium declined to comment. Europe and the United States have imposed economic sanctions against Russia for its annexation of Ukraine's Crimea region and its backing of pro-Russian separatists, who are fighting against government forces in eastern Ukraine. Russia, in turn, has slapped bans on Western food imports. As part of the deal, Fridman, Russia's second-richest man, and his co-investors get stakes in about 190 oil and gas licenses or concessions in Europe, the Middle East and North Africa. The German government could theoretically have used a clause in its foreign trade law that allows it to block takeover deals that threaten "public safety and order", but it would have been an unprecedented move. RWE has previously said it expects the deal, which has already got antitrust approval from the European Union, to be finalised this year. The transaction came under criticism from senior German politicians in March as relations between Russia and the West deteriorated over Ukraine. Germany currently receives more than a third of its gas and oil from Russia. RWE, like other German utilities, is struggling to adjust to a power sector shake-up as Germany moves away from nuclear energy and encourages a shift to more renewables, while Europe's energy demand is weak. The shake-up has more than halved the debt-burdened firm's market value in four years. RWE has been looking for ways to reduce its debt of more than 30 billion euros, including cutting jobs and shedding assets.  ($1 = 0.7345 Euros)  (Reporting by Alexander Hübner, Tom Käckenhoff und Gernot Heller; Writing by Ludwig Burger) FREE AppDownload
