BEIJING (Reuters) - China's annual consumer inflation remained at a near five-year low in October at 1.6 percent, further evidence that the world's second-largest economy is cooling and giving room to policymakers to stimulate growth if needed. Analysts polled by Reuters had expected annual consumer inflation to be 1.6 percent in October, the same as September. On a monthly basis, consumer inflation was flat in October, the National Bureau of Statistics said on Monday. That compared with 0.1 percent expected by economists. The producer price index fell 2.2 percent from a year ago, its 32nd consecutive decline, as sluggish demand curbed the pricing power of companies. The market had expected a 2.0 percent fall in producer prices after a drop of 1.8 percent in September.    (Reporting by Judy Hua and Koh Gui Qing; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipHong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd Chairman Chow Chung-kong (2nd R) makes a statement on the establishment of the Shanghai-Hong Kong stock market link at the Hong Kong Stock Exchange April 10, 2014.The 550 billion yuan (HK$694 billion) Shanghai Hong Kong Stock Connect scheme to directly link the two cities’ share markets will start operations on November 17, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing (HKEx) said on Monday. Citing a joint statement by the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC), the Hong Kong bourse operator announced that all relevant rules regarding trading and clearing had also been agreed and approved by regulators. “The necessary trading and clearing rules and other relevant rules, the daily and aggregate quota mechanisms and other regulatory and operational arrangements have now been finalised,” the joint statement said. It added that the stock exchanges and the clearing houses on both sides of the scheme had completed a series of market rehearsals with market participants and had agreed the principles and arrangements for cross-boundary regulatory and enforcement cooperation. The question of enforcement, given the differences in the regulatory regimes in the two cities, had been a key concern for investors. Those rules have now been published to the market, HKEx said. The so-called “through train” was expected to have begun operations in late October. It was delayed without explanation, though market speculation had focused on political fallout from the pro-democracy Occupy Central protests that have been running since late September. Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying and Financial Secretary John Tsang Chun-wah have led lobbying efforts in recent weeks to get the scheme started. Leung met with President Xi Jinping yesterday for the first time since the Occupy Central protests began. Xi said China was committed to the city’s democratic reform within the framework of the Basic Law – Hong Kong’s mini-constitution. “The rule of law is a key foundation for Hong Kong’s long-term stability and prosperity… the central government will state committed to the ‘one country, two systems’ principle and the Basic Law. We will firmly support Hong Kong to develop democracy in line with law and its endeavour to maintain its long term stability,” Xi said. Market speculation about the start date has intensified in recent weeks, sparking a scramble among Hong Kong banks to secure enough yuan currency to meet the anticipated demand for Shanghai-related trades. Offshore yuan deposit rates offered in Hong Kong has spiked since mid-September. At least eight banks have raised their yuan deposit rates or extended their promotional offers. HSBC and China Construction Bank were the two banks that raised their short-term yuan deposit rates last week, following similar moves by Dah Sing Bank, DBS, Nanyang Commercial Bank and Standard Chartered in early October. FREE AppDownload
Nearly 81% of 2.25 million Catalans who participated in a simulated referendum Sunday said they wanted autonomy from Spain, according to preliminary results cited by the Financial Times and other news outlets. Catalan Vice President Joana Ortega announced the results of the vote on Monday morning at 12:30 a.m. with just over 88% of the returns in from polling stations, according to the Spain Report. 80.72% of Catalans voted yes-yes to a two-part question asking whether they wanted Catalonia to be a state and whether they wanted that state to be autonomous.  However, anti-independence groups in Catalonia — a region with 7.5 million people that includes Spain's second-largest city, Barcelona — largely boycotted the referendum, according to the FT. Therefore, the results were obviously skewed toward independence.  Before the results were announced, Catalan President Artur Mas had this to say, according to the Spain Report: “We want a definitive vote. Today we have become stronger as a country. We have taken a huge step forward.” “We have made it very clear that Catalonia wants to govern itself. We want to decide our political future and we have demonstrated that.” REUTERS/Paul HannaCatalan President Artur Mas holds up his ballot before casting it during a symbolic independence vote in Barcelona on Sunday.Catalans have wanted independence from Spain for quite some time, but this was the first time they voted on it, according to the Los Angeles Times. A lot of Catalans suffered after Spain's civil war of 1936-1939 and, in more recent years, wealthy Catalans resented subsidizing the poorer regions of the country, according to The Times. The so-called consultation of citizens on Sunday came after the central government blocked a more formal ballot, NBC News reported. Pro-independence groups have campaigned heavily even though the vote was merely symbolic. In fact, these grassroots groups actually had to set up the ballot themselves because of the central government's refusal to recognize it, Reuters reported.  Rafael Catala, the Justice Minister for Spain, has accused Catalonia's leader of organizing "an act of pure political propaganda, with no democratic validity. A sterile and useless event," according to Reuters.  For their part, pro-independence groups hope the Catalans' turnout will persuade Madrid to allow an official referendum in the future, according to NBC News. FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. officials planned to unveil an improved healthcare insurance website on Sunday they hope will allow the second enrollment period under President Barack Obama's health reform plan to avoid the technical meltdown that plagued its launch last year. The reconfigured HealthCare.gov insurance marketplace will go live Sunday night before a month-long open enrollment period that begins Nov. 15, during which existing policyholders can change their coverage. Administration officials said on Sunday they will get it right this time, with a website that will make it easier to shop for coverage, and enough computing capacity, call-center help and other resources to handle re-enrollment of all current policyholders. "We are strongly encouraging our customers to return to HealthCare.gov ... Shop and compare. The majority will be able to save money," particularly those who may have overlooked available federal tax credits last year, said Kevin Counihan, chief executive officer of the federal health insurance marketplace. The new features will be available by Monday for people to look at, but the actual enrollment option will not be open until Saturday. The president's signature health reform law, formally known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act but better known as Obamacare, got off to a rocky start last fall because of technical problems with a Web-based marketplace where people could shop for private policies. Those glitches were smoothed out over time, and as of mid-August 7.3 million people had purchased insurance through the federal insurance marketplace or state-based systems. But the troubles with the federal marketplace and some of the state-based systems handed Republican opponents of Obamacare a potent weapon to criticize the roll-out of a program they continue to challenge through the courts and elsewhere. To head off a repeat, Counihan and other Department of Health and Human Services officials said in a phone call with journalists they were adding a thousand additional call center workers for the open enrollment period, bringing the total to 14,000. In addition, the website has been revised to include features that users have demanded. Chief among them is the ability for a potential customer to "window shop" and compare policies after entering only a limited amount of information -- rather completing an extensive questionnaire. "We believe this will be the most popular place on the site," and perhaps even lighten the computing load by allowing consumers to make up their mind before moving on to the more data-intensive process of actually signing up, said Andy Slavitt, a deputy administrator of the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services. Policyholders will be automatically re-enrolled in their existing policies if they don't make changes during the enrollment period. But analysis over the past year indicated that many enrollees overlooked potential benefits while others purchased policies that were more expensive than they needed. "Our goal is for people to come back and update their information and be sure they are getting the best deal possible," Slavitt said.   (Editing by Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Reuters TVRurik Jutting, a 29-year-old British banker who has been charged with two counts of murder, sits in a police van as it arrives at a court in Hong Kong in this November 3, 2014 still image provided by Reuters TV. Just minutes before meeting one of two Indonesian women he is alleged to have murdered, British banker Rurik Jutting invited another woman back to his luxury Hong Kong flat but she turned him down because she thought he was behaving "strangely". The woman, an Indonesian nanny who asked not to be named, claimed that at around 1.30am last Saturday – just over two hours before police were called to Mr Jutting's home and found two corpses – the Cambridge graduate approached her and a friend at a nightclub called the New Makati Pub &amp; Disco. "He said, 'Hi, girls. Where are you from? How old are you?'" the mother-of-three told The Telegraph. Mr Jutting, 29, bought a round of drinks – an orange juice and two shots of tequila – for the group and after around ten minutes talking invited one of the women to accompany him home. However, she turned the former Bank of America Merrill Lynch employee down because she wanted to stay with her friends and had felt unnerved by his erratic behaviour. "I said, 'No, I'm with my friends. I'm just here to party with my friends,'" recalled the woman, who is from Surabaya, Indonesia's second largest city, and has lived in the former British colony for four years. The woman, who gave her age as "thirty something", claimed she had watched Mr Jutting pacing repeatedly around the packed nightclub, occasionally grabbing women, before he came to talk to her. "He was just walking around and around and around," said the woman, who works as a nanny for a Hong Kong Chinese family. "It was strange. I didn't understand why. He looked happy but I didn't understand why he was moving around all the time." After Mr Jutting's invitation was declined, he turned his attentions to another Indonesian woman who was at the same club, the woman claimed. That woman was Seneng Mujiasih, 29, one of two women Mr Jutting has been accused of murdering, according to the nanny. Police believe the British banker invited Ms Mujiasih, who was better known as Jesse Lorena, to his 31st floor flat before killing her there. Five days earlier, on October 27, Mr Jutting is alleged to have murdered another woman, a 25-year-old mother-of-one who has been named as Sumatra Ningsih. Mr Jutting, who resigned from his high-paid job at the end of October, has been charged with double murder and is reportedly being held at the maximum security Siu Lam Psychiatric Centre. The prison was founded in 1972 and describes itself as a unit for "male and female prisoners in all categories (sentenced or on remand) and detainees who require psychiatric observation, treatment, assessment or special psychological care". Mr Jutting is due back in court on Monday. The Indonesian nanny said she had been shocked to learn that two women had been found dead at a flat to which she had been invited shortly before the second murder. "I felt sad," she said. "I was lucky."  FREE AppDownload
As an intelligence officer in the Marine Corps during the US troop surge and the "Anbar Awakening," Marine captain Wesley Gray had a first-hand view of some of the most important events of the American campaign in Iraq. He trained the country's nascent armed forces, learned Arabic, and witnessed the Sunni tribes' turn against Al Qaeda during the most crucial moment of the US mission. But Gray, who comes from a small town in northern California, took an untraditional path to the military. He said he always planned on becoming a soldier: "My whole life I always knew I wanted to do my service," he says. "It was just the mater of the timing of it." He ended up joining the armed forces at an unlikely point in life, two years into a competitive and intense finance PhD program at the University of Chicago. "I was kind of thinking, it's not like my opportunity costs are going to get any lower," he recalls. "If I'm ever going to actually do this I just have to go for it." He convinced his program advisor to grant him a four-year sabbatical, which is three years longer than what students are typically allowed. This was in 2004, when the campaign in Iraq was intensifying. Gray soon graduated towards the top of his Marine training class. He chose to become a "ground intelligence officer," basically an infantry soldier with intelligence duties and expertise — a "grunt with a map" in Marine parlance, according to Gray. He was entrusted with training and organizing Iraqi army personnel and was in the country at a time when the US began paying Sunni tribal leaders to join the fight against Al Qaeda: the "Anbar Awakening" that led to Al Qaeda in Iraq's defeat in the late 2000s. Gray left the Marines in 2008 and returned to his PhD program, somewhat to his professors' and classmates' surprise — "they didn't' think I would show up again" after his military career, Gray recalls. His experience in Iraq would end up having an unmistakable resonance in his post-military life and when attempting to launch Alpha Architect, a financial services startup that he says now manages $200 million in assets. Working with Iraqi soldiers and officials and applying his military and intelligence training in an active war zone gave Gray invaluable insights into human nature that he later brought to his business. "It was all about understanding the psychology of people and really trying to get through that," he says of his work in Iraq. "It meant realizing that everyone has cultural baggage and behavioral influences. You think everyone would be rational. But that's simply not the case." That realization applied to more than his Iraqi counterparts — it was crucial to being able to function in a war zone. "People are highly emotion-driven," he explains. "That's something you learn a lot about in the military and you learn to control that. When you're getting shot at you don't duck. You get up and shoot back when your emotion says to turn the other way." The military's honor and service-driven ethos also helped him hone his own unique sense of what he wanted his business to stand for. "We're trying to be more user-friendly and honorable than the traditional kind of dog-eat-dog Wall Street company," he says, explaining that his company is geared around investor education and publicly available research. "That's something that comes form being in the military. It's a humbling thing that translates over." Gray explains that in the Marines, the officers eat last — the leaders aren't in it for themselves, just by virtue of what the organization values. So Gray wanted to create a company distinguished through its transparency, a place that would buck the traditional "middle man"-like function of a typical financial firm. Right now, he has 10 full-time employees, including a recently hired ex-Marine captain. Since leaving the Marines, Gray has finished his PhD at Chicago, written a book about his experiences in Iraq, and taught at Drexel University before deciding to go into business. He says that veterans can successfully transition to civilian life so long as they're able to leverage their connections in the civilian world, especially among fellow ex-military personnel who are in a position to help them. "Just reach out to someone who's also a vet  — who's already been successful and made that transition and learn from them," says Gray. FREE AppDownload
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Singapore's two glitzy casinos are fighting for a shrinking pool of high rolling players as China's corruption crackdown and economic slowdown reduce the number of VIPs at their tables, and the battle is starting to turn ugly. Gaming mogul Sheldon Adelson, whose Las Vegas Sands &lt;lvs.n&gt; runs the Marina Bay Sands resort, has accused rival Genting Singapore's &lt;gens.si&gt; Resorts World Sentosa of relying on overly generous incentives and credit to entice big money players. "Maybe one day, they will get used to competing on the basis of a quality product, if they ever build one, and they won't have to buy the business," he said during his company's earnings call last month. A Genting spokeswoman declined to comment on questions sent by Reuters, citing the company's quarterly results due on Tuesday, but President Tan Hee Teck had acknowledged the headwinds facing Singapore's casinos during its last earnings call in August. "I suppose some operators may not want to admit it, but at least from our side, we believe that the situation will continue to be quite challenging at least for the next 6 to 12 months," Tan said. Behind the spat is a fall in the number of the high rollers who have been crucial to the billions of dollars the two casinos have earned since opening in 2010, making up around 50 percent of their combined S$6 billion in annual gaming revenues. Around half of that VIP business comes from customers from China, which is in the midst of an economic slowdown, while a crackdown on graft now in its second year is making it harder for wealthy Chinese to take money out of the country and discouraging conspicuous consumption. Visitors from China were down 30 percent to 871,000 in the first half of 2014, according to Singapore's tourism board. Wikimedia CommonsMarina Bay SandsLast month, Las Vegas Sands reported a 34 percent fall in VIP volume business at Marina Bay Sands to $9.1 billion in the quarter ending Sept. 30. Genting is expected to report a similar sharp slide in its third quarter results. Genting Singapore shares have been the worst performer in the benchmark Straits Times index &lt;.FTSTI&gt; this year, falling 30 percent. "Growth in Singapore gaming revenue has stalled, and is likely to contract slightly in 2014 with macroeconomic and political factors in China being the principal cause," Fitch Ratings wrote in a note on Oct. 31. While the two casinos have been pushing to earn more money from non-gambling activities such as conference facilities, hotels and shopping, gaming still makes up around 80 percent of both their revenues. Both casinos boast profit margins of about 50 percent, the world's highest in the industry. Offering credit is an easy way to lure foreign players - the rules are stricter for Singaporeans - to play, and to play big. Commission, a small rebate on the amount of money rolled, can also be used to entice gamblers. "Credit checks can be very fast for some gamblers – in 15 minutes or so you can probably get approval for $1 million, and with $1 million you can still roll up to $8 or $9 million," said Terence Tay, former general counsel for Genting Singapore who now runs a consultancy. But credit collection is a thorny issue for Singapore casinos, which are already waiting on hundreds of millions of dollars in credit to be repaid by gamblers, the majority of whom are based overseas. Genting has seen a 61 percent rise in its "trade and other receivables", or money owed by customers, to stand at S$1.2 billion in the quarter ending June 2014 from June 2012, while total revenue has increased by 7 percent in the same period. In August, Genting Singapore President Tan said the company was prudent in managing its debt collections, citing a S$81 million ($62.5 million) impairment loss it had taken on its trade receivables in the second-quarter versus a S$32 million impairment loss a year-ago. Las Vegas Sands said in its latest earnings presentation that its "gross casino accounts receivables" for Marina Bay Sands stood at $984 million at the end of September 2014, up 10 percent from September 2012. In rival Macau, casinos rely on middlemen known as "junkets" to extend credit to high rollers and recover debts, but Singapore has very few junket operators. Instead, the operators have to go after the money themselves - a tall order given their legal powers to enforce debt payments from VIP players overseas are limited. Pleading letters, visits from marketing agents and notices of demand from external lawyers often fall on deaf ears. The casinos can deploy debt collection agencies, though often just physically locating the high roller can prove near impossible. Another concern is that with new casinos opening in the rest of Asia, VIP players may be looking beyond Singapore to play. "What's going to be the greater challenge to the Singapore operators, and certainly more longer-term, is that across the region, there's a lot more political momentum to legalize casinos," said Vicky Melbourne, head of industrials for Southeast Asia and Australasia ratings at Fitch.   (Reporting by Rachel Armstrong and Anshuman Daga; Editing by Alex Richardson) FREE AppDownload
 In the last 100 years or so, Shanghai, the megacity on the eastern coast of China, has seen incredible economic, industrial, and population growth. While it has long been a large and important seaport, it wasn't until the 1990s that urbanization and expansion really exploded in Shanghai, turning it into a modern mecca. Since the 1980s, when China's markets were opened up to trade with the West, the city has grown rapidly. In 2001, the population was 13.3 million, more than 2.5 times what the population was in 1949. Today, the population is more than 24 million, making it the third largest city in the world. And infrastructure has grown accordingly. Shanghai now has more skyscrapers than New York and a more expansive public transit system than London. In pictures, this growth is quite striking. The original image of Shanghai's financial district of Pudong, seen above, was taken by a Reuters photographer in 1987. In 2013, another photographer, Carlos Barria, took a photograph from the same vantage point. The difference that 26 years has made on Shanghai is astonishing. Satellite images of the area show the amazing growth as well.Google Earth Engine  (Top GIF images above credited to REUTERS/Stringer and REUTERS/Carlos Barria) FREE AppDownload
 In the last 100 years or so, Shanghai, the megacity on the eastern coast of China, has seen incredible economic, industrial, and population growth. While it has long been a large and important seaport, it wasn't until the 1990s that urbanization and expansion really exploded in Shanghai, turning it into a modern mecca. Since the 1980s, when China's markets were opened up to trade with the West, the city has grown rapidly. In 2001, the population was 13.3 million, more than 2.5 times what the population was in 1949. Today, the population is more than 24 million, making it the third largest city in the world. And infrastructure has grown accordingly. Shanghai now has more skyscrapers than New York and a more expansive public transit system than London. In pictures, this growth is quite striking. The original image of Shanghai's financial district of Pudong, seen above, was taken by a Reuters photographer in 1987. In 2013, another photographer, Carlos Barria, took a photograph from the same vantage point. The difference that 26 years has made on Shanghai is astonishing. Satellite images of the area show the amazing growth as well.Google Earth Engine  (Top GIF images above credited to REUTERS/Stringer and REUTERS/Carlos Barria) FREE AppDownload
© AFP Miguel MedinaA woman wrapped in a Catalan flag casts her ballot at a polling station on November 9, 2014 in Paris, during a symbolic vote on independence of Catalonia from SpainMadrid (AFP) - Spanish Justice Minister Rafael Catala dismissed a symbolic independence referendum held Sunday in Catalonia in which some two million people voted as "fruitless and useless". "It is not democratically valid," he added in the first reaction by the central government since Catalan officials gave its latest turnout figures for the ballot which went ahead despite having been suspended by the Constitutional Court.   FREE AppDownload
Ballet prodigy, author and star of the Under Armour commercials, Misty Copeland, tells us how touring with Prince made her grow into an artist.  Produced by Devan Joseph and Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional camera by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
REUTERS/Suzanne Plunkett International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde promised in October to perform a belly-dance for the US Congress if that would get it to endorse crucial, much-delayed reforms for the FundWashington (AFP) - International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde might need to get to work perfecting her belly-dance. The normally reserved head of the global crisis lender promised in October to perform for the US Congress if that would get it to endorse crucial, much-delayed reforms for the Fund. "I will do belly-dancing if that's what it takes to get the US to ratify," she said. But now the Republican victory in Tuesday's US elections has likely placed ratification further away -- and she will have to work harder to convince the IMF's largest shareholder. "The change in the US political landscape is not a good omen for progress on IMF reforms," said Eswar Prasad, a former IMF official. Since 2012, the Obama administration has sought to convince Republicans in Congress to formally endorse the reform -- decided in 2010 with US support -- that doubles its financial resources and increases slightly the voting power in the IMF of emerging economies like China, Russia and Brazil. As the largest shareholder, the US endorsement is necessary to implement the reforms. All other major economies have ratified them already. But the White House has repeatedly failed to get the ratification through Congress, against opposition from Republicans. Some Republicans have said specifically they do not want to increase the influence of China and Russia in the Fund -- even though the US would remain the dominant IMF power after the reforms. That leaves the emerging economies increasingly impatient. China, the world's second largest economy, only holds 4 percent of the voting rights, barely more than Italy, whose economy is one-fifth the size. In reaction, in July Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa joined hands to create their own monetary fund for emergency needs. They could take the opportunity at the coming G20 summit in Australia this month to pound the table over the issue, according to the Russian representative Svetlana Lukash. "The most important thing for us is the reform of the IMF, a problem which has not yet been solved within the framework of the G20," she said Friday.  The IMF, which declined to talk about the issue, is itself anxious. Already under attack over its legitimacy, it has to work with more limited resources as it awaits US action. "The lack of approval will result in the weakening of the IMF as the main anchor of the international monetary system," said Domenico Lombardi, former advisor to the IMF board. If the reform is not adopted by the end of this year, the Fund is to present a "Plan B" to its board, the specifics of which remain vague. That then would require new negotiations among its 188 member-states. Some experts say the Fund should press for US ratification by the end of this year, while the current Congress remains in office and before the new one sits in January. "The advantage is that it's not a new issue," said Ted Truman, former Treasury official. "The current Republican representatives are now better informed about the IMF legislation. I'm not saying that they're perfectly informed, but they're better informed." Douglas Rediker, a former US representative to the IMF board, said the opposition in Congress has mainly been part of "internal domestic political maneuvers that have little to nothing to do with the IMF reform itself". "It's going to take a collaborative effort between the White House, the Senate, and the House to actually work together to understand how important this is." To make that happen, Lagarde could very well have to gear up her belly dance.   FREE AppDownload
Former star Yale University quarterback Patrick Witt has come out against Harvard University's new sexual assault policy in a Boston Globe op-ed, writing that his life was "nearly ruined" by a similar policy at Yale. Witt gained national attention his senior year when he was faced with the choice of keeping an interview with the Rhodes Scholarship Trust or play in "The Game," the last football game of the season against rival Harvard University — both were scheduled on the same day. When Witt chose to play, there was some controversy as to whether his Rhodes Scholarship interview was revoked following an informal sexual assault complaint against him. In his Globe op-ed, Witt emphasizes that the complaint was informal and that he was told that "the informal complaint did not constitute a disciplinary proceeding and nothing would be attached to my official record at Yale." However, Witt writes, the complaint — which was anonymously leaked to the Rhodes Trust, his future employer, and The New York Times — "cost me my reputation and credibility, the opportunity to become a Rhodes scholar, the full-time job offer I had worked so hard to attain, and the opportunity to achieve my childhood dream of playing in the NFL." Below, Witt expands on the negative impact of Harvard's and Yale's sexual assault policies: The destructive power that Yale's and now Harvard's new sexual misconduct policies wield is immense and grossly underestimated. By giving to unsubstantiated accusations the confoundingly difficult-to-define title of "informal complaint" — and denying accused students an opportunity to clear their names — these policies place the entire weight of the university’s reputation on the side of the accuser and against the accused. After all, if you didn't do anything wrong, then why has your school recognized a complaint against you, informal or otherwise? I cannot begin to describe how exasperatingly difficult it has been to try to explain to people what an informal complaint is and how there was never any evidence — nor any effort made to discover evidence — to substantiate the claim made by my accuser. My summer employer and the NFL certainly couldn’t understand it, and the media flat out didn't care — the words "informal complaint" were all that was needed to establish my guilt in their eyes. The former Yale undergraduate is now a first-year student at Harvard Law School, where 28 professors recently wrote a Globe op-ed blasting the same sexual assault policy to which Witt objects, which implements a "preponderance of evidence" standard for sexual assault investigations and creates a centralized university office of trained investigators to handle any complaints.  The Harvard professors wrote that "As teachers responsible for educating our students about due process of law, the substantive law governing discrimination and violence, appropriate administrative decision-making, and the rule of law generally, we find the new sexual harassment policy inconsistent with many of the most basic principles we teach." Notably, Witt vehemently denied that the informal sexual assault complaint had any effect on his decision to choose The Game over his Rhodes interview. A New York Times article explicity made the link between the complaint and Witt's alleged loss of an interview with the Rhodes Trust. FREE AppDownload
Everyone's different, but generally people are recommended to keep a diet of around 2,000 calories per day. But what does that actually mean? Sometimes it's hard to visualize what that amount of food looks like, so we did the work for you. Produced by Matt Johnston Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Is your chief executive all me, me, me? If so, your company is at a higher risk of fraud, according to a study that finds Hong Kong has the world's most narcissistic chief executives. Researchers measured the number of times the chief executives used the first person singular, based on their conversations with analysts and reporters. Using that as a proxy, the team calculated the narcissism level of chiefs at 1,000 companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange, all the firms on the Hang Seng Index and some listed in London and Australia. The team, led by Alex Frino, dean of the Macquarie Graduate School of Management in Australia, found the two most narcissistic chiefs in the world ran Hang Seng Index firms in the insurance and property sectors, with scores of 56.36 and 53.66 per cent. Frino declined to name them but identified Bank of China boss Li Lihui as the least narcissistic, with a score of 11.06 per cent. The average level of narcissism among Hong Kong chiefs was the same as that among those at New York Stock Exchange firms at 26 per cent, said Lim Ying Ming, a finance academic at the Sydney-based management school. Researchers found that the more narcissistic a chief executive of an NYSE-listed firm, the more likely its books were to be cooked. Study on the Hong Kong part of this aspect is under way. "Chief executives who are more narcissistic are more likely to manipulate profits," Frino told the South China Morning Post. "They often believe the profit figures measure their performance. It's about them personally." Chief executives of NYSE-listed firms with a narcissism score of 37.6 per cent were found to inflate profits by 14 per cent on average, while those with a score of 29.4 per cent inflated by 9 per cent and those with a score of 14 per cent or less did not cook the books. The paper cites Jeffrey Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron Corp, who is serving a 14-year jail term in the United States for felony charges. Frino and his team found Skilling's narcissism level to be the 88th-highest among the 1,000 chiefs of firms listed on the NYSE. Though considered a negative trait, narcissism in chief executives could also be a good thing for companies, another study found this year. A study by the Journal of Management Accounting Research quantified narcissism by the size and composition of a chief's photograph in the annual report and his or her pay compared with the next-highest executive. It found companies led by narcissistic chief executives reported higher earnings per share and share prices than those with non-narcissistic ones. But it found that the methods narcissistic chiefs might use to shore up performance could harm a firm's long-term health. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
As the end of 2014 approaches, a few key themes are becoming evident: an unexpected drop in interest rates, the relative strength of the U.S. economy and the rally in the U.S. dollar. The dollar, as measured by the U.S. Dollar Index, has rallied roughly 10% from its spring lows and now stands at the highest level since June 2010. Relative to the Japanese yen, the dollar is trading at its best level since December 2007. The recent rally can be attributed to a number of factors including a relatively solid U.S. economy, diverging central bank policies (the U.S. is preparing to tighten while the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan are easing), and long-term changes in trade flows, particularly around the energy sector. We expect most of these trends to continue, and here are three key implications of a rising dollar: 1. Headwind for commodities and inflation. Commodities are priced in dollars, so a stronger dollar translates into lower commodity prices. But there is another transmission mechanism at work as well: real rates. Relative strength in the U.S. economy is not only pushing the dollar higher, but is likely to lead U.S. real rates modestly higher. Historically, higher real rates have further hampered commodity returns—particularly for precious metals—as they raise the opportunity cost of holding an asset that produces no income. 2. Support for the U.S. consumer. A stronger dollar reduces U.S. import prices and lowers inflationary pressures. In an environment of low wage growth, this helps purchasing power. 3. Tailwind for certain international exporters. A stronger dollar is the flip side of a weaker euro and yen, which should prove advantageous for exporting companies based in Europe and Japan. It is also worth highlighting where the dollar rally may not be as relevant. First, there is a perception that small capitalization stocks tend to outperform the broader market when the dollar is stronger. The theory is that small caps, which are more likely to be domestically focused, should be more immune to a stronger dollar than large companies, whose exports become less competitive when the dollar is appreciating. While a logically sound argument, there is no historical evidence that relative returns between small and large caps are correlated with movements in the dollar. The second point to note is that many investors are worried about what happens if the dollar becomes too strong. This is a reasonable concern as a rising dollar is a de facto monetary tightening. However, fears should be allayed by the fact that the dollar’s recent ascent looks modest relative to its longer-term decline. Even after the latest rally, the dollar has only returned to where it was in 2006; it is still down about 30% from its peak reached in the summer of 2001. In effect, the dollar is simply back near the upper-end of a 20% trading range that has defined currency markets for most of the past decade. For now, we believe that a stronger dollar is most relevant as headwind for commodity prices and as modest tailwind for U.S. consumer companies as well as European and Japanese exporters. FREE AppDownload
stuartpilbrow / FlickrActuaries have the second most misunderstood job.With industry-shifting changes in technology in recent years, many parents have no idea what their adult kids actually do for a living. But they want to understand. That's a big reason why LinkedIn, the world's largest professional networking site, launched its annual "Bring In Your Parents Day" last year. This week, the company will again invite employees' parents to visit the office on Nov. 6 to attend presentations and tag along with their children to learn more about their work. In its 2013 global survey of 16,000 adults, LinkedIn found that one out of every three parents has a hard time understanding what their kids' jobs require. Two-thirds of parents want to learn more, and half think that they could better support their children if they did.  The survey identified the 10 jobs that are most misunderstood around the world. We've broken them out, along with an explanation for any struggling parents.  Max Nisen contributed to an earlier version of this article. FREE AppDownload
Tavern on the Green has been ripped to shreds since it reopened earlier this year. The classic New York restaurant was panned by critics for being boring and complacent in a city where the culinary arts are blood sport. Eater's Ryan Sutton said that if you go to Tavern, "you'll have spent $32 on what is surely one the worst things anyone can eat outside of Rikers." Desperate times call for desperate measures. Tavern on the Green has hired legendary chef Jeremiah Tower out of retirement in Mexico to helm the restaurant. He told Toqueland that he wants to make the food more like April Bloomfield's red hot restaurant, The Breslin. It's also said that he prepared five dishes in just seven minutes during his interview. Tower, along with Wolfgang Puck and others, is known for being one of the founders of "California cuisine" culinary style back in the 1980s.  He's also known for wild antics that make Anthony Bourdain look like Julia Child. Grub Street did an amazing roundup of ten tales from Tower's drug addled, rock star days. He once flew an employee to Paris just to prove how wonderful French chicken is. At Harvard, where he got his undergrad and graduate degrees, he used to make famous marijuana consommé, which contained "chicken stock, fresh basil, sea salt, pepper, and '1 packed cup marijuana stems and seeds." And then there's this (from Grub Street): Menus for themed dinners got more and more unhinged as the drugs and free love took hold at Chez Panisse. One of the best: a "drugged and sodomized" leg of lamb injected with a syringe of Madeira and tangerine juice. Tower reportedly refused to address one customer's complaint over another leg of lamb, which resulted in an intimidated waiter returning to the dining room and delivering this line: "The chef says to tell you, 'Tough sh-t.'" So at least it won't be boring in Tavern's kitchen. FREE AppDownload
John Hussman is highly respected for his prodigious use of data and adherence to what it tells him about the state of the financial markets. His regular weekly market commentary is widely regarded as one of the best-researched, best-articulated publications available to money managers. John's public appearances are rare, so we're especially grateful he made time to speak with us yesterday about the precarious state in which he sees global markets. Based on historical norms and averages, he calculates that the ZIRP and QE policies of the Fed and other world central banks have led to an overvaluation in the stock market where prices are 2 times higher than they should be: John Hussman:  What's interesting here is that if you think about equities, they're not a claim on next year’s prediction of earnings by Wall Street analysts. A stock, in fact any security, is a claim on any long-term stream of cash flows that investors can expect to be delivered to them over a very long period of time. When you look at equities you can calculate something called duration. It's essentially the effective life of a security over which you are collecting cash flows in return for the amount you pay. For the S&amp;P 500 the duration is about 50 years. In other words it is a very, very long-term asset. The only reason you would want to price that asset based on your estimate of next year’s earnings is if you were convinced that next year’s earnings are actually representative of the very, very long-term stream — and I'm talking 50 years or so of earnings that you're likely to get — that those earnings are in a sense accurately proportional to the whole long-term stream. What's amazing about that is that is it has never been true. It has never been true historically. If you look at corporate profits and especially corporate profit margins, they're one of the most cyclical and mean-reverting series in economics. Right now, we have corporate profits that are close to about 11% of GDP, but if you look at that series you will find that corporate profits as a share of GDP have always dropped back to about 5.5% or below in every single economic cycle including recent decades, including not only the financial crisis but 2002 and every other economic cycle we have been in. Right now stocks as a multiple of last year’s expected earnings may look only modestly over valued or modestly richly valued. Really if you look at the measures of valuation that are most correlated to the returns that stocks deliver over time say over seven years or over the next 10 years the S&amp;P 500 in our estimation is about double the level of valuation that would give investors a normal rate of return. So right now, we've got stocks valued at a point where we estimate the 10 year prospective return on the S&amp;P 500 will be about 1.6 to 1.7% annualized — talking right now with the S&amp;P 500 at 2032 as of today’s close. Chris Martenson: I guess 1.6 or 7% doesn’t sound bad if you are getting 0% on your risk-free money, I guess. But this says that any move by the Fed to normalize — which means rates have to go up — any move to drain liquidity from the system is going to have its own impact. If we held all things equal, a normalization effort is going to then basically expose that the stock market is roughly overvalued by 100%. John Hussman:  100%, yes. I actually think the case is a little bit harsher than that; in fact, quite a bit harsher than that. The idea that well, "1.7% isn’t so bad" or "1.6% isn’t so bad" ignores the fact that really in every market cycle and economic cycle we have had a point where stocks were fairly valued or undervalued.The only cycle in which we didn’t see that was actually the 2002 low where stocks actually ended that decline at an overvalued level on a historical basis.  But valuations were still relatively high on a historical basis in 2002. They got slightly undervalued in 2009, but not deeply. On a historical basis, what's interesting is that if you look at measures of valuation that correct for the level of profit margins, you actually get about a 90% correlation with subsequent 10 year returns. That relationship has held up even over the past several decades. It has held up even over the past 5 years where the expected return that you would have forecasted based on time-tested valuations turned out to be pretty close to what you would have forecasted 10 years earlier. Right now, like I say, we are looking at stocks that have been pressed to long-term expected returns that are really dismal. But more important than that, in every market cycle that we've seen with the mild exception of 2002, we've seen stocks price revert back to normal rates of return. In order to get to that point from here, we would have to have equities drop by about half.  This is one of the highest-quality and deepest-diving podcasts we've recorded in the 3-year history of our series. Part 1 is publicly available below. Part 2 can be accessed here (enrollment required).  Click the play button below to listen to Part 1 of Chris' interview with John Hussman (26m: 29s):  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonThe General Motors building is seen in New York March 8, 2013. "The Liar's Ball: The Extraordinary Saga of How One Building Broke the World's Toughest Tycoons" By Vicky Ward. Wiley; 240 pages. THE property business, goes an industry proverb, is "a circle of men holding a revolver to each other's heads". And, all too often, to their own, as Vicky Ward illustrates in her colourful history of America's most fought-over office block: the 50-floor General Motors Building on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. Built for the carmaker's bosses in the mid-1960s--when what was good for the company was said to be good for America--the white-marble tower was never New York's tallest or most beautiful skyscraper. But something about it drove the property tycoons nuts. Their pursuit of it was often sordid, and the sums they were willing to risk irrational. One mogul compares the building to "the girl you keep asking to the prom but says no. And each time you ask she gets more expensive." Ms Ward, whose breakthrough book was "The Devil's Casino", about the fall of Lehman Brothers, has fun with the obsessive, hubristic cast of characters who have scrapped over the building (though the scene is at times too crowded with names and personal details). Among them are Donald Trump, the industry's master of self-promotion, who was the first to push rents over the magic figure of $100 per square foot; Disque Deane, a uniquely unpleasant financier who broke bottles over heads and divorced his wife in Bermuda to avoid having to pay her a fair share of his wealth; and Cecilia Benattar, the "housewife tycoon", who was so wrapped up in dealmaking that it took her six months to name her first child. As they hustle, in some cases taking on vast debts to secure the prize (you can't buy a $50m building until you first find $5,000, according to another industry joke), these bigwigs do plenty of dangerous gambling, double-crossing and, of course, suing. The most financially reckless of them all was Harry Macklowe, a local developer who, after many years of trying, got his hands on the block in 2003 for a record $1.4 billion, only to lose it five years later because he had posted it as collateral for loans for the spectacularly ill-advised purchase of seven other buildings. One of Mr Macklowe's better decisions was to sign a deal with Apple. Its flagship store, located under a giant glass cube in the plaza, attracts hundreds of thousands of visitors a year. Today the skyscraper is associated more with mobile devices than with motor vehicles. Owned by a rival developer and Chinese and Brazilian interests, it is worth more than twice what Mr Macklowe paid for it a decade ago. Reflecting on his lost prize, the only thing he seems sure of is that "Business turns. Business always turns." Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Republicans will adopt a combative but strategic approach toward governing now that they have swept to control of both chambers of the US Congress, top GOP lawmakers and aides have told Business Insider over the past month.  With an eye toward the 2016 presidential election, Republican leaders in the House and Senate will look to move forward GOP legislative priorities popular with the American public and could earn an ample number of Democratic votes to send to President Barack Obama's desk. They'll also aim to show they are the party best able to run the country. "We want to demonstrate a kind of competence that Harry Reid has not," a senior Republican Senate aide told Business Insider, referring to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid. "They have governed with the sole purpose of casting the Republican Party in a bad light," the aide said of the Democrats. "We want to pass legislation that casts the party in a more favorable light." Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, who won his race by a whopping 16 points Tuesday night, is expected to become the next Senate Majority Leader in a Senate that will likely be controlled by a 54-46 GOP majority after a runoff election in Louisiana next month. Republicans also expanded their majority in the House of Representatives, picking up at least 14 seats with 16 races still hanging in the balance. As it stands now, Republicans hold a 243-176 House majority. Reid released a statement congratulating McConnell on his expected promotion Tuesday night. &gt;"I'd like to congratulate Senator McConnell, who will be the new Senate Majority Leader. The message from voters is clear: they want us to work together," Reid said. "I look forward to working with Senator McConnell to get things done for the middle class." But some of the immediate legislative priorities that Republicans will look to act on include items where the parties have been unable to compromise. They include passage of the Keystone XL Pipeline — which the Obama administration has delayed several times over the past three years — chipping away at the Affordable Care Act, and corporate-tax reform. The goal is to force Obama to make decisions on popular bills, putting him in a corner where he will have to either veto legislation or begrudgingly accept it without the "firewall" of a Democratic Senate. Obama has vetoed only two bills during his first six years in office, the fewest since President James Garfield's brief, one-year tenure. "We want to get things in front of the president that define him and his party," the Senate aide said. "Harry Reid has protected him. We want to force him to make a choice." APHarry Reid and Mitch McConnell might be trading places. Analysts consider the finance and energy sectors to potentially see a major boom from a GOP takeover of the Senate. Here's a look at how different areas could be shaped by GOP control of the Senate: The Republican Holy Grail — a bill that repeals the Affordable Care Act — will see its best chance for passage next year. But while there will likely be a full vote in the Senate to repeal the entire healthcare law, aides said, the overall GOP strategy will likely be to chip away at parts of the law in bills that could make it to the president's desk. A full-repeal bill would certainly prompt a presidential veto. One item Republican House and Senate aides think is likely to make it to Obama's desk, and potentially get his signature, is a bill to repeal Obamacare's tax on medical devices. A similar amendment, championed by Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), who is in line to become the next chair of the Senate Finance Committee, passed by a 79-20 vote in 2013. "I think the med-device tax and some other little areas would be the best place to start, because that is the 'possible,'" a senior GOP aide on the Senate Finance Committee told Business Insider of Republicans' pursuit of Obamacare-related legislation in the next session of Congress. Republicans could also take aim at so-called risk corridors in the health law, a potential fight that some Republican senators have already begun discussing as part of a shutdown battle. The "risk corridors" in question aim to make it easier for insurance companies to transition to the new healthcare system, largely by making it less financially risky for them to sell new insurance plans on the government exchanges established by the Affordable Care Act. But Republicans have charged the program amounts to a "bailout" for insurance companies, and a bill targeting the provision is something they think could attract Democratic votes. "Why not just do it separately?" one Republican aide said when asked about the possibility of tying funding for the risk-corridor program to the continuing resolution, which keeps the government funded and needs to be passed by Dec. 11 to prevent a shutdown. If Republicans tackled the issue of risk corridors in a separate bill, it would simplify messaging and make some Democrats more likely to jump on board. In general, Senate Republicans will look to follow the House GOP Obamacare playbook of the past four years. They plan to use their subpoena powers to full effect and hold more oversight hearings on the healthcare law. Some of the issues those potential hearings will focus on include money Republicans claim has been wasted on state insurance exchanges that ended up converting to the federal marketplace, the security of HealthCare.gov and state-exchange websites, and the process for verifying people's incomes to receive subsidies for health insurance. "Being in the minority, we don't have the ability to call a hearing and to get the witnesses that we'd want," the GOP Finance Committee aide said. But should the GOP take the Senate, he added, "I think oversight of Obamacare would be something you'd see a lot more of." AP One of the GOP's first orders of business, should it win the Senate, may well be mounting a united front to oppose any Obama administration-led deal on Iran's nuclear program. Such a move could win the backing of a decent number of Democrats. Such a move could well become the first of many intense fights set for a lame-duck session of Congress. "Where to start?" said Greg Valliere, the chief political strategist at Potomac Research Group. "After the immigration executive order comes a bitter fight on Iranian sanctions, then a battle over whether to pass a continuing spending resolution or an omnibus, then a fight over tax extenders — and that's just in the lame duck." One senior Senate Democratic aide told Business Insider: "GOP will surely be less restrained, to put it mildly!" The Obama administration has signaled it might attempt to maneuver around Congress and avoid allowing a vote on any final agreement with Iran, the deadline of which is set for Nov. 24. But unity among top Republicans and Democrats — including Sens. Mark Kirk (R-Illinois) and Bob Menendez (D-New Jersey) — would make that more difficult. "By threatening to cut out Congress from the Iran nuclear deal, the administration is actually uniting Congress," Kirk said in a recent statement. "We will not support an Obama-Khamenei deal that condemns our children to a future where the Middle East is full of nuclear weapons," he added, referring to Iran's Supreme Leader. Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tennessee) appears next in line to take over from Menendez as chair of the Foreign Relations Committee if Republicans take control of the Senate. Corker has also stressed that any final deal must be approved by Congress. He said on the Senate floor this summer that if Obama did not submit a final approval to Congress by four days after the Nov. 24 deadline, all sanctions relieved under the interim agreement should be restored.APCould Obama find some areas to work with Republicans? But a GOP Senate could also help jump-start a key part of Obama's foreign-policy agenda, where he has run into a roadblock from his own party. The big obstacle to Obama's ambitious trade agenda has so far been Harry Reid. Obama needs Congress to pass a special authority for him to fast-track certain trade deals that Congress can either accept or reject but cannot change. Reid has not allowed a vote on fast-track legislation, and Democrats generally fear expanded trade could cost American jobs and have a negative effect on global wages. But Obama has long advocated a pair of trade agreements with the EU and nations in Asia, saying they will create millions of jobs through a vast expansion of US exports. Republican aides told Business Insider they are open to working with Obama to get fast-track legislation. "Trade is an issue that Democrats see as tough medicine," the GOP Finance Committee aide said. "They know we need it. They know it's good in the long run. It's just hard to swallow. "We feel strongly that if you're another nation who's negotiating with the US, the likelihood of trying to close a deal you can't guarantee is going to get an up-or-down vote in the Senate — there's not a lot of incentive there to close a deal. I think the administration knows they need TPA [Trade Promotion Authority], and it's an issue that splits Democrats much more than it splits Republicans." T.J. Kirkpatrick/Getty ImagesSen. Jeff Sessions. A coming Republican Senate will also make Obama more likely to take executive action quickly on immigration, something he delayed until after the elections. The only question at this point is when, not if. Many analysts expect Obama to announce his executive action before Thanksgiving, and certainly before Congress breaks for Christmas. Either way, Obama's actions will face heavy pushback from Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), the likely next chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama), who will likely take over as chair of the Senate Budget Committee in the GOP Senate. Senate Republicans have stepped up their warnings to the president over the past two weeks, as the electoral map began looking better and better for them. "The President is assuming for himself the sole and absolute power to decide who can enter, work, live, and claim benefits in the United States. He has exempted virtually every group in the world from America immigration laws," Sessions said in a statement last week. Any executive action would effectively poison the well for any legislative fix to the nation's immigration system until after Obama leaves office. The legislation passed by the Senate in 2013 expires with the end of this Congress in early January. Former Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney said this weekend that a Republican House and Senate would pass immigration legislation. But Republican strategists speculated that any legislation Republicans would try to pass would be more about messaging on a "secure border" than a comprehensive revamping of the nation's immigration laws. Then there's the ever-ambiguous issue of tax reform, which has been floating around Washington for virtually all of Obama's term. It will figure even more prominently next year as it will be a priority for Republicans who think a revamp of the corporate-tax code is essential to boosting economic growth.  Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wisconsin), considered likely to be the next chair of the House Ways and Means Committee, has put tax reform high on his list of issues to tackle. At a recent campaign stop with Sen. Pat Roberts (R-Kansas) in Overland Park, Kansas, Ryan told Business Insider he and Hatch, the likely next chair of the Finance Committee, would work to come up with a proposal by sometime next year. "We have to reform this tax code," Ryan said. "Because we're taxing American businesses at much higher rates than our foreign competitors are taxing theirs." Roberts, who will be a senior member on the Senate Finance Committee, said the House and Senate committees would work as "hard as possible to get it done." "We know it has to be done. It's long overdue," Roberts said. "You elect a Republican majority in the United States Senate, and I can assure you that under Orrin Hatch's leadership, and Paul's leadership, that we will have a proposal for serious tax reform." But privately, both the administration and Republicans are skeptical the other side would work in good faith on tax reform. Republicans felt jilted by the Obama administration's focus on so-called tax inversions this year, which culminated in unilateral action by the Treasury Department to curb the practice earlier this fall.  Republicans agree that the issue of inversions needs to be addressed, but they prefer that it be done as part of broad tax reform. They believe administration focused on the practice for political gain — though it never ended up fully resonating as an issue with the American public. Senior Republicans believe there is a risk the administration would do the same thing with broad tax reform, citing a lack of communication from the White House to top GOP lawmakers on the issue thus far. "There's not a lot of outreach going on about this," one senior Republican Senate aide told Business Insider. "You can already see: They're messaging." AP/J. Scott Applewhite Majority Leader Harry Reid. A significant part of Obama's legacy rests on the judicial nominees he can appoint to courts, which will determine the constitutionality of his administration's policies, regulations, and executive actions long after he leaves office.  With Reid's help, judicial appointments have been one of the few ways Obama has been able to work around Congress. Last year as majority leader, Reid changed Senate rules so that executive and judicial appointees could pass the Senate by a majority vote, taking away most of Republicans' power to filibuster these nominees.  If they control the Senate, that advantage will disappear. Grassley, the likely next chair of the Judiciary Committee, could block any nominees from even receiving a hearing. And McConnell could prevent them from getting a full vote on the Senate floor. Three of Obama's nominees to the powerful US Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit were confirmed last year after Reid changed the Senate's rules. Thanks in large part to Obama's appointments, Democratic-appointed judges now hold a majority on nine of the country's 13 appeals courts. When he started his term, Democrats had a majority on only one of the courts. Many of Obama's appointees are controlling his agenda, writing new rules for financial reform, climate change, and even gun control and immigration. The rules change has the potential to end up being the most important part of Obama's legacy outside of Obamacare. The D.C. Circuit Court, outside of the Supreme Court, is generally considered the second most powerful court in the nation, with its vast jurisdiction over the federal government and thousands of regulations, rules, and executive actions from more than 400 administrative agencies. It's the court, for example, that in January ruled Obama's 2011 recess appointments unconstitutional.   "The issues before this court are some of the most important with respect to administrative law, which is where so much law gets made today," Roger Pilon, the chair of the Cato Institute's Center for Constitutional Studies, told Business Insider. Pilon added: "Sounds like Harry Reid might be getting his comeuppance." One of the key tenets of Obama's second-term agenda, for example, is climate change, on which he has no chance of working with Congress. He has admitted this, and so the Environmental Protection Agency has been writing new rules on climate policy, including new carbon-emissions standards for power plants. Any challenges to Obama's new policies could end up in the D.C. Circuit Court. With a Democratic majority now sitting on the court, those challenges are more likely to be dismissed. A full D.C. Circuit Court panel also agreed to rehear a significant case related to Obamacare after a setback to the law by a smaller, Republican-skewed panel on the court. But a Republican majority will put a significant dent in Obama's ability to reshape the federal judiciary. According to data from the group Alliance for Justice, there are 56 total district and circuit-court vacancies without nominees. Congressional scholar Norm Ornstein of the American Enterprise Institute wrote this March that he expects Republicans to confirm virtually none of the possible nominees if they take control. FREE AppDownload
AMONG the most controversial of Thomas Piketty's arguments in his bestselling analysis of inequality, "Capital in the Twenty-First Century", is that wealth is increasingly concentrated in the hands of the very rich.  Rising wealth inequality could presage the return of an 18th century inheritance society, in which marrying an heir is a surer route to riches than starting a company.  Critics question the premise: Chris Giles, the economics editor of the Financial Times, argued earlier this year that Mr Piketty's data were both thin and faulty. Yet a new paper suggests that, in America at least, inequality in wealth is approaching record levels.* Earlier studies of American wealth have tended to show only small increases in inequality in recent decades. A 2004 study of estate-tax data by Wojciech Kopczuk of Columbia University and Emmanuel Saez of the University of California, Berkeley, found an almost imperceptible rise in the share of wealth held by the top 1% of families, from about 19% in 1976 to 21% in 2000. A more recent investigation of the Federal Reserve's data on consumer finances, by Edward Wolff of New York University showed a continued but gentle increase in inequality into the 2000s. Mr Piketty's book, which drew on this previous work, showed similarly modest rises in wealth inequality in America. A new paper by Mr Saez and Gabriel Zucman of the London School of Economics reckons past estimates badly underestimated the share of wealth belonging to the very rich. It uses a richer variety of sources than prior studies, including detailed data on personal income taxes (which the authors mine for figures on capital income) and property tax, which they check against Fed data on aggregate wealth. The authors note that not every potential source of error can be accounted for; tax avoidance strategies, for instance, could cause either an overestimation of the wealth share of the rich (if they classify labour income as capital income in order to take advantage of lower rates) or an underestimation (if they intentionally seek out lower yielding investments for their tax advantages). Yet they believe their estimates represent an improvement over past attempts. The results are enough to make Mr Piketty blush. The authors examine the share of total wealth held by the bottom 90% of families relative to those at the very top. Because the bottom half of all families almost always has no net wealth, the share of wealth held by the bottom 90% is an effective measure of "middle class" wealth, or that held by those from the 50th to the 90th percentile. In the late 1920s the bottom 90% held just 16% of America's wealth--considerably less than that held by the top 0.1%, which controlled a quarter of total wealth just before the crash of 1929. From the beginning of the Depression until the end of the second world war, the middle class's share of total wealth rose steadily, thanks largely to collapsing wealth among richer households. Thereafter the middle class's share grew along with national wealth thanks to broader equity ownership, middle-class income growth and rising rates of home-ownership. The expansion of tax breaks for retirement savings also helped. By the early 1980s the share of household wealth held by the middle class rose to 36%--roughly four times the share controlled by the top 0.1%. From the early 1980s, however, these trends have reversed. The ratio of household wealth to national income has risen back toward the level of the 1920s, but the share in the hands of middle-class families has tumbled (see chart). The Economist Tepid growth in middle-class incomes is partly to blame; real incomes for the top 1% of families grew 3.4% a year from 1986-2012 while those for the bottom 90% grew 0.7%. But Messrs Saez and Zucman reckon the main cause of falling middle-class net worth is soaring debt. Rising home values did little to raise middle-class wealth since mortgage debt also soared. The recession battered home prices but left the debt untouched, further squeezing middle-class wealth. On the other side of the spectrum, the fortunes of the wealthy have grown, especially at the very top. The 16,000 families making up the richest 0.01%, with an average net worth of $371m, now control 11.2% of total wealth--back to the 1916 share, which is the highest on record. Those down the distribution have not done quite so well: the top 0.1% (consisting of 160,000 families worth $73m on average) hold 22% of America's wealth, just shy of the 1929 peak--and exactly the same share as the bottom 90% of the population. Meanwhile the share of wealth held by families from the 90th to the 99th percentile has actually fallen over the last decade, though not by as much as the net worth of the bottom 90%. The outsize fortunes of the few would not be too worrying were they largely the product of entrepreneurial activity: riches amassed by hardworking billionaires who are as likely as not to give their bounty away through philanthropy. Messrs Saez and Zucman find some evidence for this dynamic. Wealthy families are younger than they were a generation or two ago, and they earn a larger share of the country's income from labour: 3.1% in 2012 versus less than 0.5% prior to 1970. Yet one should not yet rule out the return of Mr Piketty's "patrimonial capitalism". The club of young rich includes not only Mark Zuckerbergs, the authors argue, but also Paris Hiltons: young heirs to previously accumulated fortunes. What's more, the share of labour income earned by the top 0.1% appears to have peaked in 2000. In recent years the proportion of the wealth of the very rich held in the form of shares has levelled off, while that held in bonds has risen. Since the fortunes of most entrepreneurs are tied up in the stock of the firms that they found, these shifts hint that America's biggest fortunes may be starting to have less to do with building businesses, just as Mr Piketty warned. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Some 16 NFL games are played every Sunday. Unless you have the DirecTV Sunday Ticket premium service, you will be able to watch only five or six of the games on television. DirecTV has about 20 million subscribers in the US, so the majority of NFL fans are left without access to the games on TV. DirecTV recently signed a deal with the NFL that will keep this system in place for the next eight years.What are football fans supposed to do in the current TV landscape, especially if they prefer not to run the risk of having beer spilled on them while watching the big game?Produced by Graham Flanagan. Camera by Devan Joseph. Map Animation by Alex Kuzoian.Follow BI Video: On Youtube.
Luke MacGregor/Reuters   The modern gentleman knows more about the world than what he sees around him, or what he's experienced. That means the modern gentleman reads books — he collects knowledge. And he doesn't stop at the classics — he's also caught up with today's greatest literary works. We've put together a list of 'modern classic' books published after 1980 that examine society, politics, and love in the modern world. So go ahead, take a look at some of the greatest literature published in your lifetime. FREE AppDownload

The legal cannabis industry is run by minnows. As liberalisation spreads, that may not last "FRESH and fruity, right?" says a bright-eyed young man behind the counter, wafting an open jar of something called "AK-47" under Schumpeter's nose. "Whereas with this one",--unscrewing another jar, fanning the scent up to his nostrils and closing his eyes in concentration--"I'm getting notes of dill." Drug dealers aren't what they used to be. In Colorado, which in January became the first place in the world fully to legalise cannabis, buying a joint feels more like visiting a trendy craft-brewery than a drug den. Dispensaries along Denver's "green mile" are packed with young, bearded men earnestly discussing the merits of strains with names like "Bio-Jesus" and "Death Star". Some varieties claim to be inspirational, while others say they promote relaxation, or "couch-lock", as the tokers call it. Colorado's pot industry expects to rack up sales of $1 billion this year. Across America the market is reckoned to be worth about 40 times that much. Most of it is still illegal, of course. But slowly, entrepreneurs are prising it out of the hands of crime gangs. Nearly half the 50 states permit the sale of marijuana to medical patients, which in practice may include anyone willing to fake a back problem. This week Oregon and Alaska joined Colorado and Washington in legalising it for recreational purposes, too. If other countries legalise, as Uruguay already has, it could open up a global cannabis market worth perhaps $100 billion a year (by the best guesses, which are stabs in the dark). Who will corner that market? In Colorado a gold rush of excitement has seen hundreds of tiny firms sprout up. Just as everyone in San Francisco seems to be designing an app, everyone in Denver has an idea for a canna-business. Pot-friendly ski-chalets, taxi services and wedding planners are taking orders. Non-smokers can sign up for cannabis cookery courses. For the truly lazy, there is the option of lying back and being rubbed down with weed-infused massage oil. Despite the boom, no big force has yet emerged. Even Colorado's biggest retail chains, such as LivWell, Strainwise and The Clinic, have fewer than ten branches each. No firm has much more than about 7% of the cultivation or retail market, reckons Mike Elliott of Colorado's Marijuana Industry Group. At first sight this fragmentation is odd. Cannabis-farming benefits from economies of scale just as any other form of agriculture does. And you might think that when taking a mind-altering and potentially harmful substance people would prefer a trusted brand over a small upstart, as they overwhelmingly do with cigarettes. Mark Leffingwell/Reuters What would it take to build a Marlboro of marijuana, then? Most of the obstacles are regulatory. Until recently Colorado's dispensaries were obliged to grow at least 70% of the cannabis they sold, and cultivators had to retail at least 70% of what they grew. The idea was to make it easier to keep track of the drugs--"from seed to sale", as the state government puts it--and avoid creating excess supply, which could feed the black market. But one consequence is that firms have been unable to specialise. Some companies are good at farming but not at selling; others have nice storefronts but lower-quality products. No company has grown as fast as it might have, were it able to focus on one thing. Cannabis businesses have been financially hamstrung, too. Getting a bank account is difficult, since even local banks must obey regulations laid down at the federal level, at which cannabis is still outlawed. About one-third of the industry is completely unbanked, according to Mr Elliott. Last month hundreds of bank machines inside cannabis dispensaries in the legalised states were unplugged, after the South Dakota-based bank that ran them got cold feet about its legal position. Banks are unwilling to offer loans to businesses that could, in theory, be shut down at any moment by the Feds. Equity financing is tricky too, since both Colorado and Washington have imposed residency requirements on the owners of marijuana businesses--including anyone with an equity stake. The federal ban also makes it hard to do business in more than one state. Take Dixie Elixirs, which makes pot-infused drinks, chocolates and other comestibles. In its Denver factory, which looks like a collaboration between Walter White of "Breaking Bad" and Willy Wonka, technicians in beard-nets stir cauldrons of molten marijuana-laced chocolate. Dixie is planning to expand into other states--it wants to be "the PepsiCo of the cannabis industry", says Chuck Smith, its chief operating officer. But the federal ban means it cannot send its products across state lines; instead it will have to build a factory in each state where it does business. "The economics of the product have to work at all scales, from California to Connecticut," says Mr Smith. It may not be long before these obstacles fall. Even without inspiration from a drag of Bio-Jesus, it is not hard to imagine a future in which the federal ban is eased, now that voters in so many states have backed liberalisation. The innovative pot entrepreneurs in places like Denver would welcome that. But should they? If and when the federal ban is dropped, it will not just allow them to expand. It will decontaminate the product's image, clearing the way, in time, for other firms to risk their reputations in the market. As happened with alcohol after the end of Prohibition, and has also happened with tobacco, the pot industry would probably come to be dominated by a few giant corporations. Would household names really consider selling cannabis? They already have. In 1969 a Philip Morris executive wrote to the Justice Department, requesting a sample of marijuana for testing. In 1970 British American Tobacco put together a blueprint for a "cannabis-loaded cigarette". Cannabis is certainly controversial. But then so is lung cancer. It may well be that the executives best placed to make a mint from marijuana, once it is fully legal across America, are the Marlboro men themselves. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Heino KalisStock market bulls are back in control.Something has changed in the stock market.  In early October, bond yields fell, stocks dropped, and people began throwing out comparisons to the violent stock market crash of 1987.  But since the October 15 bottom, stocks have rallied back to new record highs, but the reasons why make Bank of America Merrill Lynch strategist Michael Hartnett think that market psychology has shifted "from fear to greed, from the wall of worry to the beginning of hubris." And as the market begins to get more confidence, to display more hubris, the "tell" that we might be at a top will be found in the price of gold. "[T]he big hubristic 'tell' will be gold," Hartnett wrote in a note to clients on Friday. "A sudden gap lower in the gold price to below $1,000/oz should coincide with the final thrust higher in stocks, both indicating capitulation of the 'stubborn bears,' the end of the 'melt-up' and the next opportunity to get tactically bearish. We increasingly fear next year's high in stocks come early." In his note, Hartnett wrote that stocks have not rallied to highs because of strong growth from US companies or the US labor market, but because of central bank deflation "panic."  Late last month, the Bank of Japan announced additional stimulus. And just last week, European Central Bank president Mario Draghi said the ECB would look to increase the size of its balance sheet and that ECB members were unanimous in pushing for more stimulus if needed. "Confidence is broadening that US growth &amp; QE can and will solve all," Hartnett wrote, "and that any 2015 normalization of QE will be devoid of negative consequences. It won't, despite the triumphant tone of the 'newbie bulls.' 1,000 on the S&amp;P 500 was a much better entry point into the liquidity trade than 2,000." Hartnett sees 2014 and 2015 as "transition years" after the huge bull market seen from the post-financial crisis bottom through 2013. And Hartnett doesn't necessarily think that returns over this period will be negative, "[b]ut returns will be lower than in recent years and they will come with greater volatility." In his note, Hartnett highlights a chart that he's been referencing in notes over the last several months: Apple's share price vs. gold. The iPhone maker's stock is currently near record highs.  Gold is at multi-year lows. Keep an eye on it.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch FREE AppDownload
Millennials aren't known for being major financial risk-takers, as evidenced by their avoidance of credit cards and preference for cash.  They're equally wary when it comes to investing, particularly after witnessing the perils of the stock market that have made headlines over the last few years. For 20-somethings who are interested in playing the investment game, coming up with the money to do it is usually the hardest part. When you're putting every penny towards student loan debt or trying to make ends meet on an underwhelming entry-level salary, coming up with even a $1,000 can be tough. Once you've gotten the cash together, the next challenge is figuring out what to do with it. Here are some of the best ways to invest $1,000 once you're ready to make the leap. Keeping your cash in a savings account is smarter than just sticking it under the mattress, but you won’t earn a ton of interest based on the current rates. Parking that $1,000 you've been holding onto in a money market instead allows you to snag a slightly better rate while you're researching your other investment options. While you can open a money market at your local bank branch, you may be able to squeeze out a few extra pennies in interest by going with a high-yield account online. Zoe HarrisIt's far away but that doesn't mean you shouldn't be saving for it. If you're just getting your feet wet as an investor, one of the easiest places to start is with your retirement plan. Funneling more money into your 401(k) or opening an IRA is a fairly no-fuss way to put your investment seed money to work. Adding an extra $1,000 to your annual contributions each year may not seem like much but the result is a larger nest egg down the road. For example, say you defer $10,000 of your income into your 401(k) each year. After 25 years, those contributions would be worth right around $500,000, assuming a 5% rate of return. Now, if you were to bump up your deferral to $11,000, you'd see the value of those contributions grow to approximately $551,000. When you consider that it breaks down to roughly $3 a day extra that you're chipping in, it adds up to a pretty decent payoff. Purchasing individual stocks can quickly eat into the money you've set aside to invest, but opting for fractional shares allows you to get the most out of every dollar. You can use your $1,000 to open an account through a platform like ShareBuilder and choose from a variety of investments, including stocks and mutual funds. Scheduling regular deposits to your account, either on a weekly or monthly basis, gives you an opportunity to purchase additional shares without requiring a substantial amount of money. Throwing in another $25 or $50 a month shouldn't be too taxing on your budget and it's a relatively no-hassle way to grow your portfolio. Picking the right stocks is a challenge even when you're a seasoned investor, and for the average 20-something, it may seem downright impossible. Mutual funds, on the other hand, take a lot of the guesswork out of the process but you'll still need to do some research to find the right one. Morningstar is one of the best places to start if you're looking for an in-depth breakdown of a fund's performance. Scottrade is another good source of information. When you're comparing different mutual funds, it's important to consider other things besides the annual return. Some of things you'll want to pay attention to include the level of risk you'd be taking on if you decided to invest $1,000 in a particular fund, the size of the fund, and the different fees that go along with it. Since you're only working with a small amount of cash to start, you want to make sure that a big chunk of it isn't being eaten up by sales commissions or maintenance fees. Mike SchmidPut some money in your own pocket. If you're mired in credit card debt, throwing an extra grand at the balance can make a nice dent in what you owe. Not only that, but you'll be saving yourself some money on the interest. Comparing the amount of interest you’re paying to kind of returns you might expect will give you a better idea of which is the better investment. For instance, if you've got a $5,000 balance at 18% and you pay $250 a month, it'll take you two years to clear the debt and cost you almost $1,000 in interest. Bringing the balance down to $4,000 in one go shaves five months off the repayment time and cuts the interest down by about $400. When you consider that it would take you five years at a 7% annual return to make $400 on a $1,000 investment, it's easy to see which one offers the most immediate results. Deciding to invest $1,000 in yourself may feel a little selfish, but you shouldn't be too quick to dismiss the idea. Using the money to start a side business, build a potentially profitable website, learn a new skill, or take a class that could advance your career or may allow you to reap some big rewards down the road. While there's still a certain degree of risk involved, you have the advantage by knowing what your goals are and what you need to do to maximize the odds of success. FREE AppDownload

NEW YORK (Reuters) - At a retreat for Merrill Lynch financial advisers in a luxury Orlando hotel last month, a group of several dozen men and women in business attire swung their arms back and forth over their heads to Kid Rock's "All Summer Long" to get their circulation going. The mild aerobics were part of a three-day event orchestrated by Chris Johnson, a wellness guru who has gained influence under John Thiel's leadership of Bank of America's Merrill Lynch wealth management business. At Thiel's instruction, Johnson has for the last year been traveling the country teaching Merrill Lynch advisers how to lead healthier lives. He urges brokers - and, in some cases, their family members and clients - to include liver oil, wheatgrass, flax, chia and a type of algae called spirulina in their diets, and to take relaxing baths with Epsom salt to unwind. "They're starting to go down the medication path. They have acid reflux. They don't sleep. They feel crummy. They're drinking too much. They gain too much weight," Johnson said of the Merrill employees who most need his advice. With that lifestyle, he said, "they're not going to be a good adviser. If I'm coming to my adviser, I want them to be healthy." Thiel did not respond to requests for comment. David Walker, a spokesman for Bank of America's wealth management business, said that it was important for Merrill to focus on the health and wellness of its employees. "We care that our advisers are taking care of themselves so they have the energy and capacity to best serve their clients and be present for their families," he said. "Any company that is not focused on wellness is behind. All of the most admired, most progressive companies with the most highly engaged employees are focused in this area." He declined to comment on Johnson's description of health problems suffered by some members of Merrill's workforce. REUTERS/Vivek Prakash Employees walk in the lobby of a Merrill Lynch office building in Singapore September 15, 2008. Known as the "thundering herd" because of their bull logo and their large numbers, Merrill's army of 14,000 brokers are not the only money-management employees being urged to take better care of themselves. Firms across Wall Street have been encouraging employees to eat right, sleep well and exercise. While Merrill is Johnson's biggest client, he has also done events with advisers at Morgan Stanley, Wells Fargo &amp; Co and Raymond James Financial Inc. Still, some Merrill employees have told Reuters in recent weeks that Thiel is so enthusiastic about healthy living that it has caused some hard-charging, long-time advisers to bristle. These employees have been annoyed to receive advice about health and wellness from Thiel when they would prefer to discuss business concerns with him, several sources said. One Bank of America executive said brokers have complained about tofu burgers served at a retreat for top producers. Another cited a message recently sent to some advisers encouraging them to take an afternoon nap to increase productivity. Thiel has brought in another expert, Tony Schwartz, CEO and founder of The Energy Project, who has been advising Merrill employees to take a short afternoon nap to restore their energy. Schwartz, who started working with Merrill after meeting Thiel at a conference 14 months ago, gives that advice as part of a broader curriculum aimed at pushing Merrill advisers to get the most out of their days. He said he has not convinced Merrill to implement a nap program, but that productivity increases dramatically for those who take his advice on resting, deep breathing and eating right, among other things. "What makes Merrill Lynch special is that John is an unusually open and interested senior leader to champion this kind of work," said Schwartz. "When there is a leader like that, the power of the work is much higher."  bankofamerica/YouTubeMerrill Lynch Complaints by Merrill employees who are irritated by Thiel's wellness campaign come at a time when a number of high-profile brokers have left, causing some concern among top Bank of America Corp executives. Reuters found no evidence of a direct link between the focus on health and wellness and the departures. The health advice has gone over well with some advisers who are happy their boss is encouraging them to take better care of themselves. One high-producing broker who spoke on the condition of anonymity said "telling employees to stay fit mentally and physically – that's responsible leadership" and called Thiel the best manager he has ever had in over three decades with the firm. In a testimonial on Johnson's website, Scott Schropp, a vice president in Merrill's wealth management business, wrote that his clients like being included in wellness events. "They come in with preconceived notions of what this program may be like and leave the program with excitement, determination and a fresh take on 'healthy living'," he wrote. Thiel, a former American football player at college, met Johnson at an event in Arizona some time ago. Soon after, he went to Johnson's home in rural Michigan for a one-on-one training session. At such events, Johnson teaches corporate executives how to sleep better, shop for "super foods" and cook things like healthy chili. (Johnson declined to comment on Thiel's culinary talent.) People who know Thiel say he has wholeheartedly embraced the New Age lifestyle that Johnson, Schwartz and another guru called davidji advocate. Davidji (pronounced david-gee and spelled with a lowercase "d") describes himself as a former banker on his web site, and specializes in wellness of the mind. Davidji said he was not immediately available for an interview. People familiar with his Merrill training sessions say they feature bongo drum playing and meditation. A video on his web site - http://www.davidji.com/ - shows davidji sitting on the beach with his pet dog, named peaches, whom he says he meditates with every day. "The next time you sit down to meditate, if your pet - your cat, your dog, your lizard, your parrot - feels like meditating with you, create a space," he says. "Close your eyes. Drift into stillness and silence, and you'll notice that your pet gravitates toward you." Johnson said Thiel's embrace of health and wellness helps balance out his more rugged work on Wall Street. "He's got a big job and wanted to have energy and stamina," Johnson said "The corporate world beats you up." (Reporting by Peter Rudegeair and Lauren Tara LaCapra; Editing by Paritosh Bansal and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
It's one of the most popular grocery stores on the planet, and also one of the most unique.
Mathematics is full of counterintuitive facts and problems that push your mind to new areas and challenge your cognitive versatility.  The next nine facts are just a few of those puzzles; problems that have a habit of sparking arguments and debates among even some of the smartest students.  While they may seem controversial, they're all rock solid fact.  Several of them are paradoxes and idiosyncrasies of probability.  Others play your instincts against your logic. If you're looking for a mathematical way to impress your friends and beguile your enemies, here's a good place to start.  Just a heads-up, these problems are a little tougher than last time. If you lose track, don't quit. 
As an intelligence officer in the Marine Corps during the US troop surge and the "Anbar Awakening," Marine captain Wesley Gray had a first-hand view of some of the most important events of the American campaign in Iraq. He trained the country's nascent armed forces, learned Arabic, and witnessed the Sunni tribes' turn against Al Qaeda during the most crucial moment of the US mission. But Gray, who comes from a small town in northern California, took an untraditional path to the military. He said he always planned on becoming a soldier: "My whole life I always knew I wanted to do my service," he says. "It was just the mater of the timing of it." He ended up joining the armed forces at an unlikely point in life, two years into a competitive and intense finance PhD program at the University of Chicago. "I was kind of thinking, it's not like my opportunity costs are going to get any lower," he recalls. "If I'm ever going to actually do this I just have to go for it." He convinced his program advisor to grant him a four-year sabbatical, which is three years longer than what students are typically allowed. This was in 2004, when the campaign in Iraq was intensifying. Gray soon graduated towards the top of his Marine training class. He chose to become a "ground intelligence officer," basically an infantry soldier with intelligence duties and expertise — a "grunt with a map" in Marine parlance, according to Gray. He was entrusted with training and organizing Iraqi army personnel and was in the country at a time when the US began paying Sunni tribal leaders to join the fight against Al Qaeda: the "Anbar Awakening" that led to Al Qaeda in Iraq's defeat in the late 2000s. Gray left the Marines in 2008 and returned to his PhD program, somewhat to his professors' and classmates' surprise — "they didn't' think I would show up again" after his military career, Gray recalls. His experience in Iraq would end up having an unmistakable resonance in his post-military life and when attempting to launch Alpha Architect, a financial services startup that he says now manages $200 million in assets. Working with Iraqi soldiers and officials and applying his military and intelligence training in an active war zone gave Gray invaluable insights into human nature that he later brought to his business. "It was all about understanding the psychology of people and really trying to get through that," he says of his work in Iraq. "It meant realizing that everyone has cultural baggage and behavioral influences. You think everyone would be rational. But that's simply not the case." That realization applied to more than his Iraqi counterparts — it was crucial to being able to function in a war zone. "People are highly emotion-driven," he explains. "That's something you learn a lot about in the military and you learn to control that. When you're getting shot at you don't duck. You get up and shoot back when your emotion says to turn the other way." The military's honor and service-driven ethos also helped him hone his own unique sense of what he wanted his business to stand for. "We're trying to be more user-friendly and honorable than the traditional kind of dog-eat-dog Wall Street company," he says, explaining that his company is geared around investor education and publicly available research. "That's something that comes form being in the military. It's a humbling thing that translates over." Gray explains that in the Marines, the officers eat last — the leaders aren't in it for themselves, just by virtue of what the organization values. So Gray wanted to create a company distinguished through its transparency, a place that would buck the traditional "middle man"-like function of a typical financial firm. Right now, he has 10 full-time employees, including a recently hired ex-Marine captain. Since leaving the Marines, Gray has finished his PhD at Chicago, written a book about his experiences in Iraq, and taught at Drexel University before deciding to go into business. He says that veterans can successfully transition to civilian life so long as they're able to leverage their connections in the civilian world, especially among fellow ex-military personnel who are in a position to help them. "Just reach out to someone who's also a vet  — who's already been successful and made that transition and learn from them," says Gray. FREE AppDownload
Lucy Nicholson/ReutersIn the last year, the most important question for US economists and economic journalists has changed from Where are the jobs? to Where are the wages? It's a problem best summed up by Matthew O'Brien in the Washington Post. As the labor market approaches full employment, there should be more pressure on wages to rise. In the graph below, that would look like a trend-line pointing up and to the left. Instead, as you can see in a half-a-second glance, the trend-line is a blob and it's certainly not pointing up. The unemployment rate has fallen below 6 percent, and earnings growth is flat. Here are three theories for why. When economists and writers say "wages aren't growing," we're making a blanket statement that hides the fact that some wages are growing somewhere. Mining and energy jobs have had a fantastic few years, while retail and food service wage growth has been awful. The problem is that there are far more retail and food service workers than mining and manufacturing employees. We're adding lots of jobs in industries with stagnant wages, and a few jobs in industries with rising wages, according to new research out of the Cleveland Fed. "It may seem counterintuitive that wages and salaries are growing the slowest in industries where jobs are growing the fastest, but it actually is not," writesLaVaughn M. Henry, vice president of the bank's Cincinnati branch. We're adding few jobs in goods-producing industries like manufacturing, which have the highest overall post-recession wage growth, and lots of jobs in service-producing industries (e.g. health care, leisure and hospitality, and education), which have the lowest real wage growth. What is "invisible unemployment"? It's discouraged workers and part-timers who want more hours. The official unemployment rate doesn't consider them unemployed. So when we talk about the official unemployment rate—now at a lowish 5.8 percent—we're ignoring these workers. They're statistically invisible. Here's a picture of invisible unemployment (in blue) vs. official unemployment (in red). Since early 2010, the number of unemployed Americans has declined by twice as fast as the number of discouraged/part-timers (42 percent vs. 21 percent). FRED In 2002, official unemployment swamped invisible unemployment. The official unemployment rate was an accurate description of the labor force. But the spread between invisible and official unemployment is shrinking. In the last 20 years, the six months with the smallest gaps between official and invisible unemployment were all in 2014. That means the official unemployment rate is getting worse and worse at describing the real conditions facing American workers. Invisible unemployment is hurting the participation rate even more than economists predicted with an aging work force. The entire developed world is getting older. But US participation fell faster in the years after the recession that just about any other country. By "invisible work," I mean work done by American companies that isn't done by Americans workers. Globalization and technology is allowing corporations to expand productivity, which shows up in earnings reports and stock prices and other metrics that analysts typically associate with a healthy economy. But globalization and technology don't always show up in US wage growth because they often represent alternatives to US-based jobs. Corporations have used the recession and the recovery to increase profits by expanding abroad, hiring abroad, and controlling labor costs at home. It's a brilliant strategy to please investors. But it's an awful way to contribute to domestic wage growth. FREE AppDownload
BEIJING (AP) — Chinese President Xi Jinping is promising $40 billion to help Asian nations improve trade links in a new effort to assert Beijing's ambitions as a regional leader. Xi made the pledge in a meeting with leaders of Pakistan, Bangladesh and five other Asian nations ahead of this week's Asia-Pacific economic summit, state media reported Sunday. The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation gathering brings together leaders of the United States, China, Japan and 18 other economies, giving Beijing a prominent platform to assert its ambitions for a regional leadership role to match its status as the world's second-largest economy. The summit Monday and Tuesday also gives opportunities for regional diplomacy, including a possible ice-breaking meeting between the leaders of China and Japan after two years of tensions in an island dispute that raised concerns of a military confrontation between Asia's two largest economies. Beijing has launched a series of initiatives this year aimed at increasing its influence in what it sees as U.S.-dominated regional and global trade, finance and security structures. The latest effort, the "Silk Road Fund," will finance infrastructure and cooperation in industry and finance to link Asian economies, Xi said in the meeting Saturday with leaders of Bangladesh, Cambodia, Laos, Mongolia, Myanmar, Pakistan and Tajikistan. "Efforts by a single or several countries are far from adequate," said Xi, according to China's official Xinhua News Agency. "Only by building extensive partnerships where all will think and work in unison can we expect to achieve positive results." Last month, China and 20 other Asian governments launched a $50 billion bank to finance infrastructure in the region, despite U.S. objections that it was an unneeded duplication of work by the World Bank. Beijing is providing most of the startup capital. In May, Xi called for the creation of a new Asian structure for security cooperation based on a group that includes Russia and excludes the United States. Linking Asian countries is "not merely about building roads and bridges or making linear connection of different places," Xi was quoted as saying. "More importantly, it should be a three-way combination of infrastructure, institutions and people-to-people exchanges and a five-way progress in policy communication, infrastructure connectivity, trade link, capital flow and understanding among peoples," he said. AFPIn a speech Sunday, Xi said China's economy is shifting to a "new normal" of slower but more stable growth and has the resiliency to overcome any bumps in the road. Xi also touted the benefits of Chinese development to the world in the speech, given to Asian business leaders gathered in Beijing ahead of the APEC summit. China's outbound investment will exceed $1.25 trillion over the next 10 years, while the country will import more than $10 trillion worth of goods and send more than 500 million tourists abroad over next five years, Xi said. "For the Asia-Pacific and the world at large, China's development will generate huge opportunities and benefits, and hold lasting and infinite promise," Xi said. China is spearheading a free trade initiative — the Free-Trade Area of the Asia Pacific — seen as part of Beijing's efforts to counter U.S. domination of global trade and financial regulation. China's economic growth slowed to a five-year low of 7.3 percent in the latest quarter. The International Monetary Fund says China should lower its growth target to no more than 7 percent for next year. The Conference Board, a New York-based research group, has forecast that China's economic growth will decelerate to 4 percent a year between 2020 and 2025. However, Xi said the economy is robust, with strong job growth, low inflation, rising incomes and a shift away from investment to services and high-tech manufacturing. China is also shifting to a consumption-driven economy, reducing reliance on investment and exports, Xi said. "Under the 'new normal' conditions, China's economic growth has become more stable and driven by more diverse forces," Xi said. The world's No. 2 economy has shifted down a gear from the torrid rates of the previous decade, but remains among the world's most dynamic, he said. Addressing concerns about further declines in growth, Xi said China recognized emerging risks but described them as "not that formidable." "Resilience best equips the Chinese economy against risks," Xi said. ___ Associated Press Business Writer Joe McDonald contributed to this report. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
HSBCA map of the most attractive countries for expats. Size corresponds to ranking.Tired of your old job? Looking for a new environment? There are a lot of reasons to leave your home country behind in search of greener pastures, but picking where to go can be an overwhelming decision. There are a lot of conflicting factors: job opportunities, salary considerations, quality of life, safety, and childcare are just a few. HSBC has made the decision a whole lot easier with its latest annual Expat Explorer survey.  The survey ranks the best places to go based on experience, economics, and raising children abroad, with subcategories for each group. We've picked out the top 20 places overall. (But you can also personalize the rankings based on which factors matter to you.) FREE AppDownload
Harrison Jacobs/Business Insider The event is part of a growing "obstacle course" trend among fitness enthusiasts and weekend warriors. There is no shortage of similar competitions, including the Spartan Race, the Warrior Dash, the Color Run, and the Superhero Scramble. All cater to people yearning to do something extraordinary. A common refrain in marketing materials, from employees, and from "Mudders" is to get up off the couch and "overcome your fears." It costs between $125 and $500 to participate in a race. For first-timers, who make up the majority of Mudders at any event, it's about overcoming a challenge and team-building. Most people participate with a team, some with friends, some with coworkers, and others with random groups of people assembled specifically for the event. We followed one group — the Brooklyn Fitness Team — from training through the event to see what it takes to prepare and run a Tough Mudder.
Lenovo Group Ltd. said the era of “hypergrowth” is over in China’s smartphone market after the company reported its slowest sales growth in six quarters. Shares fell to their lowest since June 24 after Lenovo’s revenue rose 7.2pc in the three months ended September, the smallest increase since March 2013 and missing analysts’ estimates. Lenovo was the biggest decliner today on Hong Kong’s benchmark Hang Seng Index. Chief Executive Officer Yang Yuanqing has expanded in computer servers and mobile phones, including the $2.91bn purchase of Motorola Mobility, to help combat a shrinking personal-computer market. Growth in China is slowing amid intensifying competition from local smartphone producers, including Xiaomi Corp., which surpassed Lenovo and became the third-biggest global vendor in the quarter ending in September. “The industry is changing from in the past, when China grew much faster than the rest of the world,” Yang said in an interview. “The market is changing and China will not see further hypergrowth.” Lenovo shares fell 4.8pc to HK$10.26 at the close of trade in Hong Kong, adding to a 5.1pc drop yesterday that was the biggest decline since Feb. 4. Chinese producers have packed high-end features into cheaper smartphones to drive growth. Lenovo boosted global smartphone shipments by 38pc in the quarter to 16.9m units, ranking it fourth behind Samsung Electronics Co., Apple Inc. and Xiaomi, researcher International Data Corp. said Oct. 29.  FREE AppDownload
LONDON (Reuters) - After European Central Bank chief Mario Draghi got his colleagues to sign up to a target for pumping money into the ailing euro zone economy, a raft of GDP reports are likely to show just why more help may be needed. The ECB did not add to its arsenal of measures last week and is expected to wait and see the take-up of a second round of cheap loans being offered to banks in December before considering anything further. But after signs of discord, Draghi did secure unanimous agreement that the ECB balance sheet would "move towards the dimensions it had at the beginning of 2012" when it was about 1 trillion euros higher than now. Economists seized on the word "towards", which casts some doubt over whether it amounts to a hard target. And the ability of the ECB to swallow its objections to full quantitative easing remains in question. This week sees a raft of third quarter GDP reports from the euro zone, which are unlikely to make comfortable reading. Spain has already reported reasonable 0.5 percent growth on the quarter and few if any of its peers are likely to better that. The currency bloc as a whole grew just 0.1 percent in the second quarter of the year and Germany contracted by 0.2 percent. Hopes of a rebound have fizzled out with Europe’s largest economy struggling to eke out any growth to the point that it could be in recession, on the technical measure of two successive quarters of decline, come Friday. Reuters polling has a consensus forecast of 0.1 percent growth in the euro zone as a whole and for Germany. France may just outdo them, growing by 0.2 percent, while Italy is predicted to contract slightly again. "It looks as if the euro zone and Germany have avoided a technical recession. But let’s be clear, the mere fact that something has not got worse is no reason to cheer," economists at ING wrote in a note. Paris and Rome have been pressing the EU to focus more on measures to boost growth rather than cut debt in order to prevent a slide back into recession and to buy them time to push through structural economic reforms. Greater government spending is arguably more likely to have a direct economic impact than monetary policy measures, which are like pushing on a piece of string while demand remains so low. Yet the country with the finances to spend more – Germany – will not entertain that argument. That will be a topic for discussion when leaders of the G20 economies meet in Australia at the end of the week, with the United States and others likely to renew their calls on Berlin to do more to boost growth. The world's major central banks are now facing in very different directions, a position that could cause stress in financial markets and the economies that underpin them. October's U.S. jobs report showed the unemployment rate fell to a fresh six-year low of 5.8 percent, backing the Federal Reserve's decision to wind up its bond-buying program. At the same time, the Bank of Japan has dramatically increased its pace of money creation, while the ECB agonises over whether to follow suit. With Japan's new policy gambit likely to push the yen lower still, and with the euro heading south versus the dollar thanks to the ECB's efforts to reflate its economy, discussion of currency devaluation cannot be ruled out in Brisbane either. "The ECB clearly wishes to position itself as a contender in the global 'currency wars' of competitive reflation, alongside the BoJ, with the aim of weakening the euro," said Lena Komileva, chief economist at G+ Economics. South Korea will not sit on its hands while a tumbling yen undercuts the country's export competitiveness, its central bank chief said on Friday. The Bank of England will produce its quarterly inflation report on Wednesday. With wage growth still largely absent and inflation dropping to just 1.2 percent in September, noises from within the BoE suggest that the timing of a first interest rate rise could be heading further over the horizon. The latest Reuters poll of economists found an almost even split between those expecting a move in the first quarter of 2015 and those who think it will come later.   (Editing by Gareth Jones) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda attends a conference of central bankers hosted by the Bank of France in ParisTOKYO (Reuters) - The Bank of Japan Governor not only surprised the markets with his latest splurge of monetary easing. He sprang it on his own board members just two days earlier, jolted into action to stop them making a low-ball forecast that might have sunk his flagship inflation target. To achieve maximum effect for the shock decision, Haruhiko Kuroda and right-hand man Masayoshi Amamiya kept only a handful of elite central bank bureaucrats in the loop as they laid the ground for the expansion of their quantitative and qualitative easing (QQE) program. They didn't even give the usual forewarning to senior bureaucrats at the Ministry of Finance, according to interviews with nearly a dozen insiders and government sources with knowledge of the bank's deliberations. No leaks reached the media, and the announcement at the Oct. 31 policy meeting pushed the Nikkei stock average to seven-year highs and the yen to seven-year lows against the dollar. The market reaction will have been welcome news to Kuroda, but the impact he wanted above all was to alter inflation expectations in a country that has struggled with crippling deflation for two decades. Timing was critical - and not of his choosing. At the policy meeting the board would also issue a new consumer inflation forecast for the next fiscal year, based on the median estimate from the nine members. But two days before publication, the preliminary estimate was only around 1.5 percent, three of the sources said. That was well below the 1.9 percent forecast made in July, and if published could have been fatal to his key goal of hitting 2 percent from April next year. Since price expectations play a key role in the consumer behaviours that ultimately determine prices, doubts about the target could be self-fulfilling. There were other triggers for action, including October's plunge in oil prices and the fact that an easing burst would have more market impact in the week the U.S. Federal Reserve decided to turn its own liquidity taps off. But it was the inflation forecast that convinced Kuroda and his aides to go for another burst of stimulus, three sources said. Board members would then have to revisit their estimates in light of the new action. It worked. They revised their forecasts to take account of the QQE injection, bringing the figure up to 1.7 percent, enough to keep Kuroda's target within sight and perhaps drain the growing pool of doubters. Annual core consumer inflation was down at only 1 percent in September, prompting many to charge Kuroda with unfounded optimism. A Reuters poll of economists had forecast only 1.1 percent for the year to come. Though Kuroda won the vote, which will boost the BOJ's government debt purchases by $260 billion a year and triple its buying of risky assets, he also paid a price for the manner and haste of the decision: a board split almost down the middle. Because policy board members are barred from discussing policy without a quorum in a formal meeting, Kuroda sent BOJ bureaucrats as his emissaries to corral a majority for his easing plan, sources said. REUTERS / Toru HanaiKikuo Iwata, Haruhiko Kuroda, Hiroshi NakasoHe knew he had the votes of his two deputies, and that there was no hope of winning over the board's two market economists who have long expressed public doubts about QQE, especially Takahide Kiuchi, who wants the program terminated in two years. So fierce lobbying focused on the board's two former businessmen, Koji Ishida and Yoshihisa Morimoto. Despite frantic efforts, he failed to win them over. Worse, though they had rarely voiced open doubts about QQE before, their opposition would now become public. The sources said the swing voter was the hard-to-predict former academic Ryuzo Miyao, who took a long time to convince. One suggested Kuroda had let a genie of dissent out of the bottle, which could make future easing decisions more difficult to achieve. "Those who dissented this time may be inclined to dissent again if the BOJ were to ease further," said the source. Takeshi Minami, chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute and one of just four of the 19 economists who had correctly forecast the Halloween surprise in a Reuters poll, expects the bank will want to ease again in mid-2015. If so, Kuroda, whose determination to stay the course is unflagging, could well need Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to stack the BOJ board with reliable reflationists when Miyao's term ends in March and Morimoto's in June. "In order to completely overcome the chronic disease of deflation, you need to take all your medicine," Kuroda said on Wednesday. "Half-baked medical treatment will only worsen the symptoms."   (Additional reporting by Sumio Ito, Yoshifumi Takemoto and Kaori Kaneko; Editing by William Mallard and Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
New York (AFP) - The hospitals of the Truman Medical Centers in Kansas City, Missouri no longer serve fast food in their cafeterias, after ending a contract with McDonald's in 2012 -- two years ahead of schedule. In Kentucky, Kosair Children's Hospital signed up to serve Big Macs and Chicken McNuggets to its patients when it opened in 1986. But it has now followed in TMC's footsteps. The reversals by hospital chains that once embraced McDonald's reflect a waning love affair with fast food in the United States, as consumers become increasingly aware of the benefits of eating better. "Fast foods have their place, but I am not so sure their place is inside the hospital," recalled John Bluford, the former TMC chief executive. "We thought that we needed to change the game a little bit and start creating a culture of health," Bluford told AFP. "It was a health-concerned decision and a mission-driven decision, given our mission to improve the health of our community." Flickr/pointnshootSales of McDonald's in the United States fell 3.3 percent in the last quarter. The consumption of sodas fell last year to 1995 levels, according to the industry specialist Beverage Digest. Americans drank on the average 51 gallons (nearly 200 liters) of soda per person in 1998; last year, it was 44 gallons. The fall is more marked for light sodas, which fell six percent amid concerns sparked by studies suggesting some synthetic sweeteners were carcinogenic. "There's a shift away from the perception of food that is mass-produced towards food that is perceived to be more homemade or artisanal or sustainably produced," said Keith-Thomas Ayoob, associate clinical professor at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York. "Consumers want to feel that they're doing healthier things and eating a healthier diet." More and more Americans are making the link between fast food and sodas, and life-long health problems like obesity and diabetes, said Sriram Madhusoodanan, an organizer of the anti-fast-food campaign "Value [the] Meal" at Corporate Accountability International. Campaigns like theirs are scoring gains against the powerful industry.  In December 2011, San Francisco required fast food chains to add more low-sugar, low-salt foods like fruit and vegetables for children. And those campaigns are also showing results.  The US Centers for Disease Control said in February that there had been a 43 percent fall in obesity among two- to five-year-olds over the previous decade. Much more needs to be done, according to the organization Trust for America's Health. More than two-thirds of adult Americans remain overweight, it says. Christopher Gindlesperger, spokesman for the American Beverage Association, downplayed the role sodas play in the health problem. Because of the greater popularity of low-sugar sodas, he said, the amount of sugar consumed from sodas has fallen 40 percent in the last 10 years. Sugar-related diseases "are very serious and very complex," he said. "If you look at the government data, you see that calories in the American diet from sodas are just a small piece of the overall (total)... We empower our customers to make the choices that are right for them." Chipotle InstagramHow Chipotle is prepared.The success of the restaurant chain Chipotle Mexican Grill symbolizes the new face of the American diet. Launched in 1993, Chipotle advertises that it uses hormone-free meat and locally-raised organic vegetables. "From the very beginning, Chipotle has used really high-quality fresh ingredients, and prepares all the foods we serve," company spokesman Chris Arnold told AFP. "So from the beginning, we were doing something which is pretty different than what was happening in traditional American fast food."  Fast food chains are reacting to the new social and market pressure. McDonald's has eliminated some of its controls on franchises to allow them to adapt menus to customers' tastes. Last year, Taco Bell phased out its children's menu. And drink companies like Coca-Cola and Pepsi are expanding their beverage lines with lower-sugar options. APMcDonald's, Coca-Cola and Pepsi did not respond to requests for comment from AFP. For Madhusoodanan, the real change will come when McDonald's stops tempting children with toys to sell its "Happy Meals". "They are changing, they're coming around because the public is now demanding it. They have to change," said Bluford.  FREE AppDownload
