Months after we all started fretting over the prospect of a global coffee shortage, it seems we might actually start to feel the caffeine-related effects of Brazil's massive drought and Central America's coffee fungus, in the form industry-wide retail price increases.  The Washington Post reported back in February that coffee costs were expected to rise later in the year: For now, retail prices for coffee are stable. Roasters typically have enough supplies to cover themselves for a few months. But if the price of the Arabica (pronounced uh-RAB-ick-uh) beans continues to rise, consumers could start seeing the cost of their morning coffee creep up later this year. And that's exactly what appears to be happening. Starbucks said today that consumers at more than 7,100 stores in the U.S. should expect prices on some drinks to jump by 5 to 20 cents each. According to Reuters, grande and venti coffees will be 15 to 20 cents more expensive at most locations. The cost of a grande coffee hasn't risen in nearly four years.  Starbucks will also increase the prices of bags of whole and ground coffee beans sold at other locations by about $1 per bag.  The company made its announcement soon after Dunkin' Brands CEO Nigel Travis said that "coffee prices will go up a little bit in our stores, but not by much." J.M. Smucker, which owns Folgers and Dunkin' Donuts supermarket brands, said that it also plans on raising coffee prices by about 9 percent.  Many Americans, however, seem to have already adjusted their habits to avoid the effects of the shortage, drinking less cups of straight joe and more espresso-based drinks. Reuters reports:  The number of American adults who enjoy a daily cup of coffee has dropped to 61 percent this year, from 63 percent in 2013...  The popularity of espresso-based coffee drinks such as cappuccinos and lattes, however, jumped with 18 percent of the 3,000 adults surveyed saying they drink these daily. This is up from 13 percent last year....  And, Reuters adds, more drinkers are brewing single-serve coffee at home:  The way Americans are brewing their own coffee has also changed, with 29 percent of the survey respondents saying they made their previous day's java with a single-cup brewer. This is up sharply from 20 percent in 2013. FREE AppDownload
Smith &amp; Wesson has shot its bolt for now. Shares of the US gunmaker sank nearly nine percent to $15.52 on Friday after the company projected an even steeper decline in sales and profits in fiscal 2015 than analysts expected. The weak outlook is due to a big drop in demand for semi-automatic rifles. Company executives, while remaining bullish on long-term demand for guns, said the near-term decline was expected after purchases of "modern sporting rifles" -- industry jargon for semi-automatic weapons -- surged following the December 2012 Sandy Hook mass shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, in which 20 young schoolchildren were killed. Gun enthusiasts went on a buying spree in the months after the carnage, fearing President Barack Obama and gun control advocates in Congress would succeed in placing new checks on weapons purchases. However, new gun control legislation has stalled in Washington, and with it, so have sales of semi-automatic weapons. Smith &amp; Wesson late Thursday posted a 4.6 percent decline year-over-year in sales in the fourth quarter ended April 30, to $170.4 million. Smith &amp; Wesson forecast fiscal 2015 sales of $585-$600 million, down from $626.6 million in fiscal 2014 -- a record. Net income per diluted share is expected at $1.30-$1.40, down from $1.49 in 2014. Despite the weaker outlook, Smith &amp; Wesson executives pointed to some bright spots. Demand for handguns remained brisk, with sales rising 30 percent in the fourth quarter. Officials also expressed confidence in the overall growth of the market, noting that the company still expects the gun market to expand between eight and 10 percent annually over the long term. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved. This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
YoutubeA $24 million 110-foot yacht was destroyed by fire near San Diego on Thursday, and a drone with a video camera captured the devastating scene, NY Daily News reports. The "Polar Bear" caught fire around 9:15 a.m. while in dry dock, after workers doing some welding on board reportedly sparked the blaze, according to NBC San Diego. “Am I angry? No. Anger is not the right word,” owner Larry Jodsass, 79, told NBC 7. “It was my toy, my wonderful, beautiful piece of equipment. I think it’s the most beautiful boat that ever has been built.” Firefighters tried to put out the blaze but their job was made very difficult since yachts are designed to keep water out. The fire did not spread to other vessels, but needless to say, the "Polar Bear" suffered major damage. Much of the blaze was caught by Kurt Roll, a boat captain in San Diego, using a DJI quadcopter paired with a GoPro camera, according to Mashable. Watch:  Here's what the yacht normally looks like: NBC San Diego FREE AppDownload
The DrunkeynsianFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Its Time To Bail On The Stock Market When Two Of Bob Farrell's Investing Rules Meet (Gluskin Sheff)  We're not at the market top yet according to David Rosenberg at Gluskin Sheff. Citing legendary Merrill Lynch strategist Bob Farrell, Rosenberg argues that this is because "public participation has yet to reach levels that typifies the final blow-off an equity bull market. ...We have yet to see Bob Farrell's Rule #5 (the public buys most at the peak and least at the bottom)." But how do you really know when you have arrived at the "aha moment" that signals that it is time to exit the stock market? "Go back to each cycle and you will see that each fundamental peak in the S&amp;P 500 actually represented a 'failed' peak," he writes. "In other words, the market doest a 'double top' at the highs. It hits a first peak, corrects mildly from it as the proverbial 'smart money' takes profits, and then makes its way to a new high as the last gasp moves up takes hold (generally driven by those who missed out on the bull run and end up capitulating right at the wrong time)."  "Now at that first peak, the momentum is so strong that typically the S&amp;P 500  is up 11% on average over a 30-day period. So the actual classic 'melt up' everyone talks about is the first peak. This tends to stir up a frenzy that pulls the momentum crowd and many neophytes into the market hook, line, and sinker. A mini-correction then follows and the brokers typically tell their clients not to miss the boat again — but you know the gig is up if the market makes a new high and does so on weak breadth (lower participation as measured by the NYSE 52-week high list) and Bob Farrell's rule #7 coincides with fulfillment of that rule #5 (rule #7 goes like this: markets are strongest when they are broad, and weakest when they narrow to a handful of blue-chip names)." FINRA To Review Its Guidelines After Criticism From The SEC (The Wall Street Journal)  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is considering tougher penalties for violations by Wall Street executives, reports Jean Eaglesham at the Wall Street Journal. This comes after a Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) commissioner, Kara Stein, said FINRA's disciplinary actions were "too often financially insignificant for the wrongdoers." He suggested that FINRA update their sanctions. Susan Axelrod, Finra's executive vice president told the WSJ that they shouldn't just be judged by the size of the fines. She also said that they would take another look at their guidelines and ensure that their penalties would be "meaningful and will have an impact." Investors Looking To Capitalize On Emerging Market Consumer Spending Should Start With Refrigerators (AllianceBernstein Blog)  The refrigerators of emerging market consumers act as a good investing guide for those looking to capitalize on emerging market consumer spending, according to Tassos Stassopoulous at AllianceBernstein Blog. Kitchens he thinks offer a more useful guide than income and assets. Certain measures look at certain items in a home to understand socio-economic status. "So a person with a laptop, TV, mobile phone and stereo could be classified as rich. Yet in our field research, we’ve met people in countries like Ghana whose ramshackle homes are full of electronic devices but who are quite obviously poor," he writes. "In working-class homes, the fridge is used mainly for efficiency items (Display). It includes basic foods such as eggs, fruits and vegetables and some pre-cooked food. Middle-class fridges stock more indulgences, from alcoholic beverages to chocolate and cheese. And for affluent households, health is a primary concern. So expect to find foods like low-fat yogurt or 100% fruit juices." "Our research suggests that China is in the indulgence phase. So companies that make products like beer, butter and chocolates should benefit from rising incomes. Indian families are still buying fridges, then filling them with efficiency items like milk, yogurt and ready-made sauces. Brazil has already shifted toward health mode, which should see higher-end food producers draw more spending." The Demand For Digital Interaction Between Wealth Managers And Clients Is Rising Everywhere (Capegemini/RBC Wealth Management)  While firms continue to focus on in person meeting with their high net worth (HNWI) clients, they're increasingly open to interacting online as well. 57% of HNWIs conduct all or most of their relationship with wealth managers online. Moreover, 64.2% say the expect to have a digital wealth management relationship in five years. Capegemini/RBC Capital FREE AppDownload
Nope. Credit Suisse recently examined the demographics and economic conditions of every country with a team in the World Cup. What they found was a huge amount of diversity. Here are a few bullets from their report: Soccer is one of those sports that requires very little equipment. So, the wealth of a nation has little impact on the quality of its players. Here's a look at GDP per capita of every country good enough to send a team to the World Cup. That's lots of variation. Credit Suisse FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Nicolas Rodriguez When the mercury starts to rise, everything is better when it's done outside, including (and maybe especially) cooking. The summer cookout is a rite and a ritual, but if you don't have a good barbecue to grill on, then you aren't doing the tradition justice. Luckily, our friends at FindTheBest helped us put together a list of the best gas barbecues currently on the market to make grilling easier and tastier. FindTheBest came up with a "Smart Rating" for the grills by looking at features and specifications, construction material, and warranty. If two grills were tied in FindTheBest's rankings, we used price as a tiebreaker, with the cheaper grill receiving a higher ranking. The Prestige II has enough surface area to comfortably grill food for up to eight people at once. Seven burners provide a ton of flexibility in the heat range and cooking temperatures. Available not only in propane but in natural gas as well, the Prestige Pro PRO600 gets the job done and takes care of the environment to boot. And because the natural gas option is efficient, you won't have to change tanks in the middle of your cookout. Similar to its PRO600 cousin, the PRO500 delivers the same, six-burner efficiency — also in propane or natural gas — for about $700 cheaper. The only down side is that it's a little less effective at heating, and has a smaller cooking area per burner than then PRO600. The Blue Ember BE65078-584 has a porcelain-coated cast iron cooking grate, the most durable material on the market, and it's resistant to chipping. It's affordable and compact, with five burners that can cook for up to six. The Blue Ember BE50070-587 is small but powerful. Four burners deliver 140 BTUs, or British Thermal Units, which is a lot higher than average for a grill of this size. It can comfortably cook for four to five people. The most impressive and useful feature on the Char-Broil T-36D is that it comes equipped with infrared technology, which means achieves a higher cooking temperature more quickly than other grills. The Char-Broil Commercial packs a punch for the price. It's small and transportable, but its four burners can cook for up to five hungry burger or steak lovers. You'll have no trouble achieving searing perfection on this model of the Napoleon Prestige, which delivers 160 BTUs of heat energy per square inch. That's a lot of heat for a lot of grilling space: 900 square inches of surface area for anything you care to cook. The Kenmore S3218ANB has five burners and is perfect for a large backyard or patio. Reasonably priced, it heats well and serves up to six. The four-burner Kenmore BG1734B's grilling grate is made of porcelain-coated steel, which is resistant not only to chipping but to rust as well, which is perfect if you keep your grill outside. If you're really ready to grill for a crowd, go for the Napoleon GEMINI, whose six-burners can evenly prepare food for eight people at a time. This grill also has an infrared cooking option. Before you get intimidated by the price, you should know that the Napoleon Prestige V is very good at what it does. It has a massive cooking area of 1,100 square inches, and a whopping seven burners. The $2,000 cheaper price tag than the PF600 model makes the PF450 the best grill on the market. With 190 BTUs of heat energy and six burners, this barbecue can be propane- or natural gas-fueled, and even comes with a smoker box so you can impress your friends with that authentic smokiness at your next cookout. FREE AppDownload
Friday at 4:15 p.m. Nobody is paying attention to economic news at that time. And yet, the best news of the week came exactly then. That's when the Fed released its latest H.8. report, which offers up a weekly tally of assets and liabilities at commercial banks. So what did it show? The total amount of loans and leases held at commercial banks in the United States just hit yet another post-crisis high. FRED More exciting, perhaps, is the year-over-year change in the amount of total credit. At 4.64% annual growth, this was the second-best number of the year, and it reversed a tiny dip in the week before. FRED Credit is the lifeblood of the economy. We're now well past the cold winter, and the trend of more and more loans and leases being made is a sign of an economy hitting into high gear. FREE AppDownload
APNew York Gov. Andrew Cuomo couldn't be more pleased about his state's Fitch credit rating upgrade. In a conference call with reporters Friday, Cuomo made what may be the first cred rating-themed joke in history when he said he planned to celebrate with drinks. "Instead of, 'It's Miller time,'" Cuomo said, referencing the famous beer slogan, "It's Moody's and Fitch time." This won't be Cuomo's first credit rating party this week. On Monday, Cuomo celebrated New York's Moody's upgrade with a cake. This inspired several more credit rating quips during the cake pun-filled conference call.  "We have a cherry on the cake for what was a really great few weeks for the State of New York," said Cuomo, a Democrat widely thought to have ambitions for higher office. "It’s probably the most powerful affirmation of the progress the state has been making." However, Cuomo told Business Insider there will be no credit cake after the good news from Fitch Friday. "I wish!" he exclaimed. "[The upgrade] came so quickly on a Friday we may actually toast this one with a drink." Across the Hudson River in New Jersey, Gov. Chris Christie most certainly hasn't been toasting his state's credit rating. Last month Fitch downgraded the Garden State. Because of this, Business Insider asked Cuomo whether he had any advice for Christie about improving his credit rating. Cuomo said he did not know "the basis" for Fitch's decision to downgrade New Jersey and theorized Christie, a Republican, wouldn't want his input on the matter.   "The governor wouldn’t call me for advice," Cuomo said of Christie.    This post was updated at 5:25 p.m.   FREE AppDownload
The number of daily Bitcoin transactions has barely budged in the past 12 months. Here's the chart according to Blockchain. Daily transactions remain stuck in the same 60,000-70,000 range they were at this same time late-spring early-summer time  Blockchain.Info Another view showing the 7-day averages: Blockchain.Info And one other view, from Coinometrics, showing a table of daily transactions at other payment processor compared with Bitcoin.  Coinometrics Coinometrics Jonathan Levin told us recently that these may even overcount how many true transactions are occurring, as these may include movements by the same Bitcoin holder between two different wallets, as well as transactions used by exchanges and other large corporations for every day internal settlement and security. "Bitcoin transactions have to be made to ensure security and privacy - these are not transactional," he said. "A lot of this creates price insensitive demand for transactions as it is not strictly economic activity."  He said Bitcoin ecosystem remains years away from resolving some important kinks, like how to address mining centralization, and that painting too rosy of the current picture of the current situation is actually counterproductive to attracting the developer talent needed to address the problems it faces.  "This is really a long game," he said.  Bitcoin was trading at $590 Friday according to Coindesk. 
Architectural DigestSanford I. Weill and his wife, Joan, are über New Yorkers. Known as Sandy, he is the former head of Citigroup and the longtime chairman of Carnegie Hall. She chairs Manhattan’s Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater. Then there is the city’s Weill Cornell Medical College, to which they have donated many millions of dollars. That being said, the Brooklyn-born philanthropists have succumbed to Northern California’s allure and put down roots in Sonoma Valley. Situated on some 360 rolling acres that include a vineyard—the 2012 Weill a Way red received a 94 on Robert Parker’s 100-point index of excellence—the Weills’ compound is at the end of a vertiginous drive that meanders through fields of sprightly California poppies and live oaks. "We visited in August, four years ago, and the gardeners handed me a plum and a white peach," Joan recalls of their first encounter with the property. "Then the brokers brought us back one night and lit an outdoor fire. That clinched the deal." A year later the couple put their Central Park West penthouse on the market and started packing. Architectural DigestConceived in the 1990s by Walker &amp; Moody Architects, the firm that masterminded the Auberge du Soleil resort in nearby Rutherford, the Sonoma estate suggests an ancestral enclave in Tuscany. Italian terra-cotta tiles sheathe the higgledy-piggledy roofline of the two-bedroom main residence. A covered breezeway connects that building to a four-bedroom guesthouse—equipped with an indoor pool and a wine library—added by the Weills. There’s also a walled garden overflowing with old-fashioned roses, courtesy of the landscape architect Mai K. Arbegast, who devised the verdant grounds for the property’s previous owners. Architectural DigestTo update the interiors, the Weills relied on designer Mica Ertegun, who began working with them on various homes eight years ago. "We were a little intimated by her back then," Sandy says. "Her reputation is so big." Today she is the Weills’ aesthetic alter ego, her portfolio including the couple’s former New York apartment and their villa in the Bahamas. Not only does the decorator share "very similar tastes," with her clients, she describes them admiringly as people who "appreciate that every corner of a home needs to be looked at." Architectural DigestTaking pride of place in the Sonoma main house’s sun-splashed entrance gallery is a 1940s Fernand Léger mosaic whose brilliant blues, yellows, oranges, greens, and reds dance against a light-ocher wall. To accommodate two of the couple’s Thomas Hart Benton paintings, the living room’s carved overmantel was removed, one of several architectural adjustments that Ertegun and John Schaberg, a senior project director at her firm, MAC II, made to the dwelling and its outbuildings. "I’m not a collector," Sandy says modestly. "But I know what I like." And what he likes encompasses everything from the languorous fashion illustration that hangs in the soothingly neutral master bedroom to the giant outdoor sculptures of pink and red roses by Will Ryman. (The overscale blooms were part of a public-art commission installed along ten blocks of Park Avenue in 2011.) When the Weills shop for art, Joan says they both have "the right of refusal"—though, her husband laughingly admits, in the case of the Léger, she lost. Tom Brady &amp; Gisele Bündchen's Custom Château Ralph Lauren Shows off His Many Homes Sandy Weill's Wine Country Estate The World's Most Radical Houses This article originally appeared at Architectural Digest.  Copyright 2014. Follow Architectural Digest on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Jan Willem van WesselWith summer quickly approaching, it’s about time to hit the beach. What should you read? J.P. Morgan Chase might be the most well-read bank in the world, and they have some suggestions for you. Not only does the bank give its interns a daunting reading list, but it also gives its rich clients a list of suggestions as well. Darin Oduyoye, who heads up communications for J.P. Morgan’s Asset Management division, says the list was started as a way to keep in touch with clients throughout the summer. Getting on the famous list is about as easy as becoming a millionaire: 568 titles were submitted from J.P. Morgan Asset Management offices around the world this year and reviewed by a 16-person committee that must have done nothing but read for a year. That’s 35 books per person, fewer than the 161 I read in the past year, but still way above average. When the list first came out, the competition was easier, with only 115 recommendations vying for the coveted 10 spots. Even the CEO, Jamie Dimon, chimes in with suggestions. Here’s this year’s list of summer reading for the bank’s wealthy clients: Art &amp; Place: Site-Specific Art of the Americas From the world’s premier publisher of books on the visual arts comes a stunning volume that will delight art lovers and art collectors. Art &amp; Place takes readers to 60 cities across the Americas to some of the most provocative and fascinating site-specific artworks in the Western Hemisphere — illustrating the inexplicable link between the chosen artworks and the places they reside. Thrive: The Third Metric to Redefining Success and Creating a Life of Well-Being, Wisdom, and Wonder, by Arianna Huffington Executives around the globe know that money and power can often only make someone so happy. It’s finding the “third metric” that truly provides the keys to passion, joy and fulfillment in one’s life. In Thrive, Arianna Huffington — one of the most influential women in the world — takes the reader on his or her own journey of self-realization. Combining a deep personal narrative with scientific data, Huffington formulates a new model for total well-being. Talk Like TED: The 9 Public-Speaking Secrets of the World’s Top Minds, by Carmine Gallo Go inside the minds of TED’s online presenters. A nonprofit devoted to spreading ideas, TED — Technology, Entertainment and Design — features short, powerful talks on myriad subjects. Public-speaking coach Carmine Gallo pinpoints the top tips of the celebrated community’s most popular presenters. With advice to hone the skills of even well-seasoned executives, Talk Like TED is a fascinating and infinitely helpful look at one of the world’s most common fears. The Metropolitan Revolution: How Cities and Metros Are Fixing Our Broken Politics and Fragile Economy, by Bruce Katz and Jennifer Bradley. Philanthropists, endowments, and foundations are often presented with lists of challenges in American cities — political barriers to growth, lack of economic diversity, immigration. But Bruce Katz and Jennifer Bradley carry the banner for cities that are getting it right. The Metropolitan Revolution highlights success stories from some of America’s most-populous areas and shows that big improvements can happen quickly when people are willing to make small changes. The Second Machine Age: Work, Progress, and Prosperity in a Time of Brilliant Technologies, by Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee As societies progress, those who can best adapt to change have the highest chance of success. MIT’s Brynjolfsson and McAfee detail the vast technological changes that are already underway, and provide a look at the potential changes to come. They also unveil a plan of action to understand, cope with and embrace the transformative nature of society today. For the forward-thinking business executive, this is a book that shouldn’t be missed. Things a Little Bird Told Me: Confessions of the Creative Mind, by Biz Stone Who better than Biz Stone to offer advice and inspiration to up-and-coming entrepreneurs and next-generation leaders ready to take the reins of the family business? The co-founder and co-inventor of Twitter provides invaluable insights. Combining examples from his own life, principles he’s learned along the way, and true stories from his experiences at Google and Twitter, Stone presents a well-paced, informative personal narrative on the creative process. The Future of the Mind: The Scientific Quest to Understand, Enhance, and Empower the Mind, by Michio Kaku The secrets of the human brain are revealed in this powerful work by renowned physicist and futurist Dr. Michio Kaku. The Future of the Mind guides the reader on a journey of scientific discovery, illustrating that many facets of the world’s most intriguing science fiction stories — such as telepathy, telekinesis and mind control — may, in fact, already exist. Kaku provides a glimpse into the potential of future and new possibilities as the human mind becomes linked with modern technology. Olives, Lemons &amp; Za’atar: The Best Middle Eastern Home Cooking, by Rawia Bishara Bishara will always be quick to point out that her first name means “storyteller” in Arabic. She deftly lives up to it, taking the reader through tales of her own life and culture, with her beloved cuisine serving as a guide. Bishara has instilled in her book the same warmth and comfort that can be found in her neighborhood eatery, Brooklyn’s Tanoreen. An Astronaut’s Guide to Life on Earth: What Going to Space Taught Me About Ingenuity, Determination, and Being Prepared for Anything, by Col. Chris Hadfield What’s worse than being locked out of the house? Having it happen 200 miles above the surface of the Earth while traveling more than 17,000 miles per hour. Journey with Colonel Chris Hadfield as he breaks into a locked space station, and learn how his NASA training prepared him for the seemingly impossible. Hadfield shares his insights into thinking on your feet and maintaining calm during even the direst crises. The Billionaire and the Mechanic: How Larry Ellison and a Car Mechanic Teamed Up to Win Sailing’s Greatest Race, the America’s Cup, by Julian Guthrie The 34th America’s Cup will be remembered as one of the most exciting and improbable comebacks in the history of offshore yacht racing. But for Larry Ellison, his Oracle Team USA’s first win — in 2010 — will always be epic. This story of an equally improbable partnership between an auto mechanic and one of the world’s wealthiest individuals will captivate sports enthusiasts, amateur yachters, and fans of Ellison’s helmsman Ben Ainslie. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas KrumenackerTomorrow, Saturday, June 21, is the Summer Solstice in the Northern Hemisphere, marking the longest day of the year. Stocks on Wall Street finished marginally higher as the Dow and S&amp;P 500 made new all-time closing highs.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: Don't Miss: MARK CUBAN: 'The Student Loan Bubble Is Going To Burst' » FREE AppDownload
IMDB / Casino RoyaleTonight your co-workers invited you to a game of poker. What should be a fun night, can quickly become embarrassing if you don’t know what your boss means when he says “pocket rockets”. But don’t worry. We're here to help out with the key words so that you can sound like a pro. Let’s start with the parts of the game. In poker, not only are you dealt your own cards, but there’s also a shared pile of 5 cards on the table.  The first three cards are dealt at the same time and they’re called the flop. After a round of betting, the fourth card – the turn – is dealt, and is followed by another round of betting. And finally, the river, or the fifth card, is uncovered. In between all these card reveals there’s a series of bets. The first bet is the ante, which is a small bet that every player must make before the round starts. Then, you have the blinds, which are also required bets that the first two players to the left of the dealer must make. The first is called the small blind, and the second is called the big blind. Matching or raising a bet that was made before you is known as calling the bet. And players who call too much are given the insulting nickname "calling station". Why is it bad to call too frequently? Well, for starters, it reveals that you are an amateur because only players who don’t know the correct pot odds call often. And secondly, amateur players get lucky and end up with winning hands when they do this – which naturally annoys the pros even more.Pot odds, by the way, is a ratio of the money in the pot to the amount it will cost you to call the current bet. Sounds complicated, but all it means is that if there is $100 in the pot, and the bet will cost you $10, you have 10-to-1 odds. And even though betting is great, sometimes the odds are low and you don't have great cards. When this happens you have several options.  First, you can check. By quickly tapping their fingers twice on the table, players signify that they want to stay in the game but do not want to bet extra money.  Other players may want to bet your check anyway, after which you need to decide if you are willing to throw in the chips. Otherwise you can fold – or quit the round – and throw your cards into the dead pile, or muck.  Another option is to bluff, which is when a player makes a bet, knowing that they do not have the best cards, and hopes that his opponent will panic and fold in his place. Unfortunately, even with a great hand (known as a monster) a player with even better cards might beat you. This is called a bad beat. And to make things worse, it’s usually because of a lucky last minute draw for the other player.  After a series of bad beats, some players start getting desperate and play too aggressively and carelessly. Others will refer to them as tilts. Needless to say, you want to avoid this nickname. While we’re on this, you don’t want to be called a donkey or fish either. That’s someone who plays poorly and looks like he’s throwing away his money. And if you’re feeling really lucky, you might consider going all in, a move when a player bets all his chips. Afterwards, he can no longer bet and a side pot may be created for other players to continue betting. You either win big, or you’re done. Finally, here’s some slang terms for cards you might have in your hand: Now get out there and don't make a fool of yourself.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERSFor most occupations, your risk of dying on the job is higher if you're an American worker than if you're working in Europe. The Bureau of Labor Statistics has an article in their Monthly Labor Review journal that compares rates of fatal occupational injuries in the United States and in the European Union.  Overall, BLS found that there were 3,353 fatal injuries at private employers in Europe in 2010, and 2,530 in the United States. This makes for a rate of 2.8 fatalities per 100,000 employees in Europe and 3.1 per 100,000 in the United States. BLS also broke injury rates down by occupation. For each occupational group except for finance and insurance, and professional, scientific, and technical services, death rates at work were higher in America than in Europe. In particular, the rates of fatal injuries among agricultural, forestry, and fishing workers; water supply and waste management workers; and transportation and storage workers were all about twice as high in the United States as in the European Union: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from BLS For more details on the Bureau of Labor Statistics' methodology, check out the Monthly Labor Review report here. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Inc.comMark Cuban thinks colleges are going to go out of business. In a clip on Inc.com, Cuban talks about the student loan bubble, which he says will burst and end badly for colleges. The end of the student loan bubble, Cuban says, will be like the housing bubble, where tuition collapses the way the price of homes collapsed.  These collapses will put colleges out of business. Cuban: "It's inevitable at some point there will be a cap on student loan guarantees. And when that happens you're going to see a repeat of what we saw in the housing market: when easy credit for buying or flipping a house disappeared we saw a collapse in the price housing, and we're going to see that same collapse in the price of student tuition, and that's going to lead to colleges going out of business." Cuban also talks about the impact student loan debt is having on the economy, saying that people burdened with student loans can't afford to spend money on anything other than the bare necessities.  There are a number of problems with the increasing cost of college both for the colleges themselves and the broader economy. Cuban's specific call for a cap on student loan guarantees, and a subsequent collapse in tuition prices, portends an ugly future for colleges in the U.S.  The full clip of Cuban can be seen here. FREE AppDownload
 A Girl With Tea/FlickrRegardless of where you may reside here in the States (or elsewhere in the northern hemisphere), one thing is for certain. Summer is here and it is hot. Whether you’re wearing a suit on Wall Street or rocking Silicon Valley casual, it can be hard to keep yourself looking composed after a foray into the blistering heat and humidity. But that isn't to say you have to look like a sweaty mess any time you get indoors. Here are a tips for staying fresh that you can use wherever you are. FREE AppDownload
Ursula Coyote / AMCAfter years of helping Americans with off-shore tax evasion, Credit Suisse is getting off easy in another case of too big to fail. In May, the Swiss bank pleaded guilty to its charge and agreed to a $2.6 billion fine, the largest criminal tax fine in U.S. history. But according to a troubling report from Newsweek, the U.S. Justice Department should have demanded a lot more. In 2009, UBS faced similar charges and paid $780 million in fines. However, it was also forced to name about 4,450 of its American clients to the IRS and Justice Department. In a case against Swiss bank Wegelin in 2012, prosecutors brought charges against the company's bankers, lawyers, and advisors.  However, Credit Suisse executives faced no charges, and gave only about 200 names to the Justice Department, most of whom had already died, according to a Newsweek source. The bank also negotiated to avoid having its U.S. banking and investment licenses revoked. Switzerland has laws against revealing names of clients, which makes it the go-to country for tax evasion. Prosecutors feared if they issues subpoenas, the Swiss government would block them, leading to fines that could result in Credit Suisse's bankruptcy. The Justice Department also never enforced an indictment, concerned about how that would affect the global economy if Credit Suisse were to collapse. Protecting the bank from any real financial distress won out. So Credit Suisse ends up paying a billion dollar fine that will barely affect it, according to CEO Brady Dougan. End of story. For the full story (it's worth the read) head to Newsweek &gt;   FREE AppDownload
Joe Raedle/Getty ImagesThere's a growing concern about inflation heating up in the U.S. And now Goldman Sachs' economists say a major component will keep driving higher. Shelter inflation is set "to rise about 0.25pp to 3.1% year-over-year by later this year, providing a further 0.1pp boost to the core CPI," according to Goldman's David Mericle. Shelter inflation is derived from housing costs based on rent, not price of homes. It has a 40% weight in core CPI and 18% of the core personal consumption expenditure (PCE). The PCE is the preferred measure by the Fed. Mericle expects that "in the near term, lagged home price appreciation and declining labor market slack are likely to put upward pressure on rents." He does expect this to moderate later though as new supply relaxes low vacancy rate. Housing supply in America is tight, which has increasingly been blamed for holding back the housing recovery and providing less of a support to the economy. And it is factoring into a key Fed consideration: inflation. Earlier this week we got the Fed's latest monetary policy decision. One of the key things markets were watching for was language on inflation. The consumer price inflation report out on Tuesday showed that the core inflation rate was accelerating, rising 2% in the recent month. The PCE index was up 1.6% year-over-year, while core PCE — the Fed's favorite measure of inflation — was up 1.4%. This is up significantly from March. Yet, in her press conference Fed chair Janet Yellen downplayed the recent data describing it as noisy. "Fed officials would surely notice a further drift upward in the core CPI, which stands just below 2% year-on-year as of May," writes Mericle. "But the effect of faster rent growth would be smaller in their preferred inflation measure, the PCE price index, where housing receives less weight." For now it seems like housing is still one of the areas adding pressure to inflation. Soon we'll know if it is enough to help the Fed meet its inflation mandate. FREE AppDownload
RadioShack is officially a penny stock. Shares of the electronics retailer are now under $1.00, currently at about $0.92. We've chronicled the troubles facing the company since its latest earnings report here, here, and here.  This what the stock's fall looks like over the last couple days, the last year, and the last decade. Ouch. Google Finance Google Finance Google Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eddie KeoghStocks are mixed on a summer Friday. The Dow is up 28 points, the S&amp;P 500 is up 2 points, and the Nasdaq is flat. The Summer Solstice, longest day of the year in Northern Hemisphere, is tomorrow. The U.S. economic calendar is blank today. In corporate news, Oracle shares are down more than 5% after the company last night reported earnings and revenue that missed expectations. The company, however, thinks its disappointing quarter was actually good news.   Oracle is by for the biggest loser in the S&amp;P 500, and it's definitely weighting on the Nasdaq. Carl Icahn sent a letter to Family Dollar's CEO and demanded that the company be sold immediately. Family Dollar responded, and the fight between the two is officially on.  Gunmaker Smith &amp; Wesson said it expects revenue to decline next year, and shares of the company are getting crushed. Atlantic City mega-casino Revel has filed for bankruptcy for the second time in two years, and was reportedly telling employees it would shut down if it didn't find a buyer. Here's a photo tour of the hotel and casino.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kacper Pempel  Analysts have long warned about a hard landing out of China. It had grown too fast, and falling global demand for Chinese products was going to shove it off a cliff. But seven years after the first signs of financial stress in the global economy, we have not seen anything remotely resembling an economic crash. As Bernstein's Michael Parker and Flora Chang note, the Chinese economy is continuing to tick along at reported levels just shy of the targeted 7.5% GDP growth, even as the country's energy demand has slowed.  "The numbers might be fudged, but just how fudged could they be?" they wrote in a new note. "When you debate for 30 months whether an economy is having a hard or a soft landing, you already have your answer. If it's still not clear after almost three years, it's a soft landing." In fact, if you're looking solely at energy demand, China may have more upside left in it. Parker and Chang produce the chart showing per capita consumption in major countries. China remains way behind:   AllianceBernsteinThe pair argue China will need to get this rate to at least European levels to become a fully developed economy — meaning it may have another 50% primary energy consumption growth per capita to go. "Any discussion of the moderating importance to the Chinese economy of commodities in general, and energy in particular, is therefore premature," they say, "given what an outlier China would be if it were transitioning to a services-based economy at this low level of both energy consumption and steel capital stock."  This is just the industrial section. But what of the country's banking sector, which many analysts believe to be overleveraged? In fact, the Bernstein comments echo something Rob Rennie, Sydney-based WestPac's global head of market strategy, told BI as part of our 10 Things You Need To Know "5 Questions" series: That financial stress, too, has not about to cause a collapse. He gave us a chart showing his firm's index of financial stress, which measures things like corporate bond spreads and volatility. "While the financial press has spent a great deal of time writing about China's 'Lehman moment' we have been surprised by the limited move to price this in various asset markets in China," he said.  WestPacThe IMF recently slashed its growth forecast for China to 7% from 7.3%. But IMF deputy chief David Lipton said that while investors should watch out for a correction in China’s property sector, the longer-term prospects for the industry remain good, David Lipton. Seems like we can rest a bit easier on this. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Jim YoungCarl Icahn last night demanded Family Dollar be put up for sale "immediately."  Family Dollar's response: Thanks, but we've got this. After Icahn initially reported his stake in the discount retailer, Family Dollar adopted a "poison pill" provision, which prevents any one shareholder from acquiring more than 10% of the company.  Now, Family Dollar is going to have to try harder to ward off Icahn. In a statement following Icahn's letter, Family Dollar said the company's board and management is, "committed to acting in the best interest of the company and our shareholders."  Family Dollar added that it is, "always open to constructively communicating with our shareholders with the shared goal of enhancing value." This is boilerplate language, or the kind of neutral legalese you hear when a company is forced to respond to an activist investor.  What Family Dollar is really saying is that it's not just going to sell the company on Icahn's suggestion.  In his letter to Family Dollar, Icahn said that if an agreement to sell the company cannot be reached, he would contact the company's shareholders directly and seek to replace the entire board and install directors that will have a mandate to sell the company. On CNBC this morning, Jim Cramer said Family Dollar is a poorly run company, and that Carl Icahn is right that the company needs a change. Cramer said that usually, when a company is poorly run, the board is supposed to fire the CEO, which hasn't happened at Family Dollar. Carl Icahn hasn't really sought to shake up a company since his calls for eBay to spin off its PayPal unit earlier this year.  It seems Icahn has found his latest target. Shares of Family Dollar are up by 2% today. FREE AppDownload
At Business Insider, we love the monthly Jobs Report.  The Jobs Report is the Super Bowl of economic data releases, because it contains a wealth of information that's of major significance to the market, the Fed, politicians, and the average Joe on the street. That last part is significant. There aren't many data releases that anyone besides market folks care about it. But everyone cares what the unemployment rate is, and whether it's going up or down. But for the time being, we think the Jobs Report has a new rival, in terms of significance, and that's the CPI report. The single biggest question right now in the economy is whether inflation is breaking out for real. That would be a signal that we've kicked into a higher gear and whether the Fed will face pressure to raise rates sooner than later. That's the topic on everyone's mind, and that's the one thing that could get markets nervous. Earlier this week, Core CPI (that is, excluding volatile food and energy prices) had their biggest monthly jump since 2009. FRED That one number caused sizable moves in emerging market currencies and short-term US interest rates, as traders wondered whether it would presage a more hawkish Fed. In the end, the Fed would not be unnerved. On Wednesday, Janet Yellen gave no indication of a more hawkish bent coming to the Fed. But the story hasn't changed. There's growing evidence that inflation is picking up. The latest came yesterday from the Philadelphia Fed manufacturing report, which showed a big jump in the Prices Paid Index for manufacturers (meaning their input costs are rising). This chart from Mike O'Rourke of Jones Trading shows that index against an inflation measure. Jones Trading This is the big question in the economy right now, and so for now, CPI releases shall get elevated to the significance of Jobs Report until the question is answered. FREE AppDownload
~Steve Z~ / FlickrGunmaker Smith &amp; Wesson is down big after last night saying its sales in the upcoming year will decline. In morning trade, shares are down nearly 10%. For its fiscal year 2015, the company said sales are expected to be between $585 million and $600 million. Analysts were expecting sales of more than $620 million. For its just-completed fiscal year, the company reported record sales of $626.6 million.  Smith &amp; Wesson also reported fiscal year profit of $1.49 per share, and said that next year it should earn between $1.30 and $1.40 per share. In the fourth quarter, Smith &amp; Wesson reported profit of $25 million, or $0.44 per share, on revenue of $170.4 million. This is the second straight quarter the stock is having a huge swing after its earnings. In March, shares surged more than 16% after the company's third quarter results beat expectations and the company raised its outlook. Smith &amp; Wesson reiterated on its conference call that longer-term, it plans to grow 8% to 10% and said on the call that it believes the firearms industry is, "in the midst of a long-term and sustainable growth trend." In 2013, total firearm background checks hit a record high, according to data from the FBI.  FREE AppDownload
Christopher Lee / Getty ImagesThe 32 countries competing in the World Cup qualified from a selection process involving 204 national teams, with the exception of hosting nation Brazil – they had a secured spot. “The countries’ combined population covers a sizeable proportion of the global population – approximately 1.9 billion people out of a world population of around 7.3 billion people,” said Amlan Roy, Head of Global Demographics and Pension Research at Credit Suisse. “From an economic point of view, these 32 countries account for a combined gross domestic product (GDP) of $47 trillion.” Credit Suisse’s recent study “World Cup 2014 Countries: Spotlighting Demographics,” analyzes each of the participating countries’ core demographic variables, which play a fundamental role in their economic and financial development. Rich and Poor, Young and Old – And Everything In Between While the fact that each World Cup team gets 11 players a side gives the competing countries an equal chance on the football field, there are stark variations in the nations’ living standards, workers, consumers, education, and health. The countries range from rich to poor, young to old, developed to developing, and hail from seven regions across the globe – Africa, Europe, Middle East, North America, Central America &amp; Caribbean, Oceania and South America. “Demographics has far-reaching and multifaceted implications for growth, fiscal sustainability, asset prices, pensions, urbanization, inequality and youth unemployment,” Roy explained. “People and countries are changing demographically, leading to historically unprecedented challenges to (economic) policies and theories, thus collectively changing societies as a whole.” Life Expectancy There is a 33-year divergence in life expectancies at birth between competing nations Japan, the country with the highest longevity, and Côte d’Ivoire (Ivory Coast), which has the lowest. The life expectancy in Japan currently stands at 83.5 years, followed by 82.5 years in Switzerland and 82.3 years in Italy, compared to 50.5 years in Côte d’Ivoire, 52.3 years in Nigeria and 54.9 years in Cameroon. The Financialist Median Age There is also a large spread in the median age of the 32 countries. The three African countries with the lowest life expectancy – Nigeria, Cameroon and Côte d’Ivoire – are also the youngest nations in the tournament, with median ages of 17.7, 18.5, and 19.1 years respectively, compared to Japan and Italy, which have median ages of 46.5 and 45 years. “This gap of 26 to 29 years in median age is monumental,” Roy said.  Fertility Rates The number of children per woman of childbearing age is the highest in Nigeria, with an average of 6 children per woman, followed by 4.9 children per woman in Côte d’Ivoire and 4.8 children per woman in Cameroon. Bosnia &amp; Herzegovina, Portugal and South Korea have the lowest fertility rates at 1.3 children per woman. This amounts to a fertility rate difference of 4.7 children per woman between the most fertile country and the least. Population Growth  The population growth differential is 3.2 percent per annum among the 32 countries. Once again, three African countries post the fastest annual population growth rate, with Nigeria at 2.8 percent, followed by Cameroon at 2.5 percent and Côte d’Ivoire at 2.3 percent. At the opposite end of the scale, population growth actually declines each year in five developed countries: Croatia (-0.4 percent), Russia (-0.2 percent), Bosnia &amp; Herzegovina, Germany and Japan (-0.1 percent). Net Migration Net migration rates – defined as the number of net migrants per 1,000 residents – show that Switzerland has the highest influx of immigrants at nearly 8 per 1,000 residents, followed by Australia with nearly 7 per 1,000 residents and the U.S. at around 3.5 per 1,000 residents. In contrast, Mexico, Uruguay and Honduras post the largest outflow of their residents, at nearly 2 per 1,000 residents. This amounts to net migration rate differences of nearly 10 per 1,000 residents. “The increasingly globalized world and movement of people across boundaries has led to a changed mix of players representing countries in sports over the last few decades,” Roy explained. “The ethnic mix and the natives versus immigrants that comprise national teams – not just in football, but in all sports – has radically changed. Talented sports people have become more global in terms of both their profile and their market value.” One third of the competing countries at the World Cup have 20 or more of their national squad players playing in foreign leagues. Each national squad is composed of 23 players and a coach. The Financialist  It remains to be seen how the competition will play out on the football pitch. But in the real world, demographics matter enormously to a country’s success. “All of these demographic facts are really about consumers and workers, and are thus of crucial importance to the economic, financial and market development of these countries,” Roy said. FREE AppDownload
For bacon-lovers, this is an all-out food crisis. According to the May consumer price index report from Canada, the price of bacon surged by 9.3% month-over-month, or 20.5% year-over-year. This nugget was unearthed by Bloomberg News' Ilan Kolet. Check out his chart below. Bacon prices have been surging because of supply issues. Earlier this month, the breakout of a pig virus forced the killing of millions of baby pigs. Earlier this week, Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen said that recent data signalling accelerating inflation was "noisy," which suggested she wasn't too worried about it. Of course, the issue of surging bacon prices has more to do with supply issues rather than monetary policy. Nevertheless, if bacon prices keep going up, expect the cries from bacon fans to get louder.   Scariest part of CPI report? Huge spike in price of bacon. #cdnecon #cdnpoli @stephen_tapp @stephenfgordon pic.twitter.com/4lWR93QEv0 FREE AppDownload
We spoke to a bar owner to find out how drink prices are set. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
It’s time to step your business casual attire up a notch. It’s time to dress for business and not for casual. Business casual means something less formal than a suit and tie, not a casual outfit that looks vaguely presentable. So what should you wear? The first part of the business casual wardrobe to sort out is shirts. Go for formal shirts like you would with a suit, though feel free to add more patterns and less formal collar types such as the button down collar. Polo shirts should be avoided at all costs. The shirts can be worn with either an open collar or a less formal tie such as the knitted variety. If going tieless, make you sure you undo the top two buttons of the shirt and avoid showing you undershirt. Buttoning all of the buttons when not wearing a tie can look rather affected and only buttoning one is too uptight and stuffy. The next area is trousers. This is an area to let you personality show, so feel free to inject some colour. Fit is very important, so make sure the trousers just cover your socks and no more. Avoid the temptation to buy suit separates trousers and instead opt for trousers made from cottons and wools. Avoid pleats to keep your look slick and modern. Obviously not every day is warm enough for just a shirt and trousers, so some form of jacket will be required. Maintain your professional image with a well tailored blazer. A business casual wardrobe could get away with just a couple of basic blazers in a grey and a navy. Avoid metal buttons or loud patterns to make them more versatile and therefore more useable. Patch pockets and subtle patterns such as herringbone or a light tweed are a great way to relax the formality. Avoid wearing jackets meant for suits as this will be fairly obviously and look out of place. Shoes are one of the most important areas of the business casual wardrobe. Avoid both ends of the formality spectrum; say no to closed lace black cap toes and avoid trainers and boat shoes. Instead go for suede brogues or chukka boots or a brown leather Chelsea boot. Invest in shoes and expect to spend upwards of $400 per pair, it’s the best style investment you’ll make. Accessories are an afterthought to many but make or break an outfit. With business casual, keep them to a minimum. If you have double cuff shirts, which work fine casually as long as a jacket is worn, cufflinks will be needed. Keep them simple with a solid metal such as Sterling silver. Pocket squares should not be left out and work well with patch pockets. Opt for a patterned silk square that contrasts and adds colour your outfit. Bright and heavily patterned socks are another a great way to add more colour. Finally, don’t forgot about the belt. It should be a similar colour to your shoes but the match does not need to be exact. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amir Cohen The SCF Altai tanker has anchored near Israel's Ashkelon port June 20, 2014. LONDON (Reuters) - Iraqi Kurdistan looked set to unload in Israel a first cargo of disputed crude oil from its new pipeline after weeks of seeking an outlet as Iraq's central government has threatened legal action against any buyer. The SCF Altai tanker was anchored near Israel's Ashkelon port early on Friday morning, ship tracking and industry sources said. The tanker is expected to dock early on Saturday, local sources said. Securing the first sale of oil from its independent pipeline to the Turkish port of Ceyhan is crucial for the Kurdish Regional Government as it seeks greater financial independence from war-torn Iraq. But the new export route to Turkey, built to bypass Baghdad's federal pipeline system, has created a bitter dispute over oil sale rights between the central government and the Kurdish Regional Government (KRG). The United States, Israel's closest ally, does not support independent oil sales by the Kurdish region and has warned possible buyers against accepting the cargoes. Israeli leaders have been alarmed in recent months, however, by signs of a possible rapprochement between Washington and Iran. Officials said Israel was keen to build good ties with the Kurds, hoping to expand its limited diplomatic network in the Middle East and broaden options for energy supplies. It was not clear whether the crude in the SCF Altai has been sold to a local refiner or was slated to discharge into storage, potentially for another destination. “We do not comment on the origin of crude oil being imported by the private refineries in Israel,” an Israeli energy ministry spokeswoman said. REUTERSThe first tanker to carry Kurdish pipeline oil is still homeless after loading in May. After a false start sailing to the United States, the United Leadership tanker turned back towards Morocco, where it is anchored after local authorities refused to let it discharge for the Mohammedia refinery. The SCF Altai did not arrive directly from Ceyhan. The United Emblem was the second tanker to load crude at Ceyhan from the KRG pipeline at the start of last week. It then made a ship-to-ship transfer near Malta to the SCF Altai during June 14-16, local shipping and market sources said and ship tracking showed. Israeli refineries have taken Kurdish crude oil before but in small volumes, which were shipped to Turkish ports by truck. Some oil has also been stored there. The KRG began exporting a small volume of its Taq Taq crude grade by truck to Turkey in early 2013 and then added another grade Shaikan at the start of this year. Israel has less to lose than other U.S. or European refiners, because it has no contract for Iraqi oil. Iraq participates in the boycott of Israel along with many other Arab states. Italy has warned traders and refineries about the legal risks of importing the oil. Large companies with oilfield interests in southern Iraq have stayed clear, although a joint refining venture by Rosneft and BP used a cargo of trucked oil in May. The KRG's pipeline is currently pumping around 120,000 barrels per day to Ceyhan. The region's natural resources minister is aiming to export 400,000 bpd by year-end. Emboldened by its takeover of the major Kirkuk oilfield in northern Iraq, the KRG is also openly talking about the potential of exporting this oil through its pipeline as well after Kirkuk's usual pipeline outlet was sabotaged. (Additional reporting by Crispian Balmer and Steven Scheer in Jerusalem, Amir Cohen in Ashkelon and Ron Bousso in London; editing by Jane Baird) FREE AppDownload
Business Insider / Jillian D'OnfroIt's official: With the release of its new Fire phone on July 25, Amazon.com will enter the crowded world of smartphones. The Fire phone will be sold exclusively through AT&amp;T, and you can pre-order the 32GB version now for $199 with a two-year contract, or $649 without one. On a subsidized basis, that puts it on the same level as the 16GB versions of both Samsung's Galaxy S5 and Apple's iPhone 5s. Extra memory notwithstanding, this is a radical departure from the $0 subsidized price tag nearly everyone expected Amazon to introduce. In addition, there was no talk of a special sponsored data plan through AT&amp;T as many had speculated, so we can't help but wonder why Amazon would tether itself to a single carrier. Then again, it's also not clear exactly how long the Fire phone will remain exclusive to AT&amp;T, so perhaps this is just Amazon's way of testing the waters before it expands distribution. In any case, it's obvious that selling millions of low-margin Kindle tablets wasn't enough, and the Fire phone effectively hurls Amazon even further into the battle with Apple and Samsung for consumers' attention through mobile supremacy. But the move wasn't exactly a huge surprise. Two weeks ago, Amazon teased the Fire phone with invitations to Wednesday's launch event, complete with a video depicting test users' awe struck impressions of the then-unseen device. So what were they gawking at? Here are a few key features which make Amazon's Fire smartphone so special. What's Dynamic Perspective?See those four dots in the Fire phone's corners? They're cameras -- or, to borrow Amazon's words, "ultra-low power specialized cameras." When combined with a dedicated custom processor, sophisticated vision algorithms, a new graphics rendering engine, and four front facing infrared LEDs for nighttime operation, these cameras will usher in a new class of immersive 3-D apps and games. But instead of 3-D, Amazon's calling it Dynamic Perspective. That's fair enough, as the sensor system also enables a number of one-handed controls enabled by tilting or swiveling the Fire phone, including a slick one-handed auto-scroll feature to let you read long web pages or books without ever touching the screen. So why all the cameras and infrared sensors instead of your typical accelerometers? In short, Dynamic Perspective doesn't just respond to the phone's movement, but rather tracks your eyes and face to ensure the picture shifts to continuously provide you with an optimal viewing experience. About those ulterior motives...But Dynamic Perspective also isn't just for show. So what's Amazon's real end-game here? In a word: Shopping. Dynamic Perspective isn't just about games, but has the potential to change online shopping as we know it. To be sure, Amazon simultaneously announced a new Amazon Shopping app for Fire phone, teasing Dynamic Perspective will let you use the app to "peek to see detailed views of clothing, shoes, and more." And that's where another feature called "Firefly" comes in. With the touch of a button, the Fire phone can use Firefly to scan and identify printed phone numbers, web and email addresses, QR and bar codes, and -- this is where it gets really interesting -- can recognize over 100 million other items including movies, TV episodes, songs, and products. Once the item is identified, Firefly enables consumers to take action -- including, calling that printed number, visiting the printed URL without typing the address, or immediately buying said movie, TV show, song, or product right then on Amazon.com. Even better, for a limited time, Amazon is also throwing in a free year of Prime membership for anyone who buys the Fire phone -- whether or not you're already a Prime subscriber. And why not? With the temptation of free 2-day shipping at your fingertips for millions of items, it'll go a long way toward pushing buyers over the edge. Foolish takeawaySo how big could this be? SunTrust analyst Robert Peck already weighed in to say this could add as much as $2 billion to Amazon's top line. Now that's a very rough estimate at this point, assuming roughly 2.7 million Fire phones sold primarily to existing Prime members, with each new customer buying around 10 items per year at $50 each. Whether a significant number of non-Prime members bite on the offer remains to be seen. But even if they don't, selling into it's existing Prime user base should still provide a significant boost to Amazon's top-line, and help it steal even more market share from struggling brick-and-mortar competitors in the retail space. In the end, that's why I think Amazon shareholders have every reason to rejoice over their company's new smartphone ambitions. FREE AppDownload
BII The outlines of an iPhone-centered mobile payment system are beginning to emerge. There are plenty of reasons why Apple could be successful in payments — starting with their 800 million iTunes customer accounts, most of them already associated with a credit card number (see chart, above) — but the expected iPhone 6 launch late this summer or autumn has created expectations of new payments-related phone features.  At BI Intelligence, Business Insider's subscription research service, we published a research note on where Apple is with mobile payments, and where we think it's headed. The full note and data is only available to BI Intelligence members.  WE BELIEVE APPLE'S MOBILE PAYMENTS SYSTEM WILL REST ON THREE BASIC COMPONENTS:  This system would be easy to use, relatively simple for merchants to adopt, and secure. All the ingredients are in place, but technical and other important barriers to adoption remain. It is still an open question too whether consumers will be ready for a truly frictionless experience that dispenses with the checkout altogether. BII FREE AppDownload
"Yo" is a gloriously simple app for the iPhone and Android for sending one-word messages to friends, family and strangers. It's stupid, fun and mildly compulsive. But there's more to each "Yo" than meets the eye. Here are the 30 types of Yo, because context is everything. The one everyone starts out with, because you have no Yoing friends until someone sends that all important first Yo. Or no one you know is silly enough to be using Yo. Something that might actually be useful. If you Yo "WorldCup" it will then Yo you each time a goal is scored in the World Cup in Brazil, even if goalline technology has some people confused. Sometimes more than a ping is too much, a single "Yo, dinner is ready," is enough. Because at first it just starts as a fun random thing, but before you know it random turns into spam. Because. Onesie. It's the equivalent of poking someone on Facebook, if anyone still does that, or pinging someone on chat. I'm bored, talk to me. And suddenly Yo is dead to you. Some people just don't want to conform to the system. Why send a drunk text when a Yo will do? When you haven't heard anything from your bestie, but just want to make sure they're not face down in a canal somewhere. Essentially short for "How you doin'?" When that's just not right. Because it's fun to be a seven year old again. Replying to random Yos is ok. Because anything can be turned into a trolling mechanism on the internet. It hasn't happen, yet. Also applicable for the condolences, Yo. Because it's easy to accidentally hit the Yo button. When someone is saying something in hushed tones, or in an obscure manner on the internet, Yo-tell-me-what's-happening. For when typing characters is just too much effort, but you must make contact. For when your team just got knocked out of the World Cup. Because you don't know who might be on the other end of that Yo. It could be Boris Johnson or even Wayne Rooney. Because sorry is the hardest word to say. For those that sleep past their alarms. For when you've done something you probably shouldn't. Because you can't blink in a Yo-off. When someone really cheeses you off, but it's an office and you can't swear, even via text. It will probably happen soon. Because you are that kind of person. Because that's how much funding the Yo app really got. • Angry cab drivers block the streets over the Uber taxi app This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Turkey Is the Big Winner Following the Crisis in Ukraine Russia’s annexation of the Crimean Peninsula and the possibility of further action taken in Ukraine and other former Soviet Bloc nations have led many investors to wonder, understandably so, what impact the crisis has had on investment opportunities in Eastern Europe. To unravel these concerns and more, U.S. Global’s Director of Research John Derrick caught up with Gavin Graham of VoiceAmerica’s “Emerging and Frontier Markets Investing” program. Below you can read some of the interview highlights, in which John speculates on who were the winners and losers in the aftermath of the Russia-Ukraine conflict. He also touches briefly on the violence that has recently erupted in Iraqi Kurdistan and what effect it might have on neighboring Turkey. Which European countries have the greatest potential and have benefited the most from what’s been happening? US FundsI think Poland’s been a beneficiary. It’s used as a safe haven in the region: stable economy, stable political environment. It’s benefited from the European recovery and doesn’t have that much trade with Russia. I think Turkey has benefited, more from a money flow standpoint. If you were worried about what was going on in Russia and some of the longer-term implications, I think money flowed into places like Turkey. Money also flowed into places like Greece because a lot of the international investors tend to be regional investors, and within that region, there are shift allocations into places like Turkey, which has been a very strong performer this year. Part of that money is coming out of Russia. That’s a very fair point because, as you say, if you’re running a dedicated Eastern European fund, Russia’s been overwhelmingly the largest weight within it, though a fair number of people were underweight even before Crimea because of concerns about governance and the like. Nonetheless, where are you going to go? Turkey is obviously a major market. Some of the reasons you like it include the demographics as well as the government’s pro-business attitude. Exactly. If you just take a step back and look at the long-term secular growth, the demographics are very positive. There’s an entrepreneurial culture in Turkey: good government policies generally speaking toward business development, toward foreign investors. Basically business can get done, businesses can be created, and all those kinds of things that most Americans can relate to. It’s still an emerging market country, and they’ll do things that you’ll look at and scratch your head, like banning Twitter or Facebook. But the political situation has definitely calmed down, and so I think the long-term secular story for Turkey is probably the best long-term secular story in the region. That’s what you want to hitch your wagon to over the long run. Now I know that maybe one or two eyebrows will have been raised by you mentioning that Greece has been seen as a safe haven, but you are very right and very early in picking Greece as a market that had some very positive changes taking place. Do you want to just briefly recap where we are now?  Six years into a recession, Greece is finally starting to see the light at the end of the tunnel. They’ve made some significant structural changes. Essentially the banking system has been consolidated down. There are now four major players there. All in the last month, they actually have recapitalized, raised money. That put some pressure on the Greek market and banks over the last month or so, and it puts them on a much firmer footing. The banking system can function more properly, and you can actually start seeing real growth. The European Central Bank (ECB) has been very supportive. The ECB announced a TARP-like program where you can get long-term funding—essentially a four-year repo currently at 25 basis points. That’s going to be positive for peripheral banks in general whether it’s Greece or Spain or Italy. They’ve also talked about doing a securitization program where you get some kind of quantitative easing. All those kinds of incremental things are very positive for Greece. After six years of recession, they’re finally starting to come out of it. It’s just like a natural cycle. It doesn’t stay bad forever. That’s going to continue for the next 12 to 18 months. Which is about as long as one can look ahead, especially with exciting things like the Ukrainian crisis happening. Briefly, in terms of those countries, which don’t look as attractive? Presumably the Baltic republics, which are seen as being more vulnerable, given what happened with Crimea and Ukraine? Definitely. There’s concern there that Russian expansionism is going to continue. Will NATO really defend those countries if Russia tries to re-exert its influence in those regions? I think those have been areas that have been hurt by the crisis because they’re viewed as the next dominoes, if you will. Obviously those are not big markets and have limited investment opportunities, but definitely I think they’ve been negatively impacted. People aren’t really sure what the Russians’ ultimate goals are here, what they’re really trying to accomplish: are they done, or are they trying to recreate the Soviet Union? Just to finish up, in terms of talking about military action, you were mentioning earlier about what’s been happening in Iraq where an al-Qaeda-linked group has taken over the second major city, Mosul, in Iraq and led to hundreds of its inhabitants fleeing. Maybe that’s going to have some effect on next-door neighbor Turkey?  The Turkish market is down about 3 percent today, and currency’s down 1 percent or so. Obviously it sounds like the situation in Iraq is deteriorating pretty rapidly. That’s a pretty significant development. It just raises a lot of questions about what’s happening there and what’s going to be the impact for Turkey. There’s a fair amount of trade that goes across there—oil pipelines that they’ve finally got up and running, particularly in the north in the Kurdistan region, sending oil to Turkey. There’s still some controversy about who’s going to buy it because they don’t have an agreement with the central government. Nevertheless, there’s oil and gas and all those kinds of things that are good for Turkey in the long run. I look at today’s developments as probably likely a buying opportunity in Turkey. Indeed, having reduced our exposure in Russia following the events in Ukraine, our Emerging Europe Fund (EUROX) now invests the largest percentage of its assets in Turkey (24.29 percent), followed by Poland (14.75 percent) and Greece (11.80 percent). You can listen to John’s entire interview on the VoiceAmerica website, starting 18 minutes into the program.   Please consider carefully a fund’s investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses. For this and other important information, obtain a fund prospectus by visiting www.usfunds.com or by calling 1-800-US-FUNDS (1-800-873-8637). Read it carefully before investing. Distributed by U.S. Global Brokerage, Inc.  All opinions expressed and data provided are subject to change without notice. Some of these opinions may not be appropriate to every investor. By clicking the link(s) above, you will be directed to a third-party website(s). U.S. Global Investors does not endorse all information supplied by this/these website(s) and is not responsible for its/their content. Foreign and emerging market investing involves special risks such as currency fluctuation and less public disclosure, as well as economic and political risk. By investing in a specific geographic region, a regional fund’s returns and share price may be more volatile than those of a less concentrated portfolio. The Emerging Europe Fund invests more than 25% of its investments in companies principally engaged in the oil &amp; gas or banking industries. The risk of concentrating investments in this group of industries will make the fund more susceptible to risk in these industries than funds which do not concentrate their investments in an industry and may make the fund’s performance more volatile. BRIC refers to the emerging market countries Brazil, Russia, India and China.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Valentyn OgirenkoAn environmental activist takes part in a rally demanding deputies of parliament to pass laws protecting ecology outside the parliament building in Kiev June 19, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Record Highs. Thursday's extremely modest 2.5-point gain in the S&amp;P 500 pushed the index to an all-time high close. The MSCI index of world shares is just off its record high. And all of this comes amid heightened turmoil in Iraq, which has triggered a rally in oil prices. "The goldilocks scenario of low rates and a slowly improving economy continues, with markets unmoved by continued geopolitical concerns," said CMC Markets' Michael Hewson. Today, World Markets Are Meh. Markets are basically flat going into the weekend. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.3%, France's CAC 40 is flat, Germany's DAX is up 0.2%, Spain's IBEX is down 0.2%, and Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.5%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed down 0.1%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 0.1%, and Australia's S&amp;P/ASX closed down 0.9%. U.S. futures are modestly in the red. Oracle Misses. Shares of Oracle are down 6% in pre-market trading after a disappointing quarterly earnings announcement. In fiscal Q4, the software company booked adjusted EPS of 92 cents and revenue of $11.3 billion.  Analysts were expecting 95 cents per share on $11.48 billion in revenue.  Carl Icahn Wants Family Dollar To Sell. In a letter disclosed in a new SEC filing, activist investor Carl Icahn is urging Family Dollar to put itself up for sale. "[I]t is imperative that Family Dollar be put up for sale immediately," he wrote. "[A]n overwhelming majority of the company’s shareholders would be in favor of a sale." The stock is up 2.5% in pre-market trading. Smith &amp; Wesson Misses. Shares of Smith &amp; Wesson are down by 11% in pre-market trading after the company issued disappointing guidance in its latest earnings announcement. Management expects to earn between $1.30 and $1.40 per share in fiscal 2015, which is well below the $1.50 expected by analysts. Sales guidance of $585 million to $600 million was weaker than the $621 million expected. Siemens-Mitsubishi Raises Their Offer. Siemens-Mitsubishi and General Electric have been playing leapfrog in their efforts to buy out the energy business of French conglomerate Alstom. "Responding to a new GE bid on Thursday aimed at appeasing French political concerns, Siemens-MHI simplified the structure of its offer and raised its cash component by 1.2 billion euros ($1.64 billion) to 8.2 billion," reported Reuters' Mark John and Maria Sheahan. Revel's Second Bankruptcy Filing. Revel, the extremely ambitious $2.6 billion Atlantic City casino, has filed for bankruptcy again.  "In warning letters given to employees and obtained by The Associated Press, Revel said it is seeking a buyer for the struggling $2.4 billion casino, but can't guarantee one will be found," AP's Wayne Perry. "If not, employees could be terminated as soon as Aug. 18, Revel said in the letter." No data. Unfortunately for those who love economic news, there's no major data scheduled for release today. Yellen Torpedoed Volatility With One Word. Investors, traders, and economists have been worried that some of the recent economic data would encourage the Federal Reserve to tighten monetary policy sooner than later. But during her Q&amp;A on Wednesday, Fed Chair Janet Yellen said the recent data was "noisy," a characterization that Morgan Stanley's Matthew Hornbach called "biggest surprise of the FOMC press conference." Here's Hornbach: "The Fed’s characterization of recent inflation readings as “noisy” and the preponderance of evidence to the contrary leave us feeling as if the Fed is likely to dismiss most economic data deviations from slower-moving trend processes. Under the “dismissive” framework, implied market volatility should increase less for a given economic surprise than under our previous framework – a “reactive” framework based on the idea that the Fed would be more data dependent." Brian Moynihan Is Pulling A Jamie Dimon. "Representatives of Bank of America Corp have asked U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to meet with Moynihan, its chief executive officer, in an attempt to resolve differences over a possible multibillion-dollar settlement involving shoddy mortgage securities sold by the second-largest U.S. bank and its units, according to people familiar with the negotiations," report Reuters' Karen Freifeld and Aruna Viswanatha. "Dimon, the CEO of JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, took a much-ballyhooed trip to Washington in September to meet with Holder in an effort to close a deal that would allow the largest U.S. bank by assets to put its mortgage securities problems behind it." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBank of America Chief Executive Brian Moynihan looks on during an interview in Hong KongNEW YORK/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Brian Moynihan may be taking a play out of Jamie Dimon’s book. Representatives of Bank of America Corp have asked U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to meet with Moynihan, its chief executive officer, in an attempt to resolve differences over a possible multibillion-dollar settlement involving shoddy mortgage securities sold by the second-largest U.S. bank and its units, according to people familiar with the negotiations. Negotiators for Bank of America and the Justice Department have not met in more than a week and have no plans to do so after a flurry of meetings did not bring them close to a settlement amount, sources said. Bank of America spokesman Lawrence Grayson and Justice Department spokeswoman Dena Iverson declined to comment. Dimon, the CEO of JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, took a much-ballyhooed trip to Washington in September to meet with Holder in an effort to close a deal that would allow the largest U.S. bank by assets to put its mortgage securities problems behind it. In November, the two sides reached a $13 billion accord that Holder has said he planned to use as a template for other banks. The meeting between JPMorgan’s top executive and the nation’s top law enforcement official was viewed as unusual at the time. Most such settlements are negotiated between a company's lawyers and other Justice Department officials. Associate Attorney General Tony West, the No. 3 person at the agency, has been leading negotiations with Bank of America and other banks over similar investigations. The Department of Justice has not yet responded to Bank of America about the possibility of the meeting, sources said. The bank requested the meeting late last week, the people said. The settlement is intended to resolve several investigations into the bank's packaging of risky mortgages into securities. One probe involves Merrill Lynch, which Bank of America agreed to acquire at the height of the 2008 financial crisis. Mortgage securities helped fuel the housing boom in the mid-2000s and plummeted in value at the onset of the downturn, causing hundreds of billions of dollars in losses. Sources said the Justice Department's silence about a meeting between Moynihan and Holder suggested Bank of America's request was premature. Bank of America has discussed paying about $12 billion, including more than $5 billion to help struggling homeowners, to resolve a range of federal and state probes, primarily into whether the company and its units defrauded mortgage bond investors in the run-up to the financial crisis, people familiar with the matter said. The Justice Department suggested a $17 billion settlement in the latest round of negotiations and did not view Bank of America's offer as a serious one, one source said last week. One sticking point is what the mix of fines and relief will be, sources said. Bank of America wants more consumer relief, they said. Another issue is whether to include the bank's March settlement with the U.S. Federal Housing Finance Agency in the calculation, one person said. Bank of America paid the FHFA $6.3 billion to resolve claims similar to those made by the Justice Department. JPMorgan's $13 billion deal included a $4 billion payment to the FHFA. Another point of controversy for Bank of America is the extent to which it should be punished for Merrill's actions, sources said. JPMorgan had the same concerns about Bear Stearns, which it acquired in 2008. The Bank of America talks are being driven by a lawsuit that the U.S. Attorney's office in New Jersey is drafting against Merrill, sources said. The Justice Department had also threatened to sue JPMorgan days before Dimon's trip to Washington. The cases follow President Barack Obama's 2012 pledge to hold banks accountable for their role in the housing crisis after authorities faced criticism for little high-profile action. In recent months, banks and their lawyers have become increasingly alarmed at the upward trajectory of financial penalties from U.S. authorities in a range of cases. Executives and their allies have gotten involved in negotiations to try to reduce the penalties. Jean-Laurent Bonnafe, CEO of BNP Paribas SA, and the French bank's lawyers met in early May with New York regulators and requested leniency in settlement talks over alleged sanctions violations, a source said earlier this month. Negotiations are continuing.   (Reporting by Karen Freifeld in New York and Aruna Viswanatha in Washington; Editing by Karey Van Hall and Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingNouriel Roubini“You can’t tell the players without a program. Get your program here!” yelled the stadium vendors of my youth. In today’s Outside the Box I bring you an excellent piece of Fed watching by Nouriel Roubini and colleagues, a “program” of the new Fed members and where they rank on the hawk-dove scale. They point out that, with a new chairperson (Janet Yellen) and vice-chair (Stanley Fischer), and with higher than normal turnover on the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) – over the past year, 75% of the FOMC’s membership has changed – the Fed’s need for clear communications with regard to monetary policy and forward guidance is greater than ever. And it’s not as though the Fed has wielded its powerful communication tool with perfect aplomb in recent years. Last year at about this time, you’ll recall, we were in the midst of a frightful hullabaloo when the Fed threatened to release upon the world the Dread Taper … and then changed its mind. And then this past March, just as everybody was learning to live with the Taper, Yellen went to the mike and attempted to explain the Fed’s statement that the federal funds rate would remain near zero for a “considerable time” after QE ended. That meant interest-rate hikes could happen “in about six months,” she allowed – and all hell broke loose. Again. And then there’s this whole business of FOMC members speaking out of school. We didn’t see much of that during Greenspan’s reign, which our authors characterize as being “close to an absolute monarchy,” but Bernanke took things in the direction of a collegial democracy – and paid a price for being nice. Yellen is similarly inclined – indeed, as our authors note, she has been at pains to ensure that her expressed views are close to those of the FOMC majority (which is decidedly dovish, yet not so dovish as Janet herself). So we may be treated to further instances of regional Fed presidents popping their heads up here and there around to the country to share their innermost feelings in the wake of official FOMC statements. I think you’ll agree that the following piece brings us up to speed about as painlessly as possible on all things FOMC – I enjoyed it, and I think you will too. I have spent the last three days with Christian Menegatti, the managing director of Nouriel’s research firm. We have been in nonstop meetings and presentations (and dinners!) with a wide variety of businessmen, bankers, hedge fund managers, central bankers, government officials and ministers (even an off-the-record talk with a person from the Vatican Bank). Quite the whirlwind. I will readily admit that I’m surprised at what I have learned. I brought the expectations from my reading and my previous numerous trips to Italy, but I found out that things are now different here for the first time in a VERY long time. This week’s letter, which I will write in Dallas on Friday, will give you the details. For what it’s worth, Christian, who grew up in Italy but has been in New York for the last 14 years (or so), was also surprised. We spent a lot of time animatedly discussing what we learned and what it means for Europe and the world. You’ll want to read this one. I spent nine hours on Sunday on a very aggressive walking tour of Rome. John Noronha is perhaps the most knowledgeable and enthusiastic guide I have ever had on any tour anywhere. He is a polymath with multiple technical and artistic and theological degrees, and he seemingly remembers everything he has ever read. In the process of seeing the major tour sites, we stopped at this or that church that happened to be “on the way” and that had a Raphael or a Caravaggio or two or three. The art I saw on the day was better than in all but a few museums I have ever visited. Billions of dollars’ worth of art and no guards. I was actually allowed to touch a Michelangelo sculpture (what museum will allow you to do that?), and I swear you could feel the bones and ligaments underneath the marble. I mean I could feel details that my eyes could not see. I was in awe for the rest of the trip. We must have toured nine churches (“We simply have to stop to see this one!”) and John knew every artifact in each of them. At a few points I actually tried to stump him with a question about some arcane object, but he assumed I was truly interested and launched into detail about the history of object after object. As good as he was, he could not organize the weather, and the rain came down in sheets at the Coliseum. But the double rainbow after was a perfect end to an exhausting but memorable day. (I think John doubles as a personal trainer.) If you are ever in Rome, you should get him to be your guide and make him bring his wife to dinner. She teaches communications at the Vatican. You can contact him at www.johnandashley.org. And for those who asked, the website of the villa where we stayed in Tuscany is  http://www.ifiordalisi.com/ . It was my fourth time to go there and spend a few weeks. It is a perfect base to tour Tuscany and the surrounding regions. It is time to hit the send button. My flight back to Dallas will leave from Rome in a bit. Have a great week! Your going to miss the food analyst, John Mauldin, Editor Outside the Boxsubscribers@mauldineconomics.com   Stay Ahead of the Latest Tech News and Investing Trends... Click here to sign up for Patrick Cox’s free daily tech news digest. Each day, you get the three tech news stories with the biggest potential impact. By Nouriel Roubini, Sheryl King and Prajakta Bhide Roubini Global Economics May 29, 2014  In the post-Evans rule era, the Fed’s policy approach has returned to a more discretionary one, with no clear explicit or implicit policy reaction function upon which markets can draw. In recent years, the Fed’s communication strategy has been anchored by QE. But with QE set to end by Q4 2014, the Fed will no longer possess this quantitative policy tool. Until such time as the Fed decides to take a policy measure again (mostly likely to be a hike in the policy rate), the policy stance will be one of watchful inaction, with the Fed and policy-watchers scanning the incoming economic data for signs that higher policy rates are warranted. In this vacuum, the Fed will rely heavily on communication, enhanced perhaps by a reverse repo facility and/or a term deposit facility intended to keep short-term interest rates anchored. With so much riding on communication, the potential costs of miscommunication are that much higher. (The turmoil in financial markets last summer – when the Fed botched the taper signal, sparking a “taper tantrum” – is a clear example of said costs.) Once the first policy rate hike occurs (perhaps sooner), the Fed will have to communicate to the markets what its likely policy reaction function will be with regard to the speed and pace of policy rate normalization. In this context, the substantial churn in the composition of the FOMC of late merits close attention. Over the past year, 75% of the FOMC’s membership has changed – more than twice the normal rate. With so many new faces joining the committee, delivering clear policy and forward guidance will prove tricky – especially as the Fed exits QE and looks toward policy rate normalization. Fed Chair Yellen expressed it best when she said that effective forward guidance “...depends critically on [the Fed’s] ability to shape expectations of the future, specifically by helping the public understand how it intends to conduct policy over time, and what the likely implications of those actions will be for economic conditions.” Delivering the message in a clear and consistent manner is always difficult for monetary policy makers. With a constantly changing roster of decision makers and varied views on how monetary policy should be conducted to achieve policy goals, the message becomes all the more muddled. At least four FOMC voting members, the Fed bank presidents, rotate on and off the board of governors every year, and governors on the Fed board rarely serve a full 14-year term, meaning that even in normal years the FOMC is susceptible to criticism regarding muddled messages. The rate of FOMC-member turnover has been particularly high over the past year, which has seen the departure of three board members (Chairman Ben Bernanke, Sarah Raskin and Elisabeth Duke) and Governor Jeremy Stein, along with the retirement of Cleveland Fed President Sandra Pianalto at the end of May. As a result, three seats on the committee have changed in the past year, on top of the normal rotation of four of 12 Fed bank presidents per year. The rotation in Fed presidents does not present too much uncertainty: Even non-voting members speak to the public regularly, so their views on the economy, markets and monetary policy are well known. However, the views of the other new FOMC members are much less familiar. There are two important factors to consider: First, the individual views of the new and prospective FOMC members, which could tilt the FOMC in a more hawkish or dovish direction; second, the new rotation’s potential influence on the FOMC’s decision-making core, led by Yellen. The question of who will succeed the departing FOMC members is only partly settled. Loretta Mester, a long-time staffer (head of research and chief policy advisor to Charles Plosser) at the Philadelphia Fed, takes the helm of the Cleveland Fed in June; and former Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer has been confirmed by the Senate to become Board vice-chairman. Lael Brainard, the under-secretary for international affairs at the U.S. Treasury and a former senior member of the National Economic Council, is a nominee for governor. She has yet to be confirmed, but is expected to be sometime in June. Two more members of the board need to be nominated and confirmed to fill up the body’s seven positions. The Obama administration is likely to choose relative doves – i.e., policy makers who care about both inflation and growth/unemployment and would likely vote in similar ways to the FOMC’s current dovish members. Among the names floated as probable candidates for the board are several distinguished academics: Christina Romer and Alan Krueger (former heads of the Council of Economic Advisors, or CEA, in the first Obama administration) and Janice Eberly (formerly an official at the U.S. Treasury). One of the two open board slots is likely to go to a community banker; Yellen has expressed support for this idea, which is popular in Congress. Traditionally, community bankers are dovish, and they tend to agree with the views of the rest of the board members. Starting this year, the profile of regional Fed presidents on the FOMC has become less dovish – three new relative “hawks” are in: Charles Plosser from the Philly Fed, Richard Fisher from the Dallas Fed and the new Cleveland Fed head Loretta Mester, who used to be Plosser’s policy advisor at the Philly Fed; only one hawk is out, namely Esther George from the Kansas City Fed. So, the mean FOMC voter is now more hawkish than in 2013. The new vice chairman, Stanley Fischer, was responsible for some of the earliest work on activist monetary policy. While leading the Bank of Israel (BI), he aggressively lowered policy rates in early 2008 as the credit markets went into meltdown and then had to reverse course soon after with higher rates and massive currency intervention as the shekel surged in response to the ensuing rapid economic recovery. Fischer is uncontroversial when it comes to his views on the U.S. economy, which are mainstream. It is his skeptical views on the effectiveness of forward guidance that set him apart, introducing a note of uncertainty into the FOMC. He contends that forward guidance is not credible when the central bank cannot effectively predict the future, and therefore a commitment to keep policy rates low for longer is not very credible if it diverges from the policy reaction function of the central bank. For that reason, Fischer has argued that providing guidance gives the central bank less flexibility when some state-contingent discretion is necessary. Fischer downplayed these views before the Senate Banking Committee, but they could very well remain valid in his mind. He is of the view that the Fed may have over-communicated its policy intentions to the markets, a potentially counter-productive effort that may have made investors too reliant on Fed signaling. As Yellen is still a strong proponent of forward guidance and transparent communication, FOMC meetings could prove lively as Yellen and Fischer have differing views about forward guidance. At worst, any public comments Fischer may make on the subject could be seen as signaling friction within the FOMC. Ultimately, however, we believe Yellen’s views will mostly prevail, but Fed communication and forward guidance may become less explicit and direct. Brainard’s views on monetary policy are essentially unknown beyond her circumspect opening statement on the subject during her appearance before the Senate Banking Committee. However, her work on poverty and income disparity at the Brookings Institution suggests that she tilts toward dovishness and is generally sympathetic to interventionist policies. Her stint as under-secretary for international affairs at the U.S. Treasury indicates that she will bring a wealth of experience on global economic and market issues. Mester: Possibly Hawkish Like Plosser The monetary policy views of the new Cleveland Fed president, Loretta Mester, are also little known, but we believe they are skewed toward the hawkish end of the spectrum. Since Mester retained her role under Plosser, the hawkish Philly Fed president, it seems likely that her views align with his. Her speeches on the economic outlook have not strayed far from the central tendency of Fed forecasts, but a speech she gave last year reveals some reservations about forward guidance and macroprudential policy tools. Mester pointed out that forward guidance may not work in practice since in the real world there is no perfect commitment (a view shared by Fischer), although she acknowledged that QE played a role in helping to bolster the Fed’s future commitments. She is even less convinced that monetary policy has a role to play in financial stability, as it is difficult to see a bubble forming in advance. She argues that macroprudential tools are in their infancy and it is difficult to calibrate the magnitude of policy needed to assure financial stability. Finally, Mester discussed the Fed’s independence, pointing out that in the future, the central bank may face political pressure to remain in accommodative mode; she also touched on the political implications of a sensitive potential scenario in which the Fed is paying interest on excess reserves to banks while making zero or net negative remittances to the Treasury from its balance sheet. Nonetheless, having attended most FOMC meetings in her prior role as head of research at the Philly Fed, Mester is well acquainted with the committee’s inner workings. Under Alan Greenspan, the FOMC was close to an absolute monarchy as the views of the chairman were dominant and accepted by the rest of the committee. Under Ben Bernanke, the FOMC became a cross between a constitutional monarchy and a collegial democracy, as the chairman had to work hard to ensure that his views were shared by the majority of the FOMC. That required a constant dialogue between the chairman and the rest of the Board to ensure that a majority of the FOMC would agree with the chairman’s views. Bernanke was frustrated by the cacophony of views expressed by FOMC members – voting and otherwise – and he instituted press conferences in part to ensure that investors were clearly aware of the FOMC’s central view, despite the noise coming from speeches and public comments made by individual FOMC members. Close interactions between board members at least ensured some coherence of views within this group, but, even with the press conferences, the Fed cacophony never stopped as regional Fed presidents continued to express publicly views that differed from the FOMC median. Under Yellen, the Fed will remain as much of a constitutional monarchy (or possibly even a collegial democracy) as it became under Bernanke. Yellen has a collegial personality and approach and will work hard to ensure that she takes views close to those of the rest of the FOMC. For example, she has previously expressed sympathy for the idea of optimal control – i.e., allowing inflation to increase above the Fed’s 2% target to allow the unemployment rate to fall below the non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment (NAIRU) for a while, thus allowing a faster reduction of labor-market slack generated by years of low employment. But the idea of optimal control never garnered a majority within the FOMC, as there is a risk that once inflation rises above target, inflation expectations would become unhinged. Thus, as Fed chair, Yellen has already stopped supporting optimal control, a shift in stance from her days as vice-chair. She also aligned herself with the rest of the FOMC in December – before becoming chair – by supporting the start of QE tapering. The Fed chair still wields significant power and is likely to have a board that remains relatively dovish: indeed, under Bernanke, the board became more dovish over time and moved closer to Yellen’s views. In spite of all the changes, the voting FOMC still has a majority of relative doves (Daniel Tarullo, Jerome Powell, William Dudley and Narayana Kocherlakota, as well as Fischer and Brainard when confirmed) who will align with Yellen’s views on the economy. Once the two additional board vacancies are filled by Congress, this dovish majority will be reinforced. In her April 16 speech to the Economic Club of New York, Yellen offered a detailed explanation of the central bank’s current thinking on forward guidance and policy rules, and set the groundwork for a coherent forward guidance message. Coming after her remark about a six-month lag between the end of QE and the start of rate hikes, Yellen’s speech was a form of corrective action, highlighting the high degree of labor-market slack and the weak inflation outlook; the market correctly interpreted these signals as dovish with respect to policy rates. With markets and investors now focusing on the date of the first rate increase – as the tapering schedule is on track to be completed by October – the key issue for the Fed will be to communicate to markets which rule will be followed regarding the pace and end point of policy normalization once rate normalization begins. With regard to the end point, the neutral long-term fed funds rate will be closer to 4% than the higher levels (5.25% and 6.5%) seen during the last two cycles. A 4% neutral fed funds rate is consistent with a 2% inflation target and a 2% real fed funds rate. Historically, the equilibrium real fed funds rate was higher (closer to 2.5-3%), but Fed officials have made several arguments for why the equilibrium real short rate is now closer to 2% – if not lower. As recently argued by New York Fed President William Dudley, there are three reasons for a lower equilibrium real fed funds rate. First, economic headwinds seem likely to persist for several more years. Second, slower growth of the labor force and moderate productivity growth imply a lower potential real GDP growth rate, which implies lower real equilibrium interest rates even once all current headwinds have fully dissipated. Third, changes in bank regulation may also imply a somewhat lower long-term equilibrium rate. Higher capital requirements for banks imply somewhat wider intermediation margins, which is likely to push down the long-term equilibrium federal funds rate somewhat. Some very dovish FOMC members may believe that the equilibrium fed funds rate may be even lower than 4% (a view that is currently priced in by financial markets), while some more hawkish members believe that an equilibrium rate closer to the historical average of 4.5% is more warranted. This dispersion of views is clear from the forecasts contained in the FOMC’s Summary of Economic Projections (SEP). But for the median FOMC voter, the new neutral rate is 4%, so it seems likely that this will be the neutral rate. How fast will the Fed get to 4% and with which policy rule? The median FOMC voter sees the fed funds rate at 1% by the end of 2015 and 2.25% by the end of 2016, only reaching the neutral level of 4% toward the end of 2018. This is an extremely slow pace of policy normalization, a process that would last about 3.5 years from start to finish, assuming normalization does not begin until mid-2015. In the 2004-06 normalization cycle, the rate went from 1% to 5.25% in just two years. The need to use aggressive forward guidance – low for longer relative to even a modified Taylor rule – to make these SEP projections credible to markets is obvious: Since the median FOMC voter forecasts that the unemployment rate will be close to NAIRU by the end of 2016 and that inflation will be close to its 2% target at that time, a fed funds rate of 2.25% by the end of 2016 implies that the real fed funds rate will still be close to or barely above 0%, despite the economy being close to full employment and inflation being close to target. In normal times, such a scenario would have justified a real fed funds rate closer to 1% and therefore a nominal fed funds rate that is closer to 3% than 2.25%. And indeed, some analysts and market participants believe that the Fed will normalize faster than the SEP dots (individual participant’s forecasts) predict, with the fed funds rate close to 3% by the end of 2016. This is why Fed communication and forward guidance are key. If those within the FOMC who are skeptical of forward guidance (such as Fischer and the hawks) were to have the upper hand, it is likely that markets would start pricing in a more rapid policy rate normalization – closer to 3% by the end of 2016 and closer to the neutral rate of 4% by the end of 2017. If instead, the dovish view were to prevail, it would be critical for the Fed to defend the credibility of its “lower for longer” message. Those skeptical of forward guidance would most likely prefer the Fed to communicate to markets a policy rule closer to a Taylor rule with some discretion, rather than a policy rule based on strong forward guidance. Therefore, the key issue ahead will be whether Yellen can convince the rest of the FOMC to maintain the “lower for longer” forward guidance approach. While the median FOMC voter currently adheres to the Yellen view, the situation may change for several reasons: Therefore, for the FOMC to make its multi-indicator-based forward guidance approach work, we believe that the members will need to follow Yellen’s lead and make a stronger and more cohesive effort to communicate the FOMC’s policies and views on the economy. If Yellen continues to communicate in this manner, and is able to rally the overall signaling of the Fed’s stance around her views, then the Fed may be able to temper the headwinds generated by the current absence of a more explicit policy framework. If not, we would be concerned that a somewhat less dovish FOMC membership may have an impact on the market’s perception of the timing and speed of the Fed’s policy normalization and the degree to which the Fed will continue with forward guidance in the future. Certainly, the Fed is now in the middle of a serious debate on the nature of its policy reaction function once policy rates start to rise above 0%. The result of this debate will be key to assessing whether the pace of policy normalization currently priced in by markets – that is, close to the Fed’s SEP dots – is correct or not. Although the market will have to adjust to a number of new Fed officials over the next year, the FOMC’s 2014 and 2015 cohorts contain a number of familiar figures. Below is a summary of their current views on how monetary policy should evolve over the next few years. New York Fed President William Dudley is a dove and a core member of the FOMC. In a speech on May 20, Dudley did not add color on the timing of the first rate hike, but noted that the pace of tightening thereafter “will probably be relatively slow.” Dudley expects that the fed funds rate consistent with a 2% rate of long-run personal consumer expenditure (PCE) inflation is likely to be well below the 4.25% historical average that accompanied 2% inflation. (With respect to the labor market, Dudley noted that he believes a much greater proportion of long-term unemployment is the product of cyclical forces.) Dudley is likely to align with Yellen in pressing to keep rates “lower for longer.” San Francisco Fed President John C. Williams will be a 2015 voting member, and therefore likely to play a role in the forward guidance debate in 2015. In a May 22 speech, Williams noted that “a real tightening of policy – which would mean raising the fed funds rate – is still a good way off.” Although Williams is dovish, he is a mild dove at best and may have views diverging from the “lower for longer” pledge; for instance, Williams had seemed to be leaning in the direction of an expeditious retreat from QE last spring. Dovish Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart will be a voting member in 2015 and is likely to support “lower for longer” forward guidance. In a May 11 speech, Lockhart said that the first rate hike would likely come in H2 2015, stating that “When the first move to tighten policy is taken, I would expect it to begin a cycle of gradually rising rates.” Lockhart sees both a shortfall from potential and below-objective inflation as justifying patience in raising policy rates. Chicago Fed President Charles Evans is markedly dovish and a clear proponent of forward guidance. As a 2015 FOMC voting member, he will be strongly in favor of maintaining forward guidance to shore up the recovery. In an April 9 speech, Evans observed that “It certainly seems that the fallout from the financial crisis and persistent headwinds holding back economic activity are consistent with the equilibrium real interest rate being lower than usual today.” In Evans’ view, the FOMC’s March “lower for longer” pledge accounts for the possibility of lower real rates. Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker is generally hawkish, although he has not spoken recently regarding the Fed’s March communication changes on interest rates. He votes in 2015, and may lean against the forward guidance pledge. Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser is a hawk and a member of the FOMC in 2014. In a May 20 speech, Plosser said that “as we continue to move closer to our 2% inflation goal and the labor market improves, we must be prepared to adjust policy appropriately. That may well require us to begin raising interest rates sooner rather than later.” Plosser’s next voting term is in 2017, however, and therefore he will influence the debate (rather than the vote) on “lower for longer.” Minneapolis Fed president Narayana Kocherlakota, a 2014 voting member, is a hawk turned noted dove. In a May 21 speech, Kocherlakota stated that he currently saw the Fed as undershooting both its price stability and maximum employment mandates. Kocherlakota’s next voting term is also 2017 and therefore, like Plosser, he will influence the debate rather than the vote on “lower for longer.” Like Outside the Box?Sign up today and get each new issue delivered free to your inbox. It's your opportunity to get the news John Mauldin thinks matters most to your finances. Important Disclosures This article originally appeared at Outside The Box.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
BEIJING/HONG KONG (Reuters) - China has sent four more oil rigs into the South China Sea in a sign that Beijingis stepping up its exploration for oil and gas in the tense region, less than two months after it positioned a giant drilling platform in waters claimed by Vietnam. The announcement comes at a time when many countries in Asia are nervous at Beijing's increasing assertiveness in the potentially energy-rich waters, where sovereignty over countless islands and reefs is in dispute. Coordinates posted on the website of China's Maritime Safety Administration showed the Nanhai number 2 and 5 rigs had been deployed roughly between China's southern Guangdong province and the Pratas Islands, which are occupied by Taiwan. The Nanhai 4 rig was towed to waters close to the Chinese coast. Earlier this week, the maritime body gave coordinates for a fourth rig, the Nanhai 9, which would be positioned just outside Vietnam's exclusive economic zone by Friday. Wang Ching-hsiu, deputy director of Taiwan's Land Administration Department, said Taipei claimed an exclusive economic zone around the Pratas Islands, but declined to comment on the rig deployments. China, which regards Taiwan as a renegade province and claims about 90 percent of the South China Sea, said the rigs were in waters close to Guangdong province and Hainan island. The Philippines, Vietnam, Malaysia,Brunei and Taiwan also have claims to parts of the sea. "For these normal activities there is no need for over-reading or to make any particular links," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a daily briefing in Beijing. "Please don't worry, there won't be any problem." All four rigs are listed as being operated by China Oilfield Services Ltd (COSL), the oil service arm of state-runChina National Offshore Oil Company (CNOOC) Group, according to COSL's 2013 annual report. Three are deepwater platforms and one is a jackup rig used in shallow water. Reached by telephone, COSL Chief Executive Li Yong said he had seen the maritime announcement but declined to comment. A CNOOC spokesman also declined to comment. The Global Times, a popular tabloid published by the Communist Party's official People's Daily, quoted ZhuangGuotu, director of the Center for Southeast Asian Studies at Xiamen University, as calling the rig deployment a "strategic move". "The increase in oil rigs will inevitably jab a sensitive nerve for Vietnam and the Philippines," Zhuang said. U.S. Energy Information Administration State oil behemoth CNOOC Ltd, a subsidiary of CNOOC Group, has said it had four new projects scheduled to come on stream in the western and eastern South China Sea in the second half of 2014. It was unclear if the four rigs were part of those projects, but the company has long said that in a bid to boost production it wanted to explore in deeper waters off China. CNOOC has said it would increase by up to a third its annual capital spending for 2014, to almost $20 billion. That, combined with output declines at major offshore fields in Bohai Bay in eastern China, made it inevitable that Chinese state oil firms would push into the South China Sea, analysts said. "It does not surprise us that more rigs are being deployed into the South China Sea - especially over the summer, which is a high-drilling-activity period," said Scott Darling, head of Asia Oil and Gas Research with JPMorgan in Hong Kong. Roughly 60 percent of CNOOC Ltd's existing production in China comes from its aging fields in Bohai Bay. Anti-Chinese violence flared in Vietnam last month after a $1-billion deepwater rig owned by CNOOC Group was parked 240 km (150 miles) off the coast of Vietnam. Hanoi says the rig is in its 200-nautical-mile exclusive economic zone and on its continental shelf. China has said the rig was operating completely within its waters. (Additional reporting by Ben Blanchard in Beijing and Michael Gold in Taipei; Writing by Dean Yates; Editing by Clarence Fernandez) FREE AppDownload
Nazareth College/flickrWhen I entered Wall Street in 1993 with a PhD, I was an anomaly. One of my bosses was a failed baseball player, another a frustrated jazz musician. One of the guys running one of the most profitable businesses, in both my firm and all of Wall Street, was a former elevator repairman. Their college degrees – if they even had them – were from all sorts of schools, not simply the Ivy leagues. By the time I left Wall Street a few years ago, the only people being hired were the "play it safe kids”. The ones with degrees from Princetons and Harvards. You know, the ones who had organized a soup kitchen in eighth grade (meaning, really their parents had) to load their resumes. The ones who had gone to the state science fair (meaning their parents or nannies had spent many weekends and nights helping with a science project). Few of these hires where rags-to-riches stories. Most had parents very much like those already working on Wall Street – wealthy and dedicated to getting their children whatever they needed, regardless of cost. Many were in fact the children of Wall Street parents. It is not just Wall Street. Most of the best paying jobs now require a college degree, or post-college degree, and still rarely hire from state schools. They want Ivy schools, or similar. That feels safe. This is a problem. Businesses have abdicated their primary role in hiring, handing it over to colleges, which have gladly accepted that role, and now charge a shit-load for it. Want a job kid? Pay $60,000 a year for four years. Then maybe pay for another two to get a MBA. Yet, those best schools do not teach kids anything radically different from what the average colleges do. They do not prepare them better for the day-to-day work of Wall Street. Those finance skills are learned with experience and instinct after two years of training – on the job. Rather, a prestigious education is a badge given to students who can follow the established rules, run through the maze, jump through hoops, color between the lines, and sit quietly. It shows that they really, really want to be a grown-up. For that, they pay $60,000 per year. It has become a test. Are you part of the meritocracy? It also has become a barrier of entry to professionalism – a very costly barrier of entry. I paid for my own college by working during summers. In 1987, I graduated from a Florida public college, with no debt. My yearly cost was $2,500, an amount I paid for by working picking watermelons, painting houses and tarring roofs. I can only pay for my daughter’s college because I worked on Wall Street for 20 years. She could never pick enough of a cornucopia of watermelons, or quinoa, or kale to pay her costs. My oldest daughter is going to college next year. The price, if she chooses a state university in New York, is roughly $25,000 per year. That is the cheapest option, and about 10 times what I paid. Adjusted for inflation, that's about five times more expensive than my tuition fees. My case is relatively normal. Over the last 30 years, the cost of education, adjusted for inflation, has increased 300%. No summer jobs can pay for that, which is an important barrier to have crossed. Thirty years ago, college was below that barrier. You could work summer jobs, night jobs, and pay for college without taking out a loan. Now you can’t. Not even close. Now the only summer jobs you see on Wall Street resumes are for free internships, or paid jobs in parents’ companies. Working to pay for college? That isn’t only insurmountable, it's also considered a waste. You need to build a resume, not tar it with blue-collar jobs. The result? Only the kids with money, like my daughter, can go, or kids willing to go into debt before they reach 20. Far, far fewer spots go to kids talented enough, and with enough support, to obtain a good scholarship. The dual combination of the increased necessity of a college degree, often from a prestigious institution, and the absurd cost, is a one-two punch that hits middle- and lower-income children hardest. It provides them a very narrow and very expensive path to pursue the popular idea of the American dream (read: wealth) – get into a very prestigious college and go far into debt. That path requires doing almost everything right, as defined by the meritocracy, from birth. That path almost always weaves through good elementary, middle, and high schools. That path requires a level of dedication, which many have, and support, that few have. There are some who can do it. Some who have parents who are focused enough to help their children early. Some who even get scholarships. They are very much the exceptions. Children from low-income homes face so many obstacles so early, that getting into a prestigious school is a long stretch. For them, college and its cost is an increased barrier to mobility. Who benefits? Those born into the right neighborhoods, with the right education, and the right support network. Like my daughter. Like the other children of Wall Street parents. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
This Great Graphic comes from Matt Stone at Kurtosys.com. It draws on data from the Investment Company Institute.  It shows the evolution of the ETF industry, which the US dominates, accounting for a little more than 70% of the  ETF assets.  The ETF space has grown rapidly over the past decade or so and now there are ETFS for nearly every entire US sector and various parts of the yield curve.   There are also ETFs for currencies and commodities.  Kurtosys via Marc Chandler Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungA worker deflates a Chicago Bears inflatable mascot prior to the NFL football game between the Chicago Bears and the Cincinnati Bengals in Chicago, Illinois, September 8, 2013. There are some key questions about inflation right now. Will the recent pickup in inflation continue? Or was it just "noise" (As Fed Chair Janet Yellen said)? This will be important to watch.Here are some excerpts from an article by Merrill Lynch Global Economist Ethan Harris Inflation: bump up or bust out? One of the great ironies this year is that even as growth has disappointed to the downside, inflation has surprised to the upside. Most important, in the past three months, core CPI inflation has risen at the fastest rate since before the crisis. Moreover, the pick-up is fairly broad-based. Both goods and services inflation is higher and there appear to be only a couple anomalies—strong apparel price inflation and a huge 41.6% annualized jump in airfares. Despite the strong numbers, we are reluctant to make significant changes in our inflation call. ... we have incorporated the spring surprises and have raised our sequential forecasts slightly, but that only raises our annual numbers by a few tenths. Why the limited response? To put it simply, the fundamentals don’t support a strong sustained increase. Let’s take a look at the main inflation stories. Reserved money growth Since the beginning of the economic recovery, monetarists have argued that with the Fed’s massive balance sheet strong inflation could be just around the corner. Our response has always been: reserves are not money, and unless those reserves stimulate a surge in bank lending and spending, they are not inflationary. ... even with the recent pick up in business lending, overall bank lending is still growing at half the normal pace of a business expansion. ... Medical mal-pricing? Another key inflation concern is that special factors have temporarily held inflation in check and are now reversing. There seems to be an element of this in medical inflation. Inflation dipped last year as government payment rates were reduced and as key drugs became generic. Thus the medical PCE price index fell 0.45% in April 2013 and then rose 0.20% this April. That swing alone added more than a tenth to year-over-year core PCE inflation. However, we are reluctant to extrapolate the recent strength going forward. ... It’s a small world after all In our view, one of the most underrated factors in recent inflation movements is the impact of global markets. ... In recent months, there have been some signs of a bottoming out of consumer import prices. However, a significant acceleration seems unlikely. The conditions that created the low inflation are still in place: emerging market growth remains low, there is abundant spare capacity in the global economy, the dollar is trending higher and Europe is at risk of sliding into deflation. The main upside risk comes from commodity prices, but usually that takes some time to develop. Weak wages While there is a lot of talk about higher wage growth, there is very little evidence. .... In our view, there is still some slack in the labor market; when slack disappears, the rise in wage growth will be very slow, and as Yellen made clear at the press conference, the Fed will welcome the initial rise in wage inflation as a sign of normalization rather than inflation. ... Put it all together, we continue to expect a slow rise in inflation, allowing an equally slow Fed exit. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stephane MaheView of a Haliade 150 offshore wind turbine at Alstom's offshore wind site in Le Carnet, on the Loire Estuary, near Saint Nazaire, western FrancePARIS/FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Siemens and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (MHI) raised their offer for Alstom's energy arm on Friday, challenging a revamped bid by General Electric as the deadline for a decision nears. President Francois Hollande's government, which has said it will veto any deal that does not protect French jobs and control over strategic activities, has yet to pronounce on either deal ahead of a decisive Alstom board meeting set for Monday at the latest. The French leader was due on Friday to consult key ministers before holding a further round of discussions with officials from GE and Siemens-MHI that could seal the fate of the ailing 86-year-old engineering group at the center of one of Europe's fiercest industrial battles for years. Responding to a new GE bid on Thursday aimed at appeasing French political concerns, Siemens-MHI simplified the structure of its offer and raised its cash component by 1.2 billion euros ($1.64 billion) to 8.2 billion. This values Alstom's power businesses at 14.6 billion euros, Siemens said, 400 million more than previously and still well above GE's 12.4 billion. "Such (a) proposal is superior industrially, financially and socially," Siemens said, reaffirming pledges to create new jobs in France, a commitment the U.S. conglomerate has also made. The new Siemens-MHI proposal still foresees Siemens buying Alstom's gas turbine arm. But MHI is now offering to buy a 40 percent stake in its combined steam, grid and hydro businesses and bundle them in a single holding company rather than three joint ventures, a plan Alstom sources had said was too unwieldy. The French group reaffirmed that its board would meet no later than Monday to review the offers and that it planned to make no further statement in the meantime. GE on Thursday radically overhauled its offer following talks with French government and trade union officials, transforming what had been largely a straight purchase into an offer of joint ventures similar to that of Siemens-MHI. The cash component fell to an as yet unspecified level as it would sell its rail signaling unit to Alstom and set up 50/50 joint ventures in grid, nuclear and renewable assets. However, GE would still end up with the lucrative gas turbines that account for roughly a third of Alstom's power business. The nuclear alliance proposed by GE would see the government hold a preferred share, giving it a veto and other rights over issues related to security and technology of nuclear plants - a vital point in France, which relies heavily on nuclear energy. "OFFERS KEEP IMPROVING" "The offers of the two sides keep on improving," French Prime Minister Manuel Valls told France Inter radio. "We have more meetings today to move towards a decision in conjunction obviously with Alstom, because it ultimately must decide." Valls said the French government's criteria were "above all the preservation of strategic interests, preserving a certain number of decision-making centers in France and Europe, and obviously jobs". Hollande's government has congratulated itself on blocking GE's initial advances on Alstom some two months ago and forcing it to improve its offer, not only by encouraging Siemens to enter the fray but also by signing off a decree giving itself the power to block industrial tie-ups in strategic areas. Yet sources involved in the back-room discussions over the past seven weeks said it was not clear whether there was a single government line. Several union representatives of Alstom and political sources told Reuters the saga had drawn a divide between Montebourg, who they said lent towards the Siemens-MHI plan, and Hollande, in favor of GE. "There are really two lines: Hollande and Valls who want to find the best solution and Montebourg who absolutely wants it to be Siemens," said one source familiar with the situation. While no one has publicly drawn a link between the two cases, Hollande is also lobbying U.S. authorities to reduce the penalties which France's biggest lender, BNP Paribas, faces for breaching U.S. sanctions in 2002-2009, notably its dollar-financing of oil trade out of Sudan. ($1 = 0.7336 Euros)   (Editing by Janet McBride) FREE AppDownload
STRINGER Iraq/REUTERSA vehicle belonging to Kurdish security forces fires a multiple rocket launcher during clashes with Sunni militant group Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) on the outskirts of Diyala June 14, 2014LONDON (Reuters) - Global stocks traded just off record highs on Friday, still largely undeterred by a second week of violence in Iraq that has sent oil prices to nine-month highs. Buoyed by the billions of dollars the U.S. Federal Reserve is still pumping into the global economy under its quantitative easing program, equity markets took heart from a sanguine message this week on inflation from Fed chief Janet Yellen. That effect was still dominant on Friday, with all of Europe's major exchanges inching up in early trade, although the headline MSCI index of world shares &lt;.MIWD00000PUS&gt; dipped 0.2 percent from record highs hit on Thursday. "The goldilocks scenario of low rates and a slowly improving economy continues, with markets unmoved by continued geopolitical concerns," said Michael Hewson, chief market analyst at CMC Markets in London. "Against that backdrop stocks look likely to remain underpinned, though trading today is likely to be cautious as we head into the weekend, given what could unfold ... in Iraq." Iraqi government forces battled Sunni militants on Thursday for control of the biggest oil refinery in the country, OPEC's second-largest producer. If the 300,000 barrels per day refinery stays closed, Baghdad will need to import more oil products to meet domestic consumption, further tightening oil markets. Oil prices rose further in response and they were within touching distance of nine-month highs on Friday at $114.96. The other big beneficiary of events in Iraq has been gold, which sold off heavily earlier this year but is now close to two-month highs. It saw its biggest one-day rise in nine months on Thursday on the back of expectations, encouraged by the tone of Yellen's comments, that monetary policy will stay loose in the United States, Europe and Japan for a long time yet. DOLLAR DISAPPOINTMENT If the Fed and other central banks prove more willing in future to tolerate higher inflation in aid of faster economic growth then gold is a good way of hedging any impact on the value of the dollar and other currencies. "Gold's move this week has been fueled by a rebasing of expectations after the FOMC meeting, geopolitical risks, positioning and more favorable technicals," said Edel Tully, a strategist at UBS. "We're not convinced that the rally has further longevity ... the move has a lot more to do with positioning, not just with shorts being elevated, but gross longs are also quite light." Spot gold traded $1,309.30 an ounce having been as far as $1,321.70 at one stage on Thursday. Japan's Nikkei &lt;.N225&gt; ended steady after touching a fresh five-month peak, while the broader TOPIX &lt;.TOPX&gt; brought its gains to more than 10 percent in just the past four weeks. "The good mood is still lingering," said Kyoya Okazawa, head of global equities at BNP Paribas. "Not just foreign investors but also long-term domestic investors like pension funds have been buying as well." MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; ran out of steam, easing 0.4 percent on losses in South Korea and China. On currency markets, the main fallout of Wednesday's Fed meeting has been disappointment for the dollar. Some investors had been hoping for an aggressive message on the prospect of higher interest rates that would support the U.S. currency. In contrast, expectations the Bank of England will move at latest by early next year drove the yield gap between two-year British gilts &lt;GB2YT=RR&gt; and U.S. Treasuries &lt;US2YT=RR&gt; higher and helped the pound &lt;GBP=D4&gt; trade near 5-1/2 year highs. The Norwegian crown, subject to a wipeout on Thursday after a U-turn by the central bank there on policy, was down another 0.4 percent on Friday. &lt;EURNOK=&gt;   (Additional reporting by Francesco Canepa, Anirban Nag and Clara Denina; Editing by Catherine Evans) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsErmitage Saint-Antoine, Castelnau-de-GuersThere isn't too much action in the global markets right now. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.3%. France's CAC 40 is flat. Germany's DAX is flat. Spain's IBEX is flat. Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.2%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed down 0.1%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 0.1%, and Australia's S&amp;P/ASX closed down 0.9%. U.S. futures are modestly in the red. There are no major economic reports scheduled for release in the U.S. today. FREE AppDownload
STRINGER Iraq/REUTERSA vehicle belonging to Kurdish security forces fires a multiple rocket launcher during clashes with Sunni militant group Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) on the outskirts of Diyala June 14, 2014LONDON (Reuters) - Global stocks traded just off record highs on Friday, still largely undeterred by a second week of violence in Iraq that has sent oil prices to nine-month highs. Buoyed by the billions of dollars the U.S. Federal Reserve is still pumping into the global economy under its quantitative easing program, equity markets took heart from a sanguine message this week on inflation from Fed chief Janet Yellen. That effect was still dominant on Friday, with all of Europe's major exchanges inching up in early trade, although the headline MSCI index of world shares &lt;.MIWD00000PUS&gt; dipped 0.2 percent from record highs hit on Thursday. "The goldilocks scenario of low rates and a slowly improving economy continues, with markets unmoved by continued geopolitical concerns," said Michael Hewson, chief market analyst at CMC Markets in London. "Against that backdrop stocks look likely to remain underpinned, though trading today is likely to be cautious as we head into the weekend, given what could unfold ... in Iraq." Iraqi government forces battled Sunni militants on Thursday for control of the biggest oil refinery in the country, OPEC's second-largest producer. If the 300,000 barrels per day refinery stays closed, Baghdad will need to import more oil products to meet domestic consumption, further tightening oil markets. Oil prices rose further in response and they were within touching distance of nine-month highs on Friday at $114.96. The other big beneficiary of events in Iraq has been gold, which sold off heavily earlier this year but is now close to two-month highs. It saw its biggest one-day rise in nine months on Thursday on the back of expectations, encouraged by the tone of Yellen's comments, that monetary policy will stay loose in the United States, Europe and Japan for a long time yet. DOLLAR DISAPPOINTMENT If the Fed and other central banks prove more willing in future to tolerate higher inflation in aid of faster economic growth then gold is a good way of hedging any impact on the value of the dollar and other currencies. "Gold's move this week has been fueled by a rebasing of expectations after the FOMC meeting, geopolitical risks, positioning and more favorable technicals," said Edel Tully, a strategist at UBS. "We're not convinced that the rally has further longevity ... the move has a lot more to do with positioning, not just with shorts being elevated, but gross longs are also quite light." Spot gold traded $1,309.30 an ounce having been as far as $1,321.70 at one stage on Thursday. Japan's Nikkei &lt;.N225&gt; ended steady after touching a fresh five-month peak, while the broader TOPIX &lt;.TOPX&gt; brought its gains to more than 10 percent in just the past four weeks. "The good mood is still lingering," said Kyoya Okazawa, head of global equities at BNP Paribas. "Not just foreign investors but also long-term domestic investors like pension funds have been buying as well." MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; ran out of steam, easing 0.4 percent on losses in South Korea and China. On currency markets, the main fallout of Wednesday's Fed meeting has been disappointment for the dollar. Some investors had been hoping for an aggressive message on the prospect of higher interest rates that would support the U.S. currency. In contrast, expectations the Bank of England will move at latest by early next year drove the yield gap between two-year British gilts &lt;GB2YT=RR&gt; and U.S. Treasuries &lt;US2YT=RR&gt; higher and helped the pound &lt;GBP=D4&gt; trade near 5-1/2 year highs. The Norwegian crown, subject to a wipeout on Thursday after a U-turn by the central bank there on policy, was down another 0.4 percent on Friday. &lt;EURNOK=&gt;   (Additional reporting by Francesco Canepa, Anirban Nag and Clara Denina; Editing by Catherine Evans) FREE AppDownload
