Thomson ReutersWorkers look at machines moving newly made raw bricks at a factory in HuaibeiSHANGHAI (Reuters) - China's industrial profits fell 0.6 percent in August from a year earlier, reversing from July's 13.5 percent annual rise, the government said on Saturday, the latest in a series of weak data from the world's second-largest economy. Industrial companies made profits of 3.83 trillion yuan between January and August, 10 percent higher than the same period last year. China's National Bureau of Statistics did not give a reason for the August decline. The monthly decline adds to recent weak figures that have fuelled fears that China is at risk of a sharp slowdown if it does not make fresh stimulus measures. China's factory output grew at its weakest pace in nearly six years in August while growth in other key sectors such as retail sales and imports also cooled. China's economy has had a difficult time this year as a slowdown in the housing market weighs on economy activity. This was further exacerbated by unsteady foreign demand which dragged on exports, factory output and domestic investment.   (Reporting by Brenda Goh and Samuel Shen; Editing by Nick Macfie) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe headquarters of the Commerzbank AG is pictured before the bank's annual news conference in Frankfurt(Reuters) - Germany's second-largest lender Commerzbank AG is being investigated by the Manhattan U.S. attorney for alleged violations of money-laundering laws, the Wall Street Journal reported on Friday. The new investigation might hurt Commerzbank's chance to settle separate allegations of it violating sanctions by doing business with Iran and Sudan. In July, U.S. authorities begun settlement talks with Commerzbank and Deutsche Bank over their dealings with countries blacklisted by the United States, extending a crackdown on European banks. The Manhattan U.S. attorney is now investigating allegations Commerzbank had lax controls for detecting and preventing money laundering, the WSJ reported. After failing to land high-profile criminal cases stemming from the 2008-09 financial crisis, U.S. authorities have focused on other types of criminal activity within the financial industry, including money laundering, tax evasion and sanctions violations. Commerzbank was not immediately available for comment.     (Reporting by Krishna Chaithanya in Bangalore; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonThe Goldman Sachs logo is pictured above a trader on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the opening bell in the Manhattan borough of New York April 2, 2014. (Reuters) - Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;gs.n&gt; has tightened rules on investments its bankers can make in individual stocks and bonds, a company spokesman said on Friday, as a U.S. Senator called for hearings into the Wall Street bank's conflict-of-interest policies. Goldman's decision, announced internally on Friday, also bars bankers from investing in activist or event-driven hedge funds, Andrew Williams, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, told Reuters. The rule will be effective immediately, he said. Separately on Friday, U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Democrat on the banking committee, called for hearings into issues raised by secretly taped conversations between Federal Reserve supervisors and Goldman officials. Carmen Segarra, a former New York Fed bank examiner who recorded the conversations, brought a wrongful termination lawsuit against her former employer last year alleging that she was fired due to her refusal to change her findings that Goldman Sachs had no companywide conflict of interest policy. Her suit was dismissed in April for failing to state a claim that merited whistleblower protection, a decision she is appealing. According to the complaint, Segarra's review included the roughly $23 billion takeover of pipeline company El Paso Corp by Kinder Morgan Inc &lt;kmi.n&gt;. Goldman advised El Paso on the 2012 merger despite holding a big stake in Kinder Morgan.   (Reporting by Amrutha Gayathri in Bangalore; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst Elizabeth WarrenNEW YORK/WASHINGTON (Reuters) - An influential U.S. senator wants to hold hearings into "disturbing" issues raised by secretly taped conversations between Federal Reserve supervisors and officials at Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;gs.n&gt;, a bank the Fed was tasked with policing. Elizabeth Warren, a Democrat on the Senate Banking Committee, on Friday called for hearings after portions of the recordings from 2011 and 2012 were made public. Fellow Democrat Sherrod Brown, also a committee member, called for a "full and thorough investigation" into the allegations they raised. Carmen Segarra, a former New York Fed bank examiner who brought a wrongful termination lawsuit against her former employer, recorded the conversations and provided them to the investigative news outlet ProPublica and the public radio show "This American Life" to illustrate what she saw as an inappropriately close relationship between regulator and bank. The tapes appear to show an unwillingness among some Fed supervisors to both demand specific information from Goldman about a transaction with Banco Santander and to strongly criticize what Segarra concluded was the lack of an appropriate conflict-of-interest policy at Goldman. "When regulators care more about protecting big banks from accountability than they do about protecting the American people from risky and illegal behavior on Wall Street, it threatens our whole economy," Warren said in an emailed statement. "Congress must hold oversight hearings on the disturbing issues raised by today's whistleblower report when it returns in November." Brown, in an email, said: "For too long, too many financial regulators have been too cozy towards the very industry that they are meant to police." Segarra was fired after nearly seven months at the New York Fed as a so-called embedded supervisor at Goldman. She later sued the branch of the U.S. central bank for $7 million but the suit was dismissed in April for failing to state a claim that merited whistleblower protection, a decision she is appealing. "The New York Fed categorically rejects the allegations being made about the integrity of its supervision of financial institutions," it said in a statement on its website. Asked about the possibility of hearings, both the New York Fed and Goldman Sachs declined to comment. Linda Stengle, a lawyer for Segarra, did not immediately return a call seeking comment. Segarra filed the wrongful termination suit in October, claiming she was fired after refusing to alter a critical examination of Goldman's legal and compliance units. In claims she repeated in Friday's media reports, she said superiors were too deferential to the bank and they pressured her to back down. Some 46 hours of meetings and conversations were recorded, according to ProPublica. In one conversation said to be among Fed examiners following a meeting with Goldman officials, one participant appeared concerned about pushing the bank too hard for details on the Santander deal. "I think we don't want to discourage Goldman from disclosing these types of things in the future, and therefore maybe you know some comment that says don't mistake our inquisitiveness, and our desire to understand more about the marketplace in general, as a criticism of you as a firm necessarily," the unidentified examiner told his colleagues, according to a transcript provided by This American Life.   (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer) FREE AppDownload
Larry Ellison just increased his personal credit line to nearly $10 billion, according to documents filed with the SEC, as spotted by Bloomberg's Caleb Melby and Laura Marcinek.  That's like having a $10 billion credit card. With a "b." Ellison pledged 250 million shares of Oracle's stock as collateral for his personal line of credit. Shares are trading at about $39 a share as of Friday, making that credit line worth about $9.7 billion. That compares to 215 million shares he pledged last year and 139 million in 2012, reports Bloomberg. Oracle's share price has grown since 2012, so he's not just trying to maintain a credit limit, he's increasing it. And why not? As the fifth-richest man in the world, his own net worth has risen since 2012, too, from about $37 billion to more than $48 billion. Ellison is not shy about spending his money. He collects mansions, yachts, aircraft, race cars, art. He bought most of the Hawaiian island of Lanai for a reported $300 million, and not just one, but two airlines to serve it. He could spend up to $100 million this year on his America's Cup sailing team alone. The credit line represents only a fraction of his Oracle stake, too. He owns 1.16 billion shares of Oracle, about 26% of the company, according to forms filed to the SEC. The shares pledged as collateral are less than 20% of that. So between Oracle, his vast real estate holdings, and his other business interests (NetSuite, for example), the banks know he's good for the $10 billion, even if they want collateral. A bigger question is why borrow money when you're swimming in it? There are a couple of possibilities. First, interest rates are low and Oracle's stock has been on the rise. It could be cheaper for him to borrow money than to sell stock and lose out on that growth. If he wants to buy something that costs a lot, a loan could be a faster way to get his hands on the money. As a major officer at Oracle, he has to be careful about how quickly he sells a lot of stock. He can't flood the market with shares. Plus, most execs need to avoid accusations of insider trading. He learned that the hard way. In 2005, Ellison paid $100 million to charity to settle an insider trading lawsuit, Infoworld reported at the time. Today most execs schedule their trades in advance to avoid any perception of insider trading. Third, he actually prefers to hold onto his Oracle stock. Although he's granted millions of shares every year in stock options, he rarely sells them, according to insider trading forms filed with the SEC. So there's a lot of reasons for Ellison to keep a humongous credit line available. But sometimes we still have to stop and marvel at how much money the world's richest people could spend in an instant, on a whim. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Steve Marcus Daniel J. IvascynDaniel J. Ivascyn, a 45-year-old star fund manager who has been described by colleagues as a "beast," has been named CIO of PIMCO. In recent months, Ivascyn has been seen as the heir apparent at PIMCO. Bill Gross, the most powerful name in bonds, announced on Friday morning that he was leaving the firm he cofounded effective immediately to join Janus Capital. It was also reported that the 70-year-old bond manager was going to be fired tomorrow for his "increasingly erratic behavior." Here's what we know about Ivascyn:   Dan Ivascyn - the man seen as favourite to takeover from Bill Gross at @pimco - has been quite a year - his record: pic.twitter.com/b4Yq7K7DG8 FREE AppDownload
YouTubeDaniel IvascynPIMCO has elected Daniel Ivascyn to replace founder Bill Gross as Chief Investment Officer of the trillion dollar bond fund management company. In its late Friday announcement, PIMCO also named Andrew Balls, Mark Kiesel, Virginie Maissoneuve, Scott Mather, and Mihir Worah as chief investment officers. Balls will be global CIO, Kiesel will be CIO of global credit, Maissoneuve will be CIO of equities, Mather will be CIO of US core strategies, and Worah will be CIO of real return and asset allocation. Kiesel, Mather, and Worah will be managers of the firm's $221 billion flagship Total Return Fund. Ivascyn has been a stand-out at the firm, returning 4.8% in 2013, beating 97% of his industry peers. Morningstar named him the fixed income manager of the year that year. He manages the And reports indicate that his fellow employees like and support him. He'll need that support, as he will be taking the helm of the world's largest bond fund in the midst of a fire storm. Friday morning Gross — known within the industry as 'the bond king' — shocked Wall Street by announcing that he would leave PIMCO, the firm he founded, for the much smaller Janus Capital.  That is effective basically immediately. According to reports, if Gross had not quit, he would've been fired. It was at the point where employees were saying 'it's either him or us.' In a joint statement with Janus, Gross said that he felt the new firm would be a better fit for him as he wouldn't have to deal with the "complexities" of managing a huge company. And indeed those complexities have garnered a lot of negative attention over the last year. YouTube / PIMCOBill GrossPlagued with outflows already, PIMCO felt its first major shock in January when Gross' presumed successor, Mohamed El-Erian, abruptly left the firm. Then the stories started leaking — stories about Gross being showboat at the firm, a micro manager who demanded unquestioning obedience and silence from his employees. Gross' behavior outside the firm was also strange. At the annual Morningstar investor conference in June, he took the stage to Carlos Santanna and Rob Thomas' 'Smooth.'  The outflows continued as well, especially from Gross', personally managed flagship fund, The PIMCO Total Return fund. In August it had seen its 16th straight month of outflows totaling $68 billion, cumulatively. Then this week, the Wall Street Journal reported that regulators have been investigating PIMCO's Total Return ETF, also managed by Gross. The investigation is meant to determine whether or not the assets in the ETF were undervalued, making returns seem greater. "This was certainly a very surprising announcement," Wharton Professor Jeremy Siegel told Business Insider. "Though when you read the reasons he gave it was quite logical, things were getting messy at PIMCO." Siegel added that he expected some money to follow Gross out of PIMCO, but that he didn't think it would threaten the bond market's or PIMCO's stability. "I do not expect this to be a major mover in the markets because Bill Gross is going to be doing the same thing he had been doing at Janus," he said. It will be Daniel Ivascyn's job to pick up the pieces at PIMCO. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike Segar Homes in some stage of foreclosure made up 13.5% of all property sales in August, according to RealtyTrac's latest foreclosure report. The median price of U.S. residential properties sold in August was $195,000, up 3% from the previous month, according to the report. This includes distressed sales, which are properties owned by banks or in some stage of foreclosure. We drew on the report to highlight the states that offered more than a 50% distressed discount, which is the percentage difference between the median price of distressed sales and non-distressed sales. FREE AppDownload
Bruno Vincent/Getty ImagesStripped of its stars.Nobu's reign as a leading light on London's restaurant scene may be over as it is stripped of its Michelin stars London’s famous celebrity hangout Nobu has been stripped of its Michelin star in the latest UK guide. The Japanese fusion restaurant in Park Lane and its sister branch in Berkeley Street have both had their one-star status removed. Nobu opened in London’s Metropolitan Hotel in 1997 and was awarded a Michelin star the same year for the 1998 Guide. It was the first European venture of celebrated Japanese sushi chef Nobu Matsuhisa who launched it in collaboration with Hollywood actor Robert De Niro, restaurateur Drew Nieporent, and hotel owner Christina Ong. It quickly became a favourite haunt for the rich and famous with frequent visits from the likes of Kate Moss, Brad Pitt and Elton John. In 2005 Nobu Berkeley Street was unveiled with a menu created by Mr Matsuhisa and executive chef Mark Edwards, and claimed a Michelin Star just five months later. Now Nobu’s 16-year reign as one of London’s most desirable dining experiences appears to be over. The restaurants were among a number of prestigious London eateries which have been downgraded in the latest guide. Chapter One restaurant in Bromley, which first claimed the award in 2001, has been left star-less Medlar in Chelsea, with its French inspired menu, has also had its star removed. Others including Apsleys, the Hyde Park Corner restaurant set up by famous German chef Heinz Beck, and television chef Tom Aiken’s Chelsea restaurant have lost their stars due to temporary closures for renovation and relocation schemes. The change marks a move towards more informal dining with gastro-pubs and relaxed “hipster hangouts” taking on Britain’s traditional fine dining restaurants in this year’s Michelin Guide. The 2015 guide has awarded 14 new stars to eateries including three country pubs, a tapas bar, a curry house and a restaurant set within a champagne and hotdog bar. Michelin Guide editor Rebecca Burr said there was an ongoing trend towards more relaxed dining settings which was reflected in this year’s list. She praised the huge diversity seen among Britain’s top restaurants which boast cuisines from all over the world. “The 14 new stars in our 2015 guide highlight the enormous richness and variety of the UK’s restaurant scene. “They range from country pubs to hipster hangouts, from counter-restaurants to classic dining rooms”, she said. Two newly starred London restaurants, Soho-based Spanish tapas bar Barrafina and the Kitchen Table at Bubbledogs, in Bloomsbury serve food at counters. The Clove Club, a bar restaurant in Shoreditch which gained its first star this year, was set up by a team who cut their teeth in pop-ups. Three gastro-pubs, The Treby Arms in Devon, The Cross at Kenilworth in Warwickshire and the Star Inn in north Yorkshire, where visitors can enjoy a three course dinner for just over £30, have all gained their first stars this year. The team at Indian restaurant Gymkhana are also celebrating a Michelin star rating. The new stars are spread across the UK with two in Wales, two on the Scottish islands and one in Cornwall. They include Isle of Eriska in Eriska and Three Chimneys and The House Over-By on the Isle of Skye, Ynyshir Hall in Machynlleth, and the Crown at Whitebrook in Monmouth. Cornwall's latest star has gone to Port Isaac's Nathan Outlaw and his Outlaw's Fish Kitchen. Ms Burr said: “London does still dominate the list but there are great restaurants all over the country and in areas where one good restaurant opens up often others follow. “There’s some fantastic deals to be had as more talent chefs turn their attention to gastro-pubs and other less formal set ups. “People often say, ‘Oh, Michelin is changing, they’re recognising more informal places’, but it is not us, it is the industry that is changing.” The Michelin Guide Great Britain &amp; Ireland 2015 is £15.99 in most bookshops.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonNEW YORK (Reuters) - The Bond King has lost his throne. Bill Gross, who built Pimco into a $2 trillion asset manager and became one of the world's best-known bond investors, quit the firm he co-founded on Friday after his flagship fund suffered its 16th straight month of outflows and amid a Securities and Exchange Commission probe into whether one of his funds artificially inflated returns. Gross's sudden departure follows a public falling-out with former heir-apparent Mohamed El-Erian, who quit in January, and may accelerate net outflows from its funds, which have shed some $35 billion this year, the worst in the mutual fund industry out of 764 fund groups, Morningstar data show. Pimco named Dan Ivascyn to replace Gross as chief investment officer. "This will likely accelerate the negative cash outflow momentum at Pimco," said David Schawel, vice president and portfolio manager of Square 1 Financial. "This news doesn't help with the backdrop of a lot of investors chasing performance. Pimco is no longer the hot go-to fund." Since the start of the year, investors have pulled $25 billion from the Pimco Total Return Fund, the world's largest bond fund, and $6 billion from the Pimco Unconstrained Bond Fund, according to Morningstar data as of the end of August. Both were personally supervised by Gross, 70, who also oversaw the Pimco Total Return ETF, the object of the SEC probe. Pimco's losses come as rival firms attracted about $25 billion into the intermediate-term bond category – to which Total Return belongs - and about $18 billion into non-traditional bond funds – to which Unconstrained belongs. "People chase performance and performance hasn't been crushing it at some of the biggest and most high-profile Pimco funds," Schawel said. "It's easier for money to flee when all of these things are happening aside from nervousness surrounding the leadership shakeup and now Gross's departure." Gross will join the $177 billion Janus Capital Group and said he was going to "get back to spending the bulk of my day managing client assets." Michael Diekmann, chief executive officer of Allianz Group, which owns Pimco, said "the management and investment structure put in place in January as well as the thorough succession planning gives us complete confidence in Pimco's investment and executive leadership team," in a statement on Friday. UGLY DIVORCE Long-time rivals of Pimco have been mum all year about the ugly public divorce between Gross and El-Erian, but they've been some of the biggest beneficiaries of client money fleeing the Newport Beach, California, firm. Jeffrey Gundlach's DoubleLine Capital, Tad Rivelle's TCW and Larry Fink's BlackRock, among others, have seen money reallocated to their portfolios from pension funds, foundations and endowments, as Pimco's flagship fund failed to stem the net outflows since El-Erian's resignation in January, according to SEC filings and interviews with at least a dozen consultants and institutional investors. DoubleLine, TCW/MetWest and BlackRock rank in the top 25 fund families attracting the strongest net inflows so far this year with Vanguard at No. 1 with net inflows of $86.5 billion, according to Morningstar data. This includes not just funds groups dominated by fixed income funds, but fund groups dominated by stock funds, index funds, managed futures and munis. "Clients and their advisors make it clear to me that they want income, but they are more worried about interest rates now than at many times in the past," Gundlach told Reuters. "So to attract investors in the intermediate-term bond fund arena, it certainly helps for a fund to offer a strong dividend yield with temperate-to-low interest-rate sensitivity." Regarding Pimco, he said a sequence of news this week "already made it seem that some kind of reorganization was occurring. I have no idea what or how successful the outcome will be." BlackRock and TCW declined to comment. WATCH LIST WORRIES Pimco, or some of its funds, remains on the watch list at a number of pension funds and endowments, such as the North Dakota Retirement &amp; Investment Office, the Florida State Board of Administration, the Orange County Employees Retirement System and the Vermont Pension Investment Committee. The Foundation for a Healthy Kentucky did terminate its bond fund with Pimco, pulling out $3.3 million in August after concerns arose about the strength of the firm's leadership, said chief executive Susan Zepeda. Gross "has been a very strong force behind our affection for Pimco, and we thought he had a strong succession plan in place," Zepeda said. "And then our confidence was shaken. It's sort of the strong man risk situation. He's been so identified with Pimco for so long. The committee was concerned about the depth of the bench remaining." Nor is the management shakeup the only reason institutional investors are leaving Pimco. "A lot of clients are re-assessing their fixed income mandates," said Neil Rue, managing director at Pension Consulting Alliance Inc. Many of those client investors are now moving away from the typical core or core-plus and exploring other strategies, he said. That means money that might have been reallocated to an already-in-place Pimco - or similar firm - core-plus fund could switch to another mandate using different forms of expertise, he said. One fund that reassessed the way it handled fixed income was the Fire &amp; Police Pension Association of Colorado, which transitioned about $250 million out of Pimco's total return strategy earlier this year. "It was primarily an internal restructuring of our fixed income portfolio," said chief investment officer Scott Simon. "It's a move to more unconstrained, flexible strategies that should be able to take advantage of a rising rate environment." But some moves out of Pimco, in fact, were already in the works when El-Erian left. Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC in March replaced Pimco as the subadvisor of a $1.3 billion bond fund. A person familiar with the matter said that the move was unrelated to the management changes at Pimco. Similarly, Mercer Asset Management announced in April that it was replacing Pimco as a subadvisor on its Mercer Core Fixed Income Fund. Mercer declined to comment.   (Reporting By Jennifer Ablan and Luciana Lopez. Editing by John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
YouTube / WealthTrackBill GrossNEW YORK (Reuters) - Bill Gross' abrupt departure from Pimco, the giant bond firm that he co-founded more than four decades ago, was preceded by months of clashes between the star investor and the firm's executive committee that got progressively worse, according to sources familiar with the situation. Tensions have been building within Pimco, the Newport Beach, California-based asset manager with about $2 trillion under management. Co-Chief Investment Officer Mohamed El-Erian, Gross's long-time heir-apparent, made an acrimonious exit in January. The flagship Total Return Fund suffered 16 straight months of outflows. The wrangling and the underperformance grated on the executive committee, including Chief Executive Douglas Hodge. "While we are grateful for everything Bill contributed to building our firm and delivering value to PIMCO's clients, over the course of this year it became increasingly clear that the firm's leadership and Bill have fundamental differences about how to take PIMCO forward," Hodge said in a statement on Friday. As Gross, known as the "Bond King" within the industry, butted heads with colleagues, the clashes got worse. In recent days, about five portfolio managers told the executive committee that they would quit if Gross stayed, the sources said. Gross himself threatened repeatedly to quit, letting management know that he had been looking around for a role elsewhere. Jeffrey Gundlach of DoubleLine, Gross' arch rival and the closest contender for the Bond King crown, said in an interview on Friday that the investor approached him about a possible role early last week. Gundlach said he met with Gross last week at Gundlach's house in Los Angeles. The two discussed the possibility of Gross joining Gundlach's DoubleLine, but Gundlach said he wasn't willing to share direction of the firm with Gross. "I am CEO of the firm. We talked about working together, but I was never going to be the 'co-guy.' I am CEO. That was never going to happen," Gundlach said. In recent days, when Gross again threatened to quit, the executive committee decided to accept the resignation, one of the sources said. The firm had already put a succession plan in place, choosing Deputy Chief Investment Officer Dan Ivascyn as the successor. Allianz SE &lt;alvg.de&gt;, the firm's German parent, had given its blessing. An announcement of Gross' ouster had been prepared, and was set to be announced as soon as Saturday, the source said. Then, Gross sprung a surprise. On Friday morning, Gross quit Pimco to join asset manager Janus Capital Group &lt;jns.n&gt;, run by his former Pimco colleague Richard Weil. Gross will manage the Janus Global Unconstrained Bond Fund &lt;juctx.o&gt; beginning on Monday. The fund, started in May, has just $13 million in assets. "It is the right thing,” Gundlach said of Gross’s move to Janus. "Now he can perform better because he isn't managing a lot of money." Gross didn't immediately respond to requests for comment. Pimco said it had a succession plan in place and that its management board would confirm a new chief investment officer shortly. Gross' abrupt departure climaxes a drama that has riveted industry executives, investors and rivals over the past year. It raises questions about the future performance of the firm, which counts tens of thousands of ordinary Americans and major institutions including the CalPERS pension fund as investors in its mutual funds, exchange-traded funds and other products. U.S. Treasuries prices fell on Friday, Allianz slipped more than 6 percent in German trading and Janus soared more than 35 percent. "I think people are concerned that Pimco is going to have to liquidate, so there is some pre-selling going on ahead of the fact that they may have to do some selling," said Tom di Galoma, head of rates and credit trading at ED&amp;F Man Capital Markets. Pimco has been stressing in meetings with its investors that the company had several people who could succeed Gross and that he would be playing a smaller role in the firm's investment and management decisions in the future, said Karissa McDonough, a fixed income strategist at People's United Wealth Management in Burlington, Vermont, who met with Pimco representatives in early September. "They were trying to reassure us by driving home the point that they're not so dependent on Bill Gross anymore," she said. Gross walks away without severance pay. There are none of the usual contractual obligations in his departure either, the source said. There is no non-compete agreement nor a "gardening leave" cooling off period before he can start to work at Janus, the source said. TROUBLE IN NEWPORT BEACH The first signs of real trouble at Pimco came in January, when El-Erian left the firm and the acrimony spilled out into the open. On Feb. 24, the Wall Street Journal published a report describing how El-Erian's previously close relationship with Gross had soured as the firm's investment performance deteriorated last year. Then Gross told Reuters that his one-time lieutenant was trying to "undermine" him, and that he had "evidence" El-Erian "wrote" the Journal article. After El-Erian's exit, Pimco promoted six portfolio managers, including Ivascyn, to deputy chief investment officer roles and revamped the investment committee, positioning them as possible successors to Gross. But the new structure failed to stem a steady exit of investors from the Total Return Fund, which until today was managed by Gross. Cash outflows began last year due to weak returns and the fund declined 1.9 percent in 2013, its worst performance in nearly two decades. El-Erian's exit exacerbated investors' unease. Earlier this week, Pimco said the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating whether it inflated the returns of its Total Return Exchange-Traded Fund &lt;bond.p&gt;, also managed by Gross. One of the sources said the SEC investigation, which is also into how securities were allocated between the mutual fund and the ETF, was not the trigger for Gross' departure.   (Additional reporting by David Randall. Editing by John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary CameronU.S. Attorney General Eric Holder (R) wipes tears as President Barack Obama announces Holder's resignation in the White House State Dining Room.With Attorney General Eric Holder's departure from Washington, critics say Wall Street is losing someone who has essentially given the industry a pass on the excesses that led to the financial crisis. In another potential wrinkle for Wall Street, two of the leading candidates who could follow in Holder's footsteps both have a history of ruffling feathers in the financial industry. Critics of Wall Street have slammed Holder for not prosecuting top executives during his time leading the Department of Justice. A Democratic operative who spoke to Business Insider about Holder's time as attorney general called his lack of financial industry prosecutions "bizarre," particularly in light of the fact "this administration entered office during the middle of the worst financial crisis since the great depression."  "He could not have been more of a disappointment in terms of dealing with the issues that led to the collapse of the financial markets and the global economy," the operative said of Holder. "He had an opportunity and, frankly, a responsibility to say there was a whole host of systemically illegal and improper behavior and to go after it."  Holder, whose office did not respond to a request for comment on this story from Business Insider, attempted to address this criticism at a congressional hearing last year. At the hearing, Holder argued it was dangerous to impose overly harsh penalties on leaders of financial institutions because it could have a negative impact on the economy. “The size of some of these institutions becomes so large that it does become difficult for us to prosecute them when we are hit with indications that if you do prosecute, if you do bring a criminal charge, it will have a negative impact on the national economy," Holder said. However, this explanation has not satisfied those who argue Holder has been far too soft on the financial industry. The Democratic operative who discussed the attorney general with Business Insider argued Holder's comments were a weak excuse for a "dereliction of duty." "He, for some reason, believed that he was on the board of these banks and their long term stability was part of his job," said the operative. "For some bizarre reason, he said — it was on record — that he was considering the health of those financial institutions and the broader economy when he was considering those cases. And that was totally inappropriate and, frankly, a dereliction of duty." Critics of Holder's perceived inaction with respect to Wall Street include elected officials of both parties. At a Senate hearing earlier this month Sens. Elizabeth Warren (D-Massachusetts) and Richard Shelby (R-Alabama) both questioned why the crisis led the DOJ to pursue settlements against financial institutions, but not criminal prosecutions against individual executives.  "No corporation can break the law unless the individual within that corporation broke the law," Warren said. "Not a single senior executive at these banks have been criminally prosecuted." "Something’s wrong with the Justice Department. People shouldn’t be able to … buy their way out of culpability," Shelby added.  Holder served throughout President Barack Obama's time in the White House. The Democratic operative argued that, even if Obama chose to take a more gentle approach toward the financial industry, Holder had an obligation to take action. "I believe the president has failed in this area ... but he is a policy maker the president so ... he does have broader economic considerations to make," the operative said, arguing Obama has a better excuse than Holder for being concerned about the health of financial institutions. "But it is not the Attorney General's job to consider those things when deciding who to prosecute or not or what remedies to pursue." With Holder set to resign, those who hoped to see the DOJ get tougher on Wall Street might see signs the next attorney general could address their concerns.  According to many insiders, Labor Secretary Tom Perez is a frontrunner to get the nomination from Obama. In his morning political briefing Friday, analyst Greg Valliere of the Potomac Research Group argued Perez is the "is the logical pick" and noted "he's already been confirmed by the Senate." Another Democratic strategist who spoke to Business Insider said Perez's Dominican heritage was fueling rumors he would be Obama's choice to succeed Holder. "People in Washington, people in the White House are buzzing that the president is favoring picking a Latino for the position of attorney general and, specifically, favoring picking Tom Perez," the strategist said. The Democratic operative said Perez was the only potential pick they have heard credible chatter about. "I'm hearing all Perez," they said.   These rumors might upset Wall Streeters who were unhappy with efforts Perez spearheaded at the Department of Labor to raise the minimum wage and require fiduciary duty. "He's proved he's got consumers' back at the DOL and I guess, if you're Wall Street that might be a bad thing," said the strategist. "But if youre 99% of people, that's a good thing." However, the Democratic strategist argued the financial industry has nothing to fear from Perez. They characterized him as a "consensus builder" who knew it was important to get "business behind him" on these potentially contentious issues. They also suggested he would have a similar approach to Holder. "Perez is exceptionally close to Eric Holder and would probably adopt the same style," said the strategist.  CNBC screenshotOf course, President Obama is already halfway through his second term and polls show Democrat Hillary Clinton leading the 2016 field. And one person who is often discussed as a potential attorney general pick for Clinton is US Attorney Preet Bharara, who has earned a reputation as taking an aggressive approach on corporate crime. In fact, according to the New York Post, some Wall Streeters are already concerned Bharara could also be tapped by Obama to lead the DOJ.  Both of the Democrats who spoke to Business Insider argued Bharara's habit of ending up with his name in the headlines makes him an unlikely choice for Obama. However, the operative suggested Bharara's past experience as chief counsel to Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-New York), who worked alongside Clinton during her time representing New York in the Senate, could make him her pick.  "Very clearly he's angling to be her attorney general," the operative said of Bharara and Clinton. "Obviously Chuck is a big fan. Obviously, Hillary is well-versed in doing things to keep Chuck happy rather than be harrassed and irritated, so I'd imagine he could be her choice." However, despite Bharara's reputation for being tough on Wall Street, multiple Democrats who have previously talked to Business Insider about the possibility he could lead the DOJ under Clinton argued he has only prosecuted small targets rather than leading financial industry executives. The strategist who discussed Perez with Business Insider argued Bharara's record with regard to the Street is largely "superficial." The other operative suggested this might actually add to Bharara's appeal for Clinton.  "For Hillary, it could make sense," said the operative. "He would give the appearance of reform and aggression against big actors without actually carrying it out." Overall, many critics on the left seem pessimistic the Department of Justice will ever really get tough on Wall Street. "I don't think Wall Street has anything to fear from a Hillary Clinton administration," the operative said, adding, "The previous six years should make clear to Wall Street that they have nothing to fear at all." FREE AppDownload
Stephen Lam/ReutersCo-founder and Chief Executive of Oracle Corporation, Larry Ellison introduces the company's latest SPARC servers at Oracle Conference Center in Redwood Shores, California March 26, 2013. Nothing has changed, except for the titles. That was the word from Oracle after Larry Ellison said on September 18th that he was resigning as chief executive. The firm he founded in 1977 is now the world's biggest maker of business software, with annual sales of $38 billion. Mr Ellison will stay on as executive chairman and focus on his main interest--technology. His old job will be split between Safra Catz and Mark Hurd, who already run the firm's operations. Though there may be little immediate effect, the title-shuffling may one day be seen as the start of an upheaval like the one IBM had to go through when smaller computers dethroned the mainframe in the 1980s and early 1990s. Big Blue almost went under in the process. Big Red--the colour of Oracle's logo--is unlikely to run such a risk, but the shift will not be easy. Other than when Oracle's sponsored boat won the America's Cup last year, the company has not been in the headlines much since it bought a bunch of other business-software firms in the mid-2000s. It seems to be doing a decent job of integrating those acquisitions. But they are less important than its core database business. Most of the world's big companies keep their sales data and other crucial information in Oracle's digital stores. Rare is the firm that switches provider. That gives Oracle huge pricing power and a steady revenue stream from upgrades and support services. Its operating margin is 47%. But the beauty of technological progress is that it tends to undermine such dominance. One trend is open-source software: free programs written by communities of developers. This has been around for some time, but is getting increasingly sophisticated. A more recent development is the cloud: computing services that are delivered over the internet. And then there is "big data": the amount of information companies collect is exploding, as more and more data are gleaned from observing and interacting with consumers. REUTERS/Robert GalbraithOracle CEO Larry Ellison gestures during his keynote address at Oracle Open World in San Francisco, California September 22, 2010. Oracle has answers to these shifts. The firm distributes its own open-source database, MySQL. It was also one of the first to offer "software as a service", as cloud computing used to be called; 4% of its revenues now come from cloud services. And its database software is quite capable of dealing with huge amounts of data. The problem is Oracle's business model. Selling old-style corporate software is not quite like sausage-making, but it is equally unappealing: a pushy salesforce persuades firms to pay a fat licence fee and then charges for maintenance (more than 20% of the list price per year). In the case of Oracle databases, most fees are high and per processor, which means things get expensive quickly, eating up IT budgets. So clients clamour for usage-based pricing, which rivals, such as MongoDB, offer. Oracle has a good chance of keeping most existing contracts. But for many new online applications, firms will opt for alternatives, says George Gilbert of TechAlpha Partners, a consulting firm. This puts Oracle in a quandary similar to one IBM once faced. IBM pioneered Oracle-type databases, but it hesitated to sell the low-price servers needed to run them, to protect its mainframe franchise. That created space for disruptive newcomers--like Oracle. Oracle has no intention of starring in a remake of IBM's film (possible title: "The Innovator's Dilemma"). Brent Thill of UBS, a bank, says that "It took them some time, but they now seem to know what they need to do." Oracle's sales force now focuses on consulting, rather than commissions. On September 28th, at its annual customer shindig in San Francisco, it will launch a new cloud-database service. But that still leaves Oracle's pricing problem: how to maintain prices for its old customers, but be competitive for new applications. All of which leaves the question of why Mr Ellison, who still owns 25% of Oracle, decided to step sideways now. Perhaps he just wanted to mark his 70th birthday--and the beginning of a slow separation. At any rate, the new job titles say little about who will run Oracle when he really does go. In the past he has suggested this might be Thomas Kurian, now the head of product development. Mr Kurian is still the man to watch when Mr Ellison retires, perhaps to the Hawaiian island he bought in 2012. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Want to rub shoulders with a billionaire? Your best bet is to attend one of the cultural, sporting, or business events where the super-rich flock each year. Wealth-X and UBS included a "billionaires' social calendar" in their recent Billionaire Census. We added a bit more information and created a handy version that you can print and hang on your refrigerator. Grab your derby hat, ball gown, and checkbook, and mark down these dates. Skye Gould/Business Insider
REUTERS/Paul HackettThe perfect grounds at Gleneagles. The Ryder Cup kicked off today and action is already exciting, both on and off the golf course. This year, the biennial golf tournament takes place at Gleneagles Hotel in Scotland. It's the first time since 1973 that the Cup is taking place in Scotland, and only the second time in history.  Europe enters the tournament the favorites, with the United States a large underdog in terms of betting odds. But anything could happen. No place could be more suited for high pressure golf than the courses at Gleneagles. The grounds, as well as the other hotel facilities, are held to the highest standards of perfection. Directors at the hotel have been planning for the Ryder Cup for years, preparing for the festivities and the influx of people.
REUTERS/Fred ProuserSteve Wynn, chairman and CEO of Wynn Resorts.The billionaire casino tycoon Steve Wynn just filed a lawsuit against hedge fund manager Jim Chanos, Reuters reports. Wynn's lawsuit accuses Chanos of slander "over an alleged statement that Wynn violated a US anti-bribery law." The suit alleges that on or about April 25, Chanos told guests at an invitation only event in Berkley, California that Wynn and his Las Vegas-based resorts had violated the federal Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. You can see video of the event here. Chanos starts speaking around 4:00 and again around 36:00. In his lawsuit, Wynn also adds that gaming regulators in Nevada and Massachusetts, the SEC, and other government agencies have "thoroughly investigated" both him and his resorts. An no one found and reliable evidence of a FCPA violation. Wynn is seeking unspecified compensatory and punitive damages.  ReutersJim Chanos, founder of Kynikos Associates Jim Chanos is a Wall Street stalwart, and founded his short-only firm Kynikos (Greek for 'cynic') back in 1980s. One of his more famous moves was shorting Enron, several months before its bankruptcy. He's recently been arguing that China's economy is overheated "due to its dependence on property development for growth." And on May 15, Chanos told CNBC that he would "no longer be long on the Macau casino."  Macau happens to be the only place in China where casinos are legal, and revenues have been down in June (by 3.7%), July (by 3.6%), and August (a far worse 6%). FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungBill GrossWe had a nice big rally in the stock market today. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. Economic reports were overshadowed by a big move in the financial services industry. Janus Capital announced that bond king Bill Gross was leaving PIMCO to manage its Global Unconstrained Bond Fund. This follows months of tumult at the firm Gross co-founded. "Janus is the right fit at the right time in my career — and my life," Gross said. 2. Gross leaves behind the $221 billion PIMCO Total Return Fund for the $12.8 million Janus Unconstrained Bond Fund. Shares of $2 billion Janus Capital went nuclear, surging by 42%. PIMCO parent Allianz fell by around 6%. 3. As expected, Q2 GDP growth was revised up to 4.6% from a previous estimate of 4.2%. "The increase in real GDP in the second quarter primarily reflected positive contributions from personal consumption expenditures (PCE), exports, private inventory investment, nonresidential fixed investment, state and local government spending, and residential fixed investment. Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased," the BEA said. 4. The University of Michigan's confidence index was 84.6 in September, up from 82.5 in August. While it was slightly lighter than the 84.8 expected by economists, the September level nevertheless reflects a seven-year high. 5. Nike shares surged 12.2% after reporting strong Q3 financial results. Revenue and earnings smoked expectations. Management also said worldwide future orders were up 14%, which was much healthier than the 10% analysts were expecting. 6. Amid all this, US Treasury securities sold off a bit. The 10-year yield went from 2.49% to as high as 2.55%. Here's NYSE floor governor Rich Barry: "Meanwhile, in the trading pits, the Bill Gross/PIMCO news is shaking up the bond market. Treasuries are lower on speculation that the exit of Gross from the firm may prompt the world’s biggest manager of bond funds to shift away from U.S. government debt." Don't Miss: TOM LEE: Here Are The 10 Best Stocks Right Now » FREE AppDownload
Google MapsDick Snyder is suing his next door neighbors for $60 million (his house is the one on the right; he's suing the owners of the house on the left).Drama is brewing on the Upper East Side.  Retired publishing tycoon Dick Snyder is suing his neighbors Meredith and Bryan Verona for $60 million after he was unable to sell his mansion, according to a New York Post report. The problem reportedly started when the Veronas began a gut renovation of their $17 million mansion on East 78th Street, transforming it from a building with multiple units into a five-story, 36-foot-wide home. Meanwhile, Snyder — a former chairman of Simon &amp; Schuster — has been stewing next door in his own Upper East Side mansion, which he has had on the market for $25 million for the past three years. According to his lawsuit, he’s been unable to find a buyer because potential owners see the scaffolding and trash outside the Veronas' home, they balk. One broker even refused to try and sell the home because of the construction next door, Snyder claims. “Despite the fact that the residential market has been and continues to experience tremendous demand for residential real property, and although Snyder had several parties view the residence, astonishingly…not a single offer has been made to purchase the residence,” reads a section of his lawsuit, according to The New York Post. Brown Harris StevensThe master bedroom in Snyder's apartment.Snyder’s 8-story home, which is currently listed with Brown Harris Stevens, has some awesome features. It’s 11,000 square feet, has 14 rooms, a private garden, massage room, and roof deck. The real estate agent John Burger really sells it on the listing page. Brown Harris StevensThe gorgeous patio at Snyder's home.But 81-year-old Snyder claims in his lawsuit that he can’t enjoy any of these amenities because of all that noise next door, even with construction workers honoring “times of silence” when the home is being shown.  So Snyder — who, it should be noted, is no stranger to lawsuits — is now suing Meredith and Bryan Verona for $60 million in damages. Apparently not being able to enjoy your private garden really takes its toll.  Brown Harris StevensThe outdoor space at Snyder's apartment.Only time will tell if this lawsuit proves to be the publicity Snyder’s mansion so desperately needs or only another deterrent for potential buyers. FREE AppDownload
APThe Treasury Department earlier this week outlined new executive steps aimed at curbing companies' so-called practice of "inversions" — steps it said would have bit in accomplishing that goal. But the reality, according to multiple analysts and experts, could be far from the stated goal. They say it's likely there's nothing the Obama administration can do to stem the recent trend of inversions absent congressional action. "The Treasury alone cannot realistically stop inversions all together," said Dick Harvey, a professor at Villanova University. Inversions are the practice by which companies slash their tax bills by moving their companies' tax bases overseas. They have been on the rise over the past year, as companies have either acquired rivals or merged with them to relocate their headquarters to a foreign country with lower corporate tax rates. The actions unveiled on Monday eliminate certain techniques inverted companies currently use to gain tax-free access to the deferred earnings of a foreign subsidiary, which officials said would "significantly diminish" the ability of inverted companies to avoid US taxation. The moves also erect more barriers to inversion by strengthening a requirement in the tax code that former owners of a US company own less than 80% of the combined entity. In a research note Friday, Goldman Sachs analyst Alec Phillips said the Treasury's changes would make inversions "incrementally more difficult" — but they are unlikely to even reverse the trend, let alone stop it.  The problem for the administration is that, though inverted companies will lose some access to foreign earnings under the changes, they will also retain some of the most attractive benefits that incentivize them to invert in the first place.  AP ImagesThe Burger King-Tim Hortons inversion was the most prominent recent example of the practice For example, Goldman said, the Treasury's rule change focuses more on the companies' access to pre-inversion foreign earnings, while saying little about post-inversion foreign earnings.  "While it is possible that some inverted companies could face incremental tax liabilities associated with post-inversion restructuring that is often done to avoid tax on future foreign earnings, it appears unlikely that use of those future foreign earnings would be otherwise constrained," Phillips wrote.  "This is a critical distinction, in our view, because if the inverted companies retain flexibility to use post-inversion foreign profits that have not been taxed by the US, the motivation to pursue these transactions will remain." Moreover, the rule changes only make it "slightly" harder for companies to invert.  For example, one of the changes Treasury announced strengthens the requirement that former owners of the US entity own less than 80% of the new, combined entity. Under current law, companies can engage in an inversion as long as the US company has a 79% stake in the new entity and the foreign acquirer has at least a 21% stake in the new, combined entity.  The change, under Section 7874 of the tax code, would limit the ability of companies to count so-called "passive assets" toward the 80% rule; prevent US companies from reducing their size through dividends; and block so-called "spinversions," a method by which companies transfer a portion of its assets to a newly formed corporation and then spinning off that corporation to shareholders. Under current law, it allows the companies to avoid US taxes. "Some of the announced changes raise the bar regarding which transactions qualify, but probably won't be a significant deterrent," Phillips wrote.  " Under current law, ownership of the newly formed post-inversion company must overlap no more than 80% with ownership of the pre-inversion US company. The Treasury notice retains that threshold, which is set in law, but restricts some strategies companies use to make it easier to meet this test. Those changes on their own are unlikely to significantly reduce the number of inversion transactions." The administration has said that any actions it takes can't match congressional action — and the chances of some move by Congress has risen slightly, according to Goldman. If Democrats keep control of the Senate after November's elections, it's more likely they will keep a narrow focus on inversions-related legislation. If Republicans win control of the Senate, the chances of broader tax reform — including provisions on inversions — would rise. "That said, the election result is hardly decisive in how Congress will address these issues. Corporate reform will be an uphill climb under any electoral scenario and, if the number of inversion deals begins to climb again in coming months, Congress could come under pressure to act regardless of who controls the majority," Phillips wrote. FREE AppDownload
FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Financial Advisory Industry Is Shrinking (Financial Planning) The advisory industry is losing between 3,000 to 4,000 financial advisors every single year, according to Mark Tibergien, the CEO of Pershing Advisor Solutions. And they're not being replaced. "The resulting shortage is an 'acute problem' for the industry, pushing compensation costs up and profits down." The shortage is so significant that some RIAs "without deep pockets should consider recruiting individuals in other professions with 'transferable skills,'" said Frank Pare, president of Oakland, California based PF Wealth Management Group. He adds that the financial advisory business is about 'people skills' so someone who works at Nordstrom's might have those skills, as might a social worker. Cyclical Sectors Tend To Be The Best Performers Six Months Leading Up To The Rate Hike (Charles Schwab) Everyone's antsy about when the Fed will finally hike rates. "We believe we'll see the first rate increase sometime in the first half of 2015," Brad Sorensen writes. Schwab took a look at the last seven Fed tightening cycles and the performance of major sectors surrounding the hike.  Historically, cyclical sectors tended to be the best performers six months leading up to the rate hike. "That's because the economy should be running on all cylinders at that point, with energy, materials, industrials, and technology leading the way." On the other hand, sectors that are most sensitive to rates — such as utilities and telecom — tend to lag. Typically after rates are hiked, defensive sectors, consumer stables, and healthcare tend to do really well. On the flip side, the consumer discretionary sector is the "biggest loser." It's important to note that history doesn't predict the future. But, "sectors tend to move on macroeconomic events and with the business cycle, "so paying attention to performance surrounding Fed moves is important," Sorensen adds. Emerging Markets May Have Recently Struggled, But EM Asia Is a Long-Term Opportunity (BlackRock Blog) Emerging markets haven't being doing so well recently. Following a summer rally, EMs have been struggling because of "increasingly erratic" Russian policies, slower Chinese growth, and higher US rates.  Despite the recent outflows, BlackRock blog's Russ Koesterich thinks that "EM stocks represent a long-term opportunity and that investors underweight the asset class should consider bringing their exposure back up to at least a market weight." However, he warns that not all EMs are equal — Asian EMs, and in particular China, are the "particularly attractive" ones.  Right now, EM Asia valuations are "currently largely in line with their historical average, providing some room for future multiple expansion should EM fundamentals continue to improve." Plus, the Chinese economy is still growing at a "decent" pace, and "government officials seem committed to growth of around 7%."  "With the exception of Indonesia and India, the major countries in Asia have generally sizeable current account surpluses. And even in the case of India and Indonesia, both countries have posted significant improvements in their current accounts," Koesterich adds. Consequently, the region has been and will probably continue to be resilient to higher US yields and "any potential" of interruption of capital inflows. Investors Often Lose Sight Of Fundamentals When The Markets Are Quiet (Vanguard Group) The current and ongoing bull market for stocks has been pretty impressive. In aggregate, stocks have performed "well for more than five years." But even though things are going well, it's important to not get complacent. Wellington Management Company warns "that the buoyant effects of the central bank liquidity on global markets will not be followed by significantly better economic and business conditions in the near term. Market valuation therefore seems disconnected from fundamentals." And on top of that, the markets' "extremely low" volatility during "mediocre" global conditions is "notable." "When markets are unusually tranquil, it can be easy to lose sight of fundamentals, especially the importance of rebalancing. Without periodically adjusting your asset allocation so it stays in line with your goals and risk tolerance, you can end up with a portfolio that's very different from, and potentially riskier than, the one you have intended to have," says Vanguard CEO Bill McNabb. In other words, when the stock market keeps moving in the positive direction, investors get a little too comfortable — and that can prevent them from achieving their desired financial goals.    Wells Fargo Advisors Settles Burger King Insider Trading Charges (The Wall Street Journal)   Wells Fargo Advisors LLC "has agreed to pay a $5 million penalty to settle Securities and Exchange Commission charges that a former broker engaged in insider trading of Burger King Worldwide Inc. stock before the company's 2010 buyout," according to the WSJ's Josh Beckerman.   The SEC charged Wells Fargo Advisors with "failing to maintain adequate controls to prevent an employee from insider trading." And on top of that the SEC also charged the firm with "delaying its production of documents and providing an altered internal document."   Wells Fargo admitted to its missteps. Back in 2010, a brokerage customers invested in a 3G Capital fund, and Waldyr Da Silva Prado Neto — a former Wells Fargo financial advisor — figured out that Burger King would be sold to 3G Capital Management. Prado allegedly bought Burger King stock after this, and then quickly sold them after the acquisition. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungBill GrossWe had a nice big rally in the stock market today. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. Economic reports were overshadowed by a big move in the financial services industry. Janus Capital announced that bond king Bill Gross was leaving PIMCO to manage its Global Unconstrained Bond Fund. This follows months of tumult at the firm Gross co-founded. "Janus is the right fit at the right time in my career — and my life," Gross said. 2. Gross leaves behind the $221 billion PIMCO Total Return Fund for the $12.8 million Janus Unconstrained Bond Fund. Shares of $2 billion Janus Capital went nuclear, surging by 42%. PIMCO parent Allianz fell by around 6%. 3. As expected, Q2 GDP growth was revised up to 4.6% from a previous estimate of 4.2%. "The increase in real GDP in the second quarter primarily reflected positive contributions from personal consumption expenditures (PCE), exports, private inventory investment, nonresidential fixed investment, state and local government spending, and residential fixed investment. Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased," the BEA said. 4. The University of Michigan's confidence index was 84.6 in September, up from 82.5 in August. While it was slightly lighter than the 84.8 expected by economists, the September level nevertheless reflects a seven-year high. 5. Nike shares surged 12.2% after reporting strong Q3 financial results. Revenue and earnings smoked expectations. Management also said worldwide future orders were up 14%, which was much healthier than the 10% analysts were expecting. 6. Amid all this, US Treasury securities sold off a bit. The 10-year yield went from 2.49% to as high as 2.55%. Here's NYSE floor governor Rich Barry: "Meanwhile, in the trading pits, the Bill Gross/PIMCO news is shaking up the bond market. Treasuries are lower on speculation that the exit of Gross from the firm may prompt the world’s biggest manager of bond funds to shift away from U.S. government debt." Don't Miss: TOM LEE: Here Are The 10 Best Stocks Right Now » FREE AppDownload
Simon & SchusterSteve Jobs, the late billionaire cofounder of Apple.In the late 1990s, the internet created thousands of millionaires — and a handful of billionaires — in Silicon Valley.  The entrepreneurs who rode the wave early and bailed out before it crashed in the early aughts suddenly found themselves in an unfamiliar position: having worked 80-hour weeks at internet startups for the past few years, they now no longer needed to work at all. Ever.  For the millionaires, smart financial planning meant a comfortable life and the freedom to pursue new things.  For the billionaires, champagne baths every morning and new Lamborghinis every afternoon couldn't deplete the fathomless amount of cash on hand. "Your entire philosophy of money changes," writes author Richard Frank in his book, "Richistan." "You realize that you can't possibly spend all of your fortune, or even part of it, in your lifetime, and that your money will probably grow over the years even if you spend lavishly."   Ronald Martinez/Getty ImagesBillionaire Mark Cuban is the owner of NBA team the Dallas Mavericks.There are dotcom entrepreneurs who could live top 1% American lifestyles and not run out of cash for 4,000 years. People who Bill Simmons would call "pajama rich," so rich they can go to a five-star restaurant or sit courtside at the NBA playoffs in their pajamas. They have so much money that they have nothing to prove to anyone.  And the strange thing is that a striking number of them get totally depressed.   Have you ever swung on the Olympic rings at a playground jungle gym? Kids — especially short ones, like I was — have to jump to grab the first ring and then swing like a pendulum in order to reach the next. To get to the third ring, they have to use the momentum from the previous swing to keep going. If you hold on to the previous ring too long, you'll stop and wouldn't be able to get enough speed to reach the next ring.    This is Isaac Newton's first law of motion at work: objects in motion tend to stay in motion, unless acted on by external forces. Once you start swinging, it's easier to keep swinging than to slow down.    The problem with sudden success, it turns out, is that it can be like having someone lift you up to grab onto one of the Olympic rings. Even though you get dropped off somewhere far along the chain, you're stuck in one spot. Financial planners say that this is why a surprisingly high percentage of the rapidly wealthy get depressed. As therapist Manfred Kets de Vries once put it in an interview with The Telegraph, "When money is available in near-limitless quantities, the victim sinks into a kind of inertia." Wait — the victim? We're calling the courtside pajama guy a victim? It's hard to feel entirely sorry for him, but in a sense, yes. For him, life has stopped moving forward. When businesspeople cash out big, says wealth coach Susan Bradley, "Momentum has been building for a while. Then there's this moment that it's over, and all the champagne is gone, and there's this feeling of this drop into an abyss. It's like the beams of a house have gone away and you have to build from the inside out. That sense is paralyzing. It actually affects our cognitive functioning." I'm pretty sure that acquiring a billion dollars would solve all my problems. However, studies show that the wealthy — especially those who fall into it through inheritance or the lottery or sale of a business — are often not happier once they're rich. A meaningful percentage of them believe that their wealth causes more problems than it solves. Photographer: Neil ArmstrongBuzz Aldrin walks on the moon.If you want to get really depressed about success, look at what happened to the heroic astronauts of the 1960s and '70s. Buzz Aldrin, the second man to set foot on the moon, returned home from the historic Apollo 11 mission and became an alcoholic. Severely depressed, his life unraveled. Aldrin burned through three marriages and wrote two memoirs about his misery.  Neil Armstrong, the man who stepped out of Apollo 11 just ahead of Aldrin, spent his next few decades figuring out what to do with his life. He briefly taught some small classes at a university, then quit unexpectedly. He consulted a little for NASA and some random companies, and did a commercial for Chrysler, and quit all those things, too. Mostly, he just hid from autograph seekers and sued companies for using his name in ads. There were certainly multiple factors contributing to these men's post-moonwalk slump, but the question, What do you do after walking on the moon? became a gigantic speed bump. The trouble with moonwalkers and billionaires is when they arrive at the top, their momentum often stops. They turn into the kid on the jungle gym who just hangs from the ring. Not coincidentally, this is the same reason that only one-third of Americans are happy at their jobs. When there's no forward momentum in our careers, we get depressed, too.   As Newton pointed out, an object at rest tends to stay at rest.   So how does one avoid billionaire's depression? Or regular person's stuck-in-a-dead-end-job, lack-of-momentum-fueled depression?   Harvard Business School professor Teresa Amabile took on the question in the mid-2000s in a research study of white-collar employees. She tasked 238 pencil pushers in various industries to keep daily work diaries. The workers answered open-ended questions about how they felt, what events in their days stood out. Amabile and her fellow researchers then dissected the 12,000 resulting entries, searching for patterns in what affects people's "inner" work lives the most dramatically.   The answer, it turned it, was simply progress. A sense of forward motion. Regardless of how small.  And that's the interesting part. Amabile found that minor victories at work were nearly as psychologically powerful as major breakthroughs. To motivate stuck employees, as Amabile and her colleague Steven J. Kramer suggest in their book, "The Progress Principle," businesses need to help their workers experience lots of tiny wins.    Courtesy of Shane SnowShane Snow is author of new book "Smartcuts: How Hackers, Innovators, and Icons Accelerate Success." This is helpful to know when motivating employees. But it also hints at what billionaires and astronauts can do to stave off the depression that follows the high of getting to the top.   To get out of the funk, say Joan DiFuria and Stephen Goldbart, cofounders of the Money, Meaning &amp; Choices Institute, depressed successes simply have to start the Olympic rings over. This is why so many people who don't need more money still create new businesses. It's why others parlay their success sideways to get into philanthropy. And it's why billionaires like Groupon's Andrew Mason and Microsoft's Paul Allen start bands. Even if their subsequent endeavors are small, they can hold depression at bay by making progress on, well, anything.   They don't have to do something bigger or better to be happy. They just have to keep moving.  This is what psychologist Karl Weick of the University of Michigan calls "Small Wins." "A small win is a concrete, complete, implemented outcome of moderate importance," he wrote in a seminal paper for American Psychologist in 1984. "Once a small win has been accomplished, forces are set in motion that favor another small win."   Not every astronaut struggled post-space like Buzz Aldrin did. Earth orbiter John Glenn went into politics. Alan Shepard, America's first man in space and the fifth to stand on the moon, became a successful businessman. Alan Bean, who moonwalked in the Apollo 12 mission, became a painter. And Apollo 15 spaceman James Irwin found fulfillment in helping others as a minister. Each parlayed his momentum into something that kept the wheels of life turning.   For someone who's suffering from a lack of momentum, discouragement comes in part from a feeling of a lack of control. "Small wins are controllable opportunities that produce visible results," Weick says. And that's all it takes to start feeling better. Shane Snow is author of new book "Smartcuts: How Hackers, Innovators, and Icons Accelerate Success." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGundlach, chief executive and chief investment officer of DoubleLine Capital NEW YORK (Reuters) - Jeffrey Gundlach, who runs bond firm DoubleLine Capital, an investment firm that has been a major competitor of Pimco, told Reuters on Friday that he and Bill Gross met last week to discuss a possible role for Gross at DoubleLine. Gross, who quit Pimco on Friday to join Janus Capital Group &lt;jns.n&gt;, approached Gundlach early last week, which led to a meeting at Gundlach's home in Los Angeles to discuss a range of issues, Gundlach said in an interview. Gundlach said: "I am CEO of the firm. We talked about working together, but I was never going to be the 'co-guy.' I am CEO. That was never going to happen." Gundlach added: "I thought we had a lot in common." Gross then called Gundlach Thursday evening and left a voicemail message saying that he was leaving Pimco for another firm and would not be joining DoubleLine. "It is the right thing," Gundlach said about Gross's move to Janus. "He can be the head guy at Janus. He can create his own image. Now he can perform better because he isn't managing a lot of money. I am working like a well-oiled machine. I don't need a makeover." At Pimco, Gross managed the Pimco Total Return Fund, the world's largest bond fund with more than $220 billion in assets, and its performance had lagged its peers and the wider bond market for more than a year. At Janus, where he starts on Monday, Gross will take over a fund that was only launched in May and has just $13 million in assets. Newport Beach, California-based Pimco is the U.S. asset management unit of German financial services company Allianz SE &lt;alvg.de&gt;. Gundlach said he told Gross he found his situation "distressing" because Gundlach himself had worked for a European institution. In 2009, Gundlach was fired by the TCW Group, which at the time was owned by Societe Generale SA. "I said, it's lousy to be majority owned by a European institution," Gundlach added.   (Reporting by Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGundlach, chief executive and chief investment officer of DoubleLine Capital NEW YORK (Reuters) - Jeffrey Gundlach, who runs bond firm DoubleLine Capital, an investment firm that has been a major competitor of Pimco, told Reuters on Friday that he and Bill Gross met last week to discuss a possible role for Gross at DoubleLine. Gross, who quit Pimco on Friday to join Janus Capital Group &lt;jns.n&gt;, approached Gundlach early last week, which led to a meeting at Gundlach's home in Los Angeles to discuss a range of issues, Gundlach said in an interview. Gundlach said: "I am CEO of the firm. We talked about working together, but I was never going to be the 'co-guy.' I am CEO. That was never going to happen." Gundlach added: "I thought we had a lot in common." Gross then called Gundlach Thursday evening and left a voicemail message saying that he was leaving Pimco for another firm and would not be joining DoubleLine. "It is the right thing," Gundlach said about Gross's move to Janus. "He can be the head guy at Janus. He can create his own image. Now he can perform better because he isn't managing a lot of money. I am working like a well-oiled machine. I don't need a makeover." At Pimco, Gross managed the Pimco Total Return Fund, the world's largest bond fund with more than $220 billion in assets, and its performance had lagged its peers and the wider bond market for more than a year. At Janus, where he starts on Monday, Gross will take over a fund that was only launched in May and has just $13 million in assets. Newport Beach, California-based Pimco is the U.S. asset management unit of German financial services company Allianz SE &lt;alvg.de&gt;. Gundlach said he told Gross he found his situation "distressing" because Gundlach himself had worked for a European institution. In 2009, Gundlach was fired by the TCW Group, which at the time was owned by Societe Generale SA. "I said, it's lousy to be majority owned by a European institution," Gundlach added.   (Reporting by Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTo match Special Report SEC/INVESTIGATIONSBy Herbert Lash NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. exchange officials are seeking more time to submit a plan for building a massive database for storing all equity and options transactions, a project designed to better monitor trading activity that took on urgency after the Flash Crash of 2010. The exchanges and a regulatory body in charge of drawing up a final blueprint for building the Consolidated Audit Trail asked the Securities and Exchange Commission last week to extend the deadline of Sept. 30 to the end of the year, two sources said. The SEC declined to comment. Another delay is unlikely to please regulators who already granted several extensions to the 18 U.S. stock and options exchanges, and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), which are overseeing the process. The SEC had planned to post for public comment the blueprint known as the "optimal solution" for building the audit trail after next week's deadline and once approved, to give the exchanges and FINRA two months to select a winning bidder. A delay may change the bidding process and further push out an already lengthy timeline by three to six months, the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, suggested. Implementation of the audit trail is expected to take three years once the plan and bidder have been chosen. The exchanges and FINRA have requested the six remaining bidders to meet separately with the selection panel the week of Oct. 6 at the offices of Deloitte, which has helped coordinate meetings and tabulate information, two sources said. The SEC approved a consolidated audit trail (CAT) in July 2012 after it took months to gather the necessary data to analyze the Flash Crash. On May 6, 2010, the Dow dropped about 1,000 points in a few minutes and then quickly recovered most of that decline. The CAT will be the world's largest depository of securities transactions, taking in an estimated 58 billion records of orders, executions and quotes every day, according to Deloitte. The SEC once suggested the CAT would cost as much as $4 billion, but data storage prices have tumbled in recent years and one of the bidders has indicated that building and implementing the program over five years would cost less than $200 million. The ability to analyze and store the vast amount of data once loomed as a technical hurdle, but no longer appears to do so, technical experts said. However, getting about 2,000 brokers onboard and the system running smoothly might pose headaches.  (Reporting by Herbert Lash; Editing by Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
"Over the past few weeks, the United States has escalated military actions in the Middle East to combat ISIS and other terrorist groups," FactSet's John Butters writes. "During this same time frame, the value of the S&amp;P 500 has declined by 2.1% " However, investors in US stocks shouldn't be too worried about the crises in the Middle East. The most recent data from FactSet on revenues for S&amp;P 500 companies that operate worldwide shows that the Middle East accounts for a measly 1.9% of revenues. It tops only the Oceania region (Australia, New Zealand, and the Pacific Islands) and Africa, which account for 1.5% and 0.8% of revenues respectively. Industrials, information technology and energy are the sectors that bring in the most money from the region. Some companies including Nike have announced Q3 results, but the peak of earnings season is still about two weeks away.  This chart from FactSet's Butters shows just how little revenues from the Middle East are compared to the rest of the world. FactSet FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderJeff Gundlach today, left, and Jeff Gundlach from when he was in an LA punk band.Now that Wall Street's "Bond King" Bill Gross has stepped down from PIMCO, the massive firm he founded, it's time for someone to take his place. After all, you can't have a Kingdom without a King, and based on what money managers are telling Business Insider, the next person in line for the throne is clear — it's DoubleLine's Jeff Gundlach. "Unofficially, Jeff has already been the bond king for a while," said Josh Brown, CEO of Ritholtz Wealth Management. "Whether we're measuring by getting curve right or inflows. Maybe today just makes it official." What happened Friday is that Gross not only left his firm for a smaller shop, but also considered joining Gundlach's firm. It didn't work out. "I am CEO of the firm. We talked about working together, but I was never going to be the 'co-guy,'" Gundlach told Reuters. "I am CEO. That was never going to happen." That alone, say some, is enough to confirm Gundlach's ascendancy. Of course, that is not all there is. Gross stepped down because he's had a troubled year both with investing and managing his firm. On the investing side, it's no secret that PIMCO has seen outflows. Ending in August, Gross' flagship fund, the PIMCO Total Return Fund, saw 16 straight months of investor redemptions totaling $68 billion, collectively. Gundlach, on the other hand, has seen money pouring in. In August, DoubleLine's assets hit over $40 billion, with $598 million in net flows. The fund ended 2013 with just over $35 billion in assets. Data, Morningstar; Graphic, Business Insider "I think assets will continue to flow into DoubleLine," one institutional money manager said. Flows have been steady since the financial crisis and show no signs of abating. Data, Morningstar; Graphic, Business Insider Gundlach is a former punk rocker with an extensive art collection. He was inspired to go to Wall Street after watching an episode of "Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous" and started DoubleLine after he was fired from a rockstar position at another bond firm, TCW. Not necessarily your classic Wall Street story. But when he speaks, Wall Street pays attention.  "Gundlach has really stolen Gross' thunder in recent years, and he looks all the stronger now," said the Dallas-based money manager Charles Sizemore. "The king is dead, long live the king!" FREE AppDownload
ALROSARough diamonds from Russian company ALROSA.When a man falls on his sword, his demise isn’t usually blamed on medical reasons. A statement from the state diamond miner Alrosa on Monday reported that chief executive Fyodor Andreyev “decided to resign from the post of ALROSA president for medical reasons. He announced about this decision at the weekly management meeting held on 22 September. Stepping down from the operative management of the company, Fyodor Andreyev will continue to take part in ALROSA governance as a member of the Supervisory Board.” Now the smallest child in Russia knows that to absent himself from school, he must deliver a signed medical certificate. For a publicly listed shareholding company, as Alrosa has been since October 2013, to omit such a detail, and for Andreyev to judge it unnecessary, signals how little has changed in the governance of the company, and how unaccountable and non-transparent Andreyev was both in his coming to Alrosa, and in his going from it. The trajectory of Alrosa’s share price indicates that the market has been relatively unmoved by the sight of Andreyev’s blood. During Tuesday’s low-volume trading on the Moscow Stock Exchange, the Alrosa share price rose and fell by less than a rouble, ending up where it began at Rb37.50. In the year to date, the share started at a low of Rb33 and reached its peak of Rb48 on July 16. Since then it has dropped to Rb36. The downward trajectory has followed the MICEX index for all Russian shares. But since Alrosa’s financial report for the first half of the year appeared a month ago, indicating sales revenues up 28%, profits up 58%, the lack of bounce demonstrates the market is uncertain whether Andreyev’s demise will be good or bad for Alrosa’s prospects. Andreyev absented himself from the September 1 briefing of bank analysts on the financial report. Four of the five banks selected to ask questions – Morgan Stanley, UBS, Societe Generale, Bank of America, and Citi – omitted to ask questions about him or his tenure. Morgan Stanley broke the embarrassing silence by asking: “on the long-speculated CEO potential reelection, if there is any key date that we should be looking forward to or any update on that?” The reply from Ilya Ryashchin, then First Vice President and now acting CEO, was: “As for our President and the renewal of his contract, that stays within the scope of the Russian Federation Government, and we are keen to get some news from there.” Since Andreyev has refused to give a single unscripted answer to the press in the five years he has held his job, there can be neither belief nor sympathy for his claim that he is suffering from a malady that hadn’t manifested itself when he applied for renewal of his five-year contract expiring in July. That a man of comparable career muteness, Yury Trutnev, the deputy prime minister in charge of supervising Alrosa, should have been able to dispose of Andreyev, also without explaining to the market the reason for the action, indicates how Russia’s new war economy continues to operate just as it did before, when there was peace. At this month’s financial briefing, the bankers acknowledged the sensitivity of a state-controlled company like Alrosa to US Government attacks. One of them asked Ryashchin: “Suppose that sanctions against Russian diamonds are introduced by the EU, and ALROSA thereby loses the ability to sell diamonds into Europe. Will you be able to relocate, redirect your sales to other regions, and how much time might this take? Would this be associated with some losses to your realised prices, possibly?” ALROSAScreen shot of Russian diamond company ALROSA website. Lobbying by diamond interests in Israel and Belgium to deflect the sanctions campaign away from Alrosa, or from the state diamond manufacturer Smolensk Kristall, is well-known in the trade. Ryashchin answered that he and his board haven’t given the risk much thought, but they aren’t about to retaliate for Israeli and Belgian government support of regime change in Moscow. “[It] is quite hard to discuss a hypothetical thing,” the Alrosa executive claimed, “when you do not know what these sanction[s] could be, what these would be targeted against and what particular tools would be applied. It is even more difficult, given the degree of uncertainty in the question, to give any guidance on our realised price. Although we do look into different options of how we could sell our products, which regional markets we could use and which tools we can employ to refinance our debt.” Trutnev’s attack on Andreyev became public knowledge in April. His pitch at the time was that Alrosa should invest more in downstream diamond cutting and polishing. For the Sakha republic, where all but one of Alrosa’s diamond mines are located and where diamond manufacturing has earned small private fortunes followed by large debts to the state budget and corporate bankruptcies, Trutnev’s proposal was, for all practical purposes, too unlikely to be an honest one. The full story, analysed in detail, can be read here. Andreyev and Trutnev have never gone head to head in the intelligence quotient sense. If they had, Andreyev would have outpointed him. So long as Trutnev was mining minister between 2004 and 2012, Andreyev managed to avoid his attentions. With direct control over the federal government’s 51% stake – reduced to 43.9% on listing — the Finance Ministry and its minister dominated Alrosa, and shielded Andreyev. Alexei Kudrin’s protection ended on September 26, 2011, when he was sackedfor grasping ambition. Trutnev too lost his ministry eight months later. As the US war against Russia has intensified this year, Kudrin has sided, as he usually does, with those foreign forces whom the presidential chief of staff, Sergei Ivanov, considers inimical. The more Kudrin has lobbied for President Vladimir Putin to make concessions to the US and European Union on Ukraine, the more his name appears on lists of the “Fifth Column” circulating among the nationalists of the war economy under Ivanov’s direction. That Kudrin could not save his protégé Andreyev from six months of menaces from Trutnev is a signal that Kudrin is now out of the running for the promotion to the prime ministry he continues to hope for. According to Moscow press reports, Andreyev has taken his case for contract renewal to Putin. In February, at their last recorded meeting, Putin asked Andreyev “Are there any problems between the local communities, the regional authorities and the federal government? Is everyone working in harmony?” Andreyev is reported as answering: “I think that harmony also comes out of debate. We do debate many issues and do not always share the same point of view, but we have come a long way since the economic crisis. The crisis taught us a lot, above all, not to spend carelessly on all kinds of investment projects.” That last phrase was Andreyev’s shot at Trutnev. Ria Novosti/Kremlin/Alexei Druzhinin/ReutersRussia's Prime Minister Vladimir Putin talks to workers of the mining company Alrosa, in the city of Mirny in Eastern Siberia, August 21, 2009.Andreyev also told Putin: “I think that the agreement between the shareholders and the company’s significance as a taxpayer for the region are the economic foundation for our good relations. We will therefore try to make these relations more clear and transparent and will not undermine our economic base for the sake of fine slogans. I think that these foundations have been laid now.” Transparent is not what Andreyev has ever intended. Nor was Putin’s reply – “thank you”. The “medical reason” which overtook Andreyev this week also signals that Kudrin’s old ally and Trutnev’s current boss, First Deputy Prime Minister Igor Shuvalov, continues to scheme for personal advantage at Alrosa, just as he did when he backed Suleiman Kerimov’s  attempted takeover of the company. That was before Kerimov was pushed onto the same sword as has disposed of Andreyev. Trutnev’s long ministerial career demonstrates the rich rewards that can be earned in Moscow for lacking a mind of one’s own. In consequence, whenever Trutnev makes a move as obvious as this year’s campaign against Andreyev, it is natural for the Russian diamond industry to speculate on the identity of the individual, corporation, or group giving Trutnev his marching orders. This obvious question is one diamantaires in Tel Aviv, Antwerp, Gaborone and New York aren’t comfortable answering. One reason is that the one powerful diamond industry figure who may gain financially from the move is Lev Leviev, the Russian-speaking Israeli who continues to operate Ruis Diamonds, the second of the diamond-cutting and polishing companies in Russia, after the state-owned Smolensk Kristall. For years now, starting with Andreyev’s predecessor at Alrosa, Sergei Vybornov, Leviev has suffered a steady loss of influence at Alrosa and the supply of discount-priced rough diamonds for his local and international businesses. Has Leviev employed Trutnev to replace Andreyev with placemen to suit them both? Sergei Goryainov suspects as much. Goryainov is a leading analyst at the Russian diamond industry bible, Rough &amp; Polished. He believes Trutnev and Leviev are planning to revive old schemes of secret discounting for rough diamonds; exports of partially faceted stones; and other revenue-negative operations which Alrosa’s management has been eliminating. The Andreyev faction is fighting back with kompromat on Trutnev’s record like this, published the day after Andreyev announced his resignation. “Andreyev’s leaving, “says Goryainov, “likely means the strengthening of the position of Trutnev in the form of putting some of his staff in the management of the company, especially in control of financial flows, of course. The probability that this attempt will be successful in the current situation is quite high. In this case, Leviev, as an advisor and consultant in the field of diamond business… can certainly get preferences, mainly in the field of product availability from Alrosa. If we draw a historical analogy, in the 1990s and early 2000s, 25% of Alrosa’s production was ‘processed’ in this way… If you look at current prices, with Alrosa now taking $5 billion in revenue, it can be assumed that a billion and a quarter will be utilized so nicely.” In April, Valeriy Morozov, the chief executive of Ruis Diamonds and Leviev’s representative in Moscow, was asked to say if Leviev and Trutnev are acting to concert to get rid of Andreyev. He replied: “Trutnev is certainly familiar with Leviev, but not so close. And even more, we cannot speak about any lobbying. As for Andreyev, on the contrary, our group has with him very constructive relationships in all areas. He is a very competent manager, the best of all the presidents of Alrosa in recent times. Indeed, today he is the most suitable candidate, and there is no alternative candidate for this position. Our view on this issue is well-known, including on Trutnev. But it is obvious he has his own view on Alrosa.” This week, following Andreyev’s exit, Morozov said: “Leviev’s relationship with Alrosa does not depend on a specific person, and so to speak of ‘benefit’ is incorrect. As for Andreyev, we regret his departure from Alrosa. In our opinion, he was the most appropriate and professional president of the company for the past ten years. About the candidates [to replace him] we are absolutely in the dark. That’s the truth.” This article originally appeared at Dances With Bears. John Helmer is the longest continuously serving foreign correspondent in Russia, and the only western journalist to direct his own bureau independent of single national or commercial ties. Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons Bill Gross is leaving PIMCO for Janus Capital. Gross is leaving the firm after a period of turmoil at PIMCO and will take over the Janus Unconstrained Bond Fund, which currently has about $13 million in assets under management. At PIMCO, Gross managed the Total Return Fund, which has more than $221 billion in assets under management. On Friday following the news, several of PIMCO's closed-end funds were taking it on the chin. US-listed shares of Allianz, which owns PIMCO, were also down more than 6.5% on Friday.  A closed-end bond fund has a few traits that make it vulnerable in a moment like this. For one, closed-end funds can't accept new money after they begin trading on an exchange. Also, they trade on an exchange. Unlike a traditional open-end mutual fund, a closed-end fund is listed on a stock exchange and trades like a stock, trading usually either at a discount or premium to its net asset value.  The drop in PIMCO's closed-end funds also comes after a report from AllianceBernstein said it expected assets under management at PIMCO to fall 10% to 30% in the wake of Gross' departure.  Here is the ugly action in a few of PIMCO's closed-end funds as investors rush for the exits. Here's the PIMCO High Income Fund, down more than 8.5% in trading on Friday. Google Finance The PIMCO Income Opportunity Fund is down 2%.  Google Finance The PIMCO Dynamic Income Fund is down about 2.5%.  Google Finance And the PIMCO Dynamic Credit Income Fund is down 1.8%.  Google Finance Tough day for PIMCO.  FREE AppDownload
Marissa Mayer and Tim ArmstrongActivist investor Starboard sent a letter to Yahoo this morning urging Yahoo management to improve shareholder value by, among other things, unlocking the value of its Asian assets tax-efficiently, cutting costs, stopping certain kinds of acquisitions, and exploring a "strategic combination" with AOL. That has all been reported. What has not been reported is that the "strategic combination" with AOL would not likely be Yahoo buying AOL, as most reports have assumed. Rather, to aid in the tax-efficient monetization of Yahoo's Asian assets, the combination would likely be AOL buying Yahoo, with AOL, not Yahoo, likely being the surviving entity. Here's the relevant paragraph: [W]e believe a merger of AOL and Yahoo's core business may be one of the best ways to both fully seize the cost reduction opportunity and also to tax efficiently monetize Yahoo's non-core equity holdings.  We trust the Board and management will do the right thing for shareholders, even if this may mean accepting AOL as the surviving entity in a combination, should that be the best and most tax efficient structure. (Emphasis ours.) The transaction Starboard is likely describing is some form of what is known as a "cash-rich split-off," which is a technique that can be used to unlock valuable assets without having to pay capital gains on them. The rules for cash-rich split-offs are mind-numbingly complicated (I have detailed them here), but in this case it would likely involve a cash-enriched AOL buying Yahoo, not the other way around. Starboard already knows AOL and AOL's management well, having taken an activist position in AOL a couple of years back, so it is in a good position to help facilitate a transaction like this. One interesting question if a deal like this were ever to happen would be who would be in charge of the combined entity: Yahoo and Yahoo's CEO, the former Googler Marissa Mayer? Or AOL and AOL's CEO, the former Googler, Tim Armstrong? Either way, as Starboard suggests, combining the two companies would indeed make sense strategically. Scale helps in the digital-media, distribution, and communication business, and the combined AOL-Yahoo would have massive scale. DISCLOSURE: I work for Yahoo as a host of a Yahoo Finance video show. I am a Yahoo shareholder (since 1998). I know Yahoo's CEO Marissa Mayer. I know people at Yahoo and on Yahoo's board. I know Yahoo investors. I am also an AOL shareholder (since 1997.) I know AOL's CEO Tim Armstrong and other people at AOL. I know AOL investors and board members. Yahoo and Business Insider have a business relationship, which is great for both companies. AOL and Business Insider have a business relationship, which is great for both companies. I like the people I have mentioned above personally and would not like to say or do things that would make them mad at me. I also have relationships with dozens of other folks that might create conflicts of one sort or another when I write about this topic. So, basically, I'm conflicted out the wazoo. FREE AppDownload
ReutersMarissa Mayer, Yahoo's CEO.A few years ago, one of the older internet companies hired a rockstar executive from Google to become CEO. The new Googler CEO brought in a bunch other Googlers. The Googler CEO brought energy and passion to the job, infusing a dying internet company with a new culture and a new sense of optimism. The Googler CEO went on an acquisition spree, buying up all sorts of small and big companies. Unfortunately, optimism alone can only get a company so far. The company's results were disappointing. Revenue barely grew, and its core business — display advertising — was going nowhere.  Sensing an opportunity, an activist shareholder group stepped in, bought a big stake and made demands for the old internet company to change its ways. Until today, this story was about AOL and its CEO Tim Armstrong. Now, this story is going to be about Yahoo and its CEO Marissa Mayer. Jessica Rinaldi/Getty ImagesCEO of AOL Tim Armstrong. The activist fund Starboard Value LP has launched an attack on Yahoo. In a letter to Mayer, it says it is "a significant shareholder of Yahoo" and has ideas to "unlock tremendous value for the benefit of all Yahoo shareholders." Here, verbatim, are Starboard's ideas: These are completely reasonable ideas from Starboard. And, if history repeats, they will be happening in the near future.  You see, in 2012, Starboard went after AOL. It had a big presentation about what it wanted AOL to do. The four big takeaways: Today, in 2014, Patch is dead. AOL has invested in its display business properly. The Huffington Post is on its way to being profitable, Tim Armstrong says. REUTERS/Jim Urquhart CEO of AOL Tim Armstrong. How all of that happened is a long and involved story. This is the truncated version. If Marissa Mayer is smart, she'll read the long version, because what happened to AOL is going to happen to Yahoo. Armstrong didn't want to give in to Starboard. He fought and he won, sort of. Armstrong is still the CEO of AOL, but he had to bend to Starboard's will. The first thing he did to fend off Starboard was find some patents laying around that he could sell for $1.1 billion. When that was announced, AOL's shares shot up 43%. AOL returned that $1.1 billion to shareholders.  To keep shareholders happy, as we previously reported, Armstrong made five commitments to AOL shareholders on an earnings call. He said AOL would increase its earnings expectations for 2012 and 2013, distribute 100% of the patent sale proceeds back to shareholders, more clearly report which parts of AOL were doing well and which were not, appoint an independent board member, and, importantly, bring Patch to profitability by the end of 2013 "through revenue and cost improvements." Patch never reached profitability under AOL. So AOL sold Patch.  We fully expect the same sort of thing to happen to Mayer at Yahoo. She will try to resist. She will scramble to find a solution, but eventually she will capitulate.  Starboard's demands are entirely reasonable, and it has the power and the money to make them a reality. FREE AppDownload
Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesYou don't need to ask about London house prices to know they're going up. Londoners will happily tell you, whether you want to hear it or not. The Office for National Statistics' house price index shows London's prices are up by more than 35% since the start of 2008, an eye-watering figure for anyone in the city trying to get on the housing ladder. House price crash? What house price crash! But there's a few parts of the world that make London's price growth look a little bit pathetic. The figures are from a Bank of International Settlements (BIS) paper released earlier this month - economists Kostas Tsatsaronis, Robert Szemere and Michela Scatigna took a look at global house price dynamics. Here are four parts of the world that make London's growth look feeble.  BIS, Business Insider A 35% increase? The residents of Hong Kong, where prices are 61% since the start of 2008, would kill for a 35% increase. It's not just one city either. The same paper suggests Chinese house prices overall have jumped by 64% since the crash. That's despite the country's astonishing ghost cities.  But according to the BIS, the two biggest surges have been in latin America. Brazilian house prices are up by 90% over the same period, and Peruvian house prices are up 121%. That's not a typo. So Londoners, don't worry too much about house prices. Think about saving for a deposit in Lima, and despair.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Rick WilkingActivist investor Jeff Smith, who runs hedge fund Starboard Value, is starting to become a household name on Wall Street. Smith has sent a letter to Yahoo! urging that they consider combining their business with AOL. Both of the stocks jumped on the news. Yahoo! was once the target of well-known activist investor Daniel Loeb of Third Point LLC.   A couple weeks ago, Smith made headlines for his monster presentation demonstrating that Olive Garden should change its famous unlimited breadsticks and salad. Smith, who owns an 8.8% in the restaurant group's stock, believes that by eliminating the endless menu option the restaurant will be able to save $5 million per year. He points out that there are too many breadsticks on the table, and they're being wasted. Some customers freaked out because they thought that Smith wanted to get rid of breadsticks all together. That's not the case.  As an activist fund, Starboard's main investment thesis is to find undervalued small-cap companies and actively engage with management and boards to unlock value.  Smith's Starboard Value launched in 2002. The fund currently manages around $2.3 billion in assets. He's had some noteworthy shareholder activism campaigns. He took on AOL, but lost his proxy fight. He also took an activist stake in Office Depot with later merged with OfficeMax (He resigned from the Office Depot board the other day).  According to Institutional Investor, Smith has made money on 84% of his fund's activist campaigns.  Before launching his own fund, Smith was a managing director at Ramius LLC (both the head of risk management and head of research at Starboard also worked at Ramius). Before that, he was a Vice President of Strategic Development for The Fresh Juice Company. He began his career in finance working in M&amp;A at SocGen.  He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School of Business.  FREE AppDownload
As part of our ongoing search for demographic and economic outliers, we wanted to find the place in each state with the most expensive houses. The Minnesota Population Center's 2012 American Community Survey IPUMS is a collection of slightly modified (for statistical and privacy purposes) individual responses to the Census Bureau's American Community Survey, an annual project to better understand the population of the US. Using this data, Business Insider estimated the median house value for each of the Census Bureau's Public Use Microdata Areas. These are a way of slicing up the country into areas that contain about 100,000 people. For densely populated cities, these correspond to neighborhoods, or groups of neighborhoods. For less densely populated areas, like in the Mountain West, they can be entire groups of counties. Here's the area with the highest median house value in every state: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Minnesota Population Center 2012 American Community Survey IPUMS Unsurprisingly, the coastal states include towns and neighborhoods that are extremely pricey. The two places with the highest house values in our list are the heart of Silicon Valley in California, and lower Manhattan in New York. Meanwhile, houses are much less expensive in the middle of the country. The lowest values on our list were in Benton County, Arkansas, and the easternmost part of West Virginia. Here's a table showing the places, ranked by median house value: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Minnesota Population Center 2012 American Community Survey IPUMS
Wikimedia CommonsProPublica and This American Life published a massive report alleging severe conflicts of interest between the New York Federal Reserve and Goldman Sachs. "The Ray Rice video for the financial sector has arrived," Michael Lewis said. The report is driven by secret recordings that suggest that the NY Fed regulators were too soft on Goldman and therefore possibly other banks as well. The recordings come from former New York Fed bank examiner Carmen Segarra, who was fired after just seven months on the job. The article is nearly 6,000 words long, and the podcast runs for over an hour. And there's lots of background. We read and listened. Here are 16 important pieces of information from the story. Here they are: 1. Back in 2008, the NY Fed hired the Columbia University finance professor David Beim to conduct an "unlimited access" and totally secret investigation of the NY Fed. Basically, he was to investigate how the Fed failed to catch the financial meltdown and how it might do a better job in the future. 2. Beim interviewed "dozens" of New York Fed employees and found that the Fed's biggest problem was its own culture: He said the NY Fed was too submissive to the big banks it was supposed to supervise. In his report, Beim also notes that Fed employees were afraid of contradicting upper-level management WITHIN the Fed. He writes in his report: [Fed employees] don't want to be too far outside from where management is thinking. The organization does not encourage thinking outside the box. After you get shot down a couple of times, you tend not to go there anymore. Until I know what my boss thinks, I don't want to tell you. 3. Beim offered the NY Fed advice for the future: It must hire expert examiners "who were unafraid to speak up" to prevent the next crisis. 4. Fast forward one year. The Congress gave the Federal Reserve "even more oversight authority." So the NY Fed started to hire people to examine the big banks because they could potentially hurt the financial system again. 5. Carmen Segarra, an experienced lawyer, was one of the people who were hired. And she got placed at Goldman Sachs. 6. And then, she was fired after only seven months on the job. 7. So last year, Segarra sued the NY Fed. She said she was fired because she refused to "back down" from her negative finds about Goldman Sachs. 8. The case was thrown out this year without ruling on the merits, saying, "The facts didn't fit the statute under which she sued." 9. But here's the fun part: Segarra secretly recorded audio while she was working at the NY Fed. She was "worried about what she was witnessing" and wanted to have evidence of the inside happenings "in case the events were disputed." She talks about a meeting with Mike Silva, a senior Fed official stationed at Goldman, who has been working there for almost 20 years: He started off by talking about how he wanted to give me some mentoring feedback. And then he started talking about the importance of credibility. And he said, you know, credibility at the Fed is about subtleties and about perceptions, as opposed to reality. 10. All together she recorded 46 hours of meetings and conversations. And what's fascinating about these recordings is that Fed deliberations are rarely public — they're confidential by regulation. 11. Her recordings allegedly show that, despite all of Beim's suggestions, the NY Fed didn't change its culture. It was still submissive to the big banks. An unidentified man says of the recording: We're not obligating them to do anything necessarily. Segarra says the following about this type of culture: I think it would've been just as scary if I had gone in there and found like an aggressive Fed that was really mean and sort of you know trying to nitpick. I think that all that power sort of being abused, that's a very scary thing. But when you find the opposite, the absence of exercise of power, the absence of the exercise of responsibility, then you are just like this is a problem because you've been made the overarching regulator, and the country is looking to you to make things better after the crisis, and if you can't do it, then we need to talk about who can. 12. And in Segarra's case specifically, the NY Fed was submissive to Goldman. Her recordings allegedly show that it had a hard time establishing its authority and was "reluctant to push hard against Goldman" at times. An unidentified man on the recording says: I would add to his comments in that I think we don't want to discourage Goldman from disclosing these types of things in the future, and therefore maybe you know some comment that says don't mistake our inquisitiveness, and our desire to understand more about the marketplace in general, as a criticism of you as a firm necessarily. Like I don't want to, I don't want to hit them on the bat with the head, and they say screw it we're not gonna disclose it again, we don't need to. 13. Segarra wasn't willing to conform to the status quo while she was working for the NY Fed and was often outspoken about her "negative" findings. Colleagues apparently found her "abrasive" and then complained, according to ProPublica. Segarra's supervisor, Jonathan Kim said to her: I want you to be successful. OK? There are — there's information coming in, there's opinions that are coming in. Right? ... it's really about how you are perceived, right? So if there's more a general sort of feedback that says that it's not only one person, it's not only two persons, but many more people who are perceiving that you're — um, you have more sharper elbows, right? Or that you're sort of breaking eggs. I think the message has come back to me saying you know that you really need to make these changes quickly in order for you to be successful. 14. Segarra's boss, according to the report, repeatedly tried to get her to change her conclusion that Goldman "was missing a policy to handle conflicts of interest." And Segarra believes that she was fired because she refused to back down from this conclusion. Silva says to Segarra: Carmen you have to come off the view that Goldman doesn't have any kind of conflict of interest policy. We can say they have to improve it. Maybe they have to improve it a lot ... Why can't we just say they have basic pieces of a policy but they have to dramatically improve it? To which Segarra responds: Between you and me and these four walls ... No way, no way this is a policy. I will work with you. I will say they have a very poor policy, OK, but professionally I cannot agree with you." 15. But the NY Fed disputes her claim. It said that she was fired "based entirely on performance grounds," that she didn't do her job well enough. The NY Fed statement said: The decision to terminate Ms. Segarra’s employment with the New York Fed was based entirely on performance grounds, not because she raised concerns as a member of an examination team about any institution. 16. Plus the NY Fed insists that it has taken steps to incorporate Beim's recommendations and that it "categorically rejects the allegations being made about the integrity of its supervision of financial institutions." In other words, it says it has been wrongly accused of being too soft. If you want to read through the whole detailed account, you can read Jake Bernstein's ProPublica story here.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungBill Gross, co-founder and co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment Management Company (PIMCO), wears sunglasses as he arrives to speak at the Morningstar Investment Conference in Chicago, Illinois, June 19, 2014.The surprise hiring of famed bond fund manager Bill Gross by Janus Capital Group is "clearly a black swan event" that should help the asset manager regain its stature, said one of its top investors, portfolio manager John Miller of Ariel Investments. "We think it's fantastic news," Miller said in a telephone interview on Friday. Janus Capital shares were up sharply in morning trading on investor enthusiasm that Gross' arrival could help rejuvenate the Denver asset manager. Janus was known for its high-flying equity funds but took big hits in the technology crash and later in the financial crisis. Its chief executive officer, Dick Weil, had once worked with Gross at Pimco. Gross' arrival "will provide the firm with a very unique opportunity to offer global macro fixed income strategies and products that are highly complementary" to its other recent bond efforts, Weil said in a statement. Gross will take over leadership of the Janus Global Unconstrained Bond Fund, Weil said. The new fund has only about $13 million in assets, which pales in comparison with the $222 billion in the Pimco Total Return fund Gross has run. Janus, which has faced outflows in recent years, had total assets of $177.7 billion at June 30. But Miller said Gross would be a big draw for the company. "Here you have one of the best investors of all time," Miller said. "For him to join a firm like Janus, that says a lot about the brand. "It's not uncommon to hear investors say the Janus brand is tarnished," Miller added. "We're firm believers that is not the case." Fox Searchlight / Black SwanA Blask Swan Event describes an event that comes as a surprise, has a major effect, and is often inappropriately emphasized and rationalized after the fact.  (Reporting by Ross Kerber, Editing by Franklin Paul and Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
Mike Lawrie/NikeNike shares are surging after reporting earnings that beat expectations. On Friday, shares of Nike were up more than 10% after its earnings report on Thursday afternoon. Nike shares gained 5% on Thursday afternoon after Nike reported first quarter earnings per share of $1.09 against expectations for $0.88, according to data from Bloomberg. Revenue in the quarter totaled $8 billion against expectations for $7.83 billion. Nike also reported gross margins of 46.6%, beating expectations, and worldwide future orders — excluding the impact from currencies — that were up 14% against expectations for a 10% increase. Inventories were up 14% to $4 billion at the end of the quarter when compared to the prior year period.  The company also reported that market expenses rose 23% during the quarter, which it said was mostly related to the World Cup.  During the first quarter, Nike repurchased 10.6 million shares for about $819 million. FREE AppDownload
Ethan Miller/Getty Images Activist investor Starboard has sent a letter to Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer urging her to combine Yahoo's business with AOL's. Shortly after the letter went out, Reuters reported, "Yahoo says exploring a strategic combination with AOL." It seems this is a misreading. We are seeking confirmation of that news. Two years ago, an activist investor named Dan Loeb bought a bunch of Yahoo stock and demanded that its board and CEO resign. In their place, he put Marissa Mayer at the top of Yahoo. Now a new activist investor is going after Yahoo.  This time it's Jeffrey Smith of Starboard. He hasn't asked Mayer to resign. He wants her to: Smith's main view is that a sum-of-the-parts valuation of Yahoo reveals that the company is undervalued by the market. "Yahoo's main assets include its core Search and Display advertising businesses ("Yahoo's core business"), its non-core 15% stake in Alibaba, the world's largest e-commerce company, and its non-core 35.5% stake in Yahoo Japan, Japan's leading Internet advertising company. "There has been tremendous excitement around Alibaba and its IPO. Even after the previous ill-timed and tax-inefficient sales of Alibaba stock, Yahoo's remaining stake in Alibaba is currently worth more than the entire enterprise value of Yahoo. When adding Yahoo Japan, these two minority equity interests are worth approximately $11 billion, or $11 per share more than the current enterprise value of the Company." Smith says that's because investors expect Yahoo to keep acting like it has over the past several years. Specifically: paying the full tax rate when it sells pieces of its Alibaba and Yahoo Japan stakes and making expensive acquisitions of startups. Smith says the tax problem is an easy fix. "With the assistance of tax counsel and independent tax advisors, we have explored a number of alternative structures that, if implemented, could deliver value for these minority equity investments directly to the shareholders of Yahoo with limited tax leakage. " He says that Yahoo could fix its acquisition strategy by no longer spending money on startups that don't add to revenues and using the money to buy AOL instead. He thinks the combined companies could cut $1 billion worth of costs. "We believe that a combination of Yahoo and AOL could offer synergies of up to $1 billion by significantly reducing the cost overlaps in their Display advertising businesses as well as synergies in corporate overhead.  Importantly, we believe the combined entity would be able to more successfully navigate the ongoing industry changes, such as the growth of programmatic advertising and migration to mobile. In addition, we believe a combination could also lead to revenue growth opportunities given the broader user base, higher quality content, better technology assets, and enhanced relationships with advertising agencies. " Smith says that Yahoo could even buy AOL in a transaction that would allow it to sell Alibaba and Yahoo Japan stock without paying full taxes. Presumably, he is referring to what's known as a "cash-rich split" in which either Alibaba or Yahoo Japan would buy AOL and then trade it to Yahoo for Alibaba or Yahoo Japan stock. Yahoo almost did such a deal a couple of years ago with Alibaba, but Alibaba backed off, fearing that it wouldn't look good for a Chinese company to help an American one avoid paying taxes. Jeff Smith has a long history with AOL. A couple of years ago, he led an activist campaign against its board of directors and CEO Tim Armstrong. Back then, Armstrong and Smith were enemies.  Today, Armstrong is likely rooting for Smith to get his way. We've heard that he's been open to a merger with Yahoo (at the right price) for a few years now. Here is the complete Starboard letter: September 26, 2014 Marissa A. Mayer, President and CEOYahoo! Inc.701 First Avenue Sunnyvale, California 94089 cc: Board of Directors Dear Marissa, Starboard Value LP, together with its affiliates ("Starboard"), is currently a significant shareholder of Yahoo! Inc. ("Yahoo" or the "Company"). By way of background, Starboard Value LP is an investment management firm that seeks to invest in undervalued and underperforming public companies.  Our approach to such investments is to actively engage and work closely with management teams and boards of directors in a constructive manner to identify and execute on opportunities to unlock value for the benefit of all shareholders.  Our principals and investment team have extensive experience and a successful track record of enhancing value at portfolio companies through a combination of strategic refocusing, improved operational execution, and more efficient capital allocation. The purpose of this letter is to highlight several opportunities to unlock tremendous value for the benefit of all Yahoo shareholders.  These opportunities include: We believe that the execution of these initiatives would produce tremendous value for shareholders, and are squarely within the control of the Company's management and board of directors (the "Board").  We look forward to engaging directly with you to discuss the details of how these actions can be implemented in a timely manner.  Yahoo's Sum-of-the-Parts Yahoo's main assets include its core Search and Display advertising businesses ("Yahoo's core business"), its non-core 15% stake in Alibaba, the world's largest e-commerce company, and its non-core 35.5% stake in Yahoo Japan, Japan's leading Internet advertising company.  There has been tremendous excitement around Alibaba and its IPO.  Even after the previous ill-timed and tax-inefficient sales of Alibaba stock, Yahoo's remaining stake in Alibaba is currently worth more than the entire enterprise value of Yahoo.  When adding Yahoo Japan, these two minority equity interests are worth approximately $11 billion, or $11 per share more than the current enterprise value of the Company.  This is before ascribing any value to Yahoo's core business, intellectual property, or real estate holdings, and clearly shows the dramatic valuation discrepancy that currently exists at Yahoo.  Starboard  This substantial valuation gap is likely due to the fact that investors currently expect Yahoo to continue its past practices of (a) monetizing its non-core minority equity stakes in a tax inefficient manner and (b) using the cash proceeds from such sales to acquire businesses at massive valuations with seemingly little to no regard for profitability and return on capital.  If these two issues are addressed such that the non-core minority equity stakes are monetized in a tax efficient manner and Yahoo's aggressive acquisition strategy is halted, Yahoo's current stock price would imply negative $11 billion of value for Yahoo's core business.  Over the next twelve months, Yahoo's core business is expected to produce over $4 billion in revenue, $1.2 billion in EBITDA, and $600 million of free cash flow.  Obviously, ascribing negative value to this large and profitable business is nonsensical, demonstrating to us the market's significant skepticism about the Company's current strategy.  We believe that Yahoo's core business is valuable.  However, given some recent operational challenges, we would expect it to trade at the low end of industry multiples.  Comparable advertising companies currently trade in a range of between 6x and 11x next twelve months EBITDA.  Assuming a very conservative multiple of 5.5x EBITDA, which represents approximately a 10% free cash flow yield, this implies a value gap of almost $18 billion or $18 per share from the current share price (assuming the non-core assets can be monetized tax efficiently): Starboard Clearly Yahoo is deeply undervalued relative to the sum of its parts.  We believe this value gap can be closed with minimal tax leakage and without delay based on actions within the control of management and the Board.  We believe it is incumbent upon management and the Board to take immediate steps in committing to remedy this valuation discrepancy.  We have provided additional detail below on the substantial value-creation opportunities at Yahoo that we believe should be immediately explored and executed.    Yahoo's Non-Core Minority Equity Investments As we highlighted above, it appears investors currently expect the Company to continue their practice of monetizing these investments in a tax inefficient manner.  Although management has made cursory and non-committal statements regarding Yahoo's intention to explore more tax-efficient ways to monetize these investments, investors are clearly not convinced that this will be accomplished.  We believe management should immediately and clearly articulate how it intends to deliver value from these investments to Yahoo shareholders in the most tax-efficient and expeditious manner.  Until clarity is provided with respect to Yahoo's equity investments, investors are likely to assume that Yahoo will continue to monetize its equity stakes in an inefficient way.  With the assistance of tax counsel and independent tax advisors, we have explored a number of alternative structures that, if implemented, could deliver value for these minority equity investments directly to the shareholders of Yahoo with limited tax leakage.  Other companies with analogous minority ownership stakes have recently and successfully implemented similar tax-efficient structures.  Importantly, we believe these structures can be implemented in a relatively short timeframe, do not necessarily involve multiple jurisdictions, and can be announced in short order without running afoul of the existing underwriting or lock-up agreements with Alibaba and the underwriters.  As shown in the table below, the difference in value to shareholders of Yahoo between a fully taxed monetization of Yahoo's minority equity holdings and a tax-efficient separation equates to $16 billion in value, or $16 per share of Yahoo. Starboard Given the potential for value creation through a tax-efficient monetization of Yahoo's non-core minority investments and the likely impact it would have on share price, it must be the top priority for management and the Board.  We believe this opportunity is the best possible way to create significant value for shareholders with the least amount of risk. We have done significant work on potential structures that would allow for a tax-efficient monetization  of Yahoo's minority equity holdings and look forward to sharing the details of this work with you. Yahoo's Core Business  Although Yahoo's stock price performance over the past few years has been strong, we believe the main reason for this performance has been the significant increase in value of Yahoo's stake in Alibaba.  The appreciation in Alibaba's valuation, which Yahoo purchased in 2005, has masked the poor performance of Yahoo's core business.  As shown in the table below, since new management was appointed in Q2 2012, revenue in Yahoo's core Search and Display businesses has been stagnant, yet SG&amp;A and R&amp;D expenditures have grown by a staggering $390 million, in turn, causing EBITDA to decline by 19%. Starboard The $1.3 billion spent on acquisitions has clearly not delivered value to shareholders.  Not only do we believe that many of the acquired companies were, and still are, losing a considerable amount of money, but we also believe that these acquisitions, on a combined basis, have failed to deliver material revenue growth.  In fact, we believe that a number of the acquired start-ups have actually been shut down after being acquired by Yahoo.  Our analysis indicates that Yahoo's display business, where management's efforts and acquisitions have been focused, may be losing over $500 million in EBITDA per year:  We believe such unacceptable financial performance has resulted from a combination of the Company's large investments in content and new products along with a continued decline in Display advertising pricing and a bloated cost structure. As a standalone company, our research indicates that Yahoo could pare its cost structure by between $250 and $500 million without a material loss of revenue.  This cost-cutting opportunity is consistent with the business plan that current management reportedly prepared at the time of joining Yahoo, but which has never been implemented. Exploring a Strategic Combination with AOL While a cost reduction program could lead to significant value creation, this opportunity pales in comparison to the synergies that we believe Yahoo could unlock in a combination with AOL.  In fact, like Yahoo, we believe AOL's Display business also continues to lose a substantial amount of money: Starboard Based on our analysis, we believe that a combination of Yahoo and AOL could offer synergies of up to $1 billion by significantly reducing the cost overlaps in their Display advertising businesses as well as synergies in corporate overhead.  Importantly, we believe the combined entity would be able to more successfully navigate the ongoing industry changes, such as the growth of programmatic advertising and migration to mobile.  In addition, we believe a combination could also lead to revenue growth opportunities given the broader user base, higher quality content, better technology assets, and enhanced relationships with advertising agencies.  Interestingly, based on our research and the legal advice we have received on how to unlock the value of Yahoo's equity holdings, we believe a merger of AOL and Yahoo's core business may be one of the best ways to both fully seize the cost reduction opportunity and also to tax efficiently monetize Yahoo's non-core equity holdings.  We trust the Board and management will do the right thing for shareholders, even if this may mean accepting AOL as the surviving entity in a combination, should that be the best and most tax efficient structure.  ************** The management and Board of Yahoo have a tremendous opportunity to create significant value for its shareholders.  We believe the combination of (i) unlocking the value of Yahoo's non-core minority equity stakes in a tax efficient manner, (ii) preserving shareholder capital by halting the current aggressive acquisition spree, and (iii) improving the profitability of Yahoo's core business on a stand-alone basis or, ideally, in a merger with AOL, would result in a significant appreciation of Yahoo's stock price.  Yahoo's recent strategy of focusing on acquisitions has not worked.  Yahoo's stock price has merely been buoyed by the strong growth in value of Alibaba.  We understand that the likely result of monetizing Yahoo's non-core minority investments in the most tax efficient manner likely means that the Company will not have access to those proceeds to be used towards acquisitions.  However, even if the Company were to deliver all of the value from its non-core minority investments directly to shareholders without receiving any additional cash proceeds, it is important to note that Yahoo would still have $7 billion in cash and cash equivalents (after returning to shareholders approximately 50% of the Alibaba IPO proceeds) and significant debt capacity which would be more than sufficient for any future capital needs for investments or acquisitions.  To be clear, while Yahoo is trading at such a deep discount to the sum-of-its-parts, we do not believe the Company should be pursuing acquisitions of companies at high multiples of revenue as it has done repeatedly in the past.   We hope, and expect, that the management team and the Board will execute on the suggestions in this letter. We look forward to speaking with you in more detail about Yahoo's opportunities and the potential structures the Company can utilize to create value for the benefit of all shareholders.  Best Regards, Jeffrey C. SmithManaging MemberStarboard Value LP About Starboard Value LPStarboard Value LP is a New York-based investment adviser with a focused and differentiated fundamental approach to investing in publicly traded U.S. small cap companies. Starboard invests in deeply undervalued small cap companies and actively engages with management teams and boards of directors to identify and execute on opportunities to unlock value for the benefit of all shareholders. Investor contacts:Peter Feld, (212) 201-4878Gavin Molinelli, (212) 201-4828www.starboardvalue.com  SOURCE Starboard Value LP 
Flickr / GmanVizThe New York Times is running a series on subprime auto lending, called "Driven to Debt." The most recent installment, "Miss a Payment? Good Luck Moving That Car," introduces readers to the scary world of borrowers who can literally have their cars turned off if they get into financial trouble.  The technology exists and can be operated from laptops, desktops, and mobile devices. Michael Corkery and Jessica Silver-Greenberg's DealBook report on cars that won't start at the most alarming times: a child has a high fever, a driver is stuck in a rough neighborhood, somebody is pumping gas and the vehicle goes dead. The tech can also enable lenders to track a borrower's movements, undermining the whole concept of a car as an icon of freedom and unfettered mobility. DRAMATIC RECOVERY The U.S. auto market completely cratered in the aftermath of the financial crisis, but it has recovered dramatically. Numerous observers have pointed to subprime lending — which the New York Times defined as lending to borrowers with credit scores under 640 — as a crucial factor, pushing new car sales to heights not seen since before the Great Recession. The media has been swift to connect the current upsurge in subprime lending with the subprime mortgage crisis, due mainly to superficial similarities in the way that subprime auto loans are packaged into securities that investors can buy to obtain a substantial return. The risk that's juicing the yields, of course, is that subprime borrowers are more likely to fall behind on payments or default. A recurrent feature of these stories, however, is a cast of borrowers who are probably what's referred to in the business as "deep" subprime. Last year, Reuters reported on a borrower who put up a shotgun as a down payment for a car loan. These borrowers are also financing used cars — in many cases, cars that are more than five years old. The shotgun guy bought a 2007 Suzuki. A borrower in the Times' story financed a 2001 Dodge pickup. Are these really accurate portrayals of the subprime auto lending market? There's some potential for disagreement. This week, Wells Fargo released an analysis of the auto lending market with a particular focus on subprime borrowing. The bank's economists concluded that it's not time to panic: DEBATE OR DISCONNECT? At this point, it's getting difficult to figure out whether this is a debate about the growth in subprime auto lending — with financial analysts on one side and journalists on the other — or a disconnect. I've been following the expansion of subprime lending since 2010 and have consistently heard the finance side maintain that even though more and more new and used cars are being sold, the system isn't on the verge of imploding. It's also worth noting that although auto loans and mortgages can both be securitized, the loan amounts and durations are completely different: tens of thousands versus hundreds, 5-to-7 years versus 30.  None of this means that there won't be major problems with subprime auto lending at some point. The finance side wants to make more loans and isn't necessarily going to be inclined to raise a lot of red flags — yet. And the media doesn't want to miss another financial catastrophe and as a result is on the lookout for lending abuses. Everyone has observed that low-interest rates and Federal Reserve policy is making it easier to get a car loan. But weak growth in the economy has some critics asking whether the boom in auto sales — which is also a boom in auto loans — is supported by the reality of household budgets. The weird thing is how far apart the two sides currently seem to be. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorFor every action there is an equal and opposite reaction. So when "Bond King" Bill Gross, founder of the biggest bond firm in the world, PIMCO, said he was stepping down from his empire to head to smaller firm Janus Capital, the shock waves could be felt all over Wall Street. "When you bought the PIMCO funds that Gross managed you were buying the manager," said Charles Sizemore, of  Dallas-based Sizemore Capital Management. "That was your sleep at night assurance right there — that you had Bill Gross managing your money." While Gross' long-term performance is legendary, lately his investors have been losing sleep. In August his flagship fund, the PIMCO Total Return Fund, saw its 16th straight months of outflows. Cumulatively, investors had pulled $68 billion out of the fund at that point. Things were choppy on the management side of Gross' role as well. In January his heir apparent and co-CIO Mohamed El-Erian stepped down from the firm abruptly. Stories started leaking about Gross' showboat management style. Employees were unhappy, and he was taking all of the credit for PIMCO's success, they said. Even publicly, Gross' behavior became odd. In June he took the stage at the Morningstar Investment conference in a pair of sunglasses, walking on to Carlos Santanna and Rob Thomas' "Smooth." Reports say the employees at PIMCO said "it's either him or us." Finally, this week, The Wall Street Journal reported that regulators have been investigating Gross' flagship Total Return ETF. They are trying to decide whether PIMCO undervalued assets within the security to make returns appear larger.  Something had to give. "He's getting up there in age and he doesn't need the money, and he doesn't need the prestige," Sizemore pointed out. "He just wants to be left alone to trade bonds." And indeed that is the impression Gross and Janus gave in their press release, when Gross said that he was leaving to escape the "complexities" of management. Sizemore says he has a small position in Gross' Total Return ETF, but he'll likely slowly liquidate it. As for what Gross will be doing at Janus —"I would definitely be interested in looking at it," said Sizemore. Not all of that money will go to Janus, though, says another institutional money manager. "I would assume the money will flow to DoubleLine and other recent top performers," he said. "I think it's a longer term positive for PIMCO but in the near term it will be painful as they form a new identity and outflows continue." Other managers are concerned about what this news will do to the bond market, not the firms themselves. "I don't know if I would characterize it as good or bad for any of them," said Brian Kelly of Connecticut's Brian Kelly Capital. "Bill Gross certainly has a following so he'll bring some assets, but what I'll be watching are the ripple effects in the high yield market." Kelly thinks that PIMCO redemptions may harm a market that has already been suffering from a lack of liquidity as investors exit. There's also a high correlation between performance in the space and retail investor withdrawals from the space. "I'm wondering...'Does this [news] spook the retail investor?'," said Kelly. The PIMCO High Income Fund is down 8% on the news Gross left — so perhaps it does. Yahoo FinancePimco High Income Fund Pimco Hi Or not. "I wouldn't bet on this being the catalyst for people to move out of bonds," an institutional money manager told Business Insider. "I think some will, but probably a decent bit flows to other funds." And when that happens maybe Wall Street will crown a new Bond King. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidJeffrey Gundlach, star bond investor and head of DoubleLine Capital. "Gundlach would not go into any detail but did confirm in fact that [he and Gross] did have a meeting in which they discussed the possibility of Mr. Gross joining DoubleLine in some sort of capacity," Faber said.  Bloomberg reported that this meeting happened early last week.  Faber reported on CNBC's Squawk Alley that: "[I]t does appear there was a good amount of tumult at [PIMCO] over these last couple of week... it does appear that Mr. Gross was well aware that he was on his way out. In speaking to a number of different sources in fact it does appear that a couple of weeks back he wanted a senior executive at the firm to be fired. That did not take place. Mr. Gross was very much unhappy with that, and then there were five executives according to people familiar with the situation who threatened to quit in Mr. Gross was not fired by PIMCO." Faber reported that this lead Gross to consider other options, including joining Gundlach's DoubleLine. On Twitter, Reuters' Jennifer Ablan reported that Gundlach told her he discussed Gross working at the firm but that he would never be the "co-guy." Jeffrey Gundlach tells me: "I am ceo of the firm. We talked about working together, but i was never going to be the 'co-guy.'" @Reuters  AMAZING, and remember Bill Gross and Jeffrey Gundlach are MAJOR MAJOR rivals. So Gundlach's meeting with Gross leaves me speechless.  These reports come after the huge news on Friday that Bill Gross would leave PIMCO, the firm he founded in 1971, to join Janus Capital.  Earlier on Friday, Faber reported that Gross was going to be fired by PIMCO on Saturday due to "increasingly erratic behavior." Other employees also threatened to leave the firm if Gross didn't go.  In a statement following Gross' departure, PIMCO said: "While we are grateful for everything Bill contributed to building our firm and delivering value to PIMCO’s clients, over the course of this year it became increasingly clear that the firm’s leadership and Bill have fundamental differences about how to take PIMCO forward." Following news that Gross was leaving PIMCO, reports surfaced that the firm would name Gross' successor at some point on Friday, and Bloomberg has reported that this is likely to be Dan Ivascyn, a deputy CIO at PIMCO's Newport Beach office.  Shares of Allianz, the parent company of PIMCO, and Janus, which Gross is joining, were going in different directions on Friday. Allianz shares listed in New York were down more than 6% following the news while Janus shares were up more than 33% after opening up more than 37% on Friday.  FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVMichael Platt, the founder of BlueCrestThere was some speculation among trader that this week's market weakness might be attributed to a hedge fund liquidating. While it remains unclear if this is the case, there's some pretty big news out today on European hedge fund behemoth BlueCrest Capital that's worth noting. The Wall Street Journal's Juliet Chung is now reporting that BlueCrest has laid off a number of analysts and portfolio managers in the U.S. because of performance issues. "We remain very focused on performance and unfortunately we've had to make some changes in the U.S. team. However, our overall strategy remains very firmly in place and we will continue to grow the team and build the fund," BlueCrest CFO Andrew Dodd said in a statement posted by the Journal.  The fund's head of U.S. equities, Jonathan Larkin, has resigned, the Journal's report said citing unnamed sources. Reuters/ Sebastien NogierWhat's more is according to Bloomberg News, high-profile portfolio manager Leda Braga's computer-driven BlueTrend fund is being spun off into an independent firm called Systematica Investments.  The Brazilian-born fund manager ran BlueCrest's biggest fund. At one point, BlueCrest had $13.6 billion in AUM. However, her fund has seen its billions in assets slump. She currently manages BlueTrend's $8.3 billion. BlueTrend also cut its management fees to 1.5% from 2% this summer, the report said.  BlueCrest—which was founded by former JPMorgan traders Michael Platt and William Reeves— has seen its assets fall from $37.4 billion in May of last year to $27.4 billion. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sukree SukplangDuring the bull market of the last five years, U.S. stocks, as measured by the S&amp;P 500, have generated total returns of 233%. So, you would think most investors would be embracing equities. But while stocks represent a larger share of household financial assets than they did five years ago, the share of U.S. adults who own stocks remains stuck at multi-year lows. At the beginning of September, the Federal Reserve (Fed) published its 2013 edition of the Survey of Consumer Finances. Even as the S&amp;P 500 was closing in on 1,600 last year, well above its March 2009 lows, the report revealed that the share of U.S. households holding stocks actually declined to 48.8% in 2013 from a high of 53.2% in 2007, as the chart below shows. Fed Survey of Consumer Finances Similarly, Gallup surveys also show a decline in investor stock holdings. According to these polls, during the decade before the financial crisis, roughly 60% of U.S. adults held stocks in their financial portfolios. But since the bull market kicked in five years ago, that ownership share has averaged around 55% – among the lowest ownership percentages since the survey began in 1998. This shouldn’t come as much of a surprise. Factors that explain the reticence to embrace stocks include: To be sure, the Fed’s Survey of Consumer Finances data is from last year. To the extent that equities have continued to move higher since then, it’s possible that stock ownership has gone up since the end of 2013. At the same time, while the Gallup data and the Fed’s survey data show declining stock ownership since the peaks in 2000 and 2007, Americans still own far more stock than they did in the late eighties and early nineties when equity investing was just becoming more widespread. In addition, when you look just at the first decade of the millennium, equity holdings appear more static. Despite two market crashes during that period, the share of investors holding stocks barely cracked. So, what’s behind the longer-term trend toward more equity ownership as well as the static stock holding levels during the aughts? The upshot is that the longer-term shift toward equities coupled with the more recent caution among investors could actually be good news for markets. U.S. equities are clearly more fully valued these days, but they’re not in a bubble. Though many Americans today remain cautious and unwilling to increase their equity holdings, the fact that more U.S. investors haven’t lost faith in stocks suggests that there is further upside potential for equity markets, assuming continued economic expansion, modest earnings gains and even normalization of Fed policy. As such, I continue to expect that global stocks can move higher this year, and I prefer them to cash and bonds. If Americans’ ownership of stocks were nearing a prior peak, I might be concerned. But with that not the case, my concern is that more Americans aren’t participating in today’s rally. FREE AppDownload
Chris StrodeChris Strode, founder of Invoice2Go.Invoice2Go founder Chris Strode, 40, is a wealthy, successful entrepreneur. That's thanks in part to his former employer, the investment bank Macquarie, which reportedly fired him after he got drunk at a cocktail event. Strode tells Mashable that getting fired was "the best thing that happened to me." Strode built the first version of Invoice2Go while commuting to Macquarie as a 28-year-old freelance software developer in 2002. He was frustrated by the company's invoicing system and decided to build a better approach. "All I found were fully fledged accounting packages," Strode tells The Australian. "Ninety percent of the functionality didn’t make any sense to me. I just needed to be able to send an invoice as quickly as possible." Then the cocktail party incident happened, and Strode was let go. The firing gave him more time to focus on his product. Strode says he worked hard on it, working straight through every holiday for a number of years before Invoice2Go took off, particularly when it was turned into a mobile product five years ago. "I remember holding an iPhone for the first time, about six years ago," Strode tells Sydney Morning Herald. "I realized it was going to change everything and could help solve the global problem of getting paid quickly." Now, his Australia-based company has gone on to raise $35 million, and 100,000 businesses have invoiced ~ $10 billion on Invoice2Go. His profitable company is worth more than $100 million. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA street sign is seen in front of the New York Stock Exchange on Wall Street in New YorkBy Ryan Vlastelica NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock investors, despite finding few areas of the market that appear cheap with indexes near records, appear reluctant to jump into what could be the biggest bargain out there. By many metrics, bank stocks appear to trade at a discount, and are expected to benefit from broad economic growth and interest rate hikes. Yet caution has prevailed over the group, and that could persist next week if investors continue dumping cyclical names for defensive positions, or if the September payroll report suggests the Federal Reserve could delay the first rate hike. That first rate increase is expected in the second half of 2015, though the specific timing remains unknown. Higher rates are seen translating to higher net interest margins (NIMs), which have been low for major names. Bank of America, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase all have NIMs below the industry medium of 3.6 percent. "The risk for bank stocks is that the low-rate environment could continue," said Leo Grohowski, chief investment officer at BNY Mellon Wealth Management in New York. "We're more constructive than not, but if the Fed stays put for long, then low NIMs turn into a drag rather than suggesting upside." The outlook for NIMs is a bit clouded, as the first rate hike will be preceded by the end of the Fed's bond-buying program, which is expected to result in a flattening of the yield curve. Banks tend to see higher profits under steeper curves, and a flattening could depress NIMs before the first hike. Grohowski said that when it came to banks, "my commentary is skewed more positive than our allocation," reflecting a common refrain by analysts, who see value but are hesitant to buy in. "We can just find value elsewhere," Grohowski said. There is nothing new about the caution over the group, which has been pressured by regulations and falling trading revenue, two factors that are expected to persist and may make it difficult for banks to reach the profits they posted before the crisis. Financial earnings fell 6.6 percent in the second quarter, by far the worst of any S&amp;P sector, though this reflects one-time items like legal settlements and litigation costs. Analysts see that weakness as an excuse to buy. Steven Rees, global head of equity strategy at JPMorgan Private Bank in New York, noted that large-cap banks had a price-to-tangible-book ratio of about 1.3, "compared to the historical range of about 2.5 to 3, so they're very cheap in that regard." He also said, "there’s a potentially significant amount of dividends that could come back into the sector in coming years." Loan growth has also pointed to improving conditions. Commercial and industrial loans hit $1.748 trillion in August, according to data from the St. Louis Federal Reserve, an all-time record. Loan growth has been accelerating, up 9.1 percent so far this year (until August, the last full month for which data is available), compared with 7.1 percent growth throughout all of 2013. Financial profits are expected to rise 10 percent in the third quarter, according to Thomson Reuters data, a rate behind only materials and healthcare. Banks are among the most undervalued names in the S&amp;P 500 based on StarMine's measurement of intrinsic value, which looks at anticipated growth over the next decade. Both Citigroup and Morgan Stanley are 67 percent under their intrinsic values, based on their Thursday closing price, while JPMorgan is 60 percent under. While the S&amp;P financial index has risen for the past nine quarters, it has underperformed the S&amp;P 500 so far this year, up 6 percent compared with the benchmark index's 6.7 percent rise. Since 2009, the year of the post-crisis bottom, the financial sector has risen 85 percent, well below the S&amp;P's 118 percent advance. Financials saw mutual fund and hedge fund outflows each month from April to August, with more than $2.5 billion pulled over that period, according to Thomson Reuters Lipper data. While flows have been positive thus far in September, about $287 million has flowed from the group so far this year.  (Editing by Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonJack Bogle, founder and retired CEO of The Vanguard GroupInvesting legend Jack Bogle, founder of the Vanguard Group, just appeared on CNBC and talked about the topic of the day: Bill Gross' departure from PIMCO. "He a true legend," Bogle said of Gross. "There aren't too many people in my field who measure up to that test." "In an industry based on illusion, [Bill Gross] is the real thing," Bogle said. A report from CNBC's David Faber on Friday morning said that Gross was set to be fired tomorrow due to "increasingly erratic behavior." This is not something Bogle thinks makes much sense. "I wouldn't dare [fire Bill Gross], even if I had the power," Bogle said.  And following Gross' departure, many have wondered if PIMCO will face redemptions now that Gross is out.  "The idea of running out the door because [Bill Gross] is no longer there is completely anathema to me," Bogle said.  For Bogle, if you're going to take your money out of PIMCO, do it for reasons other that Gross leaving the firm. "It's going to be hard for [PIMCO] to beat the bond market every year... those things happen to any manager at any time," Bogle said.  Overall, the news that Gross is leaving the firm he founded in 1971 is pretty stunning, but Bogle doesn't see this as anything close to end of the road for the 70-year-old Gross.  "Bill is a young man," Bogle said.  Bogle turned 85 in May. FREE AppDownload
WikimediaThe NY Federal ReserveThe New York Fed released a statement rejecting all the allegations made about "the integrity of its supervision of financial institutions" in light of the recently released secret audio recordings of the NY Fed. Via these recordings, the former Federal Reserve employee Carmen Segarra alleges that the NY Fed was too soft on big banks, including most notably Goldman Sachs.  And on top of that, last year she sued the NY Fed claiming that she was fired because she refused to back down from her "negative findings" about Goldman Sachs. Jake Bernstein of ProPublica has a new piece out laying out whole ordeal.  A few years back, Carmen Segarra was hired by the NY Fed as a bank examiner and was planted inside Goldman Sachs to oversee the implementation of increased regulations on big banks. She was fired after only 7 months on the job. While working for the NY Fed, she secretly recorded over 40 hours of audio of the inner conversations of the NY Fed. You can listen to the recordings here. Reuters/Finbarr O'ReillyWiliam Dudley, the president of the Federal Reserve of New YorkThe NY Fed denies all these claims against their integrity. It also says that Ms. Segarra was not fired because she refused to back down, but rather the decision was made "based entirely on performance grounds". In other words, because she did not do her job adequately enough. Here is the full statement: The New York Fed categorically rejects the allegations being made about the integrity of its supervision of financial institutions. The New York Fed works diligently to execute its supervisory authority in a manner that is most effective in promoting the safety and soundness of the financial institutions it is charged with supervising. To accomplish this important task, the New York Fed employs and trains a large workforce of examiners and specialists and works with the Board of Governors, which sets supervisory policy, and other experts throughout the Federal Reserve System. Because the financial firms we supervise are large and complex, the New York Fed has established a dedicated examination team for each large, complex financial firm. These teams review key aspects of a supervised firm’s businesses and risk management functions to assess the adequacy of policies, processes and practices for identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling risk. Activities identified as those likely to pose the highest risk to the firm, or areas where internal controls appear weak, receive the most scrutiny. Examiners employ the assistance of a range of experts from within the New York Fed and other areas of the Federal Reserve System with skills tailored to these specific activities, including attorneys when dealing with matters of law and regulation. In addition to its own reviews, the New York Fed expects firms under its supervision to report issues at the firms, and firms are required by law to provide any and all information and documents the New York Fed requests. Examiners are required to be independent, critical and analytical thinkers, and be able to communicate confidently and accurately within their teams and when dealing with supervised institutions. Examiners do not work alone and teamwork is an important element in successful supervision. Examiners consult with and draw on the expertise, experience and seasoned supervisory judgment of their colleagues. Examiners are encouraged to speak up and escalate any concerns they may have regarding the New York Fed or the institutions that we supervise. The New York Fed provides multiple venues and layers of recourse to help ensure that its employees freely express their views and concerns, including the Ethics Office, employee hotline and internal ombudsman. Because of the potential impact of our decisions and actions, we review our determinations very thoroughly to ensure that the facts are sound and the approach is reasonable and defensible. To vet ideas and conclusions, we have developed a multi-step “checks and balances” review process, in which the supervisory team and its lead supervisor play a key role. This process also involves officials from within the New York Fed, the Board of Governors and the Federal Reserve System. We work constantly to improve our supervisory program, and as the nation emerged from its worst financial crisis in more than 70 years, the New York Fed initiated a review of lessons that could be learned by the supervisory function for improving its approach to supervision. As part of this review, New York Fed president William C. Dudley commissioned a report from Professor David Beim in collaboration with a number of New York Fed officials. The report made a series of recommendations that were incorporated in a significant reform of the New York Fed’s supervision group beginning in 2011. The reform involved a restructuring to enhance our oversight of the largest financial firms and the industry more broadly, including: These reforms improved New York Fed supervision by deepening its view of the institutions it supervises and across the industry, and facilitating more candid and frequent interactions with decision-makers. The reforms further provided a more effective structure for our supervisory organization that facilitates the sharing of insights, expertise and data, as well as the robust exchange of diverse viewpoints. Working across teams and regularly rotating our people ensure examiner independence and provide opportunities for staff to gain experience, perspective and judgment over time. Carmen Segarra’s Allegations Ms. Segarra is in litigation with the New York Fed. The District Court reviewing her case ruled in favor of the New York Fed, and the case is on appeal. Ms. Segarra was employed by the New York Fed for less than seven months during 2011-2012, and had no previous experience as an examiner. Further, she demanded $7 million to settle her complaint (Docket No. 4, October 11, 2013 letter to Judge Abrams, at 3). Ms. Segarra’s concerns regarding the supervised firm’s conflict of interest policy were taken seriously and escalated by senior members of the team as evidenced by her own filings to the Court (Docket No.24, First Amended Complaint, Ex. at 55). Her filings further demonstrate that the facts did not support her assertions (Docket No. 34, Defendants’ Memorandum of Law, at 5-6, 13-15). The decision to terminate Ms. Segarra’s employment with the New York Fed was based entirely on performance grounds, not because she raised concerns as a member of an examination team about any institution (Docket No. 34, Defendants’ Memorandum of Law, at 5-6, 13-15). The New York Fed cannot offer further comment as it is constrained in what it can say about matters that are the subject of a pending appeal by Carmen Segarra and because of the confidentiality afforded by Federal law to supervisory issues related to individual firms. FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockBeing a business owner can mean lots of sleepless nights.This post is sponsored by UPS CONNECT. If you're a business owner, you wear a lot of hats. One minute you're figuring out your social media plan, the next you're focused on business banking.  On top of that, you're constantly thinking big picture: How do you grow, and where? What technologies will help you in the long run? What hurdles do you need to overcome to realize your long-term goals?  We're trying to find out which issues cause business owners the most pain. Got a few minutes? Take our 2014 State Of Small Business Survey, delivered by UPS CONNECT, and let us know what's keeping you up at night. And if you'd like to know how your fellow business owners feel about those same issues, we'll send you a copy of the results when they're ready. Learn how UPS CONNECT helps small businesses. Find out more about Sponsor Posts. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amit DaveIndian Prime Minister Narendra Modi addresses his supporters during a public meeting.Narendra Modi, India's Prime Minister, is nothing if not ambitious. The Hindu nationalist leader, elected in a landslide earlier this year, is planning to increase the country's manufacturing share of GDP from 15% to 25%. It's an enormous task.  This week Modi has already celebrated India's successful and astonishingly cheap mission to Mars, but the coming task will be harder. Modi's basic goal is a Chinese-style expansion, led by the manufacturing sector. There are a lot of factors in India's favour, and some major challenges.  Here's eight charts showing how he plans to do it and what's standing in his way: There's a lot of room for improvement already. India's development over the last decade and a half has been predominated by growth in services, as the agricultural proportion of the economy shrank. Industry, which includes manufacturing, actually makes up a smaller proportion of the economy now than it did at the turn of the century. A breakdown here from Sanjeev Sanyal at and his team at Deutsche Bank. Deutsche BankThe country has extremely favourable demographics. India has a very young population - just shy of 30% are under 14. Since today's kids are tomorrow's employers and taxpayers, that's a big positive for the country. In comparison, China hasn't had such a high proportion since the early 1990s. Beijing's one-child policy and the country's rapid development mean China now actually has worse young-age demographics than the US.  Business Insider, World Bank India's got a lot of room to catch up with other Asian economies. A combination of rising population and less impressive growth means Indian GDP per capita is now significantly lower than Indonesia's, and even further below China's. That's bad for India now, but it does mean that there's significant room to catch up, and potential for rapid growth.  World Bank, Business Insider  The rupee is weak by historical standards. That's a positive thing for manufactured exports, because it makes Indian products relatively cheap for foreigners to buy. Deutsche Bank's India economists offered an explanation in a major report earlier this month: "in the East Asian model, the currency can be an important tool rather than a passive exchange rate that drifts towards 'fair value'. Recall how both Japan and China accumulated very large reserves and held down their currencies over long periods of time." Here's the rupee vs. the US dollar: BloombergLow labour costs add to India's massive export potential. Of the top 25 exporter economies, India is the second least expensive after Indonesia, according to Deutsche Bank. That's also going to give companies a serious advantage in selling manufactured goods round the world.  BCG, US Bureau of Labour Statistics, International Labour Organisation, Euromonitor International, Economist Intelligence Unit, Deutsche Bank A lot of stalled projects means a lot of room to improve. Modi is extremely preoccupied with reforming India's energy sector, and with good reason. Electricity and manufacturing make up more than half of the country's stalled projects. When industrial projects seize up, it's often due to the country's unreliable energy supply. That's a weakness, but Societe Generale research from Patrick Legland and Suman Guliani suggests an improvement "create a cascade effect leading to high growth and boosting investor confidence." Societe Generale Indonesia isn't going to grow as quickly. That's according to a note from Morgan Stanley's Singapore office: "India is likely to show cyclical recovery in economic growth and margins before it begins to accelerate its pace of reform momentum, whereas Indonesia will have to increase the pace of reform momentum to lift its growth potential from the current levels." The economists add that Indonesia is most exposed to rising US rates. If competitor nations are held back, that's probably to India's benefit. Morgan StanleyThe only way is up for investment. India's transport and energy infrastructure systems are in particular need of investment - that's partly what's stalling so much economic activity. The government is planning to more than double the capacity of India's major ports by 2020, and is now allowing foreign direct investment in the country's stretched railways network.  Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
APIn a few hours we'll know who is to replace Bill Gross as head of PIMCO since he abruptly left the firm Friday morning. According to Bloomberg, it is likely that the successor will be Dan Ivascyn, a deputy CIO at PIMCO's Newport Beach office. There have been a few stories about him killing at the firm in the past few months. The trillion dollar bond fund was founded by Gross, but over the last year turmoil has been reported from inside the firm. If Gross hadn't quit, sources tell CNBC's David Faber that he would've been fired anyway for his increasingly erratic behavior. Other employees threatened to leave the firm if Gross did not. Most of this started when one of them did. In January Gross' co-CIO and heir apparent Mohamed El-Erian quit the firm.  That's when the reports of Gross' behavior started flowing out of the firm, and those were as grim as the money that PIMCO was losing to outflows as well. In August Gross' flagship, personally managed fund had 16 months of outflows totaling $68 billion, cumulatively. So we'll see who PIMCO expects to turn this ship around.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike StoneConsumer sentiment remains unchanged at a high level. The University of Michigan's final confidence index came in at 84.6 in September, which was the same level in its preliminary report earlier this month. This was a bit lighter than the 84.8 expected by economists. However, it's up from the August reading of 82.5. "Gasoline prices have decreased in recent weeks, suggesting consumer confidence confidence should continue to advance from a strong preliminary reading to reach a post-recession high," Barclays economists said ahead of the report. FREE AppDownload
Bill Gross is leaving PIMCO and joining Janus Capital. PIMCO is a subsidiary of Allianz, the German financial services and insurance conglomerate. Following the news, shares of Janus exploded higher, gaining as much as 40% in pre-market trade and opening up 37% at the bell on Friday. Allianz shares trading in Frankfurt went the opposite direction, falling more than 5%. Meanwhile, US-listed shares of Allianz were down more than 6% after the market open. Here's the ugly chart of German-listed Allianz shares. Google Finance And the amazing chart of Janus shares. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
PIMCO / YouTubeBill Gross.CNBC's David Faber reports that PIMCO was going to fire Chief Investment Officer Bill Gross on Saturday because of "increasingly erratic behavior." The Wall Street Journal is also reporting that PIMCO was going to fire Gross before he resigned.  It appears that the billionaire bond god made his move first.   Gross, 70, announced Friday morning that he was leaving the firm he cofounded effective immediately. He's joining Janus Capital, where he'll run a newly created bond fund. Shares of Janus surged on the announcement.  According to Faber, PIMCO employees had said that they would leave PIMCO is Gross didn't go.  PIMCO said in a statement that the firm's leadership and Gross had "fundamental differences."  "While we are grateful for everything Bill contributed to building our firm and delivering value to PIMCO’s clients," the firm said, "over the course of this year it became increasingly clear that the firm’s leadership and Bill have fundamental differences about how to take PIMCO forward." Earlier this year, Gross was the subject of an incredibly unflattering Wall Street Journal article.  The inside account detailed how Gross clashed with Mohamed El-Erian in front of the other employees. El-Erian, PIMCO's CEO/co-CIO, resigned from PIMCO in January.  Sources also told The Journal that Gross referred to himself as "Secretariat," the legendary racehorse. The article also said that Gross didn't like it when his traders made eye contact with or spoke to him.  PIMCO was to release a succession plan later Friday.  FREE AppDownload
AP On Twitter, Bespoke Investment Group noted that this move had increased Janus' market cap by $840 million. Janus pre-market gain now 40%- That's over $830 mln in market cap. $JNS In a statement following the announcement, Bill Gross said: "For most of my career, I have been privileged to be associated with one of the most successful investment management firms ever — Pacific Investment  Management Company (PIMCO). Today, with a mixture of excitement and sadness, I am announcing that I have decided to join Janus Capital Group and end my association with PIMCO." Here's the full release from Janus: DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Janus Capital Group Inc. (NYSE: JNS) today announced that William H. Gross, world-renowned fixed income investor, will be joining Janus Capital Group. He will manage a recently launched Janus Global Unconstrained Bond Fund and related strategies, and will join Myron Scholes, Ph.D., and other members of the Janus team focused on global asset allocation. Mr. Gross’ employment will be effective September 29, 2014 and he will begin managing the Janus Global Unconstrained Bond Fund and related strategies effective October 6, 2014. Mr. Gross will be based in a new Janus office to be established in Newport Beach, California and will be responsible for building-out the firm’s efforts in global macro fixed income strategies. His concentration on such strategies will be separate and complementary to Janus’ existing and highly successful credit-based fixed income platform, built under the leadership of Janus’ Fixed Income Chief Investment Officer, Gibson Smith. “Bill Gross has an exemplary track record with decades of success and he will offer an exceptional approach to navigating today’s increasingly risky markets with a focus on macro, unconstrained strategies. His involvement provides Janus a unique opportunity to offer strategies and products that are highly complementary to those already managed by our credit-based fixed income team,” said Richard M. Weil, Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group. “With Bill leading our global macro efforts and Gibson our credit-based fixed income team, I am confident Janus will be able to meet the needs of virtually any client.” “I look forward to returning my full focus to the fixed income markets and investing, giving up many of the complexities that go with managing a large, complicated organization,” said Mr. Gross. “I chose Janus as my next home because of my long standing relationship with and respect for CEO Dick Weil and my desire to get back to spending the bulk of my day managing client assets. I look forward to a mutually supportive partnership with Fixed Income CIO Gibson Smith and his team; they have delivered excellent results across their strategies, which deserve more attention.” FREE AppDownload
Bill Gross is leaving PIMCO for Janus Capital. It's a stunning move for a number of reasons, but this ridiculous chart shows the extraordinary difference in assets under management between the PIMCO Total Return Fund that Gross had been overseeing and the Janus Unconstrained Bond Fund that Gross will oversee at Janus. Wow. Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVDavid Zervos. Is it different this time? For years we've gotten accustomed to rising markets and dips always being bought. But the recent selloff in the market (which was driven home by Thursday's big 200+ down day in the Dow) is making some new folks nervous. The fundamental reason? The end of ultra-easy Fed policy appears to be in sight, and short-term interest rates are rising. Here, for example, is the latest look at interest rates on the five-year bond, which are hitting multiyear highs. FRED One of the steadiest voices of bullishness in recent years has been David Zervos of Jefferies, who has argued for a long time that a reflationary Fed was the bullish investor's best friend. Anyway, he kind of seems to be taking a new tone in his latest note, titled, "The Dollar Rains On The Fed's Parade." He writes: It was meant to be a time for celebration — a time for high fives and smug smiles. QE is ending. And QE worked. Those around the FOMC table, the ones who fought the good fight, should be out there taking a victory lap. But these victory laps for the good guys — Yellen, Evans, Dudley and Lockhart — look to be on shaky ground. Their speeches this week have sounded warning bells not trumpets. And to be sure the message was complicated and confused. On the one hand we heard — "let's not get ahead of ourselves," and on the other hand we heard "let's prepare for higher rates than the market is forecasting." These are not the usual "I got your back" speeches from the doves. Those came back in the easy BTD days. Of course, we all know the Fed has our back if it all goes wrong, but none of us know who has our back when it all goes right. So as the economy enters this sustained recovery period, and QE is turned off, the messages get muddled. Zervos emphasizes that he is not in the "bear" camp or anything. He just thinks things are due to get sloppy, as the Fed tries to ease off the gas pedal in a careful and clear manner. Ultimately, he does think the Fed heads will figure it out and return us to "Goldilocks" (where the economy isn't too hot and isn't too cold, and everything can keep going swimmingly), but for now he's predicting some messy times and volatility. FREE AppDownload
Morningstar, Business InsiderPIMCO's flagship Total Return Fund saw $3.9 billion in net outflows in August, according to Morningstar. That was the 16th straight month of net outflows for a cumulative total amount of about $68 billion. This is part of the legacy that CIO Bill Gross leaves behind as he heads to Janus Capital. PIMCO has attracted a lot of attention in recent months, largely because of the unexpected departure of CEO Mohamed El-Erian and revelations of Gross's unorthodox management style. Despite the outflows, PIMCO's fund continues to be massive with $221.6 billion in assets under management as of Aug. 31. FREE AppDownload
Darmon RichterOrdos, a ghost city in China.China will more strictly police the expansion of cities to stop the spread of highly developed but sparsely populated cities or districts known as ghost towns, the state-backed Beijing News reported on Friday. Dong Zuoji, head of the Ministry of Land and Resources planning bureau, said new guidance issued by the ministry on Thursday would allow for strict controls on new urban development. Unless a city's population is too dense or expansion is deemed necessary to cope with natural disasters, new urban districts will not be permitted, he said. Google Earth EngineA satellite image showing growth in Ordos over time. Population density, the efficiency of land use and the impact on natural resources and the environment would determine the planning of new urban districts, he said. Dong vowed the ministry would "strictly" regulate new urban areas. There is no data on how many ghost towns exist, but several have received media and public attention, particularly Erdos in Inner Mongolia, where a highly developed district became known for its deserted streets and empty flats. Hurt by unsteady exports, a housing downturn and cooling investment growth, the world's second-largest economy has wobbled this year, raising doubts about whether it can grow by about 7.5 percent in 2014 as targeted by Beijing, or whether it may be at risk of a sharper slowdown. (Reporting By Megha Rajagopalan; Editing by Robert Birsel) FREE AppDownload
YouTube/Unbox TherapySure, if you try that hard...A counter-theory to the widely covered "bending problem" of Apple's new iPhone 6 Plus has emerged: It's just a fake media conspiracy theory, created in part by a little-known Canadian YouTube video producer eager for publicity. As Business Insider's James Cook explains this morning, Internet sleuths have dissected the producer's "bending" video frame by frame and believe they have found evidence that calls its veracity into question. Meanwhile, Apple has taken the extraordinary step of defending the strength of its phones and inviting TV networks into its secret laboratories to show off its "bend-testing" equipment. It has also asserted that only a minute fraction of its customers, 9 out of 10 million iPhone 6 customers in the United States (0.0000009%), have complained about bending. (Apple was smart to protest, by the way. Perception has a way of affecting reality. After two days of non-stop "bending" coverage, for example, one of our senior tech editors became so convinced that his own iPhone 6 Plus was bent that he used a carpenter's level to check it. To his great relief — and, presumably, Apple's — the level revealed that the phone was as flat as a table.) Anyway, now Twitter users are getting in on the debunking. After we published our story on the video analysis this morning, we heard from one happy iPhone 6 Plus customer who had a personal story to tell. This reader, John Tillman, who says he is "close to 200 pounds," says he sat on his iPhone 6 Plus for "at least 30 minutes" the other day, and that he experienced "no bending." His iPhone 6 Plus, he also says, "works perfectly." Tillman's account, not surprisingly, was immediately dismissed as "anecdotal" by another Twitter user. A third Twitter user asked whether Tillman was "long Apple" stock, implying that he was spreading stories just to help his position.  Tillman says he is not long Apple stock. In any event, the pushback on "BendGate," as it has affectionately become known, should come as a relief to current and future iPhone 6 Plus owners, who may be worried that their new phones will suddenly crumple. READ: Angry Apple Fans Fight Back, Say iPhone 6 "Bending Problem" Is Just A Media Hoax FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedBill Gross.There is huge news in the bond world on Friday. Bill Gross, founder of PIMCO, is leaving the firm to join Janus Capital. Following the announcement, shares of Janus were surging, gaining as much as 19% in pre-market trade on Friday. In a statement to Business Insider, Bill Gross said: For most of my career, I have been privileged to be associated with one of the most successful investment management firms  ever — Pacific Investment Management Company (PIMCO). Today, with a mixture of excitement and sadness, I am announcing that I have decided to join Janus Capital Group and end my association with PIMCO.  It was not without great thought and deliberation over quite some time that I decided to begin this next chapter. During my time at PIMCO we accomplished a great deal, managing now over 2 trillion dollars of global assets with a track record of very significant value added that has generated tens of billions of dollars to individual, corporate, and sovereign client portfolios. But now, after having spent considerable time serving in senior management, it is a time for me to reduce executive and people management responsibilities at a larger firm and focus on the pure aspects of portfolio management at a smaller one.  Janus is the right fit at the right time in my career — and my life.I am honored to be welcomed by Janus Capital Group, which is headed by former PIMCO managing director/COO Dick Weil. At Janus, in a new Newport Beach office, a simpler yet still intense career lies ahead of me to be able to assist individuals and other investors in their needs for above market returns in an increasingly risky market environment. In particular, I greatly respect the fixed income investment philosophy of Janus, which is consistent with my belief: value added consistent with the protection of principal.I have been fortunate to have had a great run at PIMCO, and I am looking forward to be able to continue this run with Janus. I sincerely wish all of my friends and associates at PIMCO much future success. It has been an honor to have worked at PIMCO these many years. The news comes after reports earlier this week said an ETF tied to PIMCO's flagship total return fund, managed by Gross, was facing an investigation from the SEC. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungBill Gross.Bill Gross has left PIMCO for Janus Capital, Bloomberg reports. He'll be taking over the firm's global macro bond trading from Newport Beach, California. This is effective Monday.  CNBC's David Faber reports that Gross quit to preempt his own firing. For months he had been exhibiting erratic behavior. Employees at the firm threatened to abandon ship unless he left the trillion-dollar bond fund. Bill Gross was the founder and chief investment officer of PIMCO. He is such a legend on Wall Street that he is known simply as "The Bond King." At PIMCO he made a $200 million salary. “Bill Gross has an exemplary track record with decades of success and he will offer an exceptional approach to navigating today’s increasingly risky markets with a focus on macro, unconstrained strategies. His involvement provides Janus a unique opportunity to offer strategies and products that are highly complementary to those already managed by our credit-based fixed income team,” said Richard M. Weil, the chief executive of Janus Capital Group.  The problem is that things have changed in recent years. Gross has had what MarketWatch called his "terrible, horrible, no good, very bad year" and was plagued by massive outflows for years — especially in the flagship fund he personally managed. As of August his PIMCO Total return fund had seen 16 straight months of outflows totaling $68 billion, cumulatively. Morningstar, Business Insider Matters were made worse when his respected co-CIO Mohamed El-Erian left the firm in January. A public spiral followed shortly thereafter. Stories started flowing out of the powerhouse bond firm about Gross' management style. Employees described him as a showboat, and an aggressive one. His behavior became erratic at public conferences. In June when he appeared on stage at the Morningstar annual investor conference to "Smooth" by Carlos Santana and Rob Thomas while wearing a pair of shades, people started to wonder — is something weird going on with Bill Gross? Watch the video below.   In recent weeks, Reuters reported that Gross had threatened to quit the firm. In a statement Gross said that Janus was "the right fit" for him because he would not have to deal with the "complexities" of managing a massive organization. PIMCO doesn't seem that upset about the split either. In a press release PIMCO said: “While we are grateful for everything Bill contributed to building our firm and delivering value to PIMCO’s clients, over the course of this year it became increasingly clear that the firm’s leadership and Bill have fundamental differences about how to take PIMCO forward.” Here's the full press release from PIMCO: September 26, 2014, (Newport Beach, CA): PIMCO, a leading global investment management firm, announced that Co-founder and Chief Investment Officer (“CIO”) William H. Gross, has resigned and will leave the firm, effective immediately. The firm has a succession plan in place and its Management Board, comprised of its Managing Directors, will confirm shortly the election of a new Chief Investment Officer. Relevant portfolio management assignments will also be announced at that time. Said Mr. Hodge: “While we are grateful for everything Bill contributed to building our firm and delivering value to PIMCO’s clients, over the course of this year it became increasingly clear that the firm’s leadership and Bill have fundamental differences about how to take PIMCO forward.” Mr. Hodge continued: “As part of our responsibilities to our clients, employees and parent, PIMCO has been developing a succession plan for some time to ensure that the firm is well prepared to manage a seamless leadership transition in its Portfolio Management team. Earlier this year, the firm established a new portfolio management leadership structure that reflects our long-held belief that the best approach for PIMCO’s clients and our firm is to evolve our investment leadership structure to a team of seasoned, highly skilled investors overseeing all areas of PIMCO’s investment activities.” Said Michael Diekmann, Chief Executive Officer of Allianz Group: “Since becoming part of the Allianz Group in 2000, PIMCO has grown enormously and contributed consistently to Allianz’s success. We join our PIMCO colleagues in recognizing Bill Gross for his work over the 43 years since PIMCO’s founding. The management and investment structure put in place in January as well as the thorough succession planning gives us complete confidence in PIMCO’s investment and executive leadership team.” Mr. Hodge added: “We have built a deep bench of talent with extensive investment and leadership experience, including more than 240 portfolio managers globally, and our outstanding team around the world gives us the scale, talent, expertise and commitment to manage this transition. We will continue to add and promote talent at all levels to help us drive our firm forward. We are energized and fully focused on serving our clients today and into the future.” And check out the press release from Janus below: DENVER--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Janus Capital Group Inc. (NYSE: JNS) today announced that William H. Gross, world-renowned fixed income investor, will be joining Janus Capital Group. He will manage a recently launched Janus Global Unconstrained Bond Fund and related strategies, and will join Myron Scholes, Ph.D., and other members of the Janus team focused on global asset allocation. Mr. Gross’ employment will be effective September 29, 2014 and he will begin managing the Janus Global Unconstrained Bond Fund and related strategies effective October 6, 2014. Mr. Gross will be based in a new Janus office to be established in Newport Beach, California and will be responsible for building-out the firm’s efforts in global macro fixed income strategies. His concentration on such strategies will be separate and complementary to Janus’ existing and highly successful credit-based fixed income platform, built under the leadership of Janus’ Fixed Income Chief Investment Officer, Gibson Smith. “Bill Gross has an exemplary track record with decades of success and he will offer an exceptional approach to navigating today’s increasingly risky markets with a focus on macro, unconstrained strategies. His involvement provides Janus a unique opportunity to offer strategies and products that are highly complementary to those already managed by our credit-based fixed income team,” said Richard M. Weil, Chief Executive Officer of Janus Capital Group. “With Bill leading our global macro efforts and Gibson our credit-based fixed income team, I am confident Janus will be able to meet the needs of virtually any client.” “I look forward to returning my full focus to the fixed income markets and investing, giving up many of the complexities that go with managing a large, complicated organization,” said Mr. Gross. “I chose Janus as my next home because of my long standing relationship with and respect for CEO Dick Weil and my desire to get back to spending the bulk of my day managing client assets. I look forward to a mutually supportive partnership with Fixed Income CIO Gibson Smith and his team; they have delivered excellent results across their strategies, which deserve more attention.” About Janus Capital Group Inc. Janus Capital Group Inc. (JCG) is a global investment firm dedicated to delivering better outcomes for clients through differentiated investment solutions. It currently has a number of distinct investment groups, including equity and fixed income teams within Janus Capital Management LLC (Janus), as well as subsidiaries INTECH Investment Management LLC (INTECH) and Perkins Investment Management LLC (Perkins). Each brings a distinct perspective, style-specific expertise and a disciplined approach to risk. The firm’s strategy for growth and development is based on continuing to expand a range of distinctive solutions across multiple asset classes and styles including equities, fixed &amp; other income, alternatives, asset allocation and managed volatility. At the end of June 2014, JCG managed approximately $177.7 billion in assets for shareholders, clients and institutions around the globe. Based in Denver, JCG also has offices in London, Milan, Munich, Singapore, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Melbourne, Paris, The Hague, Zurich, Frankfurt, Dubai and Taipei. Funds distributed by Janus Distributors LLC. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Call 877.33JANUS (52687) or visit janus.com/advisor/mutual-funds for current month-end performance. There is no assurance the stated objectives will be met or that the investment process will consistently lead to successful investing. Diversification neither assures a profit nor eliminates the risk of experiencing investment losses. Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal and fluctuation of value. Any portfolio risk management process discussed includes an effort to monitor and manage risk which should not be confused with and does not imply low risk or the ability to control certain risk factors. Alpha compares the risk-adjusted performance of a portfolio to a benchmark index. A positive alpha means the portfolio has outperformed the index on a risk-adjusted basis. Please consider the charges, risks, expenses and investment objectives carefully before investing. For a prospectus or, if available, a summary prospectus containing this and other information, please call Janus at 877.33JANUS (52687) or download the file from janus.com/info. Read it carefully before you invest or send money. FREE AppDownload
U.S. Air ForceA member of the Air Force Special Operations Command’s, Special Tactics Training Squadron strains while lifting weights during a strength and conditioning session at Hurlburt Field, Florida.GDP in the second quarter grew at a 4.6% pace. This is according to the third estimate from the BEA, which revised growth up to 4.2% in late August. Expectations were for the report to show GDP grew at a 4.6% annualized rate in the second quarter. In its report, the BEA said, "The increase in real GDP in the second quarter primarily reflected positive contributions from personal consumption expenditures (PCE), exports, private inventory investment, nonresidential fixed investment, state and local government spending, and residential fixed investment. Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased." FREE AppDownload
People on Wall Street are buzzing about a new piece from ProPublica's Jake Bernstein laying out alleged conflicts of interest between the New York Federal Reserve and the banks, Goldman Sachs in particular. The report revolves around the secret recordings of Carmen Segarra, a bank examiner for the New York Fed who was fired after just seven months on the job. "ProPublica and This American Life sent Goldman Sachs detailed questions about the bank's conflict-of-interest policies, Segarra and events in the meetings she recorded," Bernstein wrote. Goldman's response is understandably defensive. But it also reads a bit aggressive. Here's a response from Goldman's David Wells according to Bernstein: "Goldman Sachs has long had a comprehensive approach for addressing potential conflicts ... A quick Google search, however, shows publicly available Goldman Sachs documents outlining the management of conflicts ... To get a balanced view of her claims, you should read what her supervisor wrote after discovering that what she had said about Goldman was just plain wrong." An interesting line from Wells' response: "Ms. Segarra, who unsuccessfully interviewed for employment at Goldman in 2007, 2008 and 2009, told her supervisors at the Fed That the firm ..." While Wells doesn't say it explicitly, this detail seems to be intended to characterize Segarra as someone who could be holding some resentment. "Segarra said that she recalls interviewing with the bank four times, but that it shouldn't be surprising," Bernstein wrote. "She has applied for jobs at most of the top banks on Wall Street multiple times over the course of her career, she said." Here's the email via Bernstein: Propublica FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA BlackBerry Passport smartphone is shown at its official launching event in TorontoBlackBerry Ltd  reported a smaller quarterly loss on Friday in an early sign that its drawn-out turnaround efforts might be working. The Waterloo, Ontario-based company reported a net loss of $207 million, or 39 cents per share, for the second quarter ended Aug. 30. That compared with a year-earlier loss of $965 million, or $1.84 per share. Revenue was $916 million, a 42% year-over-year drop, which is worse than analyst expectations of $949.64 million in revenue for the quarter. Initially, investors didn't seem to mind. The stock was up 4% pre-market. But then all the gains vaporized, and now it's only up .90%. FREE AppDownload
You have so much to do in a work day – answer tons of emails, work on ongoing projects, attend several meetings a day, and do everything else your boss throws at you. Here are five essential strategies productive people use to get things done and have a life outside work.   Produced by Ryan Larkin. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonAuthor Michael Lewis. "The Ray Rice video for the financial sector has arrived," Michael Lewis writes of the secret recordings.  The recordings were made by Carmen Segarra, a bank examiner who was planted inside Goldman Sachs by the New York Fed to oversee the implementation of new regulations on big banks. Screenshot/Fox and Friends 2/YouTubeCarmen Segarra. The recordings "portray a New York Fed that is at times reluctant to push hard against Goldman [Sachs]," Bernstein writes. Similarly, Lewis said: "Much of the meaning of the piece is in the tones of the voices — and, especially, in the breathtaking wussiness of the people at the Fed charged with regulating Goldman Sachs." Segarra, an experienced lawyer, was brought in by the New York Fed after a 2009 commisioned report, written by Columbia Business School professor David Beim, found that many problems within the regulatory institution were related to a corrosive culture. Colombia UniversityColumbia Business School professor David Beim, author of the Beim report. "[The report] was supposed to be completely confidential," Beim told "This American Life." He added: "As you can probably gather from the tone, it is totally candid and highly self-critical." In particular, Beim identified something known as "regulatory capture," or the term for when a watchdog gets too "cozy" with the company that he or she is supposed to be regulating. Bernstein offers an example: One New York Fed employee, a supervisor, described his experience in terms of "regulatory capture," the phrase commonly used to describe a situation where banks co-opt regulators. Beim included the remark in a footnote. "Within three weeks on the job, I saw the capture set in," the manager stated. Beim said that senior Fed officials wanted the footnote removed to avoid embarrassment, but it was left in. During Segarra's time at Goldman, she witnessed the same issues called out by Beim. Segarra became so disillusioned with the firm that she began secretly taping discussions between bank regulators and Goldman employees. Segarra notes that in one meeting, she heard a senior executive at Goldman say, "Goldman's view was that once clients were wealthy enough, certain consumer laws didn't apply to them." But, as ProPublica reported last October, Segarra was fired by the Fed after seven months on the job. This was after she had raised concerns about problems within the bank. She later filed a wrongful termination lawsuit. His case is now on appeal after the court ruled in favor of the New York Fed.  You can listen to segments of the recordings online at This American Life, from which Lewis has pulled out two key takeaways: Once you have listened to it — as when you were faced with the newly unignorable truth of what actually happened to that NFL running back's fiancee in that elevator — consider the following: 1. You sort of knew that the regulators were more or less controlled by the banks. Now you know. 2. The only reason you know is that one woman, Carmen Segarra, has been brave enough to fight the system. She has paid a great price to inform us all of the obvious. She has lost her job, undermined her career, and will no doubt also endure a lifetime of lawsuits and slander. In a statement, the New York Fed said that it "categorically rejects the allegations being made about the integrity of its supervision of financial institutions." Goldman also responded to accusations in an email to Bernstein. The investment bank seems to imply that Segarra was carrying a chip on her shoulder after she "unsuccessfully interviewed for employment at Goldman in 2007, 2008 and 2009..." The firm writes: "To get a balanced view of [Segarra's] claims, you should read what the senior Federal Reserve supervisor with oversight responsibilities for GS wrote after discovering that what she had said about Goldman was just plain wrong." You can read Jake Bernstein's full ProPublica story here.    FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA logo of UniCredit is seen in downtown MilanPRAGUE (Reuters) - Sanctions put in place amid the crisis in Ukraine have caused more problems for Europe than Russia, the chief executive of Italian bank UniCredit was quoted as saying in an interview with a Czech newspaper. "The sanctions have caused Russia problems and my impression is that (they are) even bigger for Europe," Federico Ghizzoni told daily Hospodarske Noviny in an interview published on Friday, without giving more detail. Ghizzoni also reiterated the bank's target of a full-year net profit of 2 billion euros. He said UniCredit, Italy's biggest bank by assets, was doing well in Russia despite the current situation but added an economic slowdown would impact the bank in that market. "But not immediately. In a year or two at the earliest," he said. Sanctions imposed by the United States and the European Union on Russia over Moscow's policies on Ukraine are hitting the Russian economy and restricting some Russian companies' access to Western financial markets. UniCredit's head of central and eastern Europe (CEE) told Austrian paper Salzburger Nachrichten on Thursday that the bank did not expect a big impact from sanctions in 2014 but could not predict 2015.  (Reporting by Jason Hovet; Editing by Susan Fenton) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Neil Hall Banana companies Chiquita and Fyffes have reached a merger deal.Good morning! Here's what you need to know.  Another Good Sign For China. The country’s official manufacturing PMI hit 51.2, up by 0.1 from August. Anything above 50 indicates growth.  Another Japanese Firm Is Rolling Back Operations. The electronics maker Sharp is looking to cut 300 jobs in Europe after major financial losses in the past year.  Asian Markets Closed Down. The Nikkei took the biggest hit, falling 0.88%, while the Hang Seng dropped 0.38%. France’s CAC 40 is leading big European stock indices Friday morning, up 0.67%. The FTSE is down 0.04%, and Germany’s DAX is up 0.15%. US GDP Growth Will Be Confirmed Later. The latest estimate of GDP for the US will be released at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists are expecting a 4.6% annualized expansion for the quarter.  Japanese Inflation Might Be Cooling Off. Though Japanese CPI rose by 3.1%, the country is still feeling the effect of a sales tax hike. Core inflation dropped to 1.1% excluding the effects of the tax rise, well below the Bank of Japan’s new 2% target. Russia Could Worsen Ukraine’s Energy Crisis. German business newspaper Handelsblatt says that Russia could cut gas supplies to Europe if countries try to re-export it to Ukraine.  6 Banks Are In Talks Over Forex Rigging Fines. Barclays, Citi, HSBC, JPMorgan, RBS, and UBS have entered discussions with the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority, according to the Financial Times. Asia’s Biggest Property Deal In Years Is Going Ahead. Hyundai and two affiliates are buying a chunk of land in Seoul for $10.12 billion to house new headquarters. Chiquita And Fyffes Are Renegotiating Their Huge Banana Merger. The two fruit producers have agreed to boost Chiquita’s ownership of Fyffes, rising to 59.6%.  India’s Prime Minister Is Pushing Manufacturing. Narendra Modi wants to raise India’s manufacturing as a proportion of GDP to 25% from 15%, a major challenge for the economy.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Air France logo is seen on the Air France headquarters building at the Charles de Gaulle International Airport in Roissy, near Paris on the second week of a strike by Air France pilotsPARIS (Reuters) - Air France-KLM  sought on Friday to rescue what remains of its low-cost airline expansion plan and shore up its chief executive's authority as a damaging strike by French pilots entered a twelfth day. In a statement, Europe's second-largest network carrier said a union demand that pilots hired by the low-cost arm Transavia should get full Air France pilot pay and conditions "totally opposes the principles of this model." "The board has confirmed that the company can only develop under economic conditions that are compatible with the low-cost model," Air France said in a statement which noted management had the board's "full support". Chief executive Alexandre de Juniac is under severe pressure to bring an end to the strike, which has grounded over half his company's flights and is costing up to 20 million euros ($25.5 million a day. He ceded ground this week, first postponing plans to have Transavia hubs outside France employing staff on local conditions, then, under public pressure from the government, abandoning those plans completely. Pilots are still holding out for a single contract. Talks with the unions are due to resume on Friday afternoon, spokesmen from Air France and the main pilots' union SNPL said on Friday. The government is a 16 percent shareholder in the group and sits on the board. A transport ministry official declined on Friday to comment but referred back to a call made on Wednesday by Transport Minister Alain Vidalies for the strike to end. (1 US dollar = 0.7846 euro)  (Reporting by Andrew Callus and Gregory Blachier; Editing by Mark John) FREE AppDownload
Screenshot/YouTubeAlphatise, the Australian e-commerce startup that enables consumers to get deals on almost anything, is searching for an intern, and it’s dangling a hefty $100,000 package to attract the right candidate. Unless you’re a whiz kid or happy to go and work in the mines, landing a $100,000 package straight out of college is an opportunity that doesn’t present itself often, and candidates are doing some insane stunts to get the startup’s attention. One applicant, 19-year-old Anna Bezuglova, is studying finance and economics at Sydney University. She’s terrified of heights, but for this job she’s “willing to take the plunge.” Literally. She jumped out of a plane for her application video. “Alphatise is a source of inspiration for me, and a company that would be a dream of mine to be a part of for the 12 months (or hopefully longer!),” she wrote in her application. Here’s the video.  This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWorkers look at machines moving newly made raw bricks at a factory in HuaibeiBEIJING (Reuters) - Growth in China's manufacturing sector probably steadied in September as factory orders held up, a Reuters poll showed, providing some welcome relief for those who worry the Chinese economy is quickly losing steam. The official manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI)likely edged up slightly to 51.2 in September compared with August's 51.1, leaving it comfortably above the 50-point level demarcating an expansion from a contraction on a monthly basis. That may assure investors that the world's second-biggest economy, which has stumbled this year, is not doing as badly as some feared. But at the same time, some analysts warned investors against thinking that growth would pick up markedly. "It is good that it is above 50, but it is not that great," Li Haitao, an economist at Guangdong Development Bank, said in reference to the PMI. "The trend has stayed weak." Hurt by unsteady exports, a housing downturn and cooling investment growth, the world's second-largest economy has wobbled this year, raising doubts about whether it can grow by around 7.5 percent in 2014 as targeted by Beijing or whether it may be at risk of a sharper slowdown. That has prompted many investors to bet that Chinese policymakers may further loosen fiscal and monetary policies to stoke growth, following a raft of stimulus measures since spring. Expectations that China would reduce the amount of deposits that banks must set aside as reserves, or the reserve requirement ratio (RRR), were bolstered earlier this month when data showed growth in factory output unexpectedly fell to a six-year low in August as the housing slowdown increasingly weighs on other parts of the economy. But on their part, Chinese leaders have said repeatedly that no dramatic change in policy is imminent, partly because China cannot always rely on easy credit conditions to re-vitalise its economy, and partly because policymakers fear that flooding the system with money may feed speculative activities instead of going into the real economy. Instead, policymakers said they would make "targeted" adjustments by loosening policy reins in the most vulnerable sectors. Some economists have interpreted that to mean that the central bank would prevent short-term interest rates from climbing too much. The official PMI followed a similar preliminary survey by HSBC/Markit released earlier this week that showed the manufacturing sector gaining momentum in September, even though factory employment slumped to a 5-1/2-year low. The official PMI is focused on larger factories that belong to the state, as opposed to the HSBC/Markit PMI which is biased towards smaller manufacturers in the private sector. Smaller firms are facing greater financial stresses and are having trouble getting credit as banks grow more cautious in the face of mounting bad loans and fears of defaults. But a Reuters survey last week found that even many larger firms are relying on heavy state subsidies to keep them in the black.  FORECASTS Bank of China               51.5 Barclays                    51.3 BNP Paribas                 50.8 Capital Economics           51.1 China Merchant Securities   51.3 China Minzu Securities      51.4 Citi                        50.9 Credit Suisse               50.8 Galaxy Securities           51.2 Guangdong Development Bank  50.8 Guotai Junan Securities     51.3 Huarong Securities          51.1 Hwabao Trust                50.5 ING Financial Markets       51.3 Minsheng Bank               51.3 Natixis                     50.8 Nomura                      50.6 Shenyin &amp; Wanguo            51.4 TD Securities               50.5 UBS                         51.3 Median                      51.2 High                        51.5 Low                         50.5 Prior                       51.1 No. of forecasts            20  (Reporting by Jake Spring and Koh Gui Qing; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonAlibaba Group Holding Ltd founder Jack Ma is interviewed at the New York Stock Exchange before his company's initial public offering (IPO) under the ticker "BABA" in New York September 19, 2014.  NEW YORK (Reuters) - The newest way to bet on the fortunes of Chinese e-commerce heavyweight Alibaba Group Holding Ltd &lt;baba.n&gt; will debut on Monday when its stock options go live for trading, and investors should look for the initial action to be very busy, but also choppy and potentially pricey. Options market traders say Alibaba puts and calls will likely see heavy demand given the interest shown so far in the stock since its record-setting $25 billion initial public offering last week. First-day volume in the stock last Friday topped 270 million shares and has averaged around 40 million shares a day since, keeping it near the top of the New York Stock Exchange's most-active list each day. "I would expect Alibaba's options to have a built-in demand, so to speak, as obviously all the people who want to get into the IPO at the beginning didn’t," said J.J. Kinahan, chief market strategist at retail brokerage TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. U.S. options exchanges, including the Chicago Board Options Exchange, the C2 Options Exchange, ISE and ISE Gemini, are expected to list contracts on Alibaba on Sept. 29. Their debut will open the gates to a flood of speculators and hedgers to begin opening positions premised on where they think the stock will trade at various future dates. Contract volume is expected to be among the more active of any name once the options are listed, said WhatsTrading.com options strategist Fred Ruffy. Still, it probably will not see quite the frenzy of interest shown in Facebook Inc &lt;fb.o&gt; options when they hit the market after the company's botched IPO in May 2012. Brian Overby, senior options analyst at online brokerage TradeKing in Charlotte, North Carolina, sees Alibaba's first-day options volumes at about a quarter of Facebook's. The social media company's options volume set a record for a first day of trading with 365,000 contracts changing hands. Puts outnumbered calls by a ratio of 1.25:1 in its options debut on May 29, 2012. Puts convey the right to sell the stock at a set price at a future date, while calls provide the right to buy it at a certain price at a date down the road.  Trading Alibaba options will be tricky at the beginning, Overby said. Option prices, called premiums, trade at a fraction of the underlying stock's price. But given the stock is still trading around $90 and daily price swings are wide, Alibaba's options are not likely to be super cheap. Moreover, making the initial determinations for what those levels should be across potentially dozens of strike prices and contract expiration dates could be dicey. "At the start there will most likely be wide bid/ask spreads on the option contracts until the market makers have some price discovery," Overby said. Implied volatility, a measure of the risk that big moves in the stock pose and a key component in setting options prices, is typically high for companies immediately after their IPO. "Amazon.com Inc &lt;amzn.o&gt; trades with an implied volatility of 27 percent. I would expect Alibaba to trade above that level for some time," said Ophir Gottlieb, chief executive officer at Los Angeles-based Capital Market Laboratories LLC. Looking at other stocks in Alibaba's price range offers some clues about just how widely its options prices may vary. For instance, at-the-money options expiring in December on Apple Inc &lt;aapl.o&gt;, currently around $98 and with a 90-day implied volatility of around 23 percent, last traded at $5.16 for calls and $4.65 for puts. But the December at-the-money options for TripAdvisor Inc &lt;trip.o&gt;, trading around $91.50 with an implied volatility nearing 40 percent, last crossed at $10.60 for calls and $6.30 for puts.  The start of options trading also will give short sellers an additional venue for betting on a drop in the stock. Alibaba's share price has now retreated around 5 percent after a first-day gain of about 38 percent. If the shares are difficult to borrow to sell short given it is still so soon after the IPO, that could drive more shorts into Alibaba options as an alternative and this could put downward pressure on the stock, said Henry Schwartz, president at options analytics firm Trade Alert. The cost to borrow Alibaba shares has varied widely in the days since the IPO. On Thursday, for instance, annual borrowing costs started the day in the 25 percent region, but plunged soon afterward, now registering just 0.2 percent, according to Karl Loomes, market analyst at SunGard’s Astec Analytics. That is about the same as to borrow IBM &lt;ibm.n&gt; or Ford Motor Co &lt;f.n&gt; shares. The cost to borrow the average stock for shorting typically is negligible unless the stock is listed as hard to borrow. "Though this is fairly low for the first days of securities lending following such a highly publicized IPO, it is probably mostly on the back of such high availability of stock to borrow rather than signifying a lack of demand," Loomes said. Some 368 million shares were sold in the IPO, following the exercise of over-allotment options by the deal's underwriters.  (Editing by Dan Burns and Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA pedestrian walks past a logo of Sharp Corp at a train station in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's Sharp Corp  said on Friday that it would seek 300 job cuts in Europe and pursue cooperative ties in household electronics with two companies in the region in a renewed round of restructuring of its European operations. The electronics maker said it would grant use of its TV brand in Europe to Universal Media Corp (UMC) Slovakia while a sales unit of Turkish electronics firm Vestel Elektronik Sanayi ve Ticaret AS  would receive use of its home appliances brand. Sharp also said it was in talks with UMC about transferring its Polish TV factory to the Slovakia firm. Sharp said it would book a 6.4 billion yen ($58.7 million) special loss related to the moves in the second quarter. It expects no change to its full-year profit forecasts. Sharp has been cutting costs and exiting unprofitable operations since it suffered a massive 545 billion yen net loss in the year ended March 2013. In July, Sharp pulled out of solar panel production in Europe.  (Reporting by Chris Gallagher; Editing by Edmund Klamann) FREE AppDownload
Google Maps SEOUL (Reuters) - Hyundai Motor Co and its two affiliates approved Asia's biggest property deal since the financial crisis on Friday when their board members agreed to pay 10.55 trillion won ($10.12 billion) for a trophy plot of land to house a new headquarters in downtown Seoul. The 854,030 square foot piece of land is in the capital's high-end Gangnam district.  The Hyundai-led group, which includes Kia Motors Corp and Hyundai Mobis, plans to ink the deal with the state-run Korea Electric Power Corp later on Friday. About 11.6 trillion Korean won ($11.11 billion) have been wiped of the market values of the companies since the purchase was announced last week. Labor union employees, who make up the bulk of the companies' workforce, voted on Friday to extend a strike into next week in show of disapproval of the purchase which will be used to house a new headquarters, hotel and theme park complex. "Building an integrated control tower will enhance work efficiency and brand value," Hyundai Motor said in its regulatory filing on Friday. Shares of Hyundai Motor ended down 1.3 percent at 187,000 won each on Friday, their lowest level in 17 months. Kia Motors slipped 0.8 percent, and Hyundai Mobis was up 0.6 percent. The $10 billion price-tag is equivalent to selling nearly half a million of Hyundai's flagship Sonata sedans, and nearly two years of combined wages for Hyundai's 63,099 employees in Korea, according to Reuters' calculation. Hyundai Motor will pay 55 percent of the price, followed by Hyundai Mobis Co Ltd with 25 percent and Kia Motors Corp with 20 percent, the companies said. They did not disclose whether the board approval was unanimous. The boards of the three companies had approved bidding at the Sept. 18 auction without knowing the price, which was deemed confidential, four board members told Reuters earlier. Board disapproval is rare at Korea's family-owned conglomerates, or chaebols. The land deal led to the domestic unions of Hyundai Motor and Kia Motors resuming partial strikes this week, clouding the outlook for annual wage talks. Workers "are angered by the astronomical amount of money" to be spent on the land, Kia's union said. Hyundai Motor's labor union said on Friday it would stage a partial strike from Monday through Thursday next week. Hyundai, the world's fifth-biggest automaker along with its affiliate Kia, has been hit by strikes in all but four years of the union's 27-year history, although they usually make up losses with extra work later that year. The stoppages comes as Hyundai and Kia are planning to build new factories in China and Mexico, closer to export markets and where wages are lower than in South Korea. Recurring labor disputes, high wages at home and strong currency are expected to put further pressure on the automaker to accelerate overseas production. Hyundai made 62 percent of its cars last year overseas, up from 20 percent in 2004. Since annual wage talks began in early June, Hyundai Motor and union negotiators have wrangled over a new wage calculation, which the company says would sharply increase labor costs. Hyundai's domestic employees, excluding executives, earn an average 94 million won ($90,419) per year. (Reporting by Hyunjoo Jin; Editing by Jeremy Laurence) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work at their desks in front of the DAX board and banner reading 'Deutsche Boerse Welcomes Ultrasonic' at the Frankfurt stock exchangeBy Jakub Iglewski WARSAW (Reuters) - With Frankfurt likely out of bounds for Chinese company flotations after a series of corporate problems, their advisers would be forgiven for seeking alternative capital-raising venues around Europe. They will probably find it tough going. Last week's announcement by Frankfurt-listed Chinese shoemaker Ultrasonic  that its CEO had vanished along with about $60 million, may have heightened the sense of risk in buying shares in Chinese companies, even if they carry the seal of approval of being listed on a prestigious European bourse. Such concerns will not be confined to Germany and are already evidenced in Warsaw for instance, whose bourse has hosted two Chinese listings in the past year only to see both subsequently lose value. Marek Buczak, head of foreign markets at Warsaw-based mutual fund Quercus TFI, said the experience of Ultrasonic and some other Chinese stocks listed in Frankfurt could be a warning to Polish investors. "Chinese firms may find it difficult to gain capital in Warsaw," he told Reuters. The fact that Ultrasonic CEO Wu Qingyong re-surfaced on Sunday saying he had simply been on holiday and had lost his mobile phone may not be enough to restore confidence in Chinese listings as a whole, even as U.S. investors lap up shares in tech leader Alibaba Group Holding . Shares in both Chinese companies listed in Poland, Peixin International Group NV  and JJ Auto , are trading well below their debut levels. Peixin shares have lost around a third of their launch price last October, while Warsaw's WIG index  has climbed 11 percent over the same period. JJ Auto has lost about a quarter of its value, making it the worst debutant on the Warsaw bourse this year. There are other negative precedents in Frankfurt that European investors will be aware of. Previous problem cases included fashion group Kinghero , which accused its former chief executive of breach of fiduciary trust and later sought to delist, and Youbisheng Green Paper , which initiated insolvency proceedings this year after its CEO went absent without explanation.  FIRST CHOICE Yet the motive for Chinese companies seeking a listing remains the same: It is so much harder to float on a domestic bourse, often taking years instead of a matter of months. Mid-sized Chinese firms have as a result looked to Europe, mostly to Frankfurt and London. Data from the London Stock Exchange (LSE)  shows seven Chinese companies on its main market and another 54 on its AIM market for smaller firms. The LSE has previously expressed interest in attracting more listings from Asia as a whole and has recently signed agreements with Chinese banks that could lead to more flotations. Yet there has been no new Chinese company listing on its main market since 2010 and the AIM shares are mostly fairly small and also attract little turnover. In Frankfurt, which embarked on a push for more Chinese listings eight years ago with dreams of landing a major catch like Alibaba, there are eight Chinese stocks on the bourse's main market. But sensing interest was cooling in Frankfurt even last year, some Chinese firms shifted their sights to the Warsaw exchange, the largest in central and eastern Europe. "We also considered Frankfurt, but Chinese companies listed there with rather mixed results," Peixin Chief Executive Quilin Xie told Reuters. "Their perception wasn't optimal, so we decided that Poland is a better market for us." Warsaw exchange chief Pawel Tamborski acknowledged events in Frankfurt were a concern but said the bourse would continue to try to attract Chinese listings. "We were quite active and would like to continue to push Poland to China," Tamborski told Reuters. "The two companies listed in Warsaw are early birds. What is required is the education of Polish investors about China, about the Chinese economy, about Chinese corporate governance. It is great that we have them (the two companies) but (winning Chinese listings) is still at an early stage.” Elsewhere the picture is patchy at best. Bourses in Switzerland, Madrid, Budapest, Zagreb, Belgrade, Prague, the Gulf and Bucharest, said they had no Chinese equity listings on their markets. Pan-European exchange Euronext said it had no Chinese bond or equity listings on its main markets. The Swiss bourse operator, SIX Group, said it had one Chinese bond listing, while Nasdaq Dubai has at least one bond listing from a Chinese firm. Warsaw does at least have a track record of embracing companies from outside the European Union. Most notably, nine firms from Ukraine are trading there. According to Andrzej Szurek, a former Warsaw bourse employee who worked on the Ukrainian listings, regulations were no less strict than on the big, established European bourses, but the costs in Warsaw were much lower.  LOW LIQUIDITY Szurek said some Ukrainian firms had tried listing in Frankfurt but had found liquidity in their stocks was lower, while in Warsaw there were investors, including local pensions funds, keen to trade in the Ukrainian shares. But any success for Ukrainian stocks has not been duplicated for Chinese firms. Peixin, producer of machines used in the hygienic materials industry, floated in October 2013 despite selling only a fourth of the shares on offer. In June it wanted to run another issue in Warsaw but withdrew, citing unfavourable market conditions. Meanwhile car parts maker JJ Auto tried to sell shares in both Warsaw and Frankfurt but sold only 5 percent of the offer. It said 170 Polish individual investors took up the shares. There is no suggestion that Peixin or JJ Auto are not meeting required standards of corporate governance, but they may have suffered from association with some of their compatriots. Jaroslaw Dabrowski, head of Warsaw-based investment boutique DF Capital who helped to manage both Chinese offers, said he was in talks with other firms willing to list in Warsaw, but the attitude of Polish investors may be a key obstacle. "There is a problem with the financial institutions which do not have the know-how necessary to invest abroad. Warsaw must be more innovative and ready to accept bigger risks, because it is still in the growth stage," Dabrowski said. "We will keep trying ... We still support Warsaw, but we're expanding our scope of interest to Frankfurt and Bucharest."  (Additional reporting by Arno Schuetze in Frankfurt, with Clare Hutchison and Freya Berry in London; Editing by Christian Lowe and David Holmes) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alaa Al-MarjaniShi'ite fighters, who have joined the Iraqi army to fight against militants of the Islamic State, take part in field training in the desert region between Kerbala and Najaf, south of Baghdad, on Thursday. It's Friday! Here's what you need to know. 1. Markets got crushed on Thursday during the biggest stock sell-off on Wall Street in two months.  2. The FBI says it knows the identity of the jihadist who murdered three hostages.  3. UK Parliament will debate on Friday whether to join the US-led coalition against Islamic State militants in Iraq. If the action receives its expected approval, British jets will be ready to attack within 24 hours of the vote, The Guardian said.   4. US Attorney General Eric Holder announced his resignation on Thursday. Holder will remain in his post until President Barack Obama names a successor; however, White House officials told The New York Times that the president was "a long way" from that decision.  5. The St. Louis suburb of Ferguson, Missouri, has descended into mayhem again after officers arrested protesters in front of the police station Thursday night. A scuffle broke out behind Police Chief Thomas Jackson after he decided to walk with the demonstrators, according to CNN.  6. More than one-fourth of Sierra Leone is now under quarantine, according to The New York Times, as the Ebola virus continues to spread uncontrollably. 7. Reports that the iPhone 6 Plus bends through normal usage appear to be overblown. Apple said that just nine customers had contacted the company with a bent iPhone Plus 6 since the phone's release.  8. Catalan president Artur Mas will sign a decree on Saturday that calls for a vote to secede from Spain, the Financial Times reports.  9. Hundreds of school children have joined Hong Kong Occupy Central, a pro-democracy protest led by thousands of university students.  10. Derek Jeter's final game in Yankee Stadium ended with a winning hit.  And finally ... The ceiling of the Sistine Chapel has new lights.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersVisitor walks past a Hyundai Motor logo at a Hyundai dealership in SeoulSEOUL (Reuters) - The boards of Hyundai Motor Co  and two affiliates on Friday approved the signing of their 10.55 trillion won ($10.12 billion) deal to buy a plot of land in Seoul valued at about a third of that amount, the companies said. Hyundai Motor will pay 55 percent of the price, followed by Hyundai Mobis Co Ltd  with 25 percent and Kia Motors Corp  with 20 percent, they said.  (Reporting by Hyunjoo Jin; Editing by Jeremy Laurence) FREE AppDownload
