Buried inside an inspector general report on wrongdoing at the National Science Foundation is an interesting case of bad behavior: A researcher got caught using government-funded supercomputers to mine for Bitcoin. According to the March IG report, the unnamed researcher used supercomputers at two different universities — although quite surprisingly — mined only a very small amount of around 12-16 bitcoins valued between $8,000 and $10,000. The researcher said he was just conducting tests on the computers, the report said. "The researcher asserted that he was conducting tests on the computers, but neither university had authorized him to conduct such tests," the report reads. "Both university reports noted that the researcher accessed the computer systems remotely and may have taken steps to conceal his activities, including accessing one supercomputer through a mirror site in Europe." In Forbes, where we first learned of the incident, Kashmir Hill notes other cases where researchers used serious computing power to harvest digital currency, including a researcher at Harvard and student at Imperial College London. It's worth mentioning that supercomputers no longer come close to the power of computing rigs designed exclusively for bitcoin mining. "Using a Supercomputer to mine for bitcoin is both appalling and shocking to common sense," writes Brian Cohen at Bitcoin Magazine, noting the resource-intensive process would generate more in electricity costs than it would earn in Bitcoin. The NSF suspended the researcher government-wide, and terminated all access to supercomputer resources, according to the report. FREE AppDownload
Walmart Walmart has issued a statement saying one of its trucks was involved in the Saturday morning accident that left comedian Tracy Morgan in critical condition. The driver of the truck has just been charged with one count of death by auto and four counts of assault by auto. NBC had earlier reported a Walmart tractor-trailer had allegedly caused the six-vehicle wreck that also killed one of Morgan's comedy writers and left two others injured. ABC reported this afternoon that police had learned the truck's driver had dozed off.  Here's Walmart's full release: “We’re praying for the family and friends of the passenger who lost his life in the terrible accident in New Jersey. Our hearts go out to everyone involved and we hope those who were injured get the care that they need and make a full recovery.   “This is a tragedy and we are profoundly sorry that one of our trucks was involved. We are working quickly to understand what happened and are cooperating fully with law enforcement to aid their investigation. “The facts are continuing to unfold. If it’s determined that our truck caused the accident, Walmart will take full responsibility. “Safety is our absolute highest priority, but that is no comfort whatsoever to the families and friends who are suffering today. We offer them our deepest condolences. We can’t change what happened, but we will do what’s right for the family of the victim and the survivors in the days and weeks ahead.” FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business Insider Elegant, rustic, and exquisite — French cuisine both intimidates and inspires diners around the world. Adaptations of French cooking here in the States have garnered no shortage of recognition. Le Bernardin, New York's high-end seafood restaurant helmed by Chef Eric Ripert, recently topped our list of the 45 Best Restaurants In America. In fact, 11 French restaurants secured spots. For the list, we looked at five notable restaurant rankings compiled by food critics, diners, and experts, and combined these rankings to create the ultimate list of the Best Restaurants. (You can read our complete methodology and see numerical scores here). We pulled the top French restaurants from our list, and ranked them here so you can see the best places to get your foie gras on in America. Bon appétit! FREE AppDownload
One of the physically harmless but perhaps psychologically and certainly financially damaging acts of hazing the remain in the NFL involves rookies taking teammates out for lavish dinners and footing the entire bill. We're not sure where the nearly $18,000 tab from Del Frisco's Philadelphia that Eagles lineman Lane Johnson Tweeted yesterday ranks in the annals of the tradition, but it's gotta be up there.   Rookie dinner pic.twitter.com/2pCRsC9Al8   Lane Johnson FREE AppDownload
ZillowThe median price for an existing home in the United States is $211,000, according to the National Association of Realtors. However, these twelve homes blow this average away with price tags in the high millions.  With the help of Zillow, we've put together a list of the most expensive homes currently on the market in the U.S. They range from penthouse apartments to sprawling estates, and each has amenities that most people can only dream about. All of the homes are located in either New York or California, which is unsurprising as both are in the top 10 most expensive states in America. Paige Cooperstein contributed to this story. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Lucas Jackson"Flash Boys" author Michael Lewis.Whether you want to learn about highly successful businesspeople or gain some practical career advice, there are a bunch of great new books to add to your summer reading list. There are Wall Street stories like Michael Lewis' "Flash Boys," useful guides like "Talk Like TED," and memoirs from successful people, such as Twitter cofounder Biz Stone's "Things A Little Bird Told Me." We've collected 20 of the most valuable and interesting business books released this year that can keep you busy on your next flight or trip to the beach. FREE AppDownload
    McDonald's is a nearly $100 billion company that pulls in more than $27 billion in sales every year. They are a fast food juggernaut, and they've been around awhile. During all those years they've tried out tons of new stuff. Some worked, but a lot of them crashed and burned. Here's a look back at the top 9 items that never caught on. FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt / Getty ImagesIf you’ve watched the news lately, you’ve noticed there is a lot of talk about interest rates. So you might be asking: Why should I care? What’s the big deal? And will it affect me? Besides determining the cost of a loan for your house or car, interest rates have a lot to do with … pretty much everything. They can affect employment, foreign investments, the stock market, and ultimately, GDP. For example, they drive employment. Why? Because if a company can borrow at a low interest rate, they can use remaining funds to hire more people. But if interest rates are higher, they may not be able to employ as many people. OK, great. So they run the world. Check. Besides those effects, they can also have an significant impact on your personal investment portfolio. In particular, your bonds.  Why? When interest rates rise, prices of existing bonds go down. That’s because it’s a better deal for an investor to buy a brand-new bond that offers him a higher interest rate (let’s say where he gets $10 per year), instead of the old bond that you have (let’s say that it offers $7 per year). So the price of your old bond goes down. Think of it like a phone — when you bought the iPhone 5 last year, it cost $300. As soon as the iPhone 5S came out — at a price of $300 and with other bells and whistles — your iPhone 5 was worth just a little bit less. Doesn’t mean you have to love it less, it just means someone else isn’t willing to pay $300 for it anymore. The same dynamic is true with bonds. And, importantly for your portfolio, falling bond prices can have a big impact on your investments. If you own 10 bonds that are falling in price, your bond portfolio is worth less, which could lead to less money in your pocket. One popular way to help guard against falling prices is to get access to bonds that are shorter-dated. Next up on The Blog — how (and why) these shorter term bonds can help.  Jessie Szymanski writes about personal finance for The Blog. You can find more of her posts here.  Fixed income risks include interest-rate and credit risk. Typically, when interest rates rise, there is a corresponding decline in bond values. Credit risk refers to the possibility that the bond issuer will not be able to make principal and interest payments. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arko Datta This morning, the Institute for Supply Management, or ISM, issued its latest May manufacturing report.  And then it had to correct itself. And then it had to correct itself a second time. ISM is a supply management industry group, known in the business world for its monthly data reports.  ISM's reports include the Report on Business and the Manufacturing and Non-Manufacturing data reports. The ISM manufacturing report has data from 18 manufacturing industries, including furniture, transportation equipment, chemical products and wood products, among others. The report is made up of 10 subindexes, which include prices paid, production, new orders, backlog, supplier deliveries, inventories, customer inventories, employment, new export orders, and imports. In a statement, ISM said the errant report was due to a software error that applied the wrong seasonal adjustment to the data. Following the initial 9:55 a.m. EDT report of a 53.2 reading, the markets sold off a bit because that reading was weaker than expected. But at 10:27 a.m. EDT, analyst firm Stone &amp; McCarthy on Twitter said it believed ISM had made a mistake with its data and that the headline reading should be 55.4, not 53.2. Specifically, Stone &amp; McCarthy claimed that the ISM had screwed up its seasonal adjustments, incorrectly applying the April formula to May data. Then at 11:27 a.m. EDT, Bloomberg's Vonnie Quinn reported that ISM's Brad Holcomb said ISM was 56.0, not 53.2.  And then at 12:26 p.m. EDT, ISM corrected their data for a final time, bringing the final reading to 55.4, in line with what the firm had postulated was the correct reading nearly two hours earlier.  Business Insider's Andy Kiersz captured the day's market action following the data releases in chart form: Google Finance The ISM reports are part of a subset of economic-data reports based on anecdotal surveys, which include NFIB's Small Business Optimism Index and The University of Michigan's Consumer Confidence report, and the Federal Reserve's Beige Book.  Following the second revision to ISM's May manufacturing index to a reading of 55.4, Wall Street economists are chiming in and doing a little soul searching. Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, wondered if this controversy should prompt us to think about how we interpret anecdotal information on the economy (emphasis ours): "Another revision, the only question is whether two wrongs make a right? 53.2, 56.0, now 55.4. What the heck, ISM did not fall 1.7 points in May to 53.2, it increased 0.5 points to 55.4. A big 2.2 point swing. Great. ISM made a mistake, another reason not to trust anecdotal information on the economy. They cannot tabulate the survey results correctly and apply the right seasonal adjustment factor. ISM manufacturing is more unreal than ever, more unreal than actual dollar and cents counting of orders, production employment. It makes you wonder if some of these errors are sometimes not caught." At Pantheon Macroeconomics, Ian Shepherdson said, "Amateur hour at the ISM strikes again."  But despite discussion surrounding the realease, and rerelease of the data itself, economists saw the final reading as a positive indicator for the economy. Cooper Howes at Barclays said: "After releasing corrections for these factors, however, the ISM reported that the index actually showed a modest rise to 55.4 that was in line with our forecast and the consensus (both 55.5). Looking at the underlying detail, the new orders (56.9, previous: 55.1) and production (61.0, previous: 55.7) indices now show increases after using the appropriate seasonal factors… Overall, this revision puts the index more in line with our view of a rebound in activity in the second quarter and more closely matches the signal from the May reading of the Markit manufacturing PMI." Overall, economists see the employment subindex as the only reading in this report that isn't great. The employment subindex fell to 52.8 in May from a 54.7 reading in April.  Last week, U.S. GDP was revised to show the economy shrank an estimated 1% in the first quarter.  In his note on the ISM report, Rupkey said this report means, "a 3%-plus GDP number is in the bag." Paul Ashworth at Capital Economics said the revised headline reading is consistent with GDP growth just below 3% annualized.  And this Friday's May jobs report will be closely watched as an indicator of whether the economy has really shaken off the winter and returned to growth. It's been quite a day for economic data, and the busy week is only getting started. FREE AppDownload
Increasing numbers of young Americans are heading to college, where they're racking up debt to pay for rapidly increasing tuition costs. Those graduating are being confronted by a challenging job market, which eventually leads many to just drop out of the labor force altogether. This in turn has led to an increasing delinquency rate for student-loan borrowers. So it's no surprise that young people are increasingly opting, perhaps out of necessity, to live at home with their parents. In his latest monthly chart book, Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok tracks the rise of 18- to 34-years-olds currently in this position. And there are a lot. Slok sees this as a bullish force to come in the housing market, characterized by a homeownership rate at a 19-year low. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Americans move around a lot. More than one in ten people in the U.S. changed homes between March 2012 and March 2013, and their reasons for moving around varied. The Census analyzed current population survey data on the 11.3% of the population who moved between March 2012 and March 2013 to figure out what their reasons for moving were. This chart shows the breakdown of survey responses:  U.S. Census Bureau Almost half of movers changed homes for housing-related reasons, like wanting a better or cheaper house or apartment. A little over 12% of movers were people forming their own households. This usually consists of children moving out on their own. The Census also included a chart showing how these reasons have changed over time, comparing the percentages of movers giving different reasons in 1999 and 2013: U.S. Census Bureau Looking for cheaper housing, and miscellaneous housing and family reasons have become more common, while a smaller proportion of movers in 2013 wanted a new or better place to live than in 1999. FREE AppDownload
A study recently conducted by the Evolution &amp; Ecology Research Centre has taken the guessing game out of what beard style women prefer. We visited Astor Place Hairstylists to get some tips on how to keep up the popular yet subtly maintained 10-day beard. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis.
REUTERS/Hyungwon Kang  For one shining moment, Thomas Piketty's "Capital in the 21st Century" was the most talked about economics book of the year. Adulation came from all corners, including Larry Summers, a man some blamed for having helped loosen financial restrictions that led to ever-greater gains for the 1%. "Even in terms of income ratios, the gaps that have opened up between, say, the top .1 percent and the remainder of the top 10 percent are far larger than those that have opened up between the top 10 percent and average income earners," Summers wrote in his "Capital" review. "Even if none of Piketty’s theories stands up, the establishment of this fact has transformed political discourse and is a Nobel Prize-worthy contribution." Today, Summers has announced he is already over Piketty.   "Atif Mian and Amir Sufi’s House of Debt, despite some tough competition, looks likely to be the most important economics book of 2014," Summers writes in a post for the FT. "It could be the most important book to come out of the 2008 financial crisis and subsequent Great Recession." Mian and Sufi, professors at Princeton and the University of Chicago respectively, argue that what caused the Great Recession to be so great wasn't the banking sector blow-out, but rather overindebted households. The full title of the book turns out to be "House of Debt: How They (and You) [emphasis ours] Caused the Great Recession, and How We Can Prevent It from Happening Again." Here's how Summers' summarizes their case:  Households do not spend while they are still overly indebted, which precipitates slow growth even after banking is restored to health. Spending slowdowns are caused by household over-indebtedness, so of course they precede problems in the banking system. And, when consumers do not spend, businesses have less need to borrow to finance investment, inventories or receivables. This argument, Summers says, "is a major contribution that furthers our understanding of the crisis. It certainly affects what I will examine in trying to predict and forestall future crises." It was a good run, T.P. Read Summers' full review over at the FT » FREE AppDownload
Last month federal regulators did the once unthinkable and criminally charged Credit Suisse for helping its clients evade taxes. Now the government is going after France's biggest bank, BNP Paribas. Reports indicate that over the next few weeks it faces a $10 billion fine and criminal charges for doing business with in sanctioned countries such as Iran. Wall Street should've seen this coming. Back in March, Preet Bharara, the U.S. district attorney for New York known for taking down some big names on Wall Street for insider trading, made a telling speech.  He warned Wall Street that he was sick and tired of seeing big banks admit to civil charges and pay fines for their million-dollar malfeasance only to then go on business as usual. For the last decade, banks have argued that prosecuting them criminally will result in their collapse. Bharara called this their "Chicken Little routine." Here's the part where Bharara disclosed that he had had enough: Companies, especially financial institutions, will do almost anything to avoid a tough enforcement action and therefore have a natural and powerful incentive to make prosecutors believe that death or dire consequences await on the other side of such an action – to dissuade the prosecutor from taking the fateful step of filing a criminal charge, even a deferred charge. And in that dynamic also lies a powerful incentive to exaggerate. In meetings with senior executives and their counsel—and in written submissions also—I have heard assertions made with great force and passion that if we take any criminal action, the skies will darken; the oceans will rise; nuclear winter will be upon us; and the world as we know it will end... When these arguments are made to me and my staff, we take them seriously—like we take all arguments and submissions. But we also take them, increasingly, with grains of salt, and make our own independent judgment about what actually is likely to happen. What I have found typically is that, in reality, as we had suspected, the sky does not fall... And so, this repeated Chicken Little routine, I will tell you, begins to wear thin. And the result is that we view with more and more skepticism and with more and more doubt all the breathless claims of catastrophic consequences made by companies both large and small. Over at Bloomberg, Greg Farrell and Tiffany Karry report that Bharara started to come around to this way of thinking last fall, when he wanted to prosecute JPMorgan for its decades long neglect to report Bernie Madoff's fraud. JPM was the Ponzi schemers banker, and some inside the company knew that something was afoot — they pulled the bank's money from Madoff before reporting the issue to the Feds. That upset Bharara. But when JPM CEO Jamie Dimon got a 74% raise to $20 million afterward for guiding the company through the storm, Bharara was livid. Dimon's pay had been cut in 2012, when traders lost $6 billion on a single trade. The whole matter said something about the bank's priorities. It made Bharara think back to when Dimon had personally told him that criminal charges for Madoff would destroy JPM. Wall Street as a whole has been telling this story because once upon a time the sky did fall. When the Feds prosecuted Arthur Andersen for its role in disguising Enron's fraud, the company collapsed in 2002. This time around Credit Suisse, however, did not collapse. And though the French are upset that American regulators are going after BNP, law enforcement officials are betting that it won't collapse either. In his speech, Bharara said that the pendulum had swung too far one way — against prosecuting Wall Street criminally — after Arther Andersen. If the pendulum is in fact swinging in the opposite direction — toward handing out criminal charges — the next thing in its way could be prosecuting individuals. It's quite likely that Wall Street has always known that. FREE AppDownload
If you're reading this story in the U.S., you're probably someone who's heard a lot about Bitcoin, but doesn't know anyone who actually owns any. If you're a European reading this story outside the Eurozone, or perhaps a resident of Hong Kong or Russia, the reverse may be true: A majority of your compatriots may not have heard of Bitcoin, but anyone sophisticated enough to have read up on it now likely owns some.   As Bitcoin enters its fifth year in the wild, its largest concentrations of users can now be found not in the U.S. — which enjoys a stable banking system and a galaxy of existing mobile payments services — but rather in places where Bitcoin's core offerings — a hedge against inflation, a means of quickly executing transactions over long distances  — can actually be tapped into.  "The reality is that in North America, consumers have access to a fairly decent set of financial services," Peter Smith, COO of Bitcoin wallet firm Blockchain, told BI in an email. "This isn't the case in the majority of the world. In fact, a huge portion of the world has little to no access to anything that would give them an even base level of financial capabilities."  Here is what the chart looks like for per-capita downloads of Bitcoin software from SourceFourge. In the lead are all the countries in Europe that have not yet adopted the Euro. The U.S. ranks 15th. SourceForge On a currency basis, RMB-denominated Bitcoin trades now outrank USD despite a seemingly never ending stream of threats out of the People's Bank's of China that they'll end all transactions. BitcoinCharts  The list of most Bitcoin nodes, or Bitcoin transaction confirmation servers, by population also shows the U.S. barely cracks the top 10, although there is a bit of a skew towards countries with cooler climates.Bitnodes.ioEven in Europe, there are more than a dozen countries who don't use the euro, making cross-border transactions on the continent problematic.  Ironically, overall investments remain concentrated in the U.S., though that may simply be a function that this is where the money is. Still, a third of all Bitcoin VC funds are now outside the U.S.Coindesk In an interview with BI last month, Jeremy Allaire, the founder of digital currency payments startup Circle, admitted that while the service is aimed at 18-34 year-olds across the world who have digitized everything else in their lives, he said he wouldn't be surprised if there were inordinate concentrations of adoption in places like Turkey and Brazil with shaky sovereigns. "We’ll be watching to see organically where pockets of users come," he said.  Further evidence can be found at Bitpay, which just closed on the largest-ever round of funding for a Bitcoin investment firm. The location of the firm's newest office? Amsterdam. Its other two offices outside its Atlanta base are in Buenos Aires and Montreal.  Smith named Russia, Indonesia, Malaysia, East Africa and South America as Bitcoin's next major growth regions, thanks to their "wildly volatile" currencies and/or large underbanked populations.  "At Blockchain.info, we are seeing huge growth come from emerging markets," Smith said.  It's worth pointing out that Blockchain itself is a firm based outside London but run by at least two Americans. FREE AppDownload
Steve Graham—a 55-year-old private equity exec who runs Philadelphia-area Graham Partners—has some serious breakdancing moves that would make most twenty-somethings envious.  In the breaking world, he's known as "B-boy Silverback." In the 80s, people called him "Vanilla Shake" (that was before "Vanilla Ice" came along). Graham got his start in the breaking scene while working as an analyst at Goldman Sachs during the early 1980s.   Back then, he used to go to legendary Chelsea club, The Roxy. "I asked a guy to show me a move. And then I was like, 'I can do this,'" said Graham, who was a three-sport athlete (track, tennis and skiing) at Williams College.   After that, he started going out to a community center in the South Bronx late at night for breaking. "When you work at Goldman so late you can take a cab anywhere, so I literally took it to the South Bronx and trained at this place with guys who were sort of famous breakers back in the day. I learned some moves from them."   He also started breaking during lunch at Goldman. His colleagues loved it.  Once Graham had learned enough moves, he started challenging the Manhattan "street hitters"—people who break for money on the sidewalk—to breaking battles.   "You know, 'Hey, I want to battle you.' They thought it was hilarious because I was this white preppy dude breaking. I had enough moves and I was athletic enough that they loved it.  They started putting me in their act," Graham said. Graham said he would show up wearing glasses, a tie and carrying an HP-12C calculator in his pocket. He explained that the hitters would grab him by the tie from out of the crowd.   Via Graham Partners"When they'd pull me out of the crowd it would literally flip everyone from Oklahoma out," he said.   Graham would then fold his glasses, take off his jacket, put down his calculator and walk straight up to the hitters and bust an air swipe for his entry move. (You can check one out in the video below.) People didn't know what was going on, he said, but they loved it.  Following his stint at Goldman, he went to business school at Dartmouth. There, he taught a bunch of his classmates how to break. For years after that, he would occasionally break out his moves at parties, but he stopped training. Just a couple of years ago, though, he enrolled his two youngest sons—now ages five and eight—into breaking with some coaches in Philadelphia.  That's when he picked it up again. Now he even teaches a bunch of his summer interns how to break in addition to learning more common Wall Street skills, like financial modeling. He explained that about half of his interns are college athletes.  During the summer, they live on his farm and they learn to break. They also enter into breaking events. Graham is also very connected to breaking scenes in Philadelphia, New York, Chicago and the West Coast — he even knows breakers overseas in Europe.  He sponsors highlight videos, events and competitions for breakers, and spends time helping out fellow breakers with anything from education to legal issues. Graham recently created a non-profit UDEF (Urban Dance &amp; Educational Foundation). So far, the Facebook page has more than 50,000 "likes". UDEF's first initiative is The Pro Breaking Tour with a board comprised of breakers and promoters. In some respects, the tour is modeled after the ATP tennis tour, PGA golf tour, NASCAR and other pro sports. Part of the charitable mandate will be the educational initiative, he explained.  The proceeds will go to UDEF to support young breakers teaching and helping people. Now check out Graham breaking:   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Nir EliasThe vast scale of China’s landmass and its population means that China produces and consumes copious amounts of natural resources and food. It also means that China houses a large chunk of the world’s billionaires. We dug around to find some interesting statistics. Did you know that China's railway lines could loop around earth twice? Here are some interesting facts about the world's second-largest economy, which could soon eclipse the U.S. to become the world's largest this year. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Wall Street sign outside the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - Investors have spent several months deciphering the mixed signals from the U.S. economy, and yet the S&amp;P 500 has kept moving higher, slowly but surely, putting it just shy of the 2,000 mark. With its Friday close, the S&amp;P would need just a 2.5 percent gain to vault the 2K level - something most did not expect during the depths of the Great Recession. The move has been anything but frantic. The S&amp;P 500 has not made a 1 percent move in a single session in almost two months, and the CBOE Volatility Index, the market's favored gauge of anxiety, fell below 11 on Friday, for its lowest close since 2007. "That the market is going up in low volatility is good for investor sentiment," said Doug Coté, chief market strategist at Voya Investment Management in New York. What's unclear is whether the market is starting to become overvalued. The forward P/E ratio of the index is now 15.8 and would rise above 16 if the index hits 2,000 and earnings estimates remain the same. However, Coté said given current low interest rates, that level would still be low. Still, the economy notably contracted in the first quarter of this year. As always, hope of a takeoff in growth persists among equity managers, boosted on Friday by employment data showing the economy finally recouped all the jobs lost during the Great Recession. It took 77 months to do so, the longest time needed to regain jobs lost in a recession. "The jobs report was not only strong, but also not too good, so the overheating fear is not there yet," said Jim Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis. "It suggests we’re headed up to 2,000 (on the S&amp;P 500) in the next weeks." As the market has rallied, some, including several members of the Federal Reserve, have expressed concern that investors are ignoring risks. The cost to protect against market declines, measured in the options market, has been steadily falling. Some would call that complacency, but the lack of actual volatility is keeping option prices subdued. Realized volatility for the S&amp;P in the last 10 days has been a bit more than 4 percent, which theoretically makes the VIX expensive, not cheap. "A lot of people who hedged their bets by buying volatility, many did it in the 13 and 13.5 area (on the VIX), so they don't feel a need to readjust their hedges," said J.J. Kinahan, chief derivatives officer at TD Ameritrade in Chicago. The round 2,000 print will scare some, while others will have no option but to buy in as they chase performance. Paulsen is expecting a slide in stocks in the second half of the year. "But right now people are more concerned about getting in before it goes up more, rather than waiting for a correction," he said.   (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos, additional reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch; Editing by Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
