Margin CallA lot of people seem to think that Wall Street is losing its hold on top graduates. The thinking, outlined in a recent article in The New York Times, is that the falling prestige of Wall Street means that banks are having to compete for talent with other industries, the perk- and stock-option-laden tech sector in particular. That banks are reevaluating their internship programs and curbing famously long weekend hours is cited as more evidence for the trend. “It’s a generational shift,” a 24 year old former Bank of America analyst told The New York Times. “Does it really make sense for me to do something I really don’t love and don’t really care about, working 90 hours a week? It really doesn’t make sense. Banks are starting to realize that.” But is Wall Street really losing ground? We're not convinced. Pay has fallen from its pre-crisis heights, but the average Wall Streeter still makes $300,000 according to the New York State Comptroller. A recent graduate of Harvard Business School going into finance averages $125,000 for their base salary alone. Entry level base salaries at top banks are still in the $70,000 to $90,000 range, and bonuses, though not matching the base like they used to, are still extremely large.  Only consultants have higher average salaries out of HBS. And though Silicon Valley pay is high and getting higher, the only tech jobs that compete with Wall Street are certain types of programmers and engineers — and people who go for those jobs were never going to end up as analysts and traders anyway. As for business and finance roles in the tech world, these tend to have lower salaries than on Wall Street. Salaries for MBAs are substantially lower in the tech world as well.  Although more MBAs and recent graduates are going to tech companies now, this appears to be mostly because there are more jobs. There are fewer jobs on Wall Street, but they are as sought after as ever. The percentage of Harvard undergraduates going into finance is down from its pre-crisis peak, but is back up to 15%, growing from last year.  The number of Princeton graduates heading to finance has grown back to 22% in recent years after a low in 2009. That's below historic highs, but not far from the average.  As for those awful hours people work on Wall Street, they've never dissuaded the types of people attracted to those careers before — and those people don't overlap much with people inclined to work in California for a tech company. Finance blogger The Epicurean Dealmaker sums it up nicely:  "1) since Wall Street is shrinking we don’t need as many junior resources as before, 2) the number of college graduates who simultaneously aspire to be J. Pierpont Morgan and Steve Jobs (or even Bernie Madoff and Mark Zuckerberg) is now and always has been nil, and 3) if having an in-house masseuse, pool table, and artisanal toast barista is important to your career satisfaction, you were never going to last longer than 15 minutes on Wall Street anyway."  Though investment banking means lots of late nights and weekends, that's a function of the way work gets done, and the daytime can be pretty sedate, with people getting into the office on the late side. Also after a couple of years working those insane hours, you can leave to get an MBA, to another job with marketable experience, or upward within the finance industry.   The one area where Wall Street might be less competitive is in competing for incredibly bright engineering and quantitative types. Pre-crisis, they were in high demand to structure and sell hugely complex derivatives. There are far fewer of those jobs in the aftermath of the financial crisis, and the regulation that followed. The changes in hours are more about responding to negative news stories than any worry about attracting talent.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonNew Jersey Governor Chris Christie gives a news conference in Trenton January 9, 2014.The New Jersey State Assembly committee investigating Bridgegate has supboenaed many top aides to Gov. Chris Christie (R), including his Chief of Staff and his Chief Counsel, reports Matthew Arco of PolitickerNJ. The PolitickerNJ report cites an anonymous source and has not been independently confirmed by Business Insider. The reported list of subpoena targets also includes top officials from Christie's 2013 re-election campaign and from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. It does not include Christie himself. Subpoena targets reportedly include: Subpoenas may be for documents, testimony or both. Drewniak and Reed did not immediately respond to requests for comment about the accuracy of the list of subpoenas. Tim O'Donovan, Press Secretary to Assemblyman John Wisniewski (D), who is leading the investigation, told Business Insider he did not know who had been subpoenaed. FREE AppDownload
The hedge fund industry isn’t known for its gender diversity. It usually conjures up images of men in power suits eating steak dinners. And yet, when it comes to returns, women are the ones leading the field. For the second year in a row, female hedge fund managers have outperformed the industry overall: While those run by women returned almost 10% from January 2013 to November 2013, the general HFRX Global Hedge Fund index was up only about 6% during that same period, according to a new report by professional services firm Rothstein Kass. The results are even more astounding when they include the six years between January 2007 and June 2013: In that time period, women-managed hedge funds returned 6%—compared to the index’s loss of 1.1%. What’s the deal? Some experts say that women’s investing success may be boosted by biological factors. “There have been studies that show that testosterone can make men less sensitive to risk-reward signals, and that comes through in this study,” Meredith Jones, a director at Rothstein Kass, told Reuters. RELATED: How I Made It in a ‘Man’s’ Field: 5 High-Powered Women Tell All And while women-led hedge funds only control about 3% of global hedge fund assets of $1.5 trillion, there seems to be growing optimism that females will command a larger portion in the future: According to the study, almost 18% of senior women in the industry said they want to run their own fund within the next five years—compared to about 14% a year ago. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/New York District Attorney HandoutA screenshot from the video of the notorious party.Former Tyco CEO Dennis Kozlowski is finally getting out of prison this week, so we thought we'd take a look at what landed him there in the first place eight years ago. Kozlowski and his right-hand man were convicted in 2005 of stealing $150 million from Tyco and illicitly making $430 million more by artificially inflating the value of company stock. Kozlowski, the son of a Newark, N.J. police officer, flaunted his wealth and enjoyed a lavish lifestyle that prosecutors said was improperly funded by the company he worked for. The most glaring example of this extravagance was a $2 million week-long birthday party for his wife, Karen, which became known as "The Tyco Roman Orgy." Tyco picked up half the bill for the Roman-Empire-themed 40th birthday party on the island of Sardinia, attracting the attention of federal prosecutors in Manhattan, The Wall Street Journal reported in 2002. Here are images from a home movie of the party that a jury eventually saw: AP Photo/New York District Attorney HandoutAnother screen grab from a video of the party  AP Photo/New York District Attorney HandoutDennis Kozlowski smiling at the party that would be part of his downfall. The event was almost comically over the top. Tyco staffer Beth Pacitti sent party planners a memo with very specific expectations for the party at the Hotel Cala di Volpe Resort, which included a large replica of Michelangelo's David. Here's an excerpt from the memo, courtesy of the Journal: Guests arrive at the club starting at 7:15 p.m. ... Two gladiators are standing next to the door, one opens the door, the other helps the guests. We have a lion or horse with a chariot for the shock value. ... The guests come into the pool area, the band is playing, they are dressed in elegant chic. Big ice sculpture of David, lots of shellfish and caviar at his feet. A waiter is pouring Stoli vodka into [the statue's] back so it comes out his penis into a crystal glass. Waiters are passing cocktails in chalices. They are dressed in linen togas with fig wreath on head. A full bar with fabulous linens. ... We have rented fig trees with tiny lights everywhere to fill some space. 8:30 the waiters instruct that dinner is served. We all walk up to the loggia. The tables are all family style with the main table in front. The tables have incredible linens with chalices as wine glasses. The jury that saw footage from this party actually didn't end up convicting Kozwolski; the judge declared a mistrial after a juror apparently gunning for the former CEO's acquittal gave an "okay" sign to the defense. During the second trial, prosecutors focused less on Kozwolski's opulent lifestyle and the notorious toga party and spent more time talking about accounting issues, The Times reported. But as the Journal noted, the ex-CEO's spending habits and big party attracted the attention of prosecutors, so it's fair to blame at least some of his downfall on the "Roman Orgy." Of course, Kozlowski probably won't be throwing $2 million toga parties now that he's getting out of prison. He and former Tyco CFO Mark Swartz were ordered to pay $134 million back to Tyco, and Kozlowski was ordered to pay a $70 million fine. Despite his business qualifications, Kozlowski will probably have a hard time finding work that will fund a fancy lifestyle post-prison. FREE AppDownload
APSenate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and Majority Leader Harry ReidThe Senate on Thursday easily passed the $1 trillion omnibus spending bill, avoiding a repeat federal government shutdown and keeping the government funded through the end of September. The Senate passed the bill, 72-26. The Senate's vote came one day after the House of Representatives easily passed the bill, 359-67. President Barack Obama has indicated that he will sign the bill. The 1,582-page spending bill is comprised of all 12 individual annual spending bills thrown into one $1.012 trillion omnibus bill. The bill was a result of a month of work from appropriators and their aides. It builds on last month's budget agreement that was brokered by Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.) and Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.). Murray and Ryan chair the Senate and House budget committees and are the lead negotiators for their parties on the agreement. The bill found some opposition while moving through Congress, namely from House conservatives and outside conservative groups. But even though most lawmakers admitted that the bill wasn't perfect, they were eager to get back to a more regular order. "I’m pleased that Congress has come together to fill in the details of the framework Chairman Ryan and I agreed on in December and fund the government in a way that invests in families and communities across the country," Murray said in a statement after the vote Thursday.  "Moving forward I hope we will build on this bipartisan work rather than returning to the economic hostage-taking and artificial crises we saw far too much of last year." FREE AppDownload
Five years after the darkest days of the financial crisis, America's corporations continue to sit on mountains of cash. For the most part, cash has been increasingly used to buy back stock and increase dividends. And to a lesser extent, companies have been deploying that cash via capital expenditures, which represent the business spending to replace equipment and support growth initiatives. Most economists have argued that aging equipment and a general pent-up demand for these capital goods represent a bullish economic force to come.  The question has largely been: when? However, Societe Generale's Andrew Lapthorne has taken the exact opposite side of this argument. According to the data and ratios he's looking at, "US corporates are not underspending when it comes to capital expenditure and, in fact, relative to sales they may be overspending!" Wow. "The following chart shows overall capex to sales ratios for the US ex-financials," he wrote. "Rather than being depressed, what we see is that capex levels versus sales are relatively elevated. If anything it would appear from this data that capex levels are too high – not too low – as many are saying." Considering the persistently anemic demand, Lapthorne expresses skepticism that companies will want to increase capital expenditures at this point since the increase in depreciation expense will only put further pressure on profit margins. Here's Lapthorne: Indeed, if we look at the evolution of capital expenditure and cash flow growth, we see that we have already been through a long period of substantial capex growth and capex growth has exceeded cash flow growth for some time. Importantly, just as cash flow growth is slowing so too is capex growth and, in the absence of a pick-up in demand, it may continue to do so in an effort to preserve those precious high margins and profitability. So why are corporates complaining about the lack of investment opportunities an opting largely to engage in share buybacks instead? As has been the case in Japan, we'd argue that the problem is not a lack of desire to invest, but anemic demand reflected in very low sales growth. After all, corporates did step up capital expenditure post the financial crisis only to then be confronted with a lackluster economic recovery. If the demand demand isn't there why invest? And, of course, with credit abundant there are easier ways to boost asset prices, so why not pursue those instead? It's incredible that five years after the crisis, fear may be a force keeping businesses from spending. Whether you buy his argument or not, Lapthorne reminds us that there is a risk that corporations will not ramp spending in a way that we would like. Societe Generale FREE AppDownload
Forget fame and glamour: The buyers of Manhattan’s most costly real estate are often not the boldfaced names that appear in the gossip pages. Those spending $40 million or more on a home are seldom bankers, starlets, tech billionaires or Russian oligarchs and their children, brokers say. Instead, these big spenders often tend to have roots in the working classes, making their fortunes from manufacturing, inventions and sales. “Everyone expects buyers at this price point to be extremely glamorous, but really they are the minority,” said Leonard Steinberg, who leads the luxury brokerage team at Douglas Elliman. “Ninety percent of buyers in the $40 million-plus range are just extremely clever people that have invested wisely, or invented something extraordinary.” Steinberg is currently marketing a 7,250-square-foot condo penthouse at the Elad Group’s 250 West Street, for $39.5 million. And despite the apartment’s hefty price tag so far, the potential buyers coming to view the property have been largely under-the-radar players with unrecognizable names. And while Steinberg stressed the growing influence of highly cosmopolitan foreign billionaires on the New York market —from places like China, Russia and Western Europe, as well as new wealth emerging in countries like Nigeria, South Africa and Mexico — he said Americans are still the primary buyers of this type of home. For example, one potential buyer who recently viewed the property was a towel manufacturer. But the buyer’s fortune was not built on a recognizable name brand of bath or beach towel, nor through sales at big retail chains. Instead, she produced towels distributed exclusively at wholesale centers — hardly haute couture. “You have to think, who invented the technology in your keyboard? Who manufactured the screws and hinges in the products all around you? Who innovated the latest medical device?” Steinberg asked. “Buyers in this market usually aren’t people who got rich raping the system. They tend to be either ingenious or rather lucky.” While Wall Streeters, technology millionaires, heirs and TV, movie and sports stars obviously have millions to spend, brokers say those buyers usually top out below the $40 million price point. There are, of course, exceptions — like Leslie Alexander, the billionaire owner of Houston Rockets, who snapped up a $42 million unit at 18 Gramercy Park South last year (see “A drop at the top”). But more often than not, the $40 million-plus buyers work in obscure fields. Indeed, while senior executives at the big global banks often earn total compensation packages that come in around $20 million, in many cases much of that headline number isn’t in cash. Typically, half or even two-thirds of their total will come from restricted stock awards or options that vest over time, making their fortunes less liquid. There are, of course, exceptions — hedger funder Bill Ackman and a group of investors are reportedly in contract for a $90 million unit at Extell Development’s One57 — but there are also more than a few New York City trophy homes listed above $40 million. In fact, approximately 30 homes in the city are currently on the market for $40 million or more, according to real estate listings website StreetEasy. Sotheby’s International Realty’s Elizabeth Sample, who along with partner Brenda Powers has four properties listed at $50 million or above, added that there are currently at least another five off-market “whisper” listings in the same price range. But don’t expect Hollywood glitterati or high-visibility TV and music personalities to chase those properties. Stars typically buy at lower price points. Continue reading at The Real Deal &gt; FREE AppDownload
 The chipmaker reported earnings of $0.51 per share, slightly below analysts' consensus estimate of $0.52 EPS. Revenues were $13.8 billion, above the $13.72 billion expected by analysts. The company offered Q1 revenue guidance in the range of $12.3-13.3 billion versus consensus estimates of $12.78 billion. "We had a solid fourth quarter with signs of stabilization in the PC segment and financial growth from a year ago," Intel CEO Brian Krzanich said in a press release. “We’ve built a strong foundation for our business by bringing innovation to the market more quickly across a wide range of computing platforms. For example, at CES, we demonstrated multiple devices that weren’t on our roadmap six months ago." Below is the section from Intel's earnings release on Q1 guidance: Intel's stock is down approximately 3% in after-hours trading. This is developing... Click here to refresh for the latest updates &gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
REUTERSStocks edged down a bit. Here's the scoreboard: Dow Jones: 16,417.01, -64.93 (-0.39%)S&amp;P 500: 1,845.89, -2.49 (-0.13%)Nasdaq: 4,218.69, +3.81 (+0.09%)  And now the top stories: DON'T MISS: Wall Street's Brightest Minds Reveal Their Best Investment Ideas For The Next Decade » FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. How Investors Could Have Avoided The Drama In Dividend Paying Stocks (Charles Schwab) After some good returns in early 2013, dividend paying stocks, often considered to be stable, took a hit in the second half of the year. After Ben Bernanke first spoke of the Fed taper last year, interest rates started to rise and this had "a significant impact on higher-yielding stock returns," writes John Wightkin, director of equity research applications, Schwab Center for Financial Research. There are several "adjustments to an equity income strategy," that could help in such a scenario writes Wightkin. "Specifically, our research found that dividend-paying stocks with low payout ratios (dividends per share/ earnings per share), low price/earnings (P/E) ratios (market value per share/ earnings per share) or an A-rating by Schwab Equity Ratings would have generally had better total returns than dividend-paying stocks that don't meet at least one of these criteria. Let's look at why that might be and how you can find these types of stocks." The Three Most Important Issues Advisors Will Discuss With Clients This Year (Investment News)  30% of 302 advisors, surveyed by Market Strategies International for Janus Capital Group, said higher interest rates and their impact on investors' portfolios is the most important topic they will discuss with their clients year. About 25% said portfolio rebalancing was the most important issue they would discuss with their clients. Finally another roughly 25% of those survey said the most important thing they discussed with clients this year would be income generating strategies. 10 Financial Advisory Blogs That You Need To Read (RIABiz.com)  If you're like us, you are always looking for broader conversations on what's going on in the financial advisory world. Lisa Shidler at RiaBiz.com has put together a list of the top 10 industry blogs. She also has a quick Q&amp;A with the authors about the rationale at each. Here they are: 1. Nerd’s Eye View by Michael Kitces; 2. The Reformed Broker by Josh Brown; 3. FPPad by Bill Winterberg; 4. Wired Advisor by Stephanie Sammons; 5. Scholarly Financial Planner by Ron A. Rhoades; 6. Abnormal Returns by Tadas Viskanta 7. Investment Writing by Susan Weiner 8. Wade Pfau’s Retirement Researcher Blog by Wade Pfau; 9. Rock the Boat Marketing by Pat Allen, 10. The Meridian Blog by Scott Dauenhauer. 'Long Robots, Short Human Beings' (Bank of America)  "The rise in the use of industrial robots and the decline in the number of manufacturing jobs for human beings (Chart 1, front page) remind us of the technology theme," writes Bank of America's Michael Hartnett in a note to clients. "BofAML's tech analysts favor innovative hardware, the socially mobile consumer and cloud collaboration as their big 2014 themes. We are long tech but wary of the close correlation between internet stocks and central bank liquidity." BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, IFR, BloombergNote: growth interpolated 1974-1982, 1984-1990, 1991-1994, 1996-1999. Here's All The Stuff That Could Ruin The World This Year (The World Economic Forum)  The World Economic Forum has identified ten key risks for 2014. Here they are verbatim: 1. Fiscal crises in key economies; 2. Structurally high unemployment/underemployment; 3. Water crises; 4. Severe income disparity; 5. Failure of climate change mitigation and adaptation; 6. Greater incidence of extreme weather events like floods, storms, fires; 7. Global governance failure; 8. Food crises; 9. Failure of a major financial mechanism/institution; 10. Profound political and social instability. Fiscal crises are expected to be the risk with the most impact this year. "Advanced economies remain in danger of fiscal crises. Given the US’s official public debt of more than 100% of its GDP, and Japan’s of more than 230%, investors may at some point conclude that these levels are unsustainable," according to the report. FREE AppDownload
Steve Cohen hasn't even had the house for a full year, but he's already selling the East Hampton mansion he bought in March for $62.5 million, says the New York Observer. However a spokesperson for Cohen has said, “As we made clear to the Observer, neither property is for sale.” A few things about the house: It's on 52 Further Lane, has a pool, tennis court, media room etc. but the most important thing about it is that it has an ocean view. Cohen bought the house at 52 after selling his home on 96 Further Lane. The 96 house just had to go because the ocean was blocked by fellow hedge fund manager Jim Chanos' house. And who wants that?! Now that's all in the past. Apparently Cohen is done with Further Lane. It's over. Goodbye. That said — now is definitely a good time for him to raise some cash. Cohen's firm, SAC Capital, plead guilty to insider trading charges last year and must pay $1.8 billion in fines to the Feds. It also returned all outside investor capital and turned into a family office. The Justice Department has said that an investigation into Cohen himself, not just the firm, is ongoing. Cohen is also selling his NYC penthouse, which was just price chopped from $115 million to $98 million. Times are tough. For the full report, head to the NY Observer&gt;   FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Mike BlakeFor the last five years, the top goal of economic policy has been stimulating demand. This has been the right goal, and because conservatives don't believe the government can do anything productive in this area, the left has held most of the right policy answers. Demand stimulation remains the right goal today, but it's not going to be the right goal forever. As the economy returns to "normal," the special rules of the last five years won't apply: the labor market won't be so slack that it doesn't matter if you pay people not to work; the federal government won't be able to borrow and spend without crowding out private activity. We're going to need a new supply side economics that encourages people to work, invest and innovate. That doesn't mean conservatives' agenda of tax cuts and federal deregulation, which aims at problems that were addressed in the 1970s or never existed at all. But it also doesn't mean an agenda of small-bore and meddlesome initiatives designed to promote specific industries, particularly manufacturing, as often described by President Barack Obama. Instead, it should mean an agenda like the following. These are policies that would would encourage more investment and job creation while supporting rises in standards of living for people with low and moderate incomes. In most cases, these policies don't have to wait: They could be implemented today, alongside demand-side policies that are still needed for now, such as emergency extended unemployment insurance. 1. Invest in smart infrastructure, ideally without building much. Republicans show little interest in infrastructure spending. Democrats favor it, but have fallen into a bad habit of talking about it as a demand-side measure that creates construction jobs. A good infrastructure project should mainly produce benefits on the supply side by making it easier for people to get to jobs, go to school, and start companies. And while a demand-side approach to infrastructure policy favors spending lots of money, a supply-side infrastructure agenda should favor high-efficiency improvements, ideally ones that increase the usefulness of existing facilities with minimal construction. Stephen Smith's ideas about better using existing facilities at New York Penn Station are one example of an infrastructure improvement that would require little construction. Congestion pricing for roads, especially in Manhattan, is a second. Smarter airport facilities allocation (through advanced air traffic control technology and market pricing of takeoff slots) is a third. Sometimes, we really will need big construction projects as part of the infrastructure agenda. To that end, we should figure out what allows continental European countries to build rail infrastructure so much more cheaply than we do — and emulate their practices so we can build more of it. And we should focus on providing transit connections between low-income neighborhoods and job centers, because transit access is a key driver of income mobility. 2. Reform means-tested entitlements without soaking the poor. Today, the key driver of high unemployment and low labor force participation is employers' lack of interest in hiring. That was even more true in 2009. When there are three applicants for every job opening (like now) or six (like at the depth of the recession), it doesn't matter very much for aggregate employment if a few people are content to collect unemployment checks until their benefits run out. Means-tested entitlement policy is not a very important driver of unemployment today. That's going to change. As the labor market continues to tighten, it will become a larger problem that means-tested entitlement programs penalize poor and near-poor people for earning more income. In some cases, the working poor face effective marginal tax rates near 100% because of benefits that phase out as they earn more wages. This is a disincentive to work, and in a normal economy it raises unemployment and depresses market incomes. The talking point that "people want a job, not a handout" is not just wrong, it's insulting. We wouldn't impose a tax rate near 100% on people with moderate or high incomes and expect them to work anyway. Most low-wage jobs are not intangibly rewarding; people do them because they get paid. Except, if your marginal tax rate is near 100%, you don't really get paid at the margin. Why would a poor person do such a job (or work more hours at it) when doing so adds little to his or her income? We haven't been able to have a productive conversation about this poverty trap issue because conservatives mostly raise it as a pretext for cutting benefits to the poor, even at a time when jobs are scarce and economic distress is high. But it is a problem for which there are constructive policy solutions that do not involve soaking the poor. You just have to be willing to spend money to make them work. One such solution is already being implemented: Under Obamacare, unemployed people who take low-wage jobs will no longer be faced with the prospect of losing health insurance. This is a pro-work reform. In this spirit, we should adjust means-tested programs holistically so their benefits phase out as gradually as is feasible and nobody feels like they worked more and got little in return. This may involve raising benefit spending overall. Some of Michael Strain's ideas about reforming unemployment insurance (such as wage subsidies for the long-term unemployed and bonuses for unemployed people who go back to work) would encourage work and raise family incomes. We should also reform our disability insurance system to encourage firms to accommodate workers with disabilities and encourage the disabled to remain in or re-enter the workforce if they can; David Autor and Mark Duggan have a proposal along these lines. 3. Move the deregulatory agenda down to the state and local level. In the 1970s, the big deregulation fights were properly at the federal level. Then the government deregulated airlines and trucking. Though technological change, regulation has become less important in broadcasting and telecommunications. Bank deregulation has been a mixed bag over this period; people talk about it as a cautionary tale, but some of the deregulations (such as ending the limit on savings account interest and allowing interstate banking) have served consumers very well. The big federal regulatory fights that remain are in mostly areas where the federal government properly uses a heavy hand: banking and securities, and environmental protection. The next round of big deregulation fights should be at the state and local level. Governments impose pro-incumbent regulations on a variety of industries from barbering to interior design to medicine to restaurants. These rules raise incomes for existing practitioners, but they make it difficult for new practitioners to enter the fields, and they raise consumer prices. State and local governments should stop doing this. In the interest of promoting interstate commerce, the federal government should pre-empt many of these regulations. For example, states should be forced to allow a broad scope of practice for nurse practitioners so they can serve as independent primary care providers. This would reduce doctors' incomes, but it would reduce the cost of health care, raise patients' real incomes and help to control government expenditure. 4. Deregulate America's most overregulated industry: real estate. In some ways this is a subset of (3), but it's important enough to get its own bullet. Local governments destroy economic value by preventing the construction of buildings in the places where they are most demanded: Already-dense urban neighborhoods. There is enormous economic value to be unlocked simply by letting people live near where they work and work near where other people work. Tight real estate regulation also leads to urban inequality and gentrification: New York and San Francisco are highly desired places, and when you use public policy to limit how many housing units can exist there, people of the greatest means will bid up their price. The best thing Bill de Blasio can do to alleviate the problem of "two New Yorks" and make this city less economically polarized is to allow the construction of many more apartments in Manhattan. Deregulating the land will have positive effects on both the supply side and the demand side. One problem with the government trying to stimulate the economy through construction is it often builds things that aren't very useful. Upzoning of urban land (and of land that should be urban, in places like Silicon Valley) can unlock a construction boom without requiring the government to figure out exactly what to build. 5. Reform intellectual property — by weakening it. IP laws are arbitrary: By deciding what inventions can be made exclusive and for how long, the government decides what share of the benefits of innovation will accrue to inventors and what share will accrue to users. In some cases, IP laws divert creative energy from developing new ideas into figuring out how to exploit existing patents. In the last decade, we've enjoyed a natural experiment where the IP protections for news and entertainment content have been weakened not by policy but by technological change. The result has been a rise in standards of living. Yes, content producers are distressed, the affected industries are undergoing rapid change, and some people are making less money. But content itself is better and cheaper than ever. That's meant a rise in real incomes for people who consume content, which is great. Entertainment firms have generally sought stronger IP protections in response to these technological changes. Policymakers should instead see that the sky didn't fall and look for ways to strategically weaken IP protection in other areas of the economy. Patents and copyrights generate rents for owners of capital. For decades, the labor share of GDP has been declining and capital's share has been rising. Weaker IP is one way the government can lower the capital share of GDP and raise the labor share without redistributive fiscal policy. 6. Improve education, somehow. This bullet is really a placeholder. Education is a sector with surprisingly low innovation and we could probably do it better. But I don't really know what to do about it. American expenditure on education is already extremely high. We spend more per pupil on K-12 education than any OECD country save Norway, Luxembourg and Switzerland, and by far we spend more than anyone else on higher education. This makes me wary of throwing more money at the problem. Efforts to improve educational outcomes through competition and choice have produced disappointingly mixed results. The for-profit sector, which might theoretically be an engine for innovation, has mostly produced a lot of ripoffs. I'm optimistic about the Common Core curriculum standards. Some state university systems are starting to do good things with providing cost-effective degrees that are better tailored to the job market. But overall, it seems like there should be bigger ways to improve educational outcomes, and therefore long-run income growth. 7. Admit more high-skill immigrants. There are lots of well-educated people elsewhere in the world who would like to come here and work. Immigration is a boon to the economy overall, but high-skill immigration is especially valuable and has more clearly positive distributional effects. It could negatively impact wages in some high-skill fields, like medicine and engineering, but by lowering consumer prices and promoting economic growth it would raise real wages for people with low and moderate incomes. 8. Make taxes more progressive. This isn't a supply-side reform; in fact, it is likely to discourage investment and economic growth at the margin. But it's the most effective way to offset rising pre-tax income inequality, and a revenue source will be needed to pay for some of the above reform ideas, especially (2) and (3). The necessity of raising taxes at the top over time, and the negative economic effects that will have, make it all the more important to pursue a broad agenda of promoting investment and growth through non-tax policies. FREE AppDownload
Societe GeneraleSociete Generale's Albert Edwards has warned for some time that we are on the precipice of deflation. But in his new note to clients, he seems utterly bemused. Markets just don't seem to care. "Markets remain stoic about the risks of outright deflation in the US and eurozone for one very simple reason," he writes.  "They simply do not believe a recession that would trigger outright deflation is on the horizon. Quite the reverse - they believe with all their heart that we are at the start of a self-sustained recovery. That is despite the fact that the US recovery is already noticeably longer than average, and that the classic signs of old age, such as rapidly slowing productivity growth and stagnant corporate profits, can clearly be seen." Market expectations of inflation — via the 10-year bond market — has "remained entrenched" above 2% for more than a year, Edwards writes. "A chasm is growing between reality, both on a core and headline basis, and expectations," he says. "If investors begin to doubt the economy recovery then they will no longer be able to ignore the lurking deflationary threat. Rapid market moves would ensue." Check out Edwards' chart: SocGen FREE AppDownload
Trading in NuSkin was halted for the fourth time just moments ago, but has resumed to continued selling. The stock is currently down over 30%. NuSkin has also released a statement saying that is conducting an internal province-by-province investigation into its business practices in China. "We are aware that Chinese regulators have now initiated investigations to review issues raised by recent news reports." it said in the release. "The government regularly monitors all businesses in this rapidly growing marketplace, and as is our practice, we will continue to communicate openly with regulators to address any questions they may have." Earlier this week, the multi-level marketing firm was the subject of a negative article in The People's Daily" in China. The article claimed that the company lies to its distributors, was sold without proper regulatory approvals, and made inaccurate scientific claims. NuSkin fired back with a press release that said the article itself was inaccurate: "We are dedicated to operating in full compliance with applicable regulations as interpreted and enforced by the government of China," it continued. "Nu Skin has an 11-year history of doing business in China under these regulations. Our business activities are regularly monitored by the government in this rapidly growing marketplace. As is our practice, we will communicate openly with regulators to address questions arising from this article. "Nu Skin has government-approved direct selling licenses to operate in a majority of provinces in China. The most recent government licensure in July further expanded our direct selling footprint to include 19 of the country's 32 provinces. "We actively educate our sales force to follow all regulations as well as company policies and procedures, and any member of our sales force not operating in accordance with local law or with our company policies is subject to discipline." Herbalife, the infamous multi-level marketing firm shorted by hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, is also down 10% today. FREE AppDownload
While the sector is unlikely to deliver double-digit returns this year, last year’s sell-off created opportunities, and successful investing can take advantage of these dislocations. We tend to segment EM countries into three groups: Low Risk, the “Fragile Five” and High Risk. Members of each group share some risk/return characteristics, but specific country-by-country risks create the potential for diverse return experiences. Within each group, selectivity will play a big part (see Display). The AllianceBernstein Blog Low Risk. In this group we include countries such as Mexico, Chile, Poland and the Philippines. All of these countries have strong credit metrics and good macroeconomic policies. Let’s look at two examples: Mexico and the Philippines. In Mexico, the US recovery should lift external demand. Expansionary fiscal policy should spark domestic demand, and President Enrique Peña Nieto’s reform agenda should help growth. The Philippines has ridden a strong growth wave (gross domestic product in excess of 7%) that has led to credit-rating upgrades. Growth should cool off slightly this year—and so should the country’s upward rating momentum. There are also concerns about reductions in the inflation target of the Central Bank of the Philippines and what that could mean for monetary policy. We have positive views on both economies, but Mexican debt is trading at a yield spread that’s 45 basis points (bps) wider. Given the strong outlook, it seems a better value. The Fragile Five. In 2013, the market questioned the ability of some countries to finance their external debt, with particular scrutiny of Brazil, India, Indonesia, South Africa and Turkey. These five countries make up nearly 25% of the JP Morgan EMBI Global index, with a weighted average return of –11% in 2013. While the near-term prospects for these countries may be challenged, we’re confident about the medium-term outlook for most of them. If we compare South Africa and Indonesia, we see that both countries have busy election calendars in 2014 that will dominate headlines but should go relatively smoothly. Both countries’ current accounts are likely to suffer from weaker demand from China. However, Indonesia’s government is expected to focus on managing its current account balance, while South Africa’s larger external-financing needs place it at risk if portfolio inflows dry up. Inflation was a problem for both countries in 2013, but Indonesia’s 2014 inflation forecast is below 5% while South Africa’s is above 6%. We haven’t liked the policy mix in South Africa and believe that it’s a deteriorating credit. Our views on Indonesia are the direct opposite: it has a high domestic savings rate and has made a much bigger investment in infrastructure.  In addition, Indonesia offers a more appealing yield spread—45 bps higher than that of South Africa. High Risk. There are interesting gradations to the challenges among high-risk countries, too, and investors should look carefully at which risks are worth taking. This group includes about a dozen countries, among them Argentina, Belarus, Pakistan, Ukraine and Venezuela. These five share very poor macroeconomics and uncertain political situations. In aggregate, we remain cautious with this “high-risk” group; we believe political change is needed in each before real economic reforms can be implemented. We think the best opportunity for such political change exists in Argentina, which makes this country’s sovereign debt more appealing than those of the other four. Looking Beyond the Benchmark The evolution of EM debt should lead investors to view the asset class much like they do developed-market credit: scrutiny of relative value and market dislocations is key to uncovering opportunities. In our view, a blanket allocation to benchmarked strategies misses the mark. This is illustrated by the experience of high-yield EM sovereign debt in 2013, when there were tremendous success stories, with Belize returning +49% and Argentina +19%. But Venezuela turned in a depressing –12%, and it accounts for more than one-fifth of the JP Morgan EMBI Global High Yield Index, which was down 4% overall for the year. We believe the best way to take advantage of dislocations within EM sovereign debt is to move away from the benchmark. This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Shares of multi-level marketing stocks Nu-Skin and Herbalife are tumbling today.  The stock is off more than 20%. The shares are currently halted.  Earlier this week, a negative article ran in the "The People's Daily" in China that criticized NuSkin's marketing practices. It also said that the anti-aging products seller could be operating as a pyramid scheme.  A spokesperson for NuSkin told Business Insider that the article was full of "inaccuracies and exaggerations."  The Wall Street Journal is reporting that China's State Administration of Industry and Commerce said they would investigate NuSkin following the article.   Meanwhile, shares of Herbalife, an MLM that sells nutritional products, have continued to decline. The stock was last down about 10%. Herbalife is the company that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman has publicly called a "pyramid scheme."  In December 2012, Ackman said that he was shorting more than 20 million shares of Herbalife with a price target of $0. Since he announced his bearish bet, a number of fund managers, including Carl Icahn and George Soros, have piled on by going long the stock.  Shares of Herbalife has risen more than 86% since Ackman made those comments resulting in hundreds of millions of mark-to-market losses for Pershing Square Capital Management.   Here's a five day chart for NuSkin:  Yahoo! Finance  Here's the Herbalife chart: Yahoo! Finance    FREE AppDownload
Yesterday, Tim Armstrong finally gave up on Patch. This was hard for him to do. He founded the local news network as a startup, then brought into AOL as an acquisition, and then funded with hundreds of millions of dollars. But today, a day after Armstrong killed his baby, AOL stock is up ~8% and hitting record highs. Clearly, shareholders are giving Armstrong credit for eventually making the right call. (Likewise, analyst reports this morning were full of praise for Yahoo CEO Marissa Mayer for finally getting rid of her expensive COO.) FREE AppDownload
Wealth-X and Savills are out with a new report showing how the super-rich (those with $30 million or more in assets) spend money on real estate. There are a ton of interesting takeaways from the report, which is available here. The map below, which shows the flow of wealth around the world, is particularly telling. It shows where these ultra-high-net-worth individuals (UHNWIs) are most likely to purchase luxury real estate. According to the report, "[the map] highlights not only where they like to live but also the geographies and jurisdictions that they might favour for other types of real estate holdings — and other investments — as well. Most notably, when it comes to residencies, UHNWIs may invest crossborder but they will tend to stick to destinations within their global region, to areas they call 'home'." Some notable trends: North Americans are most likely to purchase luxury real estate within the U.S.. Latin Americans also like the U.S., but will also buy in the Caribbean. Europeans are the most diverse buyers: "The more established wealth of Europe seems best versed in the notion of global home-ownership. Not only is Europe itself full of billionaire boltholes but Europeans themselves venture to many luxury island resorts in the Caribbean and the Far East as well as into parts of the US and Canada," the report says. London dominates when it comes to luxury real estate purchases by the super rich from all over the globe. Savills and Wealth-X  Savills/Wealth-X   The following map is also revealing, It shows the total wealth of UHNWIs around the world, and what percent of that wealth is in real estate. The super rich in the Europe and the Middle East have a relatively high proportion of their holdings in real estate, while people in the U.S. prefer other forms of investment. Savills/Wealth-X There were nearly 200,000 people worth $30 million or more globally in 2013, with a combined wealth of $27.8 trillion. Wealth-X predicts that figure will exceed $40 trillion by 2020.  
Leon Black's Apollo Management said it was going to put its $18.4 billion war chest to work, and now we're seeing that work in action. CEC Entertainment, the company that owns children's pizza joint and baby-sitting nightmare Chuck E. Cheese, has just agreed to be acquired by an affiliate of the PE firm for a fair amount of cheese (sorry) — $950 million, or $54 a share. The company stopped trading on January 7th, when speculation that the company would be bought began. Now the stock price sits at $54.47. Including debt, the deal is valued at $1.3 billion. From Apollo's press release: "We are pleased to have reached this agreement with Apollo, which maximizes value for all of our shareholders," said Richard M. Frank, Executive Chairman of CEC. "This transaction represents the successful conclusion of our extensive review of strategic alternatives." “We are excited about this transaction with Apollo, as it recognizes the value of CEC’s global brand, strong cash flows and growth prospects while providing our shareholders with an immediate and substantial premium,” said Michael H. Magusiak, President and Chief Executive Officer of CEC. “Apollo brings significant industry expertise and financial resources, and we look forward to working with them to further grow CEC domestically and internationally.” “This transaction with CEC gives us the opportunity to partner with the proven leader in family dining and entertainment,” said Scott Ross, Partner at Apollo Global Management. “Across the U.S., and increasingly around the world, the Chuck E. Cheese’s brand represents quality, safe and fun family entertainment." “We look forward to partnering with CEC’s exceptional management team, talented employees and franchise partners to support the continued growth of the Company," said Lance Milken, Partner at Apollo Global Management. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS After a two-day surge that propelled stocks to all-time highs, the market is giving back some of its gains in today's session. The S&amp;P 500 is down 0.3%, trading near 1842. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is down 0.6%, trading near 16,390. Earlier this morning, December consumer prices data came in line with expectations, and weekly initial jobless claims figures were lower than expected. Later, the release of the latest gauge of home builder confidence from the National Association of Home Builders shows that sentiment unexpectedly fell over the past month, while the Philadelphia Fed's monthly Business Outlook Survey suggested regional manufacturing conditions have improved faster than expected. While none of the data releases moved stocks much, they have been generally supportive of U.S. Treasuries, which have sold off in the last two sessions. Today, yields across the Treasury curve are falling — led lower by the 10-year yield, which is trading 2.84%, 5 basis points below Wednesday's close. 7-year and 30-year notes are also trading about 5 basis points lower today. The dollar is down 0.3% against the yen and flat against the euro. FREE AppDownload
Margin Call screenshotThere's been a lot of talk on Wall Street lately about the grueling hours that junior staff, interns, and analysts, have to work in order to get ahead. Bank of America, Goldman Sachs, and JP Morgan have all announced that they'll start encouraging their young employees to take more time off. It's an effort to improve their quality of life so they don't jump ship for other companies in and out of the financial space once they've been trained. It could be hard to make this new policy stick, because on Wall Street, the all-nighter is almost a rite of passage. Here's how it works — You're on an important project, and your boss realizes there's a mistake in the data, or the client pushes up a meeting, or you're just crashing on a deadline. The project has to get done, so you're not going home. Obviously, spending the night deep in excel instead of deep under your covers isn't just killer for your social life, it also hurts your body — here's what you need to know about how. FREE AppDownload
Agree or disagree with the aims and means of Occupy Wall Street, but the movement changed the way we think about our world forever. For proof, look no further than the upcoming World Economic Forum in Davos. Each year, the organization puts out a report indicating what it believes are the world's biggest risks. For the past three years, income inequality has been the #1 global risk. But prior to 2012, inequality wasn't even on the list. Those protests in 2011 clearly had a profound on global thinking, right up tot he elite level. Check out the chart below, listing the top "global risks" discussed at Davos since 2007, and you'll see what we mean: The World Economic Forum  
JCPenney is officially in crisis mode.  The embattled retailer is cutting 2,000 jobs and closing 33 stores.  Once one of the top department stores in America, the company has struggled to turn a profit since failed CEO Ron Johnson's aggressive reinvention plan drove away more than a million of JCPenney's customers.  Even though Johnson was fired in April, his legacy continues to haunt the business.  We toured some JCPenney stores in suburban New York with Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors, and took photos that show why JCPenney is struggling to survive.  "JCPenney’s rebirth is unfolding, but the huge issue is that it’s moving extremely slowly, causing inefficiencies at the store that diminish the promotional and marketing initiatives being undertaken by management to rebuild customer relationships," Sozzi says.  Disorganization was a common theme at JCPenney. This clothing rack, which appears to have clothes for older women, is awkwardly placed in front of Joe Fresh, which is for younger women. Ashley Lutz/Business Insider A cart of unattended hardware awkwardly sits in front of home goods:  Ashley Lutz/Business Insider And a piece of garbage sits on a display:  Ashley Lutz/Business Insider The cash register sits unattended in the shoe department, which Sozzi says could pose a security risk at the company. It's also problematic because customers who want to buy something could end up changing their minds.  Ashley Lutz/Business Insider The new store layouts under Ron Johnson look modern, but fail to make the most of the space, Sozzi said. "JCPenney’s shops were constructed in a manner that reduces the amount of goods available for sale on the floor," Sozzi said. "This is a major structural issue." Ashley Lutz/Business Insider We also see this at work with this Joe Fresh display, which takes up space that could be better utilized with racks of merchandise:  Ashley Lutz/Business Insider This sofa costs thousands of dollars, but because it's encased in plastic, potential customers can't even see it. Ashley Lutz/Business Insider Same for this furniture:  Ashley Lutz/Business Insider Entire racks that should hold merchandise are completely empty. Ashley Lutz/Business Insider This clearance rack contains pants and shorts for $1.97. "I've never even seen prices that low," Sozzi told us.  Ashley Lutz/Business Insider Some stores appeared in disrepair. This "Customer Service" sign is falling down. "How long until that falls down on a customer?" Sozzi said.  Ashley Lutz/Business Insider This carpet is shoddy and stained, which stands in stark contrast to the modernized shops in other sections of the store. "JCPenney is basically two companies: 500 remodeled stores and 500 un-remodeled stores (aka zombie stores), so consumers are seeing two different and confusing views of the brand," Sozzi said.  Ashley Lutz/Business Insider These racks of merchandise are totally empty:  Ashley Lutz/Business Insider This display does nothing to draw shoppers in:  Ashley Lutz/Business Insider Then, there's the matter of the overpriced home department. This bed set costs $2,375 — an exorbitant sum for JCPenney shoppers. That price is better-suited to an upscale store like West Elm.  Ashley Lutz/Business Insider "JCPenney just isn't moving items through the home store," Sozzi told us. The lack of interest in home goods is evidenced by rows and rows of merchandise on clearance:  Ashley Lutz/Business Insider JCPenney can't even get its logo straight. The store is full of mixed messages, evidence of the company's many facelifts in recent years.  There's the store sign:  Ashley Lutz/Business Insider A logo immediately upon entering the store:  Ashley Lutz/Business Insider  And this credit card sign immediately upon entering the store.  "There is no consistency, rather an array of facelifts on display in the store that reflect failed attempts to revitalize a business that operates in a super competitive, low margin arena," Sozzi says.  Ashley Lutz/Business Insider  FREE AppDownload
Walmart Corporate/flickrSolarCity shares are up 6.5% this morning after Deutsche Bank initiated coverage with a "buy" rating and a $90 price target. One day after BP said renewables are now the world's fastest-growing energy source, Deutsche Bank's Vishal Shah, Jerimiah Booream-Phelps, and Susie Min write that the firm, which installs leased rooftop solar panels that can generate electricity below utility rates, possesses enormous growth potential: We estimate the company's market penetration is ~0.2% in existing markets, which implies considerable room for expansion within current markets and into new markets. We believe SCTY's cumulative [megawatts] deployed can reach at least ~3GW by 2016 which would still imply only ~1% market penetration. Our 2016 estimates are likely conservative as the company has a target to reach ~1M customers implying ~6GW deployed by mid 2018 timeframe.  The firm recently became the first to issue solar-backed securities. The debt is paid back from revenue generated by electricity sales. It plans to issue another round of the debt, and DB says investors are "very interested" in them. "SCTY recently priced first ever ABS deal at 4.8% and suggests a potential for more follow on offerings, which could help lower overall financing costs as investors become more comfortable with the concept," they write.  Since their IPO in December 2012, the Elon Musk-chaired firm has gained 480%. We profiled the firm as a survivor of The Great American Solar Cull, which saw the number of domestic solar companies, both in manufacturing and services, contract and merge due to cost pressures.  Here's SolarCity's stock chart: Yahoo   FREE AppDownload
REUTERSInvestors can envision a stock market correction this year even if they think it ultimately won't happen.  Then there's income disparity, unemployment, liquidity issues — these are the risks we anticipate, if not expect. But what about the other risks out there? The lesser-known unknowns? The World Economic Forum is out with their list of global risks for 2014, and it of course includes the usual suspects of familiar problems. But the WEF also highlights a few global risks that sound like the very stuff of science fiction or action/adventure. Unfortunately, many of the risks — like large scale data theft or environmental catastrophes — aren't that hard to imagine anymore. Here are the risks that, if realized, would be truly wacky (with commentary from the report): 1. Greater incidence of natural catastrophes (e.g. earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions, geomagnetic storms)  "Existing precautions and preparedness measures fail in the face of geophysical disasters such as earthquakes, volcanic activity, landslides, tsunamis or geomagnetic storms, causing widespread disruptions in interconnected supply chains and communication networks." 2. Greater incidence of man-made environmental catastrophes (e.g. oil spills, nuclear accidents) "Existing precautions and preparedness measures fail to prevent man-made catastrophes, causing greater harm to lives, human health, infrastructure, property, economic activity and the environment." 3. Political collapse of a nation of geopolitical importance "One or more systemically critical countries experience significant erosion of trust and mutual obligations between states and citizens, leading to state collapse, internal violence, regional or global instability and, potentially, military conflict." 4. Major escalation in organized crime and illicit trade "Highly organized and very agile global networks commit criminal offences while the illegal trafficking of goods and people spreads unchecked throughout the global economy." 5. Large-scale terrorist attacks "Individuals or non-state groups successfully inflict large-scale human or material damage, which is particularly problematic when decentralized and widespread." 6. Deployment of weapons of mass destruction "The availability of nuclear, chemical, biological and radiological technologies and materials leads to major international crises." 7. Pandemic outbreak "Inadequate disease surveillance systems, failed international coordination and the lack of vaccine production capacity lead to the uncontrolled spread of infectious disease." 8. Unmanageable burden of chronic disease "Increasing burden of illness and long-term costs of treatment threaten recent societal gains in life expectancy and quality while overburdening strained economies." 9. Antibiotic-resistant bacteria "Growing resistance of deadly bacteria to known antibiotics inhibits the ability to control deadly diseases." 10. Breakdown of critical information infrastructure and networks "Systemic failures of critical information infrastructure (CII) and networks negatively impact industrial production, public services and communications." 11. Escalation in large-scale cyber attacks "State-sponsored, state-affiliated, criminal or terrorist cyber attacks increase." 12. Massive incident of data fraud/theft "Criminal or wrongful exploitation of private data takes place on an unprecedented scale." FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from St. Louis Fed)Chart 1: U-3 and U-6 unemployment rates.The unemployment rate has fallen precipitously in the last three years. In November 2010, 9.1% of America's workforce was counted as unemployed. In December 2013, the headline U-3 unemployment rate stood at 6.7%. The U-6 unemployment rate, however, has not recovered so quickly, as Chart 1 illustrates. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, this measure incorporates "total unemployed, plus all persons marginally attached to the labor force, plus total employed part time for economic reasons, as a percent of the civilian labor force plus all persons marginally attached to the labor force." And at 13.1%, it still remains highly elevated from pre-recession levels. This U-6 measure of "underemployment" forms a key part of the reasoning behind the forecast offered by Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius, who believes the Federal Reserve will refrain from hiking interest rates until early 2016, even though headline unemployment is falling rapidly. In a note to clients, he lowers his forecast for the headline unemployment rate at the end of 2014 to 6.1% from 6.3%, but says U-6 will keep the possibility of premature monetary policy normalization at bay: The other, more fundamental question is what it all means for the likely path of the funds rate. Is it really possible that the unemployment rate reaches 6.1% by the end of 2014 but the first hike does not occur until early 2016, as we currently forecast? We still believe that this is the right baseline forecast given our view on the economy. This is partly because "optimal control" considerations and the possibility of a temporarily depressed neutral rate provide reasons for keeping rates lower for longer that go beyond the slack issue. But it is also because there are observable measures which do not depend on our ability to measure the structural participation rate, and which confirm that there is still a significantly larger amount of slack than implied by the 6.7% unemployment rate on its own. In particular, the U-6 measure of underemployment — which comprises the officially unemployed, discouraged and other marginally attached workers, and involuntary part-timers — still stands at 13.1%, which historically is consistent with an official unemployment rate of 7.5-8%. The behavior of wages also points to a large amount of slack. Our wage tracker — a statistical combination of the three most important measures of nominal hourly earnings growth — has been flat around 2% since 2009. This observation strongly suggests that the drop in the headline unemployment rate from 10% to 6.7% in this period overstates the labor market tightening. Partly because of all this, our inflation forecast only calls for a very slow acceleration that still leaves the core PCE index at 1.7% in early 2016. If this is the right call, we think a hike before early 2016 is unlikely. A historical perspective also seems consistent with our view. There are two recent episodes in which the FOMC had to decide when to exit from a long period of very low rates. In February 1994, the first hike came when U-6 stood at 11.8%, somewhat higher than the 11% that might be a reasonable expectation for early 2016. But at the same time, core PCE inflation stood at 2.5% and there was a sharp perceived increase in "pipeline" inflation measures. So adjusting for the higher inflation rate, we believe that the timing of the 1994 decision is broadly consistent with our current forecast. In June 2004, the first hike came when U-6 stood at 9.6% and the core PCE inflation at 1.9%, which are both more "hawkish" settings than our early-2016 forecasts. Admittedly, the starting point for short-term rates — 3% in 1994 and 1% in 2004 — was above the current near-zero level. But in both cases, these were the lowest levels seen in several decades, and were viewed as highly extraordinary by Fed officials and market participants alike. Hatzius is not alone in predicting the Fed won't hike rates until 2016, but a growing number of analysts have been discussing the possibility of an earlier lift-off as the economy has shown robust improvement over the last few months. He acknowledges this as an important risk to his outlook. "The ongoing drop in the unemployment rate reinforces the risk that the bond market will react to the pickup in growth this year by pulling forward its expectations for short-term rate hikes," says Hatzius. "Even under normal circumstances, the market tends to be impatient with output gap stories, believing that faster growth will in short order be followed by higher inflation and tighter monetary policy. And the harder it is to gauge the output and employment gap using standard metrics, the more this impatience is likely to grow." FREE AppDownload
Jingdong Trading Company, a Chinese e-commerce site, is planning a $2 billion U.S. IPO in the second half of 2014, Bloomberg reports. If this goes down, it will be the biggest IPO of a Chinese company in the United States since China Life Insurance raised $3.3 billion going public in 2003. Now a few things about the company —  Jingdong's e-commerce site, 360Buy.com, is right behind Alibaba's Taobao in terms of e-commerce market share. The company wants to go public soon, before its larger rival. Alibaba has yet to hire bankers, but Bloomberg reports that Jingdong is already working with UBS and Bank of America. And according to Bank of America, that's probably a good idea. The bank recently published a report called "eCommerce vs. retail: A power shift to consumer sovereignty," it is, in part, a break down of the problems in the e-commerce space.  One of the biggest problems BofA discusses is over-saturation. There are so many companies competing in the space that they are constantly undercutting each other on prices. "Today’s China eCommerce is reminiscent of the US tech bubble in the late 1990s," says BofA. "Boosted by PE/VC money, many eCommerce players are willing to sacrifice short-term profitability to gain market share. They may offer such compelling pricing and free shipping that much bigger overseas peers may not match." So it's war, and Jingdong's IPO is a way for the company to get a massive cash injection that could give it an edge over its peers. Last February, Saudi Arabian Prince Alwaleed bin Talal's Kingdom Holdings put $400 million into Jingdong. Alisher Usmanov, the richest man in Russia and an early investor in Twitter, is also invested in Jingdong. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBest Buy shares are falling after the company reported abysmal holiday sales results.  The plunge is surprising to many because Best Buy's turnaround had been lauded by Wall Street analysts for the past year.  CEO Hubert Joly presented an impressive strategy that included improving customer service, lowering prices on key items like televisions, and offering a wider variety of assortments.  Joly also implemented a price-matching policy that was supposed to help Best Buy compete with Amazon. This plan impressed the investment community: shares more than tripled in 2013.  But it wasn't enough to translate to real profits for Best Buy, said Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors.  That's because consumers just aren't buying many of the categories that Best Buy sells, Sozzi says.  "Not enough products are winning yet to overcome weakness in the downtrending categories such as digital imaging, movies, etc.," he writes.   It's also concerning that Best Buy blamed "supply constraints" for the downturn because the chain needs to provide compelling new product to get customers in stores, Sozzi said.  Best Buy's current products don't interest customers, and it can't secure the new products they do want.  That means things could get even worse soon.  "Expect a sizable store closure program announcement by Best Buy when it reports its full earnings," Sozzi said.  The company blamed price competitiveness for eroding margins during the holiday.  A Best Buy spokesperson denied store closures.  FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Joe ReadleHomebuilder confidence fell to 56 in January, missing expectations for the reading to stay unchanged at 58. December's reading was revised down to 57, from 58. A reading over 50 shows that more builders think sales conditions are good rather than poor. “Following an unexpected jump last month, builder confidence has essentially leveled out and is holding at a solid level,” NAHB Chairman Rick Judson said in a press release. All three components of the housing market index (HMI) slowed in January. "The index gauging current sales conditions edged one point lower to 62, while the index gauging expectations for future sales fell two points to 60. The index gauging traffic of prospective buyers fell three points to 40. New home sales fell 2.1% in November to an annualized pace of 464,000. And housing starts are expected to ease in December. Meanwhile, homebuilder sentiment has been decoupling from reality as housing starts have failed to keep up. "Growth in housing starts has not kept pace with increases in sentiment in recent months," Barclays' Cooper Howes said in a note to clients. "We expect that increased demand related to low inventory levels and rising home prices will help push starts higher throughout 2014; as a result, we look for home builder sentiment to continue to improve." FREE AppDownload
The Philadelphia Federal Reserve says its business outlook survey hit 9.7. Consensus was for a reading of 8.7, from a revised 6.4.  The current employment index increased 6 points, with 23% of firms reporting increases in employment in January, slightly higher than the 18% prior. But firms reported reduced work hours, with the average workweek index falling from 4.8 to -5.3. As usual we remind you: Goldman Sachs chief economist Jan Hatzius says the survey is the best predictor of future economic growth. Full release » Manufacturing growth in the region continued in January, according to firms responding to this month’s Business Outlook Survey. The survey’s broadest indicators for general activity, new orders, shipments, and employment were positive, signifying continued moderate growth. The survey's indicators of future activity moderated but continue to suggest general optimism about growth over the next six months. The survey’s broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the diffusion index of current activity, increased from a revised reading of 6.4 in December to 9.4 this month (see Chart).* The index has now been positive for eight consecutive months. The current shipments and new orders indexes remained positive but moved in opposite directions compared with December. The demand for manufactured goods, as measured by the current new orders index, decreased from a revised reading of 12.9 to 5.1 this month. Shipments continued to expand, and its index edged slightly higher to a reading of 12.1. Labor market indicators showed some improvement this month. The current employment index increased 6 points from its revised reading in December. Twenty-three percent of the firms reported increases in employment in January, which is slightly higher than the 18 percent that reported increased employment last month. Firms reported reduced work hours, with the average workweek index falling from 4.8 to -5.3. Cost pressures were slightly more widespread this month among reporting firms: The prices paid index increased 2 points, to 18.7. But with respect to firms’ own manufactured goods, price increases were less widespread this month: The prices received index decreased 6 points, to 5.1. The survey’s future indicators have recently shown moderating optimism about growth in manufacturing. This month, the future general activity index fell 10 points, from a revised reading of 44.8 in December to 34.4 this month (see Chart). Still, nearly 48 percent of the firms expect increases in activity over the next six months; 13 percent of the firms indicated that they expect decreases. The indexes for future new orders and shipments also remained at relatively high levels but fell 7 points and 9 points, respectively. The future employment index was virtually unchanged at 17.5, with nearly 25 percent of the firms expecting to increase employment over the next six months. In this month’s special questions, firms were asked about the factors that are influencing their hiring plans over a longer horizon of 12 months (see Special Questions). The percentage of firms that indicated they expect employment growth over the next year (41 percent) exceeded the percentage expecting decreased employment growth (10 percent) by a significant margin. Nearly all firms responded to a question about the factors that were restraining hiring. The most frequently cited factors restraining hiring were the need to keep operating costs low and low expectations for sales growth. Expected slow sales growth was the most frequently cited “most important” factor restraining hiring. Difficulty finding workers with appropriate skills and uncertainty about the cost of health-care insurance also ranked high. The January Business Outlook Survey suggests that activity in the region’s manufacturing sector increased moderately this month. Firms reported increases in overall activity, new orders, and employment in January. Price increases for firms’ own manufactured goods were less widespread this month. The survey’s future activity indexes suggest that firms expect growth over the first half of 2014.   Here are recent readings: Econoday FREE AppDownload
Five years after the Lehman Brothers collapsed, "fiscal crises in key economies" continues to be a significant global risk, according to The World Economic Forum's latest global risks report. "Advanced economies remain in danger of fiscal crises. Given the US’s official public debt of more than 100% of its GDP, and Japan’s of more than 230%, investors may at some point conclude that these levels are unsustainable," according to the report. "In the short run, the risks are higher for eurozone countries, which lack the option of devaluing their currencies to ease the necessary fiscal adjustment. Although ostensibly in a better position, many emerging markets have seen credit bubbles in recent years that could turn into financial crises, and then fiscal crises, for example, the rapid credit growth in Asia since 2008.1 A fiscal crisis in any major economy could easily have cascading global impacts." The report has identified ten key risks for the new year: Here's a map of the global risks: The World Economic Forum   Income inequality is the global risk with the highest likelihood in 2014: The World Economic ForumBut fiscal crises would have the most impact this year: The World Economic Forum And of course these risks are related: The World Economic Forum
In the world of electric cars, luxury is defined by Tesla, with new competition coming from Cadillac (the ELR) and BMW (the i8). But those cars could soon be eclipsed by top tier offerings from Bentley and Rolls-Royce.  In interviews with Business Insider, executives from both brands said they are seriously considering a plug-in hybrid car. Plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs) combine the ability to run on electricity stored in a battery with an internal combustion engine. They usually offer an EV mode range of under 40 miles, with the capability to drive over 200 more miles on traditional gas power. With high fuel prices and governments (especially in the U.S. and Europe) cracking down on gas-guzzling cars, automakers everywhere are working to crank up their miles per gallon numbers. There are more hybrid, pure battery electric, and diesel vehicles on the market than ever before. They're not good options for the two ultra-luxury players, however. Diesel offers great fuel economy. It's widely used in the Europe, and growing in popularity in the U.S. But it's not used for passengers cars in China or the Middle East, key regions for both brands. And because each sells so few cars, there's no sense in creating totally different products for each market.  For Chinese customers, "diesel is for trucks, end of story," Bentley Sales and Marketing Director Kevin Rose said. "It would be a brave person who comes along with a luxury diesel car for China." Torsten Müller-Ötvös, the CEO of Rolls-Royce, concurred. "It wouldn't make sense to introduce a diesel," he said.  A purely electric car, Müller-Ötvös explained, wouldn't work either: Rolls-Royce makes heavy cars; that's part of its luxury feel. Same goes for Bentley. With the current state of battery technology, that means range and power would dramatically reduced. Rolls-Royce did built an electricity-powered Phantom and had customers test it. Many were "ambivalent," worried about slow charging times and limited range. Compounding the problem is that most of its customers live outside city centers, where short drive times make EVs useful. But a PHEV, which combines the fuel savings and quiet feel of an electric car with the practicality of a gas-powered one, is a workable solution. "For me, the direction of plug-in hybrids is probably more the direction to go with Rolls-Royce motor cars," Müller-Ötvös said.  Bentley is headed in the same direction. "Plug-in hybrids could be an especially good technology for us," Rose said. Research shows that customers would be interested, and the key is making it easy to use, "which is what we're working on." The luxury brand is coming out with an SUV — "the first genuine luxury SUV" — in 2015, and it's a likely candidate for a plug-in hybrid system after its launch, Rose said. FREE AppDownload
Steve Graham—a 55-year-old private equity exec who runs Philadelphia-area Graham Partners—has some serious breakdancing moves that would make most twenty-somethings envious.  In the breaking world, he's known as "B-boy Silverback." In the 80s, people called him "Vanilla Shake" (that was before "Vanilla Ice" came along). Graham got his start in the breaking scene while working as an analyst at Goldman Sachs during the early 1980s.   Back then, he used to go to legendary Chelsea club, The Roxy. "I asked a guy to show me a move. And then I was like, 'I can do this,'" said Graham, who was a three-sport athlete (track, tennis and skiing) at Williams College.   After that, he started going out to a community center in the South Bronx late at night for breaking. "When you work at Goldman so late you can take a cab anywhere, so I literally took it to the South Bronx and trained at this place with guys who were sort of famous breakers back in the day. I learned some moves from them."   He also started breaking during lunch at Goldman. His colleagues loved it.  Once Graham had learned enough moves, he started challenging the Manhattan "street hitters"—people who break for money on the sidewalk—to breaking battles.   "You know, 'Hey, I want to battle you.' They thought it was hilarious because I was this white preppy dude breaking. I had enough moves and I was athletic enough that they loved it.  They started putting me in their act," Graham said. Graham said he would show up wearing glasses, a tie and carrying an HP-12C calculator in his pocket. He explained that the hitters would grab him by the tie from out of the crowd.   Via Graham Partners"When they'd pull me out of the crowd it would literally flip everyone from Oklahoma out," he said.   Graham would then fold his glasses, take off his jacket, put down his calculator and walk straight up to the hitters and bust an air swipe for his entry move. (You can check one out in the video below.) People didn't know what was going on, he said, but they loved it.  Following his stint at Goldman, he went to business school at Dartmouth. There, he taught a bunch of his classmates how to break. For years after that, he would occasionally break out his moves at parties, but he stopped training. Just a couple of years ago, though, he enrolled his two youngest sons—now ages five and eight—into breaking with some coaches in Philadelphia.  That's when he picked it up again. Now he even teaches a bunch of his summer interns how to break in addition to learning more common Wall Street skills, like financial modeling. He explained that about half of his interns are college athletes.  During the summer, they live on his farm and they learn to break. They also enter into breaking events. Graham is also very connected to breaking scenes in Philadelphia, New York, Chicago and the West Coast — he even knows breakers overseas in Europe.  He sponsors highlight videos, events and competitions for breakers, and spends time helping out fellow breakers with anything from education to legal issues. Graham recently created a non-profit UDEF (Urban Dance &amp; Educational Foundation). So far, the Facebook page has more than 50,000 "likes". UDEF's first initiative is The Pro Breaking Tour with a board comprised of breakers and promoters. In some respects, the tour is modeled after the ATP tennis tour, PGA golf tour, NASCAR and other pro sports. Part of the charitable mandate will be the educational initiative, he explained.  The proceeds will go to UDEF to support young breakers teaching and helping people. Now check out Graham breaking:   FREE AppDownload
    Durand Guion, vice president and men's fashion director at Macy's Inc., explains the difference between men's shoe styles and how to get beyond wearing just black or brown. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser. Keep up with BI Video on Facebook and YouTube FREE AppDownload
"...between 2010 and 2012 the overall population of Detroit declined by 1.7%.  But the devil is in the details.  Over the same period Detroit's white population increased by 3%, while its black population decreased by the same amount."   That seemed like the possible beginning of a shifting story.  So I looked into racial and ethnic demographic numbers for Detroit's usual-suspect peer cities: Buffalo, Cleveland, Milwaukee and Pittsburgh.  I also threw Chicago in since it's the undisputed capital of the region. Here's what I found: Change in Population, 2010-12 That is indeed the beginning of a shifting story.  If this is accurate (and caveats do apply; ACS data has been wildly variable from year to year), Detroit's white population is growing faster than that of its close peer cities.  This is a remarkable feat, considering that Detroit's white population decreased in every Census from 1950 to 2010, declining from 1.6 million in 1950 to just 55,000 in 2010. I think what may be happening in Detroit doesn't compare with the peer cities above; it probably compares more favorably to demographic changes over the last 20 years in Washington, DC (post Marion Barry and insolvency, leading to a financial control board), and the last eight years in New Orleans (post Katrina).  DC and NOLA were both heavily African-American cities hit with disaster, either financial or natural, and rebounded after hitting their nadir.  In the cities the white population has rebounded while the African-American population has either dropped (NOLA) or remained steady (DC). DC's white population has grown at an annualized rate of more than five percent a year since 2005, while NOLA's white population has grown at a slower 2.5 percent rate.  A quick and easy prediction for what might lie ahead for Detroit over the next 10-20 years is something between the DC and NOLA examples.  Detroit does not have the dynamic economy that DC does, but likely does have a little more kick than NOLA.  We'll see what happens. This article originally appeared at The Corner Side Yard.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Weekly initial jobless claims came in at 326,000.  Consensus was for a slight decline to 328,000 and a revised 328,000 last week. The 4-week moving average was 335,000, a decrease of 13,500 from the previous week's revised average of 348,500. A bill to extend unemployment insurance for more than a million Americans failed in the Senate yesterday. Here's what it's been looking like recently — it's come up a bit after having printed a "2-handle" — below 300,000 — last month. Barclays commented: "This puts the four-week moving average at 335k, a 13k decline from the prior week and a 30k improvement on a y/y basis.  According to MNI, the Labor Department reported no special factors but noted that the “usual volatility associated with the holiday season had not yet disappeared.”  Claims averaged 327k in November and 359k in December, but the 12-week moving average stands at 339k.  This is the same as the reading at the end of August, which immediately preceded a four-month period of volatility that included the effects of computer system upgrades in California, severe weather, and several holidays.  In our view, this stronger smoothing measure is telling the right story; despite the significant volatility, claims gradually ground lower throughout 2013 and we expect this to continue in the coming year." Chart: Econoday FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthA balloon rises into the sky during the International Balloon Fiesta near Bristol in western England.December consumer prices data are out. The consumer price index rose 0.3% in December from a month earlier, right in line with expectations. The December gains brought the headline year-over-year inflation rate to 1.5% from November's 1.2% level, right in line with expectations. Core consumer prices — a measure that strips out food and energy — rose 0.1% from the previous month, as expected, marking a slowdown from November's 0.2% rate of growth but leaving the year-over-year rate of core price inflation unchanged at 1.7%. The inflation rate is under close scrutiny by market participants as it takes on increased importance in the Federal Reserve's forward guidance on the likely future path of short-term interest rates. Most project tame inflation in 2014, which will offer continued justification for extraordinary monetary stimulus from the Fed. FREE AppDownload
APElaine WynnThe mysterious buyer of a record-setting Francis Bacon painting has been revealed — Elaine Wynn, billionaire co-founder of the Wynn Casino Empire and Stephen Wynn's ex-wife, spent $142.4 million on the work of art in a Christie's auction in November. The buy set a record for a work of art sold at auction, the Wall Street Journal reports. Wynn put the piece on temporary exhibit at the Portland Art Museum, but her long-term plans for the painting are unclear. It will be on display in Portland until March 30. "Three Studies of Lucian Freud" depicts Sigmund Freud's grandson, a fellow painter and friend of Bacon's. Bacon is known for his figurative portraits of men. He died in 1992. Wynn's estimated net worth is $1.9 billion, according to the New York Times. She's director of Wynn Resorts and sits on the board of Wynn Las Vegas. Here's the painting: AP FREE AppDownload
BofA Merrill Lynch Global Investment Strategy, IFR, BloombergNote: growth interpolated 1974-1982, 1984-1990, 1991-1994, 1996-1999. From BofA Merrill Lynch chief investment strategist Michael Hartnett's latest note to clients: "The rise in the use of industrial robots and the decline in the number of manufacturing jobs for human beings (Chart 1, front page) remind us of the technology theme. BofAML's tech analysts favor innovative hardware, the socially mobile consumer and cloud collaboration as their big 2014 themes. We are long tech but wary of the close correlation between internet stocks and central bank liquidity." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike Blake A Time Warner Cable office is pictured in San Diego, California.NEW YORK (Reuters) - Charter Communications Inc reached out to Comcast Corp this week about teaming up to buy Time Warner Cable Inc, after the larger rival rejected its $37.3 billion takeover bid, according to people familiar with the matter. Charter approached Comcast on Wednesday to discuss carving up the second-largest U.S. cable company's systems and subscribers, the people said, asking not to be named because they were not authorized to speak with the media. Charter, the No. 4 U.S. cable provider, and Comcast, the top U.S. cable provider, are in preliminary discussions about how to structure a potential alliance, the people said. One possibility is that Charter buys all of Time Warner Cable and sells off some of its markets and subscribers to Comcast, one of the people said. It was not immediately clear which geographic markets are under discussion, but analysts have said that Comcast would be interested in Time Warner Cable's largest markets such as New York, Los Angeles and Dallas. The two companies held similar discussions late last year but those talks did not progress at that time. Comcast, Time Warner Cable and Charter declined to comment. A successful tie-up would take out Comcast from the bidding for Time Warner Cable. Comcast, which has also evaluated a takeover bid for all of Time Warner Cable, was seen as the only likely suitor besides Charter. Analysts have said any attempt to merge the two largest cable operators, however, would face tough scrutiny from U.S. regulators. Securing backing from Comcast could also allow Charter, with a market capitalization of around $14 billion, to pay more for Time Warner Cable, which has a much larger market value of $38 billion. Charter, backed by billionaire John Malone's Liberty Media Corp, formally announced its $132.50 per share bid for Time Warner Cable on Monday, which the larger rival promptly rejected as too low. Time Warner Cable instead made a counter proposal worth $160 per share, including $100 in cash and the rest in stock. A number of large Time Warner Cable shareholders would support a deal with Charter if the company sweetens its bid to $145 to $150 per share, Reuters reported earlier on Wednesday. Charter has said the combined company may have to do "swaps and divestitures" of cable systems to serve regions more efficiently, according to its investor presentation on Wednesday. Comcast is not interested in doing swaps, but is seeking to buy systems, one of the people said. (Reporting by Soyoung Kim and Liana Baker in New York; Editing by Leslie Adler and Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Keith BedfordCitigroup missed on fourth quarter earnings.  Citi reported adjusted earnings per share of 82 cents for the fourth quarter.  The bank was expected to report adjusted earnings per share of 95 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue came in at $17.8 billion. Analysts expected revenue for the quarter is expected to come in at $18.3 billion, according to Bloomberg.  Shares of Citi are trading down more than 2.7% in the pre-market. Here's an excerpt from the press release:  Fourth Quarter Net Income of $2.7 Billion; $2.6 Billion Excluding CVA/DVA and Impact of the Credicard Divestiture Fourth Quarter Revenues of $17.8 Billion; $17.9 Billion Excluding CVA/DVA Fourth Quarter Net Credit Losses of $2.5 Billion Declined 15% versus Prior Year Period Utilized Approximately $600 Million of Deferred Tax Assets Estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common Ratio of 10.5%3Estimated Basel III Supplementary Leverage Ratio of 5.4%4 Book Value Per Share Increased to $65.31 Tangible Book Value Per Share5 Increased to $55.38 Citigroup Deposits of $968 Billion Grew 4% versus Prior Year Period Citicorp Loans of $575 Billion Grew 7% versus Prior Year Period Citi Holdings Assets of $117 Billion Declined 25% from Prior Year Period and Represented 6% of Total Citigroup Assets at Year End 2013 NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Citigroup Inc. today reported net income for the fourth quarter 2013 of $2.7 billion, or $0.85 per diluted share, on revenues of $17.8 billion. This compared to net income of $1.2 billion, or $0.38 per diluted share, on revenues of $17.9 billion for the fourth quarter 2012. CVA/DVA was a negative $164 million ($100 million after-tax) in the fourth quarter, mainly resulting from the improvement in Citigroups credit spreads, compared to negative $485 million ($301 million after-tax) in the prior year period. Excluding CVA/DVA, fourth quarter revenues were $17.9 billion, down 2% from the prior year period. Fourth quarter 2013 results also included a $189 million after-tax benefit related to the divestiture of Citis Credicard business in Brazil, while results in the prior year period included a $1.0 billion repositioning charge ($653 million after-tax). Excluding CVA/DVA, the impact of the Credicard divestiture in the fourth quarter 2013 and the fourth quarter 2012 repositioning charge, 6 earnings were $0.82 per diluted share, up 19% from the prior year period. Michael Corbat, Citigroups Chief Executive Officer, said, Although we didnt finish the year as strongly as we would have liked, we made substantial progress toward our key priorities in 2013. Having grown our operating net income by 15% over 2012, we achieved our highest amount of net income since before the financial crisis. We accelerated our growth in capital and ended the fourth quarter with an estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio of 10.5%, exceeding our target for the year. We also grew loans in our core businesses by 7%, utilized $2.4 billion of our deferred tax assets, and reduced the assets in Citi Holdings by 25% while cutting its annual loss in half. In addition, we improved our efficiency by executing on the repositioning actions announced at the end of 2012, reducing expenses and growing revenues. We enter 2014 as a strong and stable institution that is committed to achieving our 2015 financial targets and our objective of returning capital to our shareholders. Citigroup full year 2013 net income was $13.9 billion on revenues of $76.4 billion, compared to net income of $7.5 billion on revenues of $69.1 billion for the full year 2012. Full year 2013 results included negative CVA/DVA of $342 million ($213 million after-tax), compared to negative $2.3 billion ($1.4 billion after-tax) in the prior year. Citigroup full year 2012 results included a loss of $4.6 billion ($2.9 billion after-tax) related to the sale of various minority investments. 7 In addition, Citigroup recorded tax benefits of $176 million and $582 million in the third quarters 2013 and 2012, respectively, related to the resolution of certain tax audit items. Excluding CVA/DVA and the impact of minority investments in 2012, Citigroup revenues were $76.7 billion in 2013, up 1% compared to the prior year. Excluding these items as well as the impact of the Credicard divestiture, the tax benefits in 2013 and 2012, 8 and the fourth quarter 2012 repositioning charge, net income was $13.8 billion in 2013, up 15% compared to 2012, as higher revenues, lower operating expenses and lower net credit losses were partially offset by a lower net loan loss reserve release and a higher effective tax rate.   FREE AppDownload
Smog in China is currently so bad in Beijing that if you want to see the sunrise, you have to see it on video. New York Times correspondent Edward Wong retweeted this photo by Wang Jinghua of CFP, and CNN chief national security correspondent Jim Sciuto noted: "If smog blocks out the sun, throw up a video of it." Note that they didn't just put up this video because of the smog — this is a digital commercial screen that offers the best view of the sun there is.  Chinese media Here are a couple of the screens: Wang Jinghua/CFPWang Jinghua/CFP Health-conscious tourists have taken note:  AP/Alexander F. YuanTourists in masks use mobile phone cameras to snap shots of themselves during a heavily polluted day on Tiananmen Square in Beijing, China, Thursday, Jan. 16, 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS / Brendan McdermidInvestment banking giant Goldman Sachs beat Wall Street analysts' earnings estimates. The bank's fourth quarter EPS came in at $4.60 compared with $5.60 in the fourth quarter for  2012.  On average, analysts polled by Bloomberg expected the bank to post adjusted earnings per share of $4.18. Revenue for Q4 was $8.78 billion.  Analysts expected revenue to come in at $7.74 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. "Our work in advancing our client franchise and in ensuring continued cost discipline has allowed us to provide solid returns even in a somewhat challenging environment,” Lloyd Blankfein said in the release. "We believe that we are well positioned to generate solid returns as the economy continues to heal and provide considerable upside for our shareholders as conditions materially improve." Goldman's stock was trading slightly higher in the pre-market.  NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (GS) today reported net revenues of $34.21 billion and net earnings of $8.04 billion for the year ended December 31, 2013. Diluted earnings per common share were $15.46 compared with $14.13 for the year ended December 31, 2012. Return on average common shareholders’ equity (ROE) (1) was 11.0% for 2013. Fourth quarter net revenues were $8.78 billion and net earnings were $2.33 billion. Diluted earnings per common share were $4.60 compared with $5.60 for the fourth quarter of 2012 and $2.88 for the third quarter of 2013. Annualized ROE (1) was 12.7% for the fourth quarter of 2013. Annual Highlights _____________ “Our work in advancing our client franchise and in ensuring continued cost discipline has allowed us to provide solid returns even in a somewhat challenging environment,” said Lloyd C. Blankfein, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. “We believe that we are well positioned to generate solid returns as the economy continues to heal and provide considerable upside for our shareholders as conditions materially improve.” Net Revenues Investment Banking Full YearNet revenues in Investment Banking were $6.00 billion for 2013, 22% higher than 2012. Net revenues in Financial Advisory were $1.98 billion, essentially unchanged compared with 2012. Net revenues in Underwriting were $4.03 billion, 36% higher than 2012, due to strong net revenues in both equity and debt underwriting. Net revenues in equity underwriting were significantly higher compared with 2012, reflecting an increase in client activity, particularly in initial public offerings. Net revenues in debt underwriting were significantly higher compared with 2012, principally due to leveraged finance activity. Fourth QuarterNet revenues in Investment Banking were $1.72 billion for the fourth quarter of 2013, 22% higher than the fourth quarter of 2012 and 47% higher than the third quarter of 2013. Net revenues in Financial Advisory were $585 million, 15% higher than the fourth quarter of 2012. Net revenues in Underwriting were $1.13 billion, 26% higher than the fourth quarter of 2012, due to strong net revenues in equity underwriting. Net revenues in equity underwriting were more than double the amount in the fourth quarter of 2012, reflecting an increase in client activity, particularly in initial public offerings. Net revenues in debt underwriting were lower compared with a strong fourth quarter of 2012, primarily reflecting lower net revenues from investment-grade activity. The firm’s investment banking transaction backlog increased compared with the end of the third quarter of 2013 and increased significantly compared with the end of 2012. (9) Institutional Client Services Full YearNet revenues in Institutional Client Services were $15.72 billion for 2013, 13% lower than 2012. Net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution were $8.65 billion for 2013, 13% lower than 2012, reflecting significantly lower net revenues in interest rate products compared with a solid 2012, and significantly lower net revenues in mortgages compared with a strong 2012. In addition, net revenues in currencies were slightly lower, while net revenues in credit products and commodities were essentially unchanged compared with 2012. Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution operated in a generally challenging environment during much of 2013, as macroeconomic concerns and uncertainty led to challenging market-making conditions and generally lower levels of activity. Net revenues in Equities were $7.07 billion for 2013, 14% lower compared with 2012, due to the sale of the firm’s Americas reinsurance business (10) in 2013 and the sale of the firm’s hedge fund administration business in 2012. Net revenues in equities client execution (excluding net revenues from the firm’s Americas reinsurance business) were higher compared with 2012, including significantly higher net revenues in cash products, partially offset by significantly lower net revenues in derivatives. Commissions and fees were slightly higher compared with 2012. Securities services net revenues were significantly lower compared with 2012, primarily due to the sale of the firm’s hedge fund administration business in 2012. During 2013, Equities operated in an environment characterized by a significant increase in global equity prices, particularly in Japan and the U.S., and generally lower volatility levels. The net loss attributable to the impact of changes in the firm's own credit spreads on borrowings for which the fair value option was elected was $296 million ($220 million and $76 million related to Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution and equities client execution, respectively) for 2013, compared with a net loss of $714 million ($433 million and $281 million related to Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution and equities client execution, respectively) for 2012. Fourth QuarterNet revenues in Institutional Client Services were $3.41 billion for the fourth quarter of 2013, 22% lower than the fourth quarter of 2012 and 19% higher than the third quarter of 2013. Net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution were $1.72 billion, 15% lower than the fourth quarter of 2012, reflecting significantly lower net revenues in mortgages and, to a lesser extent, interest rate products, currencies and commodities. Net revenues in credit products, which include a gain on the sale of the firm’s European insurance business, were higher compared with the fourth quarter of 2012. During the fourth quarter of 2013, Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution operated in an environment characterized by tighter credit spreads and improved market-making conditions in certain businesses, compared with the third quarter of 2013. However, economic uncertainty persisted and levels of activity generally remained low. Net revenues in Equities were $1.68 billion, 27% lower than the fourth quarter of 2012, due to the sale of the firm’s Americas reinsurance business (10) in 2013 and the sale of the firm’s hedge fund administration business in 2012. Net revenues in equities client execution (excluding net revenues from the firm’s Americas reinsurance business) were significantly higher compared with the same prior year period, including significantly higher net revenues in cash products, partially offset by lower net revenues in derivatives. Commissions and fees were slightly higher compared with the fourth quarter of 2012. Securities services net revenues were significantly lower compared with the fourth quarter of 2012, due to a gain of $494 million on the sale of the firm’s hedge fund administration business in 2012. During the quarter, Equities operated in an environment generally characterized by an increase in global equity prices, while volatility levels remained low. The net loss attributable to the impact of changes in the firm's own credit spreads on borrowings for which the fair value option was elected was $206 million ($163 million and $43 million related to Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution and equities client execution, respectively) for the fourth quarter of 2013, compared with a net loss of $126 million ($79 million and $47 million related to Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution and equities client execution, respectively) for the fourth quarter of 2012. Investing &amp; Lending Full YearNet revenues in Investing &amp; Lending were $7.02 billion for 2013, 19% higher than 2012. Results for 2013 included net gains of $3.93 billion from investments in equities, primarily in private equities, driven by company-specific events and strong corporate performance. In addition, Investing &amp; Lending net revenues included net gains and net interest income of $1.95 billion from debt securities and loans, and other net revenues of $1.14 billion related to the firm’s consolidated investments. Fourth QuarterNet revenues in Investing &amp; Lending were $2.06 billion for the fourth quarter of 2013, 4% higher than the fourth quarter of 2012 and 40% higher than the third quarter of 2013. Results for the fourth quarter of 2013 included net gains of $1.40 billion from investments in equities, primarily reflecting company-specific events, including initial public offerings, and net gains in public equities. In addition, Investing &amp; Lending net revenues included net gains and net interest income of $423 million from debt securities and loans, and other net revenues of $234 million related to the firm’s consolidated investments. Investment Management Full YearNet revenues in Investment Management were $5.46 billion for 2013, 5% higher than 2012, reflecting higher management and other fees, primarily due to higher average assets under supervision. During the year, total assets under supervision (3) increased $77 billion to $1.04 trillion. Long-term assets under supervision (3)increased $81 billion, including net inflows of $41 billion (4), reflecting inflows in fixed income and equity assets, partially offset by outflows in alternative investment assets. Net market appreciation of $40 billion during the year was primarily in equity assets. Liquidity products (3) decreased $4 billion. Fourth QuarterNet revenues in Investment Management were $1.60 billion for the fourth quarter of 2013, 5% higher than the fourth quarter of 2012 and 31% higher than the third quarter of 2013. The increase in net revenues compared with the fourth quarter of 2012 reflected higher management and other fees, primarily due to higher average assets under supervision. During the quarter, total assets under supervision (3) increased $51 billion to $1.04 trillion. Long-term assets under supervision (3) increased $33 billion, including net inflows of $13 billion, reflecting inflows in fixed income and equity assets, partially offset by outflows in alternative investment assets. Net market appreciation of $20 billion during the quarter was primarily in equity assets. In addition, liquidity products (3) increased $18 billion. Expenses Operating expenses were $22.47 billion for 2013, 2% lower than 2012. Compensation and Benefits Compensation and benefits expenses (including salaries, discretionary compensation, amortization of equity awards and other items such as benefits) were $12.61 billion for 2013, 3% lower than 2012. The ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues for 2013 was 36.9% compared with 37.9% for 2012. Total staff (11) increased 2% compared with the end of 2012. Non-Compensation Expenses Full YearNon-compensation expenses were $9.86 billion for 2013, 2% lower than 2012. The decrease compared with 2012 included a decline in insurance reserves, reflecting the sale of the firm’s Americas reinsurance business, and a decrease in depreciation and amortization expenses, primarily reflecting lower impairments and lower operating expenses related to consolidated investments. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in other expenses, due to higher net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings, and higher brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees. Net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings for 2013 were $962 million compared with $448 million for 2012. Fourth QuarterNon-compensation expenses were $3.04 billion for the fourth quarter of 2013, 3% higher than the fourth quarter of 2012 and 40% higher than the third quarter of 2013. The increase compared with the fourth quarter of 2012 included an increase in other expenses, due to higher net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings, partially offset by lower operating expenses related to consolidated investments. This increase was partially offset by a decline in insurance reserves, reflecting the sale of the firm’s Americas reinsurance business. Net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings for the fourth quarter of 2013 were $561 million (primarily comprised of net provisions for mortgage-related matters) compared with $260 million for the fourth quarter of 2012 (including the settlement with the Federal Reserve Board regarding the independent foreclosure review). The fourth quarter of 2013 also included $196 million of impairment charges, principally related to consolidated investments, and a $155 million charitable contribution to Goldman Sachs Gives. Compensation was reduced to fund this charitable contribution to Goldman Sachs Gives. Provision for Taxes The effective income tax rate for 2013 was 31.5%, up from 30.3% for the first nine months of 2013, reflecting a decrease in the impact of permanent benefits. The rate decreased from 33.3% for 2012 to 31.5% for 2013, primarily due to a determination that certain non-U.S. earnings will be permanently reinvested abroad. Capital As of December 31, 2013, total capital was $239.44 billion, consisting of $78.47 billion in total shareholders’ equity (common shareholders’ equity of $71.27 billion and preferred stock of $7.20 billion) and $160.97 billion in unsecured long-term borrowings. In October 2013, Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries exercised in full the warrant to purchase shares of the firm’s common stock, which required net share settlement and resulted in a reduction of approximately 3% to both book value per common share and tangible book value per common share. Including the impact of the warrant exercise, book value per common share increased approximately 5% to $152.48 and tangible book value per common share (5)increased approximately 7% to $143.11 compared with the end of 2012, while both decreased approximately 1% compared with the end of the third quarter of 2013. Book value per common share and tangible book value per common share are based on common shares outstanding, including restricted stock units granted to employees with no future service requirements, of 467.4 million as of December 31, 2013. During the year, the firm repurchased 39.3 million shares of its common stock at an average cost per share of $157.11, for a total cost of $6.17 billion, including 8.5 million shares during the fourth quarter at an average cost per share of $164.90, for a total cost of $1.40 billion. The remaining share authorization under the firm’s existing repurchase program is 57.2 million shares. (12) Under the regulatory capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies in 2013, the firm’s Tier 1 capital ratio (6) was 16.7% (7) and the firm’s Tier 1 common ratio (6) was 14.6% (7) as of December 31, 2013, up from 16.3% and 14.2%, respectively, as of September 30, 2013 (in each case under Basel I and also reflecting the revised market risk regulatory capital requirements which became effective on January 1, 2013). Other Balance Sheet and Liquidity Metrics Dividends The Board of Directors of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. declared a dividend of $0.55 per common share to be paid on March 28, 2014 to common shareholders of record on February 28, 2014. The firm also declared dividends of $234.38, $387.50, $250.00, $250.00, $371.88 and $343.75 per share of Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock, Series C Preferred Stock, Series D Preferred Stock, Series I Preferred Stock and Series J Preferred Stock, respectively (represented by depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock), to be paid on February 10, 2014 to preferred shareholders of record on January 26, 2014. In addition, the firm declared dividends of $1,011.11 per each share of Series E Preferred Stock and Series F Preferred Stock, to be paid on March 3, 2014 to preferred shareholders of record on February 16, 2014. _____________ The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is a leading global investment banking, securities and investment management firm that provides a wide range of financial services to a substantial and diversified client base that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments and high-net-worth individuals. Founded in 1869, the firm is headquartered in New York and maintains offices in all major financial centers around the world. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This press release contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but instead represent only the firm’s beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside of the firm’s control. It is possible that the firm’s actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements. For a discussion of some of the risks and important factors that could affect the firm’s future results and financial condition, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the firm’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. Certain of the information regarding the firm’s capital ratios, risk-weighted assets, total assets, level 3 assets and global core excess liquidity consist of preliminary estimates. These estimates are forward-looking statements and are subject to change, possibly materially, as the firm completes its financial statements. Statements about the firm’s investment banking transaction backlog also may constitute forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to the risk that the terms of these transactions may be modified or that they may not be completed at all; therefore, the net revenues, if any, that the firm actually earns from these transactions may differ, possibly materially, from those currently expected. Important factors that could result in a modification of the terms of a transaction or a transaction not being completed include, in the case of underwriting transactions, a decline or continued weakness in general economic conditions, outbreak of hostilities, volatility in the securities markets generally or an adverse development with respect to the issuer of the securities and, in the case of financial advisory transactions, a decline in the securities markets, an inability to obtain adequate financing, an adverse development with respect to a party to the transaction or a failure to obtain a required regulatory approval. For a discussion of other important factors that could adversely affect the firm’s investment banking transactions, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the firm’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. FREE AppDownload
Best Buy shares are down 29% to $26.78. The stock was down as much as 33% to $25.32 in pre-market trading, after the retailer announced horrible holiday results. Best Buy now expects its Q4 non-GAAP operating income to be 175 to 185 basis points lower than the 5.7% non-GAAP operating income a year ago. Best Buy said U.S. comparable store sales were down 0.9% in the nine weeks ending January 4, 2014. But were up 0.1% internationally. The store did however see a 23.5% jump in comparable online sales for the same period, compared with 10% a year ago. “When we entered the holiday season, we said that price competitiveness was table stakes and an intensely promotional holiday season is what unfolded,” said Hubert Joly, Best Buy president and CEO said in a press release.  "...However, our holiday revenues were negatively impacted by a number of factors, including: (1) the aggressive promotional activity in the retail industry during the holiday period, which we believe did not result in higher industry demand and had a deflationary impact on our revenue; (2) supply constraints for key products; (3) significant store traffic declines between “Power Week” and Christmas; and (4) a disappointing mobile phone market."  The results were on the "shocking side," said Brian Sozzi of Belus Capital Advisors. "Although the company attempted to reset Street expectations with its verbal and numerical guidance in the third quarter, the overall tone around the holidays (and post…)is unexpected." Multiple retailers have said competitive pricing during the holiday season weighed on profits. And many have lowered guidance and announced job cuts in recent weeks. In that vein, Sozzi added that "this report affirms our view that Wal-Mart will issue an earnings warning in February with respect to its initial fiscal year guidance." Here's a look at the stunning decline: Google Finance Click here for the press release &gt; FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Brendan McDermidA trader looks at "Pete the Penguin" of SeaWorld Entertainment as he walks on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange January 15, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. — The Australian dollar had an abysmal session after the country posted a weak jobs report. The currency has been falling since last spring as emerging markets like China (the major importer of Australian commodities) struggle to remain on the sustainable growth path. "The Australian economy lost a net 22.6k jobs. The Bloomberg consensus called for a 10k increase," BBH's Marc Chandler summarizes in his morning note. "Adding insult to injury, the November series was revised to show a 15.4k gain instead of the initial 21.0k. Moreover, these headline figures understate the dismal news. Australia lost 31.6k full-time jobs in December and the downward revision to the November series reflects almost exclusively full-time jobs." — Yahoo COO Henrique De Castro, one of CEO Marissa Mayer's first major hires, is leaving the company effective January 16. "His job at Yahoo was to fix the company's relationship with big agencies to get Yahoo's ad business cranking again," writes our Jay Yarow. "Mayer hired De Castro because she believed he was responsible for building Google's display ad business from nothing to doing billions of dollars in revenue." — It's a busy day of economic data. At 8:30 a.m., we'll get the consumer price index. Economists expect CPI increased 0.3% month-over-month in December, 0.1% excluding food and energy.  "Unadjusted gasoline prices rose slightly in December (4 cents nationwide)," Credit Suisse economists wrote clients. "But seasonal factors expect a significant decline, so adjusted gasoline could rise almost 4% on the month... Shelter inflation appears to be firming, though goods prices should remain tame." — Also at 8:30 a.m., weekly initial jobless claims will come in. Economists believe claims will fall to 325,000 from 330,000 last week. "Initial jobless claims probably popped up during the week ended January 11, but we think that seasonal factor issues exaggerated the underlying change," wrote Citi's Peter D'Antonio, who expects a 355,000 reading. "We anticipate that unadjusted claims rose by 20%, which is not unusual for the first full week of January when many holiday workers are released." — Then at 10:00 a.m., the Philadelphia Fed Business Outlook survey will be released. Economics believe that the regional business activity index will climb to 8.5 in January, up from 7.0 in December. "While below the levels in the second half of last year, a move further into expansionary territory would be in line with our view that manufacturing activity will continue to pick up in 2014," wrote Barclays' economists. Finally, also at 10:00 a.m., the NAHB housing market index will come out. Economists believe the homebuilder sentiment index will remain unchanged at 58 for December. Barclays' economists are more bullish: "We look for an increase to 59 in the January NAHB index of home builder sentiment," they wrote. "This would reflect the fading effect of higher mortgage rates earlier this year and would bode well for residential construction activity in 2014."  — Goldman Sachs will report earnings this morning. Market watchers will be looking for whether the bank suffered declines in fixed-income, currencies and commodities trading (FICC) like they did in the third quarter. FactSet analysts said adjusted earnings could come in at $3.99 a share, which would be down 29% from a year ago, as MarketWatch noted. — Asian markets were mixed in overnight trading. Japan's Nikkei fell 0.39%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng climbed 0.37%, and Korea's KOSPI was up 0.21%. Europe started flat and U.S. futures were pointing a bit lower. — Next week begins the World Economic Forum's annual conference in Davos, Switzerland. Quartz crunched the numbers: "This year’s conference will bring together 196 academics, 288 government officials, 48 representatives from international organizations, and 2,101 people from the private sector," writes Quartz's David Yanofsky. "Only 15% of expected attendees are women, down from 17% last year."  — Private equity firm Apollo has purchased Chuck E. Cheese for about $1 billion, the Financial Times' Ed Hammond reports. "The deal, which will be announced on Thursday morning, will see Apollo, the fund controlled by billionaire Leon Black, pay $54 per share for Chuck E. Cheese," Hammond reports. "The price paid by Apollo marks an 11.5 per cent premium to the restaurant group’s Wednesday closing price of $48.43." — In China, over 200 million people have begun the estimated 3.62 billion trips home for the Chinese New Year. The "world's biggest annual human migration" will last 40 days. "That movement of people strains the country’s transportation system, with tickets hard to buy, controversies over ticket sale systems, black-marketeering...trains packed like sardine tins and fights over boarding, lines and seats," reports the New York Times' Didi Kirsten Tatlow. "But the end goal – celebrating with family – is considered worth it." FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Carlos BarriaA woman shops in a Louis Vuitton store during Vogue's 4th Fashion's Night Out: Shopping Night with Celebrities in downtown Shanghai, September 7, 2012.HONG KONG (Reuters) - Wealthy Chinese are likely to buy fewer luxury goods again this year after the steepest cut-back on spending in at least five years, changing the game for high-end retailers like Louis Vuitton which have staked their growth on China. Overall spending by wealthy Chinese fell by 15 percent in 2013, the third consecutive year of decline, according to a survey by the Hurun Report. Spending on gifts in particular also declined by a quarter. The drop coincides with a government crackdown on corruption and gifting, as well as an a growing penchant for travelling and shopping overseas to circumvent Chinese consumption taxes on luxury goods as high as 40 percent. The shrinking ranks of wealthy residents in China has also reduced luxury spending. One in three so-called high net worth individuals have already left, or are planning to leave, the country, the report showed, mostly to seek better opportunities for their children's education. Chinese are the top consumers of luxury goods globally. A slowdown in their spending, or a change in shopping habits, would hurt high-end retailers already struggling with a weaker Chinese economy and a more sophisticated clientele that has moved away from logo-branded goods. Luxury group Richemont, the maker of high-end IWC watches and Cartier jewellery, reported this week slower-than-expected sales growth in the third quarter, largely due to weaker Asian demand. LVMH, the world's biggest luxury goods group, has also seen sales growth slow last year as Chinese demand cooled, prompting the company, and brands from rival Kering SA to offer goods with more discreet logos and in expensive materials. "In terms of traditional luxury - leathers, accessories, watches - this year is going to be flat if not a little bit down,"Hurun Report founder and chief researcher Rupert Hoogewerf told Reuters. "For luxuries like tea, healthcare, even education, we are still looking at a booming market." The crackdown on conspicuous spending, which began in 2012, is part of a vow made by Chinese President Xi Jinping to be tougher on graft. He has focused in particular on gifts made to government officials often in exchange for preferential treatment or contracts. As a result, many wealthy Chinese now buy luxury goods for themselves, rather than as gifts, Hoogewerf said. Products by Hermes, Chanel, LVMH's Louis Vuitton brand, Apple Inc and Gucci remained among the most sought-after brands for gifting, the survey showed. Less popular were Bulgari - another LVMH brand - Salvatore Ferragamo, Tiffany and Co and the fiery baijiu liquor made by Chinese firm Kweichow Moutai Co Ltd, once the top tipple of Communist Party officials. Affluent Chinese often shop online for the best price globally. They have also become more confident about their fashion choices, mixing high-street clothing and accessories with branded goods. "There is a much savvier consumer out there," Hoogewerf said. "There will be more purchasing done overseas than in China. For a brand that's global it's fine." Over two-thirds of luxury spending by mainland Chinese was overseas in 2013, a factor that contributed to theUnited States overtaking China as the world's fastest growing luxury market, according to a study by consultancy firm Bain &amp; Company released in December. China's super-rich are also avid collectors - 70 percent of wealthy Chinese rank collecting as a hobby - but what they are coveting is changing. Ancient calligraphy last year surpassed luxury watches as the most-collected, knocking watches out of the No. 1 spot for the first time in five years, the Hurun report showed, which could mean revenue losses for top watch makers but a boon for auctioneers. Patek Philippe remained the most popular watch brand for collectors for the seventh year running while Christie's was the top ranked foreign auction house, the report showed. Besides spending less at home, more rich Chinese are leaving the country. The number of wealthy Chinese who have emigrated or are planning to do so rose to 64 percent from 60 percent in the previous year, the survey said. Most of those leaving, or planning to, are looking for permanent residency overseas - the United States, Europeand Canada are top picks. Very few want to give up their nationality, perhaps because their outlook for China is improving. The report showed millionaires' confidence in China's economy rose for the first time in five years but those who felt "extremely confident" still accounted for only 31 percent of those surveyed. The survey's results are based on responses from 393 Chinese millionaires, or those with personal wealth of at least 10 million yuan ($1.65 million). The Hurun Research Institute has conducted the survey for the past 10 years. ($1 = 6.0460 Chinese yuan) (Editing by Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Christinne Muschi Bombardier's CSeries aircraft lands after its first test flight in Mirabel, Quebec September 16, 2013.MANAMA (Reuters) - Saudi Gulf Airlines, a new carrier born of the deregulation of Saudi Arabia's aviation market, has signed a $2 billion deal with Canada's Bombardier Inc &lt;BBDb.TO&gt; to buy 16 CSeries jets with options for 10 more, the airline's owner said on Thursday. The deal is a boost for Bombardier, which has so far seen slow orders for the CSeries after several months of development delays, with potential customers waiting for flight test data to confirm fuel and cost saving claims. Delivery of the CS300 jets, which seat between 130 and 160 passengers, is expected between the end of 2015 and the start of 2016, said Samer al-Magali, president of the Abdel Hadi al-Qahtani group. Dammam-based Saudi Gulf is expected to start operating later this year or next year, Magali told reporters at the Bahrain International Airshow, saying the $2 billion referred to the list price for the planes and options. The group is ready to buy or lease around six other planes until the CSeries jets are delivered, he added. "Saudi Gulf will be launched once we have the technical licence from the civil aviation authority," said Magali, a former chief executive of Bahrain's national carrier Gulf Air Saudi Arabia started opening up its aviation market in 2012 by awarding additional carrier licences. Population growth and rapidly rising incomes mean there is considerable room for expansion, analysts believe. Currently, only national carrier Saudi Arabian Airlines and budget airline National Air Services serve a domestic market of about 27 million people. Foreign carriers can only fly in and out of Saudi Arabia, not within the country. The Bombardier order will initially be funded by the al-Qahtani group but the main funding will come from lenders, Magali said without elaborating. The planes will be used within Saudi Arabia and the region. The CSeries is a narrow-body jetliner aimed at competing with the smaller planes built by aerospace giants Boeing &lt;BA.N&gt; and Airbus &lt;EAD.PA&gt;. Bombardier has said it expects to have 300 firm orders by the time the CSeries boards its first commercial passenger, currently slated for next autumn. (Writing by Andrew Torchia and Sylvia Westall; Editing by Jason Neely and Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
For a long time, the economic crisis in the Eurozone revolved around the risk of a breakup. Would a country leave and redenominate into their old currency? This fear caused investment to dry up and peripheral countries, and borrowing costs for governments in Rome, Athens, Lisbon, and Madrid soared. At the same time, borrowing costs for Germany plunged, as invstors sought refuge in "core" Europe. But that fear is long gone. Spain just sold 3-year bonds at the lowest level in Eurozone history. Other countries have made similar records in recent days, as investor no longer fear a default. But that doesn't mean the problems are over in the Eurozone. it just means there's a new problem, and that problem is bad growth and the risk of deflation. Here's a fun chart: It's a chart going back three years comparing the trajectory of US 10-year bond yields vs. German 10-year bond yields. The US is orange. Germany is Green. Bloomberg For a few years, the two countries saw their borrowing costs move in lockstep. This isn't too surprising. Both the US and Germany are among the safest of the safe havens, and the forces driving yields for both are similar on a global scale. But Germany just saw borrowing costs hit a 6-week low, and the gap between the US and Germany is quite substantial. A German 10-year bond yields just 1.82%. A US 10-year bond yields 2.88%. In other words, US investors are increasingly betting on higher inflation and stronger growth (hence the higher interest rates). Investors in German bonds are worried about weak growth and no inflation or maybe disinflation, or possibly outright deflation in the Eurozone. So what we see right now in Europe taking place in the bond market is the handoff. Interest rates are plunging in Spain, Italy, Germany and so forth. The risk of default is not in anybody's mind. Now the risk is of Europe going down the low growth, Japanese deflation path. FREE AppDownload
Here's a fun chart from BofA/ML (via @Fgoria) BofA/ML The chart is a bit unfair, since it's comparing global robots to US manufacturing jobs. Just looking at the number of robots in the US would be better. But even stripping out the comparison, the rise of the installed base of global robots is worth watching, especially as the next few years are expected to see major growth. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Margin CallHeads up: There is a good amount of economic data today. Here are the four big datapoints, via Calculated Risk: • At 8:30 AM ET, the initial weekly unemployment claims report will be released. The consensus is for claims to decline to 327 thousand from 330 thousand.• Also at 8:30 AM, the Consumer Price Index for December. The consensus is for a 0.3% increase in CPI in December and for core CPI to increase 0.1%.• At 10:00 AM, the Philly Fed manufacturing survey for January. The consensus is for a reading of 8.7, up from 7.0 last month (above zero indicates expansion).• Also at 10:00 AM, the January NAHB homebuilder survey. The consensus is for a reading of 57.5, down from 58.0 in December. Any number above 50 indicates that more builders view sales conditions as good than poor. The CPI number will be interesting, especially since one of the big concerns is whether inflation will finally start to put a little bit of pressure on the Fed.  The Philly Fed index will be interesting to watch to see if it matches yesterday's strong Empire Fed report. And of course homebuilder sentiment and weekly initial claims are always good to watch. So this will be a fun — a big day for data. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Just passing along some good macro thoughts from the SocGen Cross Asset Research team: Theme 1: Emerging market turmoil2013 was a year of much turmoil for emerging market currencies, with some falling by as much as 20% vs the USD. In this environment, few currencies proved to be resilient (China, Korea, Poland) and most emerging market currencies are now close to one-year lows. The summer of 2013 reminded us that risks are rising in emerging markets as some of the growth drivers there from the past decade (rising commodity prices, cheap labour, global growth, etc.) have disappeared. In 2014, as growth is slowing in many EM countries, the GDP growth differential between developed countries and emerging markets is at its tightest since 2009. Beware of emerging markets in Q1 14, and especially China where the risk of a credit crisis is increasing. SocGen Theme 2: Convergence in the eurozoneLast week eurozone economic confidence increased to 100 (from 98.4 in November), reaching the highest level since July 2011. Economic conditions are improving even in some of the hardest hit peripheral countries, with Spain posting the sharpest rise in its services PMI since mid-2007, according to our economists. But the survey data is at best consistent with a weak economic recovery and points to fears of continued disinflation or even deflation. We will therefore be watching closely to see if spreads continue to converge, as we expect, given the support of accommodative ECB policy. Last week, the spread between Southern European countries and Germany fell to a historical low, below 200bp (from over 500bp a year and a half ago). The success of Ireland’s launch of a 10-year bond reflects renewed investor interest for these assets. We maintain our positive stance on peripheralcountries, both equities and bonds. SocGen Theme 3: Corporate profitability in the USAmong developed economies, the US will achieve the highest growth rate thanks to the return of consumer confidence and the pickup in private investment. The Fed’s policy is normalising from fewer asset purchases to more forward guidance, but should remain highly accommodative during the year. Overall, the macro environment is now positive for US stocks, but, after the strong expansion of multiples in 2013, investors will be watching corporate profitability more closely. EPS have reached a historical high thanks to cost reductions and share buybacks. If corporate margins can be sustained, the equity rally still has further to go, as US stocks should reap the benefits of better economic fundamentals. SocGen FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
China's capital was shrouded in dangerous smog on Thursday, cutting visibility down to a few hundred metres as a count of small particulate pollution reached more than 25 times recommended levels. A grey haze filled the sky, leaving an industrial, burning smell hanging in the air as PM2.5 reached over 500 micrograms per cubic metre in parts of Beijing, according to official statistics. Figures from the US embassy, which also monitors air quality, reached more than 671 in the early morning. The WHO recommends an exposure level of no more than 25 over a 24-hour period. The official air quality index reached the top of the scale at 500. China's cities are often hit by heavy pollution, blamed on coal-burning by power stations and industry, as well as vehicle use, and it has become a major source of discontent with the ruling Communist Party. "I can't believe how bad it is," said US tourist Richard Deutsch in Tiananmen Square in central Beijing, which was shrouded in heavy smog. "I have never experienced air this bad," said Deutsch, who is from Vermont. "It's worse than LA. I feel kind of bad for the people. It's taking years off their life." Authorities have become more open about pollution levels, in part as a response to public pressure, but officials have implied that it will take years before the situation improves. The pollution has been linked to hundreds of thousands of premature deaths, and has tarnished the image of Chinese cities including Beijing, which saw a 10 percent drop in tourist visits during the first 11 months of 2013. In Tiananmen Square, which is bounded on one side by the Forbidden City, a Unesco World Heritage Site, tourist guide Xiao Yan said: "There are less and less tourists coming to Beijing, it's normal as people keep on talking about the bad air quality on the internet." China's State Council, or cabinet, said last year that "concentrations of fine particles" in the capital's air would fall by approximately 25 percent from 2012 levels by 2017. Other major Chinese cities on China's affluent east coast, including Shanghai and Guangzhou, will see reductions of between 10 and 20 percent from 2012 levels over the same period, it said. China is the world's biggest coal consumer and is forecast to account for more than half of global demand this year. By mid-afternoon Thursday the air quality had improved, with the official PM2.5 figure down to 189 micrograms per cubic metre and the US embassy at 286. FREE AppDownload
It was a rough session for the Aussie dollar, which fell hard in the wake of a dismal jobs report. Via FinViz, here's the last day. You can see the hard plunge last night. It's also taken another leg down this morning. FinViz The weakness is far from a recent phenomenon. The currency has gotten crushed since last Spring, and has been really falling hard in the last few months. Here's a longer look: FinViz The decline in emerging markets and weakening demand for commodities (particularly out of China) has clubbed a key part of the Australian growth model,. That being said, the volatile currency works in favor of the country, helping to automatically adjust things when the trade situation is becoming unfavorable. In other words, when exports are weak, the currency automatically weakens to help make exports more competitive. FREE AppDownload
Good morning! After hitting new record highs on Wednesday (remember the nervousness from earlier this month?) the stock market is slipping a little bit here on Thursday. It's nothing too dramatic though. Japan fell 0.4%. France is down 0.3%. Germany is flat. So was Shanghai. US futures are just a tad lower. The big loser of the day is the Aussie dollar, which fell hard after Australia missed its jobs numbers. And the dollar has hit a new record high against the Turkish Lira, which has been happening almost every day. Today's a decently big data for economic data as we get the CPI, Initial Jobless Claims, and Philly Fed. FREE AppDownload
