Capital EconomicsPeople consider many factors before deciding between buying or renting a home. One of the more straightforward considerations is whether they can make their monthly payments. As the U.S. housing bubble ballooned, surging home prices caused the median monthly mortgage payment to diverge substantially from the median monthly rental payment. And when home prices crashed as the bubble burst, mortgage payments actually fell below rent payments. Scarred by the housing bubble, it was clear that sentiment played a big roll in Americans' decisions to opt for an increasingly expensive rental than commit to a home that could quickly pull them underwater. Now mortgage payments are back above rental payments, adding to perceptions that affordability is deteriorating. The difference, however, is pretty much negligible. "Admittedly, despite a slight fall in the fourth quarter, typical monthly mortgage costs are above median rental payments," noted Capital Economics' Paul Diggle. "But the $45/month gap between the two is small by historical standards, suggesting that few would-be homeowners are likely to be put off by the increase in costs relative to renting." FREE AppDownload
Gluskin SheffMany economists forecasting on accelerating U.S. GDP growth are banking on hope that business investment will pick up in 2014. They've argued that aging equipment and a general pent-up demand for these capital goods represent a bullish economic force to come. But this has been an argument for years. Some strategists believe it's not coming. Others recommend "keeping the faith." Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg is among the economists who still believe the capital expenditure boom is coming. He offered a chart and some commentary in his latest Breakfast With Dave note: THE STRONGEST CASE FOR CAPEX The answer lies in CAPU ... in other words, capacity utilization rates. While hardly yet at a peak, at 77% for U.S. manufacturing they are at levels that in the past touched off a moderate capex growth cycle. As the chart below shows, there is a slight lag but a decent 65% historical correlation. History also shows that once 77% is breached in terms of CAPU rates in an up-cycle, capital spending in real terms in the ensuing years averages out to be 0% growth — enough to add an increment 60 basis points to headline GDP trends. Here's Rosenberg's chart: Gluskin Sheff FREE AppDownload
YouTube/CaitSith810A New York-based trader committed suicide by jumping in front of a train, the New York Post reports.  The trader was 47-year-old Edmund "Eddie" Charles Reilly, the report said. He worked for Midtown-based boutique investment bank The Vertical Group. FINRA records show that he's been working at various broker dealers since 1996.  Passengers told MTA investigators they saw him standing by the tracks before he jumped in front of the train, a Long Island Rail Road spokesperson told the Post. There's been a spate of suicides amongst financial services employees in recent months. They've happened in London, the U.S. and Hong Kong.   FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFaced with rapidly dwindling foreign reserves, Argentine officials in January purposely sent their currency tumbling the most it has in one day since the 2002 financial crisis. While the sharp devaluation hurt Argentines’ purchasing power — the peso is now down 20 percent against the dollar since the beginning of the year — it also had the desired effect. The reserves’ pace of decline has slowed, the peso has stabilized and rising interest rates have helped mop up excess liquidity. But Credit Suisse analysts think the reprieve is likely to be short-lived. President Cristina Kirchner’s government is merely alleviating the symptoms of the country’s economic malaise, rather than addressing the root causes, according to a report by analysts Casey Reckman and Daniel Chodos entitled, “Argentina: An Unsteady State.” Put simply, the government isn’t tightening fiscal policy enough to tame the out-of-control inflation that is the country’s primary problem. And the heavy public spending and subsidies fueling the rise in consumer prices will soon put Argentina right back where it started. By year-end, say the analysts, the country will likely have to go through a second, larger devaluation. “Argentina’s current economic situation is unsustainable,” the analysts say. “The government’s approach…still seems improvised and uncoordinated, which undermines its attempts to anchor expectations and restore confidence. Moreover, it has targeted the decline in reserves and other distortions that are symptoms of Argentina’s economic issues rather than addressing the underlying causes.” That’s because government policy is what triggered the decline in foreign reserves – and not the other way around. The expropriation of private company assets — such as the 2012 seizure of Spanish oil company Repsol’s operations in the country — has dampened foreign investment. Making matters worse, the country has been locked out of international debt markets since its 2001 default, forcing it to use foreign reserves to fund imports and repay debt issued before it lost market access. Reserves dropped more than $12 billion to $30.6 billion in 2013 after sitting at more than $52 billion as recently as 2010. And Credit Suisse thinks they will continue to plummet, to $22.1 billion this year and $15.7 billion in 2015. That said, the government’s January 22 and 23 devaluation was a move in the right direction. Combined with efforts to tighten monetary conditions through higher interest rates, the markdown of the peso is likely to “provide temporary relief for the peso and international reserves” until exports from the grains and oilseeds harvest starts bringing more dollars into the economy in March or April, according to another Credit Suisse report entitled “Argentina: Bandaged, But Not Cured.” The South American nation also relaxed restrictions on individuals purchasing dollars for savings purposes. Because Argentina tightly controls currency exchange as a way of supporting the peso and reducing capital flight, a black market for dollars has arisen in which the peso is 35 percent weaker than the official rate. Anecdotal evidence suggests that dollar outflows are even more restricted since the devaluation, which should increase pressure on the parallel exchange rate and further help slow the evaporation of reserves. The government will also seek to tamp down inflation by keeping wage increases to a minimum when it begins negotiations with labor unions in March. Still, these are Band-Aids and not the necessary surgery. Dollar inflows will begin to slow as the harvest subsides around August, at which point inflation “could erode the benefits of January’s devaluation in no more than six months’ time,” Reckman and Chodos said. Indeed, the government reported consumer prices rose 3.7 percent in January compared with the previous month. Credit Suisse thinks inflation could reach 40 percent this year, up from 28.4 percent last year. And that’s why Credit Suisse is currently expecting reserves to dip below $25 billion by year-end, which could necessitate a fourth quarter devaluation of 30 percent. “[That] second adjustment could be an even riskier and more disruptive undertaking than the most recent one,” Reckman and Chodos said. “It would produce another inflationary shock and…could quickly lead to heightened social and political tensions.” How so? Just consider what the effect of another devaluation is likely to be on the real economy. It would prompt continued inflation, which would spur policymakers to raise interest rates again. Naturally, both of those things would tend to make consumers a little queasier about spending and further spook domestic investors. As a result, the economy may contract 0.5 percent next year, according to Credit Suisse. Economic indicators already look sickly, too. Credit Suisse projects a contraction in GDP of 0.3 percent for this year. Consumer confidence fell to 33.5 in February from 43.7 in January—the fourth consecutive monthly decline—according to a survey by Di Tella University in Buenos Aires. The indicator is currently at its lowest level since September 2002. But it is in 2015 that the true nightmare scenario could take shape, as falling reserves increase the risk that Argentina won’t be able to pay its creditors – again. While Argentina’s debt is manageable this year, bonds maturing next year will increase the country’s foreign-currency 2015 debt service costs to $12.5 billion. That figure, which includes both interest payments and repayment of maturing bonds, amounts to 56.4 percent of Credit Suisse’s end-2014 forecast for foreign reserves. “This makes the outlook for dollar debt service look more worrisome,” Reckman and Chodos said. Amid the turbulence, officials are reassuring the population that they have the situation under control. “The government is the one that can best defend the Argentine people’s moral integrity, their pocketbooks, their past and their future,” Kirchner’s cabinet chief Jorge Capitanich said several days after the devaluation, according to Argentine newspaper La Nacion. They’ve got their work cut out for them if they want to prove it. The Financialist is a digital magazine presented by Credit Suisse that looks at the trends and ideas that drive markets, businesses and economies. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chip East REUTERS CMEFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Why Investors Should Rethink Those Art Investments (The Wall Street Journal)  Art auctions sales were up 13% on the year to $12 billion in 2013. But even as investors are turning toward alternative assets, advisors are telling clients to rethink art purchases for their portfolio, reports Murray Coleman at the WSJ. "Since it can take years to sell a piece, art should be considered as a highly illiquid market," Ron Vinder, an adviser at UBS Financial Services told Coleman.  But Coleman points out that there are tax concerns as well, since art is looked at as a "collectible." From Coleman: "That can make artwork subject to a 28% capital-gains tax when sold, as opposed to the current maximum 20% long-term capital-gains rate for investments like stocks, she notes." Most Americans Don't Think The Stock Market Rally Impacted Their Financial Well-Being (Bloomberg)  A Bloomberg National Poll found that 77% of those surveyed said the bull market in stocks "had little or no effect on their financial well-being," reports David Lynch at Bloomberg. Wealthy families also have a disproportionately higher percent of their annual income from capital gains, interest and dividends. From Lynch: "The wealthiest 10 percent of families earn 11 percent of their annual income from capital gains, interest and dividends, according to the Fed. The poorest three-quarters get less than 0.5 percent of their income from such sources." Investors Understand Diversification But They Seem To Think Advisors Are Soothsayers And That's Concerning (Vanguard)  Joel Dickson, a senior investment strategist and a principal in Vanguard, said investors understand the importance of diversification. The problem is that they "have expectations that their advisors are soothsayers that are going to be able to predict which market at the exact right time is going to perform well or perform badly, and modify their portfolios."Having attended the Inside ETF conference this winter, he said advisors discussed what advisor value proposition is. "…It is that building of long-term strategic balanced portfolios to meet investors’ goals, but then doing all of those other things that actually provide value in which you can control the outcome better—like taxes, sticking to the asset allocation, rebalancing, all of those types of elements are ways to demonstrate the value. So it gave us an opportunity to talk about the re-framing of the value proposition because ultimately if you’re just hanging your hat on being in the right place at the right time, you’re going to be wrong at some point. It’s just the nature of the financial markets." The One Big Story In The Bond Market That No One Seems To Be Talking About (Business Insider)  As the Fed has begun tapering its asset purchase program and investors are anticipating rising interest rates, many wonder what this could mean for the bond market. Russ Certo, head of rates at Brean Capital, told Business Insider's Matthew Boesler about the one big story in bond markets that no one's talking about.  "In a relative sense, I suspect the market is critically gauging the prospective quantity, scope, and timing of tapering of the Federal Reserve's asset purchases. However, I think there could be ultimately significantly more meaning and value in fully and accurately anticipating the more vexing challenges and relevance of fine-tuning its forward guidance. Aspects related to the scope of the taper are likely to be technical. Forward guidance evolution will likely have a more qualitative relevance to markets. A focus on the latter and the evolution of the ultimate Fed message will have impacts not only on global equity, foreign exchange, commodity and interest rate and credit valuations, but also on volatility in these markets." Gundlach Warns NYSE Margin Debt Is In 'The Scary Zone' (DoubleLine Funds)  The amount of money borrowed to buy stocks is at record levels and some see this as a sign that the market is looking bubbly. "It is in the scary zone," said DoubleLine Funds' Jeffrey Gundlach during a webcast on Tuesday. "If and when it hooks over, that’s when you’re likely to see a double-digit decline in market indexes." Gundlach is not however calling for a crash. Doug Short FREE AppDownload
Emerging vs. Frontier: The Distinction There are a number of factors that go into qualifying a particular market as “developed,” “emerging,” or “frontier,” and different organizations or index providers may have slightly different criteria. Emerging-market countries include those considered to be developing or emerging by the World Bank, the International Finance Corporation, the United Nations, or the countries’ authorities, or defined as countries with a stock market capitalization of less than 3% of the Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) World Index.1 Frontier markets can be considered a subset of emerging markets, and they are typically economies at the lower end of the development spectrum. They are the generally smaller, less developed and less liquid emerging-market countries that are considered to be in the nascent stages of development. In essence, they represent what some emerging-market countries such as Brazil, Russia, India and China were 20 to 25 years ago. By offering investors the ability to invest in a “younger generation of emerging markets,” frontier markets may provide an attractive investment opportunity, in our view. The MSCI Frontier Markets Index2 provides a handy benchmark for investors and MSCI has its own criteria to determine classifications, but they are not something we strictly adhere to when making investment decisions for our portfolios. Frontier Markets Charting Their Own Course Frontier markets have caught the attention of many investors, as frontier markets tend to be more exposed to their domestic economies—many of which are developing rapidly—as opposed to the global economy, which is growing at a much slower pace. Moreover, positive local developments such as the implementation of reforms have further benefited many individual markets. Overall, we believe there have been a number of factors supporting frontier markets’ long-term potential. These include high levels of economic growth, positive local developments such as reforms and relatively low levels of consumer and sovereign indebtedness, as well as what we consider attractive valuations, in our view. In addition, we believe undeveloped natural resources, low-cost labor, favorable demographic trends and potential technological catch-up could continue to support these markets. Focusing on some individual frontier markets, the United Arab Emirates has been benefiting from improving local economic data and the prospect of rising international trade flows through the port of Dubai. The recent award of the 2020 World Expo to Dubai is likely to provide extra impetus to an already solid real estate market, in our view. Improving economic news from the eurozone and some positive local developments supported a number of frontier markets in Europe, notably the Republic of Serbia and Bulgaria. In Asia, Pakistan has benefited from an improving growth outlook, a new International Monetary Fund loan program and hopes that planned economic reforms will be pushed through in 2014. Current Valuations  At the end of January, valuations in frontier markets generally remained attractive to us. As you can see from the table below, the MSCI Frontier Markets Index was trading at a trailing price/earnings ratio (P/E) of 13.6 times, much lower than the 17.4 times P/E for the MSCI World Index.3 In terms of price-to-book value (P/BV), frontier markets look attractive to us at 1.8 times, versus 2.1 times for the MSCI World Index, and the dividend yield was much higher in frontier markets at 3.6%, compared to 2.5% for the MSCI World Index.4 Further, some individual markets are even more attractively valued, in our opinion. Thus, we have been able to find some cheaper stocks that we think are better valued. Of course, this is not the case for every single company operating in frontier markets, but it is certainly true for many of them, in our view. Hence, we feel it is important to undertake extensive research and study each individual company rather than generalize. Franklin Templeton Frontier Fundamentals Appear Favorable Investors have become increasingly open to new investment ideas and ways to diversify their portfolios.5 This trend is especially the case now, in our view, as relatively slower growth rates in major economies globally and low bank deposit interest rates have led many investors to look elsewhere for investment opportunities. In our opinion, frontier markets remain among the most exciting investment opportunities for global equity investors. While the characteristics of frontier markets differ from region to region and country to country, as a group they share a number of traits. Similarities have included high levels of economic growth and relatively low levels of consumer and sovereign indebtedness that open up the potential for growth to accelerate, as well as valuations that we believe often have stood below the levels of equivalent businesses in developed and maturing emerging markets. We believe internal sources of potential growth, including undeveloped natural resources, low-cost labor, favorable demographic trends and potential technological catch-up, could also continue to support the development of frontier markets going forward.  Franklin Templeton Dr. Mobius’ comments, opinions and analyses are for informational purposes only and should not be considered individual investment advice or a recommendation to invest in any security or to adopt any investment strategy. Because market and economic conditions are subject to rapid change, comments, opinions and analyses are rendered as of the date of the posting and may change without notice. This material is not intended as a complete analysis of every material fact regarding any country, region, market, industry, investment or strategy.   All investments involve risks, including possible loss of principal. Foreign securities involve special risks, including currency fluctuations and economic and political uncertainties. Investments in emerging markets, of which frontier markets are a subset, involve heightened risks related to the same factors, in addition to those associated with these markets’ smaller size, lesser liquidity and lack of established legal, political, business and social frameworks to support securities markets. Because these frameworks are typically even less developed in frontier markets, as well as various factors including the increased potential for extreme price volatility, illiquidity, trade barriers and exchange controls, the risks associated with emerging markets are magnified in frontier markets.      1. The MSCI World Index is a free float-adjusted market capitalization weighted index that is designed to measure the equity market performance of 23 developed markets. Indexes are unmanaged, and one cannot directly invest in an index. 2. The MSCI Frontier Markets Index is a free float-adjusted market capitalization index that is designed to measure equity market performance of 26 frontier markets. Indexes are unmanaged, and one cannot directly invest in an index. 3. Source: FactSet, MSCI World Index, MSCI Frontier Markets Index. Data as of January 31, 2014. © 2014 FactSet Research Systems Inc. All Rights Reserved. The information contained herein: (1) is proprietary to FactSet Research Systems Inc. and/or its content providers; (2) may not be copied or distributed; and (3) is not warranted to be accurate, complete or timely. Neither FactSet Research Systems Inc. nor its content providers are responsible for any damages or losses arising from any use of this information. MSCI makes no express or implied warranties or representations and shall have no liability whatsoever with respect to any MSCI data contained herein. The MSCI data may not be further redistributed or used as a basis for other indices or any securities or financial products. This report is not approved, reviewed or produced by MSCI. Methodology: The trailing P/E is calculated by taking the current stock price and dividing it by the trailing earnings per share for the past 12 months. Indexes are unmanaged, and one cannot invest directly in an index. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. 4. Source: Ibid. The dividend yield quoted here is for informational purposes only and should not be construed as the income that may be received from any investment. 5. Diversification does not guarantee profits or protect against loss. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his “Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets” blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including “Trading with China,” “The Investor’s Guide to Emerging Markets,” “Mobius on Emerging Markets,” “Passport to Profits,” “Equities—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” “Mutual Funds—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” ”The Little Book of Emerging Markets,” and “Mark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets » FREE AppDownload
Winter is finally loosening its hold, so it's time to start thinking about spring fashion. Spring is typically a preppier season: think  Hamptons rentals, sail boats, and pastel colors. Elijah Clark Ginsberg of the Chesterfield Report — a website devoted to a preppy lifestyle — was kind enough to share a helpful graphic of some of the shirts, shoes, belts, outerwear, and more that will take guys into the new season. Check it out below. Courtesy of Elijah Clark Ginsberg and the Chester Field Report FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man walks along Wall Street in New York's financial district.Over the next decade, Wall Street banks will cut in half the proportion of support staff they have in pricey cities like New York and London and shift those workers to less expensive cities in the developing world, according to a projection by consulting firm Johnson Associates Inc. Today, about half of the employees who handle back-office functions and operations at investment banks work in high-cost locations, Johnson Associates said in a March report. By 2024, just 25 percent of those workers will remain in expensive cities, while the proportion in the developing world will jump from 25 percent to 50 percent. "The industry is under huge cost pressures and that's one way to save money," said Alan Johnson, who heads the firm and helps large financial companies develop compensation plans. "As you look at the cost differentials, and with technology making it easier to do things from remote locations, firms plan to have fewer people here." Big banks have been shifting support staff to lower-cost cities for some time but have gotten more aggressive in recent years because of profit pressures. In addition to cities in the developing world like Bangalore, India, and Singapore, the industry has also moved workers to lower cost cities within the United States. Goldman Sachs Group Inc has been adding staff to operations in Salt Lake City and Dallas in recent years, while Morgan Stanley has a large facility in Baltimore. Johnson said staff in those areas could also grow. FREE AppDownload
Investor and author of a new book, "The Hard Thing About Hard Things," Ben Horowtiz explains how to go about firing a manager. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter Disclosure: Marc Andreessen, co-founder of Andreessen Horowitz, is an investor in Business Insider.
Reuters/ Robert GalbraithThe Federal Trade Commission has opened a probe into Herbalife. The stock, which had been halted, closed down more than 7% on Wednesday. It had fallen as much as 17% following the news.  Herbalife confirmed that they received a Civil Investigative Demand from the FTC.   "Herbalife welcomes the inquiry given the tremendous amount of misinformation in the marketplace, and will cooperate fully with the FTC.  We are confident that Herbalife is in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.  Herbalife is a financially strong and successful company, having created meaningful value for shareholders, significant opportunities for distributors and positively impacted the lives and health of its consumers for over 34 years," the company said in a statement. A spokesperson acknowledged the existence of the investigation, but said the FTC had no further comment. A spokesperson for Pershing Square Capital Management declined to comment on the investigation.  Herbalife, a multi-level marketing firm that sells weight loss products and nutritional supplements, has been at the center of a major hedge fund battle.  Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital Management, announced about 14 months ago that he is betting $1 billion that the stock will go to $0.  Ackman's thesis is that the company operates as a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower income individuals, particularly those from the Hispanic population.  Ackman believes that regulators, particularly the FTC, will be persuaded to shut the company down.  He was recently the subject of a critical page-one New York Times article about how he's been coordinating lobbying efforts in Washington, D.C. to bring the company down. Ackman commented on a conference call yesterday  it wasn't his "favorite" article, but he thinks it will be "helpful." He thinks that regulators will have to pay attention now that it's a mainstream news story.  Herbalife has publicly refuted Ackman's allegations that they operate as a pyramid scheme.  Since Ackman revealed his short in late 2012, the stock price has surged. A number of fund managers, most notably Carl Icahn, have also piled on by going long the stock. Icahn has even said that he thinks Ackman will be the victim of the "mother of all short squeezes."  The most recent estimate was that Ackman had suffered $500 million in paper losses on his bet. He's made back some of that money just now. He has also maintained that he will continue take this short "to the end of the earth."  Just yesterday, Ackman hosted another conference call slamming Herbalife over its business practices in China. Ackman believes they are violating Chinese direct-selling laws.  Yahoo! Finance FREE AppDownload
MorningstarPIMCO had redemptions totaling $2.49 billion in February, according to Morningstar — by far the most among the big fund families funds measured.  That's actually down from January's figure of $5.657 billion in outflows. Over the past 12 months, PIMCO has seen more than $50 billion in outflows, Morningstar says. PIMCO's market share dropped 16 points month-over-month to 4.61%, though it remains the fourth-largest open-end fund in the U.S. Franklin Templeton is next with 3.91% of total market share.  Lately, PIMCO has attracted press for all the wrong reasons. After the unexpected resignation of CEO and Co-CIO Mohamed El-Erian, unflattering reports surfaced regarding Co-CIO Bill Gross' unique and aggressive management style. That in turn led Gross to tell a Reuters reporter that El-Erian was trying to "undermine" him. While these tabloid headlines have little to do with the firm's investment style, investors and clients can't help but wonder if all this is a big distraction for PIMCO's analysts and managers. Click here to read the full report at Morningstar » FREE AppDownload
Below is an interview we did for our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter with Russ Certo, head of rates at Brean Capital, on some of the big stories affecting global markets. BUSINESS INSIDER: What is one big story in the bond market that no one seems to be talking about? RUSS CERTO: In a relative sense, I suspect the market is critically gauging the prospective quantity, scope, and timing of tapering of the Federal Reserve's asset purchases. However, I think there could be ultimately significantly more meaning and value in fully and accurately anticipating the more vexing challenges and relevance of fine-tuning its forward guidance. Aspects related to the scope of the taper are likely to be technical. Forward guidance evolution will likely have a more qualitative relevance to markets. A focus on the latter and the evolution of the ultimate Fed message will have impacts not only on global equity, foreign exchange, commodity and interest rate and credit valuations, but also on volatility in these markets. BI: How are investors approaching the current yield spread between U.S. Treasuries and German Bunds, which just hit a fresh 8-year high? RC: There is good reason to believe that there are significant capital inflows into European sovereign bonds from the Pacific Rim recently. In fact, not only have the underlying bonds rallied, but the euro is making a 2-year high at the moment as diversified reserves globally are making their way back to euroland for a variety of direct foreign investment purposes. Some monies may also be diversifying as the Federal Reserve has embarked upon a tapering of asset purchases, a tacit indication of confidence in the underlying economy and/or removal of extreme crisis-era monetary policy measures. Both interest rates and currency values also reflect a disconnect of market expectations, and many investors globally were likely underweighted both complexes. BI: The February nonfarm payrolls report revealed signs of acceleration in wage growth. Meanwhile, food prices are surging. Is the TIPS market respecting the risks of increased inflation? RC: I acknowledge your observation, which I have called "a tale of two markets." The TIPS market has been stubborn in reflecting some of the volatility which we have seen in other commodity and capital markets. For a quick tally, coffee has surged by 78% this year, cattle prices are making all-time highs, lean hogs are up 25% in the year to date, and this has extended to sugar, corn, soybeans, cotton, and even orange juice — something we pointed out in the softs a few commentaries back. I'm sure more than a few have been looking at their natural gas bills, as the futures are up 15% in the year to date, or even gas prices at the pump (over $4 a gallon in the United States). Precious metals have also percolated and are seeing significant real demand globally versus more financial market position liquidation. Trading any of these is not for the faint of heart, and there does seem to be a disconnect — or decoupling — between the nominal performance of TIPS versus general risk assets and those represented by the inflation complex. BI: To the extent that weather distortions are still weighing on yields, when do you think the market will start to move past that? RC: I think the market HAS, to some extent, shrugged off bad weather effects, as interest rates increased by near 20 basis points last week, partially as an interpretation of economic data, ex-weather effects. Historically, weather effects which have adversely impacted demand side activity and consumption have proven to ultimately spur pent-up demand. I can’t wait until spring myself — or next year's or quarter's comparison to a bevy of economic statistics adversely impacted by wintry weather. As a glaring example, Janet Yellen even gave lip service to these "transitional" impacts, and the most recent Federal Reserve Beige Book tally of economic activity cited weather 119 separate times. BI: Which developments in global financial markets would you flag as most concerning for the bond market right now? RC: All markets are going to have to accurately, as always, interpret the incrementalism and "tea leaves" of central bank policy changes. Some have introduced the concept of "owning the tails" — or tail risk of markets — in case of a material surprise relative to expectations in either dovish or hawkish expressions from the central bank community, or real demand shocks, or meaningful acceleration in economic fundamentals. There is some empirical analysis which would suggest moderate gains in domestic equity markets again this year to follow last year's outsized gains. I suppose that if the real economy weans itself off of enormous amounts of fiscal and monetary stimulus and returns to real economic allocation of resources that the economy and markets can handle the passing of the policy baton. Allowing businesspersons to make real decisions without being encumbered with the uncertainty of policy distortions can be a powerful metric to deploy all the cash sitting on the sidelines. Growth for the right reasons. However, markets will have to balance record amounts of margin credit, historically tight credit spreads, and elevated valuations of most risk assets globally. Transitioning from artificial imbalances to real activity is the very thin line that policymakers and markets will have to walk. Editor's note: This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Tuesday morning. Sign up below to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox each morning. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eddie KeoghSam Twiston-Davies on The New One jumps the final fence of the Champion Hurdle Challenge Trophy at the Cheltenham Festival horse racing meet in Gloucestershire, western England March 11, 2014.Markets spent most of the day in the red before recovering almost all losses. The Dow was down by as much as 90 points early in the trading session. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Brandon WadeDallas has lots of guns and drugs. A fascinating new report on the underground sex industry in America includes data on how much 7 cities spent on illegal sex, drugs, and guns in 2003 and 2007. Atlanta has a huge sex market estimated at $290 million, which was growing, contrary to most other cities on the list. Dallas led the seven cities when it came to illicit drugs and guns at $191 million and $171 million. Urban Institute FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinLael Brainard(Reuters) - Two nominees to top Federal Reserve policymaking posts stressed the importance of financial stability and getting Americans back to work as key goals for U.S. central bank. "At present, achievement of both maximum employment and price stability requires the continuation of an expansionary monetary policy," Stanley Fischer, the former Bank of Israel chief who is nominated to be Fed vice chair, said in written testimony released on Wednesday for a Senate confirmation hearing set for Thursday. Lael Brainard, a former deputy at the Treasury Department who has been nominated to be a Fed governor, said in her testimony the Fed "will need to carefully calibrate the tools of monetary policy to ensure an appropriate pace of normalization, while supporting the fragile recovery in our job market and ensuring inflation expectations remain well anchored." (Reporting by Ann Saphir and Jonathan Spicer; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Shannon Stapelton Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who is famously short Herbalife, is probably pretty pleased with the news that the Federal Trade Commission will probe Herbalife.  Until now, his $1 billion bet that Herbalife will plummet to $0 hasn't played out in his favor.   The most recent estimate was that Ackman had suffered $500 million in paper losses.   He's made back some of that money just now. In December 2012, Ackman said he was shorting about 20 million shares of Herbalife. However, he ended up repositioning his short in October 2013 by swapping about 40% of the equity short for put options. Based on that, we would estimate that he has about 12 million shares in his equity short (That would be 60% of the original before it was repositioned.) With the stock down by around $6 today, we'd estimate he's made back around $72,000,000 on what he's lost, according to our calculations.   Herbalife's stock, which was halted, is was last trading down about 9%. Shares of Herbalife hit a low of $54.68, or 17%, at one point after the FTC news came out.  Ackman believes that Herbalife, a multi-level marketing company that sells nutritional products, operates as a pyramid scheme. He thinks regulators like the FTC will investigate and shut the company down.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mackson WasamunuThe Zambian kwacha before it was re-based.The Zambian kwacha has been falling for several months as the Federal Reserve's tapering of its asset purchase program has caused the dollar to strengthen, roiling currencies in emerging markets. More recently however, the blow to copper prices has weighed on the kwacha as well, as Zambia is Africa's largest copper producer. Copper prices have been getting shredded on concerns over China, as "the appeal of commodity trade-related financing deals in China appears to be waning," writes Caroline Bain of Capital Economics in a note to clients. In February, the Bank of Zambia called an emergency meeting as the kwacha hit a record low. Since then, the central bank has raised its benchmark policy rate by 50 basis points to 10.25% in order to stem the decline in the kwacha and to curb inflation. Yet the kwacha continues to weaken. This one-year chart shows how the dollar has strengthened against the kwacha — it's up about 7.2% in the year to date. Mamta Badkar/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Zinc Save is a browser extension for Chrome compatible with major retailers like Macy's, Target, Walmart, and Amazon that bills itself as a moneysaving utility, but it also turns these companies into into Bitcoin-friendly retailers. Amazon sells nearly everything the heart could desire, so the prospect of making it accessible to those wishing to spend Bitcoins is pretty exciting. The extension places a new button underneath Amazon's usual "Place your order" button that says "Order with Zinc for [slightly reduced price]". Completing the checkout process this way sources the items in your order "from the retailer or vendor that offers your item(s) at the best price" and applies "discount codes, credit card rewards, and any other available promotions" to the order. Zinc Save essentially functions as your cheapskate-for-hire. Zinc Save But the real magic happens upon checkout — you don't actually complete your order with Amazon, but place it through Zinc instead. Zinc clones your order through Amazon on your behalf, and you have the choice of how to pay Zinc. Of course your standard credit card is readily accepted, but Zinc will also gladly accept Bitcoin. Your Amazon order "will be shipped with the speed you originally selected or faster," so as long as Zinc can hold true there, this near-seamlessly turns Amazon into a Bitcoin-friendly superstore. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
Traders are borrowing more than ever to leverage up their bets on the stock market. Some fear that this is a sign of a bubbly stock market that's doomed to crash. Others argue it's a more benign coincident indicator and at least partially reflective of the increasing presence of hedge funds. "It is in the scary zone," said DoubleLine Funds' Jeffrey Gundlach during a webcast on Tuesday. "If and when it hooks over, that’s when you’re likely to see a double-digit decline in market indexes." While he's not predicting imminent doom for stocks, he encourages us to be on the look out for a reversal. Gundlach has previously characterized margin debt as both a cause and effect of the market rally. Margin debt could very well continue to rise with the stock market. But it has a nasty way of adding to the downward momentum when stocks sell. Doug Short FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Laszlo BaloghGive Felix Kramer credit for thinking big. Twelve years ago, he and others founded CalCars, a group dedicated to promoting plug-in hybrid vehicles with large battery packs--and built the world's first plug-in Prius hybrid. Now he and coauthor Gil Friend have published an audacious proposal to buy up and shut down every private and public coal company operating in the United States. The price: a surprisingly low $50 billion. The pair's goal is to eliminate coal as a fuel for generating electricity in the U.S. Compared to growing supplies of natural gas--let alone renewable sources like wind and solar--coal is a high-carbon fuel that produces greater levels of climate-change gases per kilowatt-hour generated. MORE: Electric Utilities Now Fighting Home Solar As Threat To Their Business In an article yesterday in The Guardian, the pair outline the benefits from shutting down U.S. coal beyond addressing climate change: eliminating acid rain from sulfur dioxide emissions, smog from nitrous oxides, human cardiopulmonary damage from particulates, and airborne emission of toxins like mercury, lead, and cadmium. Their calculated cost of just $50 billion is based on discounted rates for coal companies, which they argue face a dark future, with new coal plants all but dead and falling stock prices. Some economists have already suggested that coal should be accounted for not as a valuable commodity but as a "stranded asset" that has lost value well ahead of its projected economic life. The shutdown proposal includes the costs of retraining for the 87,000 coal-industry workers who would lose their jobs over the proposed 10-year phaseout of coal. Kramer and Friend suggest that the entire sum could be funded as a public service, for the good of the nation and the planet, by some of the 114 billionaire families who have pledged to give away half their assets to charity. Starting this Sunday, the duo will lobby for the proposal at the annual TED Conference in Vancouver. Meanwhile, Kramer has launched Beyond Cassandra, an organization aimed at "Incubating climate awareness strategies and turning them into campaigns for climate hawks." Could it happen? What do you think? Leave us your thoughts in the Comments below. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/David GoldmanThe Atlanta skylineAtlanta, Ga.'s underground commercial sex economy is unusually large, with a lucrative market for street prostitution, according to a new study on sex trafficking and sex work in U.S. cities.  Of 7 major cities profiled by The Urban Institute, only Atlanta and Seattle saw their illegal sex trade grow between 2003 and 2007. The study estimated Atlanta's market was $290 million by 2007, compared to just $103 million for Washington, D.C. Since 2005, Atlanta's pimps have been pulling in an average of $33,000 a week, compared to about $12,000 a week in Dallas and about $11,000 in San Diego. Here's a breakdown of income for various cities from the report: Urban Institute Even though more people are posting online prostitution ads these days, the report found Atlanta still has a "very high and extremely profitable" demand for street prostitution. This demand could come from out of town or the suburbs, as Atlanta has major highways running through it, including I-75, I-85, and I-285.  The problem seems to be particularly bad along "densely urban areas" like Fulton Industrial Boulevard, the study found. "You’ve got your major rappers from Atlanta come down to Fulton Industrial and shoot videos in the neighborhoods, on the streets, with the girls, and with the pimps and then pay $1,000 for the girls to come in and have sex with them," one unnamed law enforcement was quoted in the study as saying. Not everybody pays as much as "rappers from Atlanta," though. Here's more information from the study on pricing structures for street-level and online prostitution: The typical pricing structure on the street is $50 to $100 for oral sex and $75 to $150 for “full service.” However, drug-addicted sex workers charge as little as $10 for oral sex and $50 for “full service.” Online, sex workers charge from $60 to $100 for 15 minutes and from $250 to $300 per hour for dates.  One law enforcement officer noted, “The younger the girl, the higher the price—so you could have a girl at 18 that’s going to charge $450 an hour or $350 an hour and that’s kind of funny, as you see them get older into their 30s, unless they have a specialty, you’re going to see them at maybe $150 an hour or something like that.”  In Dallas, by contrast, prostitutes start at roughly $60 for oral sex, even though their pimps don't bring in nearly as much money as Atlanta pimps do. This raises the possibility that Atlanta pimps have more prostitutes working for them so they can make a high weekly wage. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andy ClarkDang.The average cash bonus for New York-based financial services employees in 2013 was $164,530, according to an annual report released by the New York State Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli's office (via DealBook).   Bonuses for Wall Streeters increased 15% from the previous year, the report said. "Wall Street navigated through some rough patches last year and had a profitable year in 2013. Securities industry employees took home significantly higher bonuses on average. Although profits were lower than the prior year, the industry still had a good year in 2013 despite costly legal settlements and higher interest rates. Wall Street continues to demonstrate resilience as it evolves in a changing regulatory environment," Napoli said in a statement.  The average salary (including bonuses) for New York financial services employees was $360,700 in 2012. The data wasn't available yet for 2013, the report said.    Even though bonuses are up, the number of folks who work on Wall Street still hasn't returned to the pre-financial crisis numbers. According to the report, approximately 165,200 people in New York worked on Wall Street as of December 2013. That's still 12.6% fewer Wall Streeters than before the 2008 collapse.   Here's a chart of Wall Street bonuses in New York going back to 1985:  OCS  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary CameronU.S. Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen testifies before the Senate Banking Housing and Urban Affairs Committee on Capitol Hill in Washington February 27, 2014.Since December, we have been covering a steadily building conversation on Wall Street about the possibility that the Federal Reserve seeks to move early in exiting its zero interest rate regime of extraordinary monetary stimulus, especially if the unemployment rate continues to tumble and wage growth continues to accelerate. This idea has caused a backlash in the media. "If the Fed tightens prematurely, it could end up trapping us in lowflation; essentially, it would have completed the Japanification of the U.S. economy, putting us into a trap that’s very hard to exit," writes Paul Krugman today, providing the latest of many examples. "So let’s not panic over rising wages, OK? The only thing we have to fear is fear of full employment itself." We're going to keep talking about it, though, because market participants are going to keep talking about it. And market participants are going to keep talking about it because there's a lot of money on the table. Everyone has an opinion on what the Fed should do in this case. Much of the media backlash has come from those who, like Krugman, argue that even though wage growth has shown nascent signs of acceleration, the risks of premature tightening of monetary policy outweigh the risks of staying easy for longer. Moreover, everyone can agree that wage growth is a good thing, so why try to choke it just as it begins making a comeback? As Bloomberg News Federal Reserve reporter Josh Zumbrun puts it, "They are so caught up arguing what they think should happen that they've stopped paying attention to what is happening." What is happening: labor markets are getting tighter, and there's a growing constituency inside the Fed that believes zero interest rate policy will not be appropriate for very much longer. Still, for now, the Fed's official line is that interest rates will be at zero until late 2015. Market prices are calibrated for that outcome. The question for market participants is whether the labor market will continue to show signs of tightening, and how much pressure that will put on those inside the Fed who believe zero rates should be maintained for an extended period of time, regardless of how fast wages are rising. Martin Enlund, a fixed income and foreign exchange strategist at Handelsbanken Capital Markets, calls it "the big battle brewing inside the Fed." One camp, personified by Fed Chairwoman Janet Yellen and the "optimal control" approach to monetary policy, would allow for inflation to rise above the Fed's 2% inflation target in order to return the labor market back to full health sooner rather than later — these are the "doves," and their stance implies no rate hikes for a while, especially given how low inflation is. Renaissance Macro ResearchOthers, like Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher and Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser — both of which are new additions to the voting ranks of the Federal Open Market Committee this year, and thus exert more influence on monetary policy decisions than before — are traditional monetary policy "hawks", which means they will likely be arguing for rate hikes sooner rather than later. There's more going on at the Fed than just that, though. For example, San Francisco Fed President John Williams — who is usually classified as neither a hawk nor a dove, but rather a centrist, somewhere in the middle — spoke in a recent speech about the "risks of overshooting" the Fed's 2% inflation target, suggesting that resistance to such a course of action may be more widespread on the Committee than just among the hawks. Furthermore, there are Fed governors like Jeremy Stein and and Daniel Tarullo, who have devoted a lot of time recently to discussing financial stability issues. The Fed arguably has a de facto financial stability mandate in addition to its mandates of full employment and stable inflation, and while Fed officials say this isn't a big concern yet, the cost-benefit tradeoff of financial stability may change over the coming year, depending on what happens in the marketplace. Put this all together, and you have hedge funds looking for the next big macro trade licking their chops. At the end of 2013, there was a widespread acknowledgment in the investor community that "tail risks" — outlier events with a small chance of occurring that could have a big impact on market prices — appeared to be few and far between as downside risks to global economic activity were receding. This impression was largely spurred along by an acceleration in the pace of growth in economic activity in the second half of 2013, and the idea was that the most likely tail risk could actually come from an upside surprise in economic growth relative to expectations as the Fed began tapering down its quantitative easing program, setting in motion the path toward monetary policy normalization. That is why there has been an explosion of interest in just how tight the labor market is becoming. Portfolio managers have been chattering about it, and that's prompted Wall Street strategists and economists — and those like us who try to keep our finger on the pulse of the conversation — to look into it. It's not about trying to figure out what the Fed should do, but what they will most likely do. To quote Bloomberg News Fed reporter Josh Zumbrun again: "Some folks think the Fed should stay at 0 until thwacking full employment. Not how the Fed thinks." FREE AppDownload
Mathematics is all around us, and it has shaped our understanding of the world in countless ways. In 2013, mathematician and science author Ian Stewart published a book on 17 Equations That Changed The World. We recently came across this convenient table on Dr. Paul Coxon's twitter account by mathematics tutor and blogger Larry Phillips that summarizes the equations. (Our explanation of each is below): Larry Phillips, via @paulcoxon on Twitter Here is a little bit more about these wonderful equations that have shaped mathematics and human history: Shutterstock/ igor.stevanovic  This relationship, in some ways, actually distinguishes our normal, flat, Euclidean geometry from curved, non-Euclidean geometry. For example, a right triangle drawn on the surface of a sphere need not follow the Pythagorean theorem. 2) Logarithms: Logarithms are the inverses, or opposites, of exponential functions. A logarithm for a particular base tells you what power you need to raise that base to to get a number. For example, the base 10 logarithm of 1 is log(1) = 0, since 1 = 100; log(10) = 1, since 10 = 101; and log(100) = 2, since 100 = 102. The equation in the graphic, log(ab) = log(a) + log(b), shows one of the most useful applications of logarithms: they turn multiplication into addition.  Until the development of the digital computer, this was the most common way to quickly multiply together large numbers, greatly speeding up calculations in physics, astronomy, and engineering.  3) Calculus: The formula given here is the definition of the derivative in calculus. The derivative measures the rate at which a quantity is changing. For example, we can think of velocity, or speed, as being the derivative of position — if you are walking at 3 miles per hour, then every hour, you have changed your position by 3 miles. Naturally, much of science is interested in understanding how things change, and the derivative and the integral — the other foundation of calculus — sit at the heart of how mathematicians and scientists understand change. Wikimedia CommonsIsaac Newton Newton's gravity held up very well for two hundred years, and it was not until Einstein's theory of general relativity that it would be replaced. 5) The square root of -1: Mathematicians have always been expanding the idea of what numbers actually are, going from natural numbers, to negative numbers, to fractions, to the real numbers. The square root of -1, usually written i, completes this process, giving rise to the complex numbers. Mathematically, the complex numbers are supremely elegant. Algebra works perfectly the way we want it to — any equation has a complex number solution, a situation that is not true for the real numbers : x2 + 4 = 0 has no real number solution, but it does have a complex solution: the square root of -4, or 2i. Calculus can be extended to the complex numbers, and by doing so, we find some amazing symmetries and properties of these numbers. Those properties make the complex numbers essential in electronics and signal processing. Wikimedia CommonsA cube. 6) Euler's Polyhedra Formula: Polyhedra are the three-dimensional versions of polygons, like the cube to the right. The corners of a polyhedron are called its vertices, the lines connecting the vertices are its edges, and the polygons covering it are its faces. A cube has 8 vertices, 12 edges, and 6 faces. If I add the vertices and faces together, and subtract the edges, I get 8 + 6 - 12 = 2. Euler's formula states that, as long as your polyhedron is somewhat well behaved, if you add the vertices and faces together, and subtract the edges, you will always get 2. This will be true whether your polyhedron has 4, 8, 12, 20, or any number of faces. Euler's observation was one of the first examples of what is now called a topological invariant — some number or property shared by a class of shapes that are similar to each other. The entire class of "well-behaved" polyhedra will have V + F - E = 2. This observation, along with with Euler's solution to the Bridges of Konigsburg problem, paved the way to the development of topology, a branch of math essential to modern physics. economicshelp.orgThe normal distribution. The normal curve is used in physics, biology, and the social sciences to model various properties. One of the reasons the normal curve shows up so often is that it describes the behavior of large groups of independent processes. 8) Wave Equation: This is a differential equation, or an equation that describes how a property is changing through time in terms of that property's derivative, as above. The wave equation describes the behavior of waves — a vibrating guitar string, ripples in a pond after a stone is thrown, or light coming out of an incandescent bulb. The wave equation was an early differential equation, and the techniques developed to solve the equation opened the door to understanding other differential equations as well. 9) Fourier Transform: The Fourier transform is essential to understanding more complex wave structures, like human speech. Given a complicated, messy wave function like a recording of a person talking, the Fourier transform allows us to break the messy function into a combination of a number of simple waves, greatly simplifying analysis.  The Fourier transform is at the heart of modern signal processing and analysis, and data compression.  10) Navier-Stokes Equations: Like the wave equation, this is a differential equation. The Navier-Stokes equations describes the behavior of flowing fluids — water moving through a pipe, air flow over an airplane wing, or smoke rising from a cigarette. While we have approximate solutions of the Navier-Stokes equations that allow computers to simulate fluid motion fairly well, it is still an open question (with a million dollar prize) whether it is possible to construct mathematically exact solutions to the equations. 11) Maxwell's Equations: This set of four differential equations describes the behavior of and relationship between electricity (E) and magnetism (H).  Maxwell's equations are to classical electromagnetism as Newton's laws of motion and law of universal gravitation are to classical mechanics — they are the foundation of our explanation of how electromagnetism works on a day to day scale. As we will see, however, modern physics relies on a quantum mechanical explanation of electromagnetism, and it is now clear that these elegant equations are just an approximation that works well on human scales. 12) Second Law of Thermodynamics: This states that, in a closed system, entropy (S) is always steady or increasing. Thermodynamic entropy is, roughly speaking, a measure of how disordered a system is. A system that starts out in an ordered, uneven state — say, a hot region next to a cold region — will always tend to even out, with heat flowing from the hot area to the cold area until evenly distributed. The second law of thermodynamics is one of the few cases in physics where time matters in this way. Most physical processes are reversible — we can run the equations backwards without messing things up. The second law, however, only runs in this direction. If we put an ice cube in a cup of hot coffee, we always see the ice cube melt, and never see the coffee freeze. Associated PressAlbert Einstein General relativity describes gravity as a curving and folding of space and time themselves, and was the first major change to our understanding of gravity since Newton's law. General relativity is essential to our understanding of the origins, structure, and ultimate fate of the universe. 14) Schrodinger's Equation: This is the main equation in quantum mechanics. As general relativity explains our universe at its largest scales, this equation governs the behavior of atoms and subatomic particles.  Modern quantum mechanics and general relativity are the two most successful scientific theories in history — all of the experimental observations we have made to date are entirely consistent with their predictions. Quantum mechanics is also necessary for most modern technology — nuclear power, semiconductor-based computers, and lasers are all built around quantum phenomena. 15) Information Theory: The equation given here is for Shannon information entropy. As with the thermodynamic entropy given above, this is a measure of disorder. In this case, it measures the information content of a message — a book, a JPEG picture sent on the internet, or anything that can be represented symbolically. The Shannon entropy of a message represents a lower bound on how much that message can be compressed without losing some of its content.  Shannon's entropy measure launched the mathematical study of information, and his results are central to how we communicate over networks today. 16) Chaos Theory: This equation is May's logistic map. It describes a process evolving through time — xt+1, the level of some quantity x in the next time period — is given by the formula on the right, and it depends on xt, the level of x right now. k is a chosen constant. For certain values of k, the map shows chaotic behavior: if we start at some particular initial value of x, the process will evolve one way, but if we start at another initial value, even one very very close to the first value, the process will evolve a completely different way. We see chaotic behavior — behavior sensitive to initial conditions — like this in many areas. Weather is a classic example — a small change in atmospheric conditions on one day can lead to completely different weather systems a few days later, most commonly captured in the idea of a butterfly flapping its wings on one continent causing a hurricane on another continent.  17) Black-Scholes Equation: Another differential equation, Black-Scholes describes how finance experts and traders find prices for derivatives. Derivatives — financial products based on some underlying asset, like a stock — are a major part of the modern financial system.  The Black-Scholes equation allows financial professionals to calculate the value of these financial products, based on the properties of the derivative and the underlying asset. REUTERS/Frank PolichHere are some traders in the S&amp;P 500 options pit at the Chicago Board Options Exchange. You won't find a single person here that hasn't heard about the Black-Scholes equation.    FREE AppDownload
WaterFXA parabolic trough collects energy from the sun. The heat is used to evaporate clean water from the salty agricultural drainage water of irrigated crops. This year, farmers in California's Central Valley likely won't receive any water through the federal irrigation program, a network of reservoirs, rivers, and canals that is normally replenished yearly by ice melt from the Sierra mountains. Crippling water shortages have made desalination technology more attractive, including a startup, WaterFX, that uses the sun to produce heat. The heat separates salt and water through evaporation. WaterFX has fewer environmental repercussions than traditional methods of desalination that rely on fossil fuels to generate electricity. The technology could not have come at a more desperate time.  No end in sight During a drought-free year, the federally run Central Valley Project provides enough water to irrigate 3 million acres of agricultural land. Last year, farmers only received 20% of their allotment.  The lack of water is not just worrying for growers. It affects all people who eat food. One third of the nation's produce is grown in the Central Valley — composed of Sacramento Valley in the north and San Joaquin Valley in the south — and the deep water cuts mean that more than half a million acres of crop land will be left unplanted. Some scientists predict California's drought could last as long as a century. Going forward, the state is going to need a substantial water supply that doesn't rely on the aqueduct system, says Aaron Mandell, WaterFX chairman and founder.  However, in order to counter California's drought, the push must be toward renewable desalination plants rather than fossil-fuel dependent facilities that further contribute to climate change. Making freshwater from sunshine In WaterFX's system, a solar trough, which looks like a jumbo-sized curved mirror, collects energy from the sun's rays and transfers that heat to a pipe filled with mineral oil. The mineral oil feeds the heat into a system that evaporates the salty water being treated. Steam is produced, which condenses into pure liquid water. The remaining salt solidifies and can be removed, says Mandell. That salts can be used in other industries as building materials, metals, or fertilizers. In order to operate continuously, the solar trough is very large so that it collects extra heat during the day. The energy is stored and used to run the system at night when the sun isn't shining. By using sun as the fuel source, WaterFX uses roughly one-fifth of the electricity consumed by traditional desalination plants, according to Mandell. Less electricity means lower operating costs. With conventional desalination, electricity makes up 50-60% of the water costs, says Mandell. A typical desalination plant in San Diego operates at about $900 per acre-foot, while it costs around $450 to produce an acre-foot of water with WaterFX. (An acre-foot is 325,000 gallons, or the amount of water it takes to cover an acre at a depth of one foot). WaterFXWaterFX chairman and founder, Aaron Mandell."Solar desalination is still a very immature technology so there's a quite a bit of room to drive that cost down even further," said Mandell. Many desalination facilities, including the $1 billion Carlsbad plant set to open in 2016, use a process known as reverse osmosis that forces seawater through billions of tiny holes that filter out salt and other impurities. This method can produce fresh water on a large scale, but has economic and environmental drawbacks. It uses an immense amount of electricity and only about half of the seawater that goes into the system comes out as clean water. The remaining half is dumped back into the ocean as salty brine where it can be harmful to marine plants and animals. By contrast, Mandell says that WaterFX has a 93% recovery rate, meaning that for every 100 gallons of water that goes in, 93 gallons of usable water are spit out. WaterFX also helps solve an issue that has long plagued irrigated land. Soils in the arid west of San Joaquin Valley naturally contain a lot of salt as well as high concentrations of metals, like selenium, which can be toxic to humans and wildlife. When the soil is irrigated, the salt, selenium, and other elements become concentrated in the drainage water that collects in a system of drains and pumps under the crops. In the past, harmful drainage water might have been discharged into rivers, wetlands, and aquifers in the San Joaquin Valley. Now, that otherwise unusable water can be diverted to WaterFX and turned into irrigation water again. The first test The Panoche Water District in Central Valley is home to the first demonstration plant, a 6,500-square foot system that is capable of producing around 10 gallons of freshwater a minute, or roughly 14,000 of freshwater each day. When the demonstration plant is operating in commercial mode, running 24 hours a day, it can put out 25 to 30 gallons of freshwater a minute, says Mandell. WaterFX The pilot project, funded by the California Department of Water Resources, will hopefully prove that the WaterFX system is more reliable (it doesn't depend on the Sierra snowpack) and affordable than other freshwater sources. The water that's being treated by the pilot plant streams in from a canal that collects salty drainage water from around 200 farms in the area and brings it to a single location. In the pilot phase, the clean water that's produced is blended back in with the drainage water, but a commercial plant would send the water back to farmers through a series of canals that are already in place. Additionally, small-scale systems could be used by individual farmers on site to recycle their own drainage water. A bright future WaterFX is not the first company to experiment with solar desalination. The Sahara Forest project in Qatar and an Australian company called Sundrop Farms are using the technology to grow food in greenhouses. But this is the first time a company has focused on using the sun's energy "to produce a scalable, long-term water supply," Mandell said. The goal is to eventually be able to treat salty groundwater in addition to drainage water. The immediate next step for WaterFX is to expand operations in Panoche to produce 2 million gallons of water per day. "From there it's about laying out a pathway for replicating this model all up and down the Central Valley," Mandell said. "We're trying to put a plan in place so that by 2020, we may be in a position to wean ourselves off the aqueduct system entirely." FREE AppDownload
Yahoo Fuel Cell stocks are surging again, 24 hours after having seen a huge run-up before collapsing. Plug Power, which distributes products like fork lifts that use fuel cells, was up as much as 17% Wednesday morning. Ballard, which makes the fuel cells themselves, was up as much as 7%. And FuelCell Energy, which provides fuel cell power generation to utilities and institutions, was up as much as 3%. Yesterday afternoon, online research firm Citron published a report calling Plug Power a "casino stock," saying the firm has consistently fallen short of its own estimates, and that the underlying demand for its products is largely based on government subsidies.  BI also published an explainer on how fuel cells work, and how cheaper hydrogen supplies and rising demand for sustainable energy sources appeared to be bolstering the firms' revenues. The stocks remain incredibly cheap and seem to be subject to a certain degree of speculation. Plug Power releases its latest earnings tomorrow. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsA technician inspects gauge on meter station at the Reserve's Bryan Mound site near Freeport, TX.The Energy Department is testing its Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) in light of the impact the shale boom has had on U.S. petroleum infrastructure. The situation in Ukraine is not mentioned in the DoE's statement.  The test will include the "drawdown and sale of up to 5 million barrels of sour crude oil,” said DoE spokesman Bill Gibbons. Drawdowns on the SPR are pretty irregular. Here's a list from the DoE:   Oil is off more than 1.5% today. Earlier today, the EIA said weekly inventories were up 6.2 million barrels, far greater than the 2 million seen in a Tuesday survey conducted by Platts.  Oil has already had a rough week, down 3.5% on expectations of rising U.S. supplies amid reduced demand as refineries undergo seasonal maintenance. It closed at its lowest level in a month yesterday. Chart: Investing.com And here's the full release from the Energy Department about the SPR test: “By law, the Department of Energy is required to conduct continual evaluation of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve system’s drawdown and sales procedures. Due to the recent dramatic increase in domestic crude oil production, significant changes in the system have occurred - including pipeline expansion, construction of new infrastructure, reversed flow of existing pipelines and increased use of domestic crude oil terminals. In order to appropriately assess the system’s capabilities in the event of a disruption, today the Department of Energy authorized a test drawdown and sale of up to 5 million barrels of sour crude oil.” – DOE spokesman, Bill Gibbons BACKGROUND: FREE AppDownload
Realizing your passport has expired days or even hours before a flight can be costly, and it can potentially ruin your travel plans.  Most people make the mistake of paying expeditors who charge up to $500.  The New York Passport Agency, with an average 4.5 star rating on Yelp, can turn your paperwork around the same day for just $170. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis.
REUTERS/Ruben Sprich Copper prices have been melting down. Shanghai-traded copper futures fell over 5% on Wednesday hitting their lowest level since July 2009. Copper prices are down 8.2% in the last three trading sessions on the London Metal Exchange. Copper prices took a beating on Friday after China's first domestic bond default. Copper prices have also tumbled after Chinese exports plummeted.  But there's more to consider than just that.  Some 60-80% of China's copper imports have been used as loan collateral, tweeted Deirdre Wang Morris at CNBC. Robert Savage at Track Research argues along similar lines: "Markets are divorcing themselves from the BRIC growth story of the last decade – some will blame the FOMC and the end of QE, others will point to the capacity in those former emerging markets reaching inflation levels – but there is something else. China credit.  The link of copper to the shadow banking world isn’t new or a surprise but its changing." Remember, a credit crunch sends money market rates higher. And at times like this, copper imports rise because companies use copper as collateral and find it easier to obtain copper-backed loans. In June of 2013, for instance as China experienced a credit crunch, we saw refined copper imports rise to a nine-month high. Savage points to a Goldman Sachs chart from last year that shows that higher rates in China impact the copper import arbitrage. Goldman Sachs (via Trach Research) "The appeal of commodity trade-related financing deals in China appears to be waning," wrote Caroline Bain at Capital Economics.  "LME copper prices have moved closer to Chinese prices, so removing the arbitrage opportunity, while the weaker renminbi is threatening to undermine the profitability of the deals." Bain doesn't think the demand outlook for copper is entirely bleak, though she does expect prices to fall further.  "The Chinese government has pledged a 13% y/y increase in investment in the electricity grid this year," writes Bain. "Furthermore, Chinese import demand has remained strong. Cumulative copper imports in the first two months of the year were still up by 41% y/y. But some analysts argue that markets have the fundamental demand-supply story wrong and that copper prices could recover as supply remains tight, reports Simon Hall at the WSJ. FREE AppDownload
NASAPhotograph of the region from Richmond, Virginia to New York City, taken from the International Space Station on April 6, 2011 by the Expedition 27 Crew.At night, satellite images show a string of near-constant light along the cities of the U.S. East Coast. Urban growth and sprawl have created a map where Washington blends into Baltimore, and on through Philadelphia, Trenton, New York, Hartford, Providence, and Boston. The concept of mega-regions dates back to 1957, when the economic geographer Jean Gottmancoined the term “megalopolis” to describe the emerging economic hub that stretched from Boston to D.C. The term came to be applied to a number of regions, including the vast Midwestern megalopolis that extends east from Chicago through Detroit and Cleveland and south to Pittsburgh, which Gottman dubbed “Chi-Pitts,” and many more across the United States and around the world. More than just a collection of cities or one giant city, a mega-region is greater than the sum of its parts. In earlier research with Timothy Gulden and Charlotta Mellander, we used the satellite images of the globe at night to identify the world’s 40 “mega-regions.” We defined these as a contiguous lighted area with more than one major city or metropolitan region that produced more than $100 billion in economic output. We found a dozen of these mega-regions in North America – mainly in the United States but spilling over into Canada and Mexico as well. I have written about these mega-regions on Cities before, and I recently completed an updated study of their populations and economies with my colleagues at the Martin Prosperity Institute. I have adapted the results of this newest report for Cities readers below, using more current data to identify the populations and economic size of America’s economic powerhouse regions and see how they would compare to the nations of the world. Zara Matheson The first map, above, shows the populations of North America’s dozen mega-regions. These mega-regions account for 243 metropolitan areas in the U.S. and Canada, including more than 60 percent of all U.S. metros. These dozen regions have a combined population of more than 230 million people, including 215 million from the United States, or 70 percent of the U.S. population. (So-Cal, Cascadia, and Tor-Buff-Chester include parts of Mexico and Canada). Bos-Wash is the largest, home to 56.5 million people. Denver-Boulder is the smallest, with just shy of 5 million. Still, when compared to the world’s largest economies, Denver-Boulder’s economic output would rank among the 50 largest. The second map, below, identifies the economic size of these dozen mega-regions and how they compare to nations around the world. The Bos-Wash corridor produces more than Germany, Chi-Pitts more than Brazil, and So-Cal more than all of Mexico. Together, these dozen mega-regions produce more than $13 trillion dollars in economic output, equivalent to three-quarters of America’s total GDP. Zara Matheson A more detailed, region-by-region typology of the country’s mega-regions is below, arranged from largest to smallest by population. Population data are from the U.S. Census Bureau American Community Survey and from Statistics Canada. The data on economic output for both U.S. metros and nations are from the most recent Metro Economies Report from the U.S. Conference of Mayors (the metro data is predictive for 2014, while the national GDP data covers the most recent year available, 2012); Canadian data are from the Montreal Chamber of Commerce. Karen King and Zara Matheson of the Martin Prosperity Institute compiled the data and Matheson created the maps. FREE AppDownload
The S&amp;P 500 is down for the third straight session today after reaching an all-time high at the end of last week. The index is trading around 1859, only 1.5% off the high, but traders say risky assets globally look they are beginning to roll over and head lower. "The price moves are not for the most part very big, but it is beginning to look as if the markets are rolling over," says Marc Chandler, global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman. In the absence of any major economic data releases so far this week, concerns raised by Chinese trade data released over the weekend, along with the first default in China's domestic corporate bond market and the subsequent rout in copper (an asset that many Chinese corporates use as collateral to secure loans through China's fragile shadow banking system), have roiled global financial markets. The U.S. dollar is appreciating against the euro and many emerging-market currencies. The Japanese yen, in turn, is appreciating against the dollar. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is trading at 2.73%, four basis points below Tuesday's closing levels, as market participants looking to bet against U.S. government bonds are moving to the sidelines. "Asset markets feel like equities are trying to roll over," says Tom Tucci, head of U.S. Treasury trading at CIBC World Markets. "Corporate issuance has been heavy and I get the impression that high yield and investment grade [credit investors] are feeling quite full here. The bid in Treasuries continues to be in longer end." In the euro zone, government bond yields are lower too, with the exception of Spain and Portugal. Equity indices across the bloc are down more than 1% (with the exception of Italy's FTSE MIB, which is only 0.5% lower). The charts below show movements in various markets. Across the top from left to right are S&amp;P 500 futures, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures, and December 2015 eurodollar futures.  Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
WikipediaDo you ever get the feeling that it's becoming less and less clear when and how Bitcoin is supposed to take off? In a new 25-page note compiled by Allison Nathan, Goldman throws armfuls of kindling on this smoldering stack of doubt.  The bank polled its research units corresponding with the purported uses Bitcoin evangelists say the digital currency can have to see whether they could ever see it have a meaningful impact in their respective sectors. And each basically comes up with the same response: for the moment, at least, it is just too volatile to be of much use to anyone. Dominic Wilson and Jose Ursua of the firm's markets research division are first up. They argue that Bitcoin fails to meet both basic criteria of a viable currency: while there remains an outside chance for widespread acceptance as a medium of exchange, as a stable source of value, it has so far failed. That undermines the premise that Bitcoin could serve as a way of short-circuiting exchange rates in inflation-prone countries.  For most users what matters is not the comparison with other currencies, but a comparison with the volatility of the currency that they hold (dollars in the US for instance) in terms of the things that they need to buy. The volatility of consumer prices (in dollars) has been even lower than FX rates, even if measured over a period including the 1970s. Put simply, if you hold cash today in most developed countries, you know within a few percentage points what you will be able to buy with it a day, a week or a year from now.   Wilson and Ursua include this graph showing volatility of Bitcoin versus the Argentine peso, the yen, the euro, the pound, and U.S. inflation. It's not even close.  Goldman Sachs The best hope, they say, is the precedent it has set for transforming how transactions work — but that the role of Bitcoin itself will be in doubt.  the difficulties it faces as a store of value are likely to present a major roadblock to the breadth of bitcoin’s adoption as a medium of exchange. If a ledger-based technology is to succeed, the cyber-currency would very likely have to have some type of fixed exchange rate in order to overcome this obstacle. Next up is Jeff Currie, head of Goldman's commodities research unit. He writes that it is the inconsistent demand itself that is contributing to Bitcoin's volatility. This volatility undermines the reasons to hold bitcoin. With millenniums of history behind it as a hedge against debasement, the key to gold’s success is the stability and predictability of its demand. On net, we find that bitcoin is easier to store and transport and is potentially more difficult to counterfeit, but it is not nearly as “stable” as gold and competitors still pose a greater risk.   GS IT Services analyst Roman Leal says the digital currency currently enjoys cost advantages other wire transfer services don't, especially no transaction or currency conversion fees. But the very success of Bitcoin could cause more established player to simply co-opt all the advantages Bitcoin has. Leal writes: Just as a flurry of new entrants – such as Square, Groupon, and PayPal - encouraged payment networks and payment processors to develop a mobile payments strategy, we expect traditional payment players to develop digital currency strategies. He adds that increased regulation could also close the cost advantage Bitcoin enjoys.  In the note, Goldman also interviews several outside experts to get their take on Bitcoin. They lead off with law professor Eric Posner, who finds the way Bitcoin is controlled "unsettling." The people who maintain the Bitcoin network can change the money supply through a majoritarian process. And that means that the supply of bitcoin is a function of what the majority of these people think at any given time. They are not economists or monetary experts, but technology and programming experts, and entrepreneurs. I find that unsettling and I think most people would feel the same way.  Goldman concludes: So where does that leave us? With the conclusion that bitcoin likely can’t work as a currency, but some sense that the ledger- based technology that underlies it could hold promise.  The common refrain from Bitcoin evangelists is almost always, "Just wait, just wait." But it seems like the wait could be longer than they think. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Jack CusanoWhile Bill Ackman gave another incredibly long presentation on his Herbalife short, shares of two of his big investments tanked.  Shares of Fannie and Freddie collapsed about 30% and 26%, respectively, on Tuesday following news of a bi-partisan plan to reform the government-owned mortgage financiers.  Ackman is the largest hedge fund shareholder in Fannie Mae (FNMA) and Freddie Mac (FMCC). According to data compiled by Bloomberg, Ackman's Pershing Square last held 115,569,796 shares (9.98%) of Fannie Mae and 63,505,693 shares (9.77%) of Freddie Mac.  To be clear, Ackman isn't in the red on this investment. He likely got in somewhere in the $2 range.   Pershing Square filed 13-Ds disclosing these holdings on November 15, 2013.  Hedge funds don't have to file 13-Ds until several days after they purchase the stock. Looking back about ten days before his 13-Ds, the stocks were both in the $2 range.  On Tuesday afternoon, Ackman gave a presentation on Herbalife's China business practices that lasted about three hours. During this time, Fannie and Freddie nose-dived. Ackman didn't mention it on the call. He did, however, take a 1 minute, ten second "men's room break." So maybe he saw it then.  Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
Will Wei, Business InsiderBusiness Insider is looking for paid interns to join our editorial team this summer! As an intern at Business Insider, there's no getting coffee, filing, or making copies. Our interns are an integral part of our team. Many of our current writers and editors started as interns. BI Interns spend their time doing meaningful work: researching, writing, pitching and producing features -- even breaking news if the timing's right. Interns are encouraged to work full-time (40 hours a week) if their schedule allows. Other perks? We have tons of free snacks and drinks, a great office environment, and a ping-pong table where we hold quarterly tournaments. When it comes to qualifications, a journalism background and experience writing for a news site always helps, as do copy-editing skills and light HTML and Photoshop experience. Knowledge of social media and previous writing experience are both useful, too. Please send your resume and three journalism clips to internship@businessinsider.com. Please briefly describe which BI section(s) interest you most and why. (Don't know what our sections are? Check out the nav bar on the home page and our masthead.) And, please note: this internship requires that you work in our Manhattan office. The internship term runs from May - September, with some flexibility on start and end dates. Interested in a journalism internship but have never heard of Business Insider? Here's some reading on our company and where we're headed. FREE AppDownload
Last week, Overstock announced that it has so far seen over $1 million in Bitcoin purchases through its site. Overstock began accepting the digital currency on January 9 through a partnership with Coinbase, the popular Bitcoin exchange. We spoke to Overstock CEO Patrick Byrne to check up on what it's been like facilitating business with Bitcoin. "There was a huge surge [in Bitcoin spending] the first day, with people showing support. It's since dropped to $20k to $30k per day, but it's gradually increasing from there. It's going well," he said. Bitcoin purchases offer Overstock a number of advantages over credit card purchases. There are no credit card fees, chargebacks, or fraud risks to speak of. When a customer spends his or her Bitcoins with Overstock, Coinbase instantly converts them to U.S. dollars, completely eliminating any problems with Bitcoin's volatility. Byrne seemed especially impressed with how Bitcoin can thwart fraud. Using a credit card, a person can "order a television online, wait for it to arrive, then call Visa and tell them there's a dispute with the charge and not to pay it," said Byrne. "We do a really good job of preventing fraud, but Bitcoin makes fraud pretty much impossible." In this sense, it's a retailer's dream come true because Bitcoin transactions are irreversible. Credit card companies can swoop in any time and get their money back if a customer suspects fraud. But Byrne is also into the currency for political reasons.  "I get an enormous pain in the ass when I think of our centralized financial system," he said. "I think our country's gotten under the thumb of Wall Street oligarchs. They're enemies of the republic and Bitcoin represents a mass movement to get rid of the knuckleheads. There's a huge political side to this that I endorse." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Phil McCartenDaniel LoebActivist hedge fund manager Daniel Loeb yelled at the secretary of a Sotheby's board member and then later apologized by sending flowers, Fox Business Network's Charlie Gasparino reports.  According to Gasparino, Loeb—who has been battling with Sotheby's—tried calling up a board member at the auction house. The board member's secretary answered the phone and informed Loeb that the board member wasn't in the office. She then transferred Loeb to the trading desk. The trading desk transferred him back to the absent board member's secretary. Gasparino says that Loeb yelled at the secretary.  The next day he sent her flowers. So at least he apologized. That was the classy thing to do.  It's also unclear which board member he was calling up.  However, the detail about being transferred the trading desk gives us a hint.   Here's a list of the board members. A couple of these folks would have a trading desk.  Watch below: FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesAfter years of incredible growth, China's credit-fueled economy is slowing down. And with that has come, for the first time in Chinese history, domestic corporate bond defaults. Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science and Technology Company recently missed an interest payment. Some analysts argued a default would give Chinese markets clarity on how to price these products in the future. Last night, markets in Asia were rocked by more bad news on Chinese bonds. The bond of Baoding Tianwei Baobian Electric Co. was suspended from trading, according to BAML's Ting Lu. For Lu, the question is whether or not this is the kind of moment that could turn into a full-blown crisis. "For some investors who have already been deeply worried about 'Bear Stearns Moment' or an imminent 'Lehman Moment,' this could be perceived as another snowflake to trigger an avalanche," Lu wrote clients. "Whether the TBE bond will default is unclear." "We do see a significant rise in bond and trust loan defaults, but we see little chance of systemic credit crunch and growth hard landing," he writes. "We expect quite volatile financial markets this year, but we also believe misperceptions in the markets could also provide opportunities." Lu outlines why this probably won't be the big igniting-of-the-powder-keg moment some market-watchers fear. From the note: (1) Let’s not underestimate Chinese onshore investors’ resilience; (2) Defaults of bonds and trust products are not on a similar scale to a collapse of a major financial institution which is intertwined with many other institutions; (3) The Chinese government, with its massive savings and control, still has a deep pocket to at least prevent systemic credit squeeze; (4) The Chinese economy, thanks to its huge savings, has a below 70% loan-to-deposit ratio, US$4.0tn FX reserves, and a very small amount of foreign debt. Like all other economies, the Chinese economy has its own ups and downs, but we think the chance for China to face a severe downturn and financial crisis is rather small.  "We actually think some defaults of corporate bonds and trust products a good thing as a normal economy needs those defaults to better price bonds and other debt products," Lu concludes. FREE AppDownload
Fed Chair Janet Yellen is a card-carrying Keynesian. Members of this club have been frustrated that ultra-easy monetary policy hasn’t boosted aggregate economic demand sufficiently to close the output gap and boost inflation. While lots of stimulus was provided by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act during 2009 and 2010, they bemoan that there has been too much fiscal drag since then. They conclude that ultra-easy monetary policy must be maintained for as long as necessary to close the gap. I don’t track the output gap very closely, but I do monitor a monthly proxy for it, i.e., the resource utilization rate (RUR). It is simply the average of the capacity utilization rate and the employment rate, which is 100 minus the unemployment rate. RUR has increased from a low of 78.7% during June 2009 to 86.0% during January. Interestingly, the correlation between RUR and the core CPI inflation rate is actually quite low. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Inflation &amp; Rule of 20. (1) The Golden State. (2) Investors getting their bearings. (3) Lots of unfulfilled bearish scenarios. (4) The Rule of 20 justifies higher P/Es. (5) Near-zero inflation might not be so bullish. (6) Why is inflation so low? (7) Monetarist model hasn’t delivered. (8) Keynesians see slack. (9) Not much cost inflation to push into price inflation. (10) The competitive market model explains it all. (11) Might easy money be deflationary? (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVGeorge SorosGeorge Soros talked about Ukraine and Europe with Bloomberg TV's Francine Lacqua. "Japan is just trying to break-out of 25 years of stagnation, where Europe is just entering," he warned. "The European Union is not a nation. It’s an incomplete association of nations and it may not survive 25 years of stagnation" "You have to go further with the integration," he argued. "You have to solve the banking problem, because Europe is lagging behind the rest of the world in sorting out its banks." Here's more of the transcript courtesy of Bloomberg TV: George Soros on what is facing Europe today:  "What is facing Europe, unless there is a more radical change is a long period of stagnation. Nations can survive in that way. Japan is just trying to break-out of 25 years of stagnation, where Europe is just entering. The European Union is not a nation. It’s an incomplete association of nations and it may not survive 25 years of stagnation. "The financial crisis as such is over. But now we are facing a political crisis, because the Euro crisis has transformed what was meant to be a voluntary association of equal sovereign states that sacrificed part of their sovereignty for the common good into something radically different. It is now a relationship between creditors and debtors, where the debtors have difficulty in paying and servicing their debt and that puts the creditors in charge. And that divides the Eurozone into two classes – the creditors and debtors. The creditors are in charge and unfortunately the policy that Germany in particular is imposing on Europe is counter-productive and is making the condition of the debtor countries worse and worse. So, right now Europe is already growing a little bit, the Eurozone, but that’s only because Germany is forging ahead and more than let’s say Italy and Spain are falling behind. " On Central Banks and whether he cares about the weakness we saw in the data and deflation: "That’s going to be a very tough year for the banks. They are under pressure, because they have to meet the stress test. The banks have an interest in passing the stress test rather than reviving credit to the economy, so the banks have a transmission mechanism for the people’s savings channeling it into the real economy. They are not fulfilling their function." On Ukraine's impact on Europe:  "Ukraine is a wake-up call to Europe, because Russia has emerged as a rival to the European Union. Putin has tried to reconstitute the Russian empire as a rival for the European Union and has been very successful politically. Not terribly unsuccessful financially and economically, because the Russian economy is not doing well at all, but Putin has outplayed, outmaneuvered the European Union, because Europe it [inaudible] to form, it demanded too much and offered too little. So, it wasn’t difficult for Putin to output it. But the Ukrainian people stood up and demonstrated by actually sacrificing their lives. Their commitment to be part of Europe, so this is a challenge for Europe and Europe needs to rediscover its own European identity instead of each country just pursuing its national interests and getting further and further into conflict with the others. There are certain core principles and this is a political thing – democracy, open society, freedom that Europe has believed in and ought to actually stand up and be united." "Putin has a very different idea of what a society should be like. He believes that people can be manipulated. He actually has got a blind spot. It’s beyond his comprehension that people can spontaneously resist. He believes that if Ukraine resists that there is a conspiracy that people, that Americans, CIA, my foundation are conspiring to threaten him or to undermine is policies. And that’s not the case, people do believe in freedom. " FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIt was an ugly night in Asia, as fears of something bad happening in China seem to be rippling through the region. The price of copper got clobbered overnight and it's taking another big leg down today. Hong Kong's Hang Seng index was off 1.6%. Japan was down 2.6%. European stocks are lower halfway through their trading day. Germany's DAX is off 1.2%. So what's going on in China that's got people on edge? Well in addition to the economic weakness, and the weakening yuan, people are having jitters about a possible second bond default. (China had its first domestic corporate bond default last week when a solar company defaulted) BAML's Ting Lu explains: Dear all: Bad news from China continued to feed markets. Markets (especially copper) were hit last night by news on the bond of Baoding Tianwei Baobian Electric Co (TBE) which was suspended from trading on 11 March. For some investors who have already been deeply worried about “Bear Stearns Moment” or an imminent “Lehman Moment”, this could be perceived as another snowflake to trigger an avalanche. Whether the TBE bond will default is unclear. There is a reason that the TBE bond delisting was not a big piece of news in China. We do see a significant rise in bond and trust loan defaults, but we see little chance of systemic credit crunch and growth hard landing. We expect quite volatile financial markets this year, but we also believe misperceptions in the markets could also provide opportunities ... Why it’s not a big piece of news in China? To the media in Mainland China, the delisting of TBE bonds is not a big piece of news because TBE was already in a law suit on its other debt, and the “new energy” sector was in deep trouble anyway (as what we saw in Wuxi Suntech and Chaori). TBE is in the business of making power transmission equipment, but in recent years has heavily invested in the ill-fated new energy sector and has resulted in two straight years of loss with the loss in 2013 surging to RMB5.2bn. The TBE’s Shanghai Stock Exchange listed bond was issued in 2011, with principal at RMB1.6bn, 5.75% yields and 7-year tenor. TBE’s stock price has already been fallen by 15% this year. TBE’s controlling shareholder is Tianwei group, which is a central-government owned company. US futures, at this point, are only pointing to only modest losses though it will be interesting to see what develops during the day. Tuesday was ugly for some of the hottest stocks on the market: Plug Power, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and Tesla. It will be interesting to see if those momentum names keep breaking down. There is no major economic data coming in the US today. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexei Nikolskyi/RIA Novosti/Kremlin Russia's President Vladimir Putin (L) meets with Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov at the Bocharov Ruchei state residence in Sochi, March 10, 2014.BRUSSELS (Reuters) - EU member states have agreed the wording of sanctions on Russia, including travel restrictions and asset freezes against those responsible for violating the sovereignty of Ukraine, according to a draft document seen by Reuters. The seven-page document describes in detail the restrictive measures to be taken against Moscow if it does not reverse course in Crimea and begin talks with international mediators on efforts to resolve the crisis over Ukraine. If approved by EU foreign ministers at a meeting on Monday, they would be the first sanctions imposed by the European Union against Russia since the end of the Cold War, marking a severe deterioration in East-West relations. "Member states shall take the necessary measures to prevent the entry into, or transit through, their territories of the natural persons responsible for actions which undermine or threaten the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine," reads Article 1 of the document. The second article covers assets held in the European Union and states that "all funds and economic resources belonging to, owned, held or controlled" by those responsible for actions which have undermined Ukraine's integrity "shall be frozen". The document was approved by what is known as a silence procedure after no EU member states raised objections to the wording by 1100 GMT on Wednesday, officials said. EU foreign ministers meet in Brussels on Monday and are expected to formally sign off on the restrictions, unless there is a dramatic change of course by Russia. That seems unlikely, with no indication of any 'de-escalation' in Crimea. A referendum in Crimea on Sunday is expected to see the region vote in favor of secession from Ukraine to join Russia, adding weight to calls for an international response. NAMES STILL NEEDED While the EU has agreed the wording for its sanctions, it is still working on the names of those to be targeted. Discussions took place in London on Tuesday, when officials from Britain, the United States, Italy, France, Germany, Switzerland, Japan and elsewhere met to discuss the issue. "My understanding is that there was detailed discussion of names at the meeting," an EU official said. "No definitive list has been drawn up, but it will be ready by Monday." European officials have indicated that Russian President Vladimir Putin and his foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, will not be on the list, so that channels of communication can be kept open and further escalation is possible at a later date. Instead the list - an annex to the sanctions document seen by Reuters - is expected to focus on targets close to Putin in the security services and military establishment as well as on prominent members of the Russian parliament. "The annex shall also contain, where available, the information necessary to identify the natural or legal persons, entities or bodies concerned," reads the sanctions framework. "With regard to legal persons and entities, such information may include names, place and date of registration, registration number and place of business." The EU and United States are coordinating on imposing the restrictions and have encouraged other countries, including Canada, Japan, Turkey and Switzerland, to take similar measures to maximize the impact. If Russia does not respond to the pressure, the EU has said it is prepared to take further steps, probably involving an arms embargo and other trade-related measures. It could also apply sanctions on Putin himself. The crisis began after Russia moved troops into Crimea in late February and effectively seized the peninsula after the popular overthrow of former president Viktor Yanukovych, an ally of Moscow who is now in exile in Russia. (Additional reporting by Justyna Pawlak, Adrian Croft in Brussels and Guy Faulconbridge in London; Writing by Luke Baker) FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVRobert ShillerNobel prize-winning economist Robert Shiller popularized a stock market valuation ratio called CAPE in his 2000 book "Irrational Exuberance," which effectively predicted the dotcom bubble when no one else would. CAPE, or the cyclically-adjusted price-earnings ratio, is calculated by taking the S&amp;P 500 and dividing it by the average of ten years worth of earnings. CAPE reputation is cemented by its own track record. But we can't just ignore what the critics are saying about some of the model's inputs, especially as accounting standards change. CAPE  has a very well documented track record of predicting long-term returns, and it's monitored closely by every Wall Street strategists and most retail investors. Currently, CAPE is at 25, which is much higher than the long-term average of around 16.3. The more bearish stock market experts point to this high CAPE as a precursor to an era of subpar stock market returns. How dare anyone challenge the sanctity of the cyclically-adjusted price-earnings (CAPE) ratio, arguably the most respected measure of stock market value. CAPE has attracted its fair share of critics lately. Generally speaking, the critics argue that the earnings component of CAPE is just too low. Jeremy Siegel has argued new accounting standards have put a downward bias on earnings. Others like Jefferies' Sean Darby pointed out that the 10-year average of earnings is being unfairly penalized by a rare stretch of deflated earnings levels of the financial crisis. UBSIn a note to clients on Monday, Societe Generale's Andrew Lapthorne took issue with net income, the earnings component referenced in Shiller's CAPE ratio. Lapthorne argues that the year-over-year growth rate in net income in 2013 was actually inflated by the fact that there were a number of large, multi-billion dollar write-downs in 2012. Write-downs were enormous impediments to net income during the crisis (see chart). Because nonrecurring items like write-downs aren't reflective of ongoing operations, analysts often pay closer attention to earnings adjusted for these items. Futhermore, evolving accounting standards have changed how write-downs are handled during merger and acquisition transactions. Shiller's CAPE does not account for this sufficiently. Shiller's CAPE is beautiful in its simplicity and proven by its long track record. But this doesn't mean it can't be improved. Back in November, Deutsche Bank's David Bianco offered an adjusted CAPE measure. Among other things he made a tweak to account for changing accounting standards and noisy items that aren't adjusted for in Shiller's GAAP net income measure. From Bianco: Shiller method uses GAAP EPS for the entire time series. We use GAAP EPS from 1900 to 1976, S&amp;P Operating EPS from 1977-88 and IBES pro-forma EPS from 1989 onwards. SEC was not created until the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and it took decades for US GAAP to develop and many changes have been made to the accounting standards. Since 2000 goodwill and asset write-downs increased owing to the elimination of pooling accounting for mergers and there are now regular impairment tests of acquired goodwill. This causes GAAP EPS to understate true EPS as high value assets are never written up. Bianco also overhauled the way Shiller addressed inflation: Historical EPS used in the Shiller method are inflation adjusted. As we argue earlier, adjusting only inflation does not account for the substantial changes in dividend payout ratio. The Bianco PE is based on equity time value adjusted (ETVA) EPS. We raise past period EPS by a nominal cost of equity estimate less the dividend yield for that period. Bianco also took issue with the folks relying on 100+ year average for a baseline CAPE: The current Shiller PE is usually compared to its 100+yrs average of 16.3x. This includes the WWI EPS cycle, when companies benefitted tremendously from supplying Europe. Profits tripled from 1914 to 1916, and then fell to less than a fifth during the 1921 post war recession. This exceptional profit swing distorts the long-term average 10yr PE a full point. We advise comparing the current PE to its average from 1960 onwards as the S&amp;P 500 didn’t exist until 1957. From 1926-56 S&amp;P Index data is based on the S&amp;P 90 composite which comprised of 50 Industrial, 20 Railroad and 20 Utility stocks. Prior to 1926 the data is based on Cowles Commission Index data. Considering all this, where does this put Bianco's CAPE? Bianco's CAPE is 17.0 now. The Shiller PE is 24.9. The 1960-2013 average for these PEs are 15.6 and 19.6, respectively. "Shiller PE suggests that S&amp;P is overvalued, Bianco PE is reasonable," wrote Bianco in hist February 28 update. Deutsche BankUpdated February 28. It's worth noting that Bianco is no raging bull. With a 1,850 target on the S&amp;P 500, he's arguably the most bearish strategist on Wall Street. So he's not tweaking Shiller's CAPE just to support some bullish thesis. How dare anyone challenge Shiller's CAPE? This is the question posed by the folks who mostly have a "If it ain't broke, don't fix it attitude." Bianco's alternative probably isn't perfect either. But the purpose of this exercise is to recognize that Shiller's CAPE is not without its problems. In an April 2012 interview with Money Magazine, Shiller himself said something interesting about his CAPE. "Things can go for 200 years and then change," he warned. "I even worry about the 10-year P/E — even that relationship could break down." Though he does not address the accounting issues directly, his warning about his model's infallibility is pretty clear. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bill Ingalls/NASA/Handout via ReutersA photographer and an operator document the suit worn by Astronaut Michael Hopkins from NASA after the landing of the Soyuz TMA-10M capsule in a remote area southeast of the town of Zhezkazgan in central Kazakhstan, March 11, 2014. An American astronaut and two Russians who carried a Sochi Olympic torch into open space landed safely and on time on Tuesday in Kazakhstan, defying bad weather and ending their 166-day mission aboard the International Space Station (ISS). Inside the capsule were former ISS commander Oleg Kotov and flight engineers Sergei Ryazansky and Michael Hopkins from NASA. The trio launched together into space on September 25. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. Copper continues its slide. Copper futures fell another 5% in Shanghai overnight as the sell-off sparked by weak Chinese trade data and headlines about defaults in China's corporate bond market. "The decline in copper prices is understood largely as an indicator of the financial squeeze in China and the use of copper as collateral," says Marc Chandler, global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman. "Last week saw the first onshore corporate bond default in recent years, and this has been followed by increased attention to news that a utility company was delisted in China and that the Jilin Province Trust Co. has now missed its sixth interest payment. The product, like many in the wealth management space, was to finance mining projects. The decline in iron ore prices may be both cause and effect of the financial squeeze." Risk off. The predominant theme in global markets today is risk aversion. S&amp;P 500 futures are in the red, the Japanese yen is strengthening, and U.S. Treasury futures are getting a lift as rumbles from China emanate around the globe. European indices are lower across the board, with France's CAC 40 index leading the way lower, currently down 1.6%. The Japanese Nikkei 225 closed down 2.6%, the Hong Kong Hang Seng finished 1.7% lower, and the Shanghai Composite gave up 0.2%. Japanese consumer confidence falls. Japan's consumer confidence index fell to 38.3 in February from January's 40.5 reading, marking the lowest level in two years. The consensus forecast of market economists predicted the index would decline, but only to 40. The Business Outlook Survey index for large Japanese firms, on the other hand, reached an all-time high of 12.7 in the first quarter of 2014, up from 8.3 in the fourth quarter of 2013. South Korean unemployment surges. South Korea's unemployment rate spiked to 3.9% in February from 3.2% in January as a wave of people — 308,800, to be exact — entered the labor force in search of work, marking the largest monthly increase in the labor force on record going back to 1999. At the same time, the employment-to-population ratio hit a 15-year high. Euro zone industrial production contracts. Industrial output across the euro zone fell 0.2% from the previous month in January on seasonally adjusted basis. The drop was smaller than December's 0.4% contraction, but missed consensus estimates for a 0.5% rise. Year over year, however, industrial output rose 2.1% in January on a work-day adjusted basis, accelerating from December's 1.2% year-over-year pace of expansion. Thailand cuts rates. The Bank of Thailand lowered its benchmark policy interest rate by 25 basis points to 2% in order to support the local economy in the wake of extended political turmoil and street protests. The move comes as many other central banks in the region are looking at rate hikes instead of cuts. Mortgage applications drop. The Mortgage Bankers Association said mortgage applications fell 2.1% last week after posting an as-of-late rare gain the week before. MBA's refinance index fell 3%, and its purchase index fell 1%. 10-year auction this afternoon. The U.S. Treasury will auction $21 billion of 10-year notes today at 1 PM ET. "We don’t see the 10-year stand out one way or another in terms of relative value on the curve, so the auction result may largely hinge on pre-auction price action," say Nomura interest rate strategists. "Net, we expect a small tail unless levels become much more attractive from here." Candy Crush maker eyes big IPO. King Digital Entertainment, the maker of the popular Candy Crush Saga game for mobile, expects to price its U.S. initial public offering at between $21 and $24 per share, giving the company a $7.6 billion valuation. Obama's approval rating hits all-time low. U.S. President Barack Obama's approval rating hit the lowest level of his presidency, according to a new WSJ/NBC News poll. It fell to 41% in March from January's 43% rating amid frustration over the White House's economic and foreign policy efforts. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBrazil's President Dilma Rousseff reacts during a press statement after a meeting at the 6th European Union (EU)-Brazil summit at the Planalto Palace in BrasiliaBRASILIA (Reuters) - With the World Cup in June and July and a presidential election in October, many Brazilians aren't thinking beyond 2014. But next year is likely to be memorable for all the wrong reasons in Latin America's biggest economy. President Dilma Rousseff, or whoever wins the election, will have to make deep budget cuts, raise taxes and take other painful steps to address Brazil's growing financial imbalances. The fallout will likely be more damaging than many investors anticipate, resulting in a fourth straight year of disappointing growth - a big fall back to earth for a country that last decade was one of the world's most dynamic emerging markets. Economists currently expect Brazil's gross domestic product to grow 1.68 percent this year, and 2 percent in 2015, according to a weekly survey by the central bank. Yet the latter forecast is somewhat misleading, because many economists admit their estimates are based on computer models that don't fully account for what politicians will do after the election. "No matter who wins (the election), it's going to be a difficult year, worse than many believe," said Fernando Henrique Cardoso, who was president from 1995 to 2003 and still retains considerable influence in financial circles as a leader of the main opposition party. An official close to Rousseff, speaking on condition of anonymity, broadly concurred: "Few people are talking about 2015 right now. But it will be hard, no doubt." The biggest and most disruptive task will be trimming Brazil's fiscal deficit, which investors and ratings agencies say has been too high in recent years. No one expects Rousseff, a pragmatic leftist, to make painful budget cuts while campaigning for re-election. As a result, the cuts will need to be even deeper when the next presidential term begins on January 1, 2015 - especially if Brazil's sovereign credit is downgraded in the interim by Standard &amp; Poor's to its lowest investment-grade rating, as many in Brasilia now anticipate. Tax hikes are also likely. So are adjustments to bus fares, gasoline costs and other prices administered by the government, which Rousseff has held in check to prevent inflation, running around 6 percent, from rising even higher. If done properly, belt-tightening policies could restore balance to the economy and rebuild Brazil's tattered credibility with the private sector. That, in turn, could set the stage for an eventual return to the good old days last decade when GDP often grew better than 4 percent a year. Yet, even in a best-case scenario, the measures will smother domestic demand in the short term - perhaps not quite enough to cause a recession, officials and economists say, but enough to result in another lost year in terms of GDP growth. "2015 is going to be the big year of adjustment," said Marcelo Salomon, chief Brazil economist for Barclays in New York. "What needs to happen is a credibility shock so that the government shows it isn't just thinking in the short term." COUNTRY STUCK IN TRAFFIC The seeds of Brazil's current predicament were sown during the good years. Thanks to strong demand for its soy and iron ore from China, plus smart fiscal management and social welfare policies under Rousseff's predecessors, Brazil has managed to pull some 35 million people out of poverty since the mid-1990s. It also became a top market for foreign automakers, retailers and telecom companies. But economists say that, generally speaking, Brazil sold too many cars during the boom while not building enough roads. That is, it channeled too much of the windfall toward consumption and not enough on investment. The result is an economy now plagued by infrastructure bottlenecks and low productivity - and, thus, high inflation and slow growth. Rousseff, who took office in 2011 just as the economy was slowing, reacted by making a series of targeted tax cuts worth approximately 1.5 percent of GDP, while also keeping fiscal spending robust to stimulate the economy. Her actions may have prevented a sharper slump. The economy grew 2.3 percent in 2013, and defied predictions of a minor recession during the second half of the year. But priming the fiscal pump has carried a cost: The budget deficit is expected to hit nearly 4 percent of GDP in 2014, a percentage point above the past decade's average. That's not a huge budget gap by global standards. But investors hold Brazil to a tighter standard than most countries because of its history of runaway spending that resulted in hyperinflation in the 1980s and early 1990s. At the slightest sign of fiscal slippage or an uptick in inflation, it's not just ratings agencies that get worried. Anyone over age 40 or so remembers watching their salary get decimated. "There's been a very large worsening in expectations" among businesses and consumers alike, said Aloisio Campelo, who runs economic surveys for the Getulio Vargas Foundation, a Brazilian business school. "The incoming government will have to hold the line on fiscal austerity to bring credibility back," Campelo said. WAITING FOR THE ELECTION Budget cuts in the first year of a presidential term have become part of the economic cycle here. Rousseff made relatively minor adjustments in 2011, while her predecessor Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva made a big austerity push in 2003. The size of next year's cuts will depend in part on who wins the election. Rousseff, who must cope with an unwieldy coalition of resource-hungry political parties, is seen wielding the budget ax with the lightest touch. But her two opponents - Senator Aecio Neves and Eduardo Campos, a state governor - are running to her right, and have suggested in courting business leaders they would slash spending deeply. Felipe Salto, an economist for Tendencias consultancy, said that to recover credibility while accounting for what's politically possible, the government will likely need to target a primary budget surplus of about 2.5 percent of GDP in 2015. By comparison, that goal, which excludes debt payments from the fiscal balance, is set for 1.9 percent in 2014. However, most analysts said in a Reuters poll last month that they expect the government to miss that target as it ramps up election-year spending, making the 2015 adjustment that much more traumatic. Meanwhile, there are other distortions waiting to be fixed. Rousseff's policy of keeping fuel prices artificially low has helped subdue inflation, but it can't last forever. The gap between local gasoline prices and those abroad has hovered at about 11 percent, with a 19 percent gap for diesel. That has caused huge losses for Petroleo Brasileiro SA &lt;PETR4.SA&gt;, the state-run energy company known as Petrobras. For Petrobras to be able to afford its ambitious investment plan to develop offshore oil reserves over the next decade, which the company recently scaled back because of its struggles, the next president must raise fuel prices. That would take money out of consumers' pockets. Other pent-up pressures are coming from a severe drought pressuring electricity prices; a freeze on bus fares in place since nationwide street protests last June; and the growing tax burden posed by Brazil's generous pension system. None of those issues are expected to be fully dealt with until after the election is over. (Editing by Todd Benson and Tom Brown) FREE AppDownload
REUTERSDealers at Moscow's commodities exchange working at their computers during hectic trading May 27, 1998.Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz has a quick summary of what traders are talking about right now. Good Morning!   US Futures are under pressure, and rest on the lows of the overnight, off 30bp.   This mirrors weakness in overseas markets, with the DAX off 1.5% in very heavy volume, as China rebalancing, Russian Trade Stress, a soaring €, and EM instability weigh heavy.   The EU fins are off 1.4%, still outperforming the broader market since the ECB unveiled the “Stress Test” plans.   Stress is jumping in the Ukraine again as the interim PM visits the White House, with their CDS up 20%, and nearing 2014 peaks – and Russia’s Equity market threatens to take out 1Y+ lows.  Traders are also keeping an eye on Turkey, where renewed protests ahead of their elections has sent Yields jumping toward 4Y highs, and the Turkey Equity ETF threatening 5Y lows.  It was bloody in Asia, where the Nikkei lost 2.5%, South Korea 1.6% and Hang Seng 1.7%.   Shanghai lost small, but Chinese shares in Hong Kong are approaching a bear market as the Yuan slides.   Miners were whacked again on the open in Aussie, before staging a big short-cover rally to close near unchanged.   Sector Focus in the States will be on the Homebuilders (CS downgrade, ITB near key support), the Alt-Energy Space (PLUG taking out y’days lows), Materials (Huge bets yesterday Gold Mining ETFs), Retailers ahead of Sales Data tomorrow, and Financials with C kicking off a Asset Management Conference. The 10YY is lower, breaking below the 100dma for the first time this week.  The DXY is basically unchanged, caught between a surging Yen (Risk Aversion) and a falling €.   Gold is trading at the highest level since September – but metals focus remains on Copper as it was limit down in Shanghai, as collateral trades unwind, before recovering slightly.  I read that on the Shanghai exchange 5.5mm tons of copper traded this AM, which is 25x its normal average, and equivalent to the annual production of Chile.  The Energy complex is all red, with WTI breaking south of 200dma and $100 level as API showed a nice build in Crude Stocks.  Brent is outperforming as Libyan and Syrian Stress continue to buoy the benchmark.   We have a Very Light catalyst calendar today – we have DOE data fro Crude at 10:30, the week’s smallest POMO at 11, a $21B 10Y auction at 1, and Treasury’s Monthly Budget Statement at 2pm.   There will be heavy focus on Chinese Retail Sales and Industrial Production data overnight tonight. FREE AppDownload
King.com / YouTube(Reuters) - King Digital Entertainment Plc, best known for the hit mobile phone game Candy Crush Saga, said it expects to price its U.S. initial public offering at between $21 and $24 per share, valuing the company's equity at about $7.56 billion. The Dublin-based company said it will sell 15.5 million shares in the offering, while stockholders, including Apax Ventures, will sell 6.7 million shares, the company said in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on Wednesday. The IPO will raise as much as $532.8 million at the top-end of the planned range. It had filed for a $500 million placeholder in February. Candy Crush Saga, which involves moving candies to make a line of three in the same color, was the most downloaded free app of 2013 and the year's top revenue-grossing app. It has been downloaded more than 500 million times since its launch in 2012. The basic games are free, but players must pay for add-ons or extra lives. King offers 180 games in 14 languages through mobile phones, Facebook and its own website, but is heavily reliant on Candy Crush, which brings in about three-quarters of its revenues. The company says its games are played more than 1 billion times a day. The company, founded in Sweden in 2003, said it has applied to list its shares on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "KING". JP Morgan, Credit Suisse and BofA Merrill Lynch are lead underwriters for the offering. (Reporting by Aman Shah and Neha Dimri in Bangalore; Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
Peter Parks/AFPThe logo of the Chinese instant messaging platform WeChat is shown on a tablet, March 12, 2014 When condom maker Durex wants to send an intimate message to customers in China, it uses a homegrown instant messaging platform called WeChat which has taken the country by storm in just three years. WeChat -- known as "weixin", or micro-message in Chinese -- has similarities to WhatsApp, the Silicon Valley start-up that Facebook bought for $19 billion last month. Now the CEO of its parent company hopes the service can go global, branding it China's "most hopeful product for internationalization" -- but concerns about cybersecurity could hamper its ambitions. WeChat is more versatile than WhatsApp, allowing its more than 300 million users to send text, photos, videos and voice messages over smartphones, find each other by shaking their devices -- a common dating technique -- and even book and pay for taxis. Its popularity has gone beyond individuals, with corporations and even the government using the application developed by Chinese Internet giant Tencent for their internal and public communications. Since the WhatsApp deal was announced, Hong Kong-listed Tencent's shares have risen 9.4 percent, giving it a market capitalization of $150 billion, approaching Facebook's monumental $180 billion. "WeChat is an extremely people-friendly platform, something consumers frequently use every day," said Fay Zhao, senior brand manager for Durex, which has asked its 200,000 followers to transmit "love stories" over WeChat in its latest campaign. Analysts say WeChat has eroded the popularity of another form of Chinese social media -- microblogs or "Weibo", the equivalent of Twitter -- which have been hurt by a government crackdown on content and users. WeChat is now the country's second most popular instant messaging tool on mobile devices, according to consultancy Analysys International -- behind the venerable QQ platform, launched in 1999 and also owned by Tencent -- and is unlikely to be dislodged. "WeChat, as a 'killer app' of Tencent on mobile Internet, has experienced a rapid increase in its user base since it commercialized in 2013," consultancy Analysys International said in a research report in February, referring to when it started charging for some services. "Killer app" is technological terminology for a unique and wildly popular product. WeChat is free to use, but charges for products such as emoticons and special features in games. To retain users, WeChat has introduced new services alongside basic communication, including gaming, online payments and the taxi booking service. Tencent acquired a 20 percent stake in Chinese restaurant listing platform Dianping.com in February and started offering dining coupons through WeChat. Its latest deal, announced this week, sees Tencent take a 15 percent stake in Chinese online direct sales company JD.com, in a bid to better compete with e-commerce giant Alibaba. - Overseas expansion plans - Founded in 1998 in the southern boom town of Shenzhen, Tencent is one of China's largest Internet companies and rivals Alibaba and domestic search engine Baidu. Now the firm's founder and CEO Pony Ma is putting high hopes on expanding WeChat abroad, budgeting $200 million for overseas marketing last year and hiring football superstar Lionel Messi for advertisements. State media quoted Ma as calling the service "China's most hopeful product in terms of internationalisation". But global concerns about cybersecurity could put a damper on its ambitions, analysts say. Before former US National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden's revelations of widespread electronic surveillance by the Organisation, Washington and Beijing traded accusations of cyber-spying for months. US lawmakers have expressed worries over the security of telecommunications equipment sold by Chinese firms such as Huawei and ZTE, which the companies have denied. China's Communist rulers maintain a huge surveillance network of their own in the country, including online, where the so-called Great Firewall of China blocks access to sites deemed sensitive, and a vast censorship machine deletes objectionable weibo posts and other content. Meanwhile, Chinese Internet firms and foreign firms operating in China have in the past provided user information to authorities in cases ruled to involve state security. Some Western users might have concerns over Internet security and the protection of personal data with WeChat, analysts said. "American and European countries always have concerns over the safety and personal privacy issues of Chinese products," said iResearch analyst Lu Jingyu. "This might be an obstacle for its overseas development." Other global players include Japan's Line, with more than 300 million registered users, and South Korea's Kakao Talk with over 100 million, which together dominate other Asian markets. "There are already some well-established instant messaging products in the global market... forming a natural barrier for the internationalisation of WeChat," said Dong Xu, an analyst for Analysys International. On Tuesday, Tencent's shares closed up 0.16 percent at HK$617.50 ($80.19). Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Everyone is talking about it, so we might as well post another chart, just to give some perspective. Look how much copper has plunged in just the last few days. From FinViz: FinViz Copper has a reputation for being a good global economic bellweather, so these furious declines are not comforting. Copper also plays a role in the Chinese financial system (as collateral) so that is a further cause for angst. FREE AppDownload
MACAU (Reuters) - Growing numbers of Chinese are using the country's state-backed bankcards to illegally spirit billions of dollars abroad, a Reuters examination has found. This underground money is flowing across the border into the gambling hub of Macau, a former Portuguese colony that like Hong Kong is an autonomous region of China. And the conduit for the cash is the Chinese government-supported payment card network, China UnionPay. In a warren of gritty streets around Macau's ritzy casino resorts, hundreds of neon-lit jewellery, watch and pawn shops are doing a brisk business giving mainland Chinese customers cash by allowing them to use UnionPay cards to make fake purchases - a way of evading China's strict currency-export controls. On a recent day at the Choi Seng Jewellery and Watches company, a middle-aged woman strode to the counter past dusty shelves of watches. She handed the clerk her UnionPay card and received HK$300,000 ($50,000) in cash. She signed a credit card receipt describing the transaction as a "general sale", stuffed the cash into her handbag and strolled over to the Ponte 16 casino next door. The withdrawal far exceeded the daily limit of 20,000 yuan, or $3,200, in cash that individual Chinese can legally move out of the mainland. "Don't worry," said a store clerk when asked about the legality of the transaction. "Everyone does this."  Internal discussion documents prepared by UnionPay and by financial authorities in Macau and China show these fake sale cash-backs are widespread in such retail stores. The practice violates China's anti-money-laundering regulations as well as restrictions on currency exports, according to Chinese central bank documents reviewed by Reuters. Chinese authorities also fear the UnionPay conduit is being used by corrupt officials and business people to send money out of the country. It's unclear why the central bank, the Peoples Bank of China (PBOC), hasn't cracked down harder on the practice, although the documents Reuters reviewed show the bank was aware it had become a growing problem. Industry experts point to a weak enforcement culture in China, a reluctance to hurt Macau financially with 80 percent of the city's revenues drawn from gambling, and a willingness to tolerate some capital flight - especially if it can be tracked through names on bank cards. Moreover, the rapid growth of UnionPay, including the spread of its terminals at retail stores across the world, is playing a key role in China's strategy for making the yuan a global currency. No one knows for sure how much Chinese money is being channeled illegally into Macau. Tam Chi Keong, an assistant professor at the Macau University of Science and Technology, puts the total at HK$1.57 trillion ($202 billion) a year through various channels.. Tam says his estimate is based on his analysis of Macau's finances and interviews with gambling industry participants. A senior UnionPay executive said the Shanghai-based company has long been aware of the payment card abuse in Macau and elsewhere, but was limited in its ability to act. That's because the primary responsibility lies with authorities in Macau or any other country where the fraud is taking place, he said. "The problem you are talking about has existed for several years," said the executive, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "We have continuously taken measures." Though relatively unknown in the West, UnionPay has quietly grown to become one of the biggest card brands and payment networks in the world, accepted in 142 countries. There are more UnionPay cards in circulation now than any other brand - 3.53 billion, or nearly a quarter of the world's total, according to the industry newsletter, the Nilson Report. Visa remains the world leader by transaction value with $4.6 trillion in card transactions in the first half of 2013; UnionPay was second with $2.5 trillion. If UnionPay poses a problem for Chinese authorities, it is a problem of their own making. The card brand is often seen as an arm of Chinese state policy. UnionPay was established in 2002 by the PBOC and the State Council or Cabinet. Its founding shareholders were 85 Chinese banks, led by the five biggest state-owned banks. Former senior PBOC officials still fill the company's top ranks, including UnionPay's current chairman, Su Ning, and its former president, Xu Luode. They declined requests to be interviewed. UnionPay dominates the card market in China thanks to a central bank decree that requires all card issuers, including foreign ones, to process their yuan-based transactions through UnionPay's electronic payment network. All Chinese merchants and automated teller machines are required to process their yuan transactions through UnionPay. The World Trade Organization in July 2012 ruled that China was discriminating against foreign card brands, but it made no specific recommendations. Foreign card brands still have to use UnionPay for settlements in China. UnionPay's increasing use overseas is part of Beijing's multi-pronged strategy to eventually open up China's capital account and internationalize the yuan, which is formally known as the renminbi or yuan. Beijing also eased restrictions on many kinds of capital transfers as it gradually loosens up control over the currency, making it easier for money to leave China's borders. The efforts have paid dividends. The renminbi has already overtaken the euro to become the second-most used currency in trade finance, according to data from global transaction services organization SWIFT. "(China) may be happy to see UnionPay sweeping different markets across the world in different countries and territories," said Yan Lixin, head of Fudan University's China Centre for Anti-Money Laundering Studies in Shanghai. "It is backed up by the government. It is the real son of the government." At the same time, these changes have vastly complicated the compliance challenges for UnionPay. While the card system is helping monetary authorities open up the capital account, it is also enabling people to funnel their ill-gotten gains out of China, said Yan. "It's not the only tool" for money laundering, Yan says, "but it's a major tool." Macau is a prime gateway for this activity. It is the only place in China where casino gambling is legal, and so Chinese gamblers bring vast sums of money here. Because Macau is administered separately from the mainland, there are restrictions on how much currency mainland Chinese can take into the gambling haven. But gamblers find ways of skirting currency controls when they cross into Macau. And much of the money these mainlanders ostensibly take to Macau for gambling, Chinese authorities believe, is actually going abroad into bank accounts. Any steps to clamp down on UnionPay cashback transactions would likely rattle Macau, because the cash also feeds the casino sector on which the territory's $43.6 billion economy overwhelmingly depends. Macau is now the world's biggest gambling hub, with revenues seven times those of Las Vegas. Last year, gambling revenue rose 19 percent to $45.2 billion. Nearly 40 percent of that went to the government in taxes. Beijing is particularly concerned about the role of this capital flight in the country's endemic government corruption scandals. An internal research report in 2008 by the PBOC identified UnionPay cards as one of the main tools for corrupt individuals to facilitate cross-border transfer of funds. The central bank report said the practice was growing rapidly. Many card users follow their money abroad. Since the mid-1990s, an estimated 16,000 to 18,000 Communist party officials, businessmen, CEOs and other individuals have "disappeared" from China, according to a separate PBOC report prepared in 2008 - taking with them some 800 billion yuan ($133 billion). But the practice isn't limited to corrupt officials. The ubiquitous UnionPay card, with its instant access to piles of cash, has made the task of whisking money out of China far easier for ordinary Chinese. Today, the outflow is gathering pace. In Macau, UnionPay card transactions reached 130 billion Macau patacas ($16.77 billion) in just the first four months of 2012, up from 88.1 billion patacas in all of 2011, according to a confidential report by Macau's banking regulator, the Macau Monetary Authority reviewed by Reuters. Around 90 percent of those transactions were "highly concentrated in jewellery, ornament and luxury watch sales", the report said. If that rate persisted for the full year, UnionPay sales in Macau for all of 2012 would have reached nearly $50 billion - nearly $45 billion of it for jewellery-related sales, a figure exceeding even Macau's total gambling revenues that year. "Are these actual transactions? Where does this money come from?" the deputy head of the Monetary Authority, Wan Sin Long, asked in the document. "Banks have not carried out good monitoring, nor earnestly handled the situation," Wan was cited as saying in the document. "If this continues, this could affect the question of the further opening up of the yuan." All the counter-parties involved benefit from these cashback transactions, an industry source said. The retail merchant makes money on the exchange rate, the way a currency trader would. The Macau banks overseeing the merchant charge 1 percent to 2 percent on the transaction. And the UnionPay card-issuing bank back in China will generally charge around 1 percent on the transaction, the source said. The cashback activity is spreading beyond Macau to other Chinese tourist destinations, including Taiwan, Japan and South Korea, people in the credit-card industry say. UnionPay cashback transactions reached 9.78 billion yuan ($1.59 billion) in 2012 in Taiwan, almost doubling from the year before, according to a report by Taiwan's government investigation agency. Taiwan authorities said in January, given the abnormal UnionPay transactions they found, they would consider setting up a cross-straits mechanism to ensure timely information exchange and prevent illegal money laundering, according to CNA, its semi-official news agency. Taiwan's cabinet is considering the proposal. China isn't standing still. A decade ago, the government began trying to rein in money laundering, and since then it has amended criminal laws and strengthened commercial banking rules. UnionPay officials say they are trying to stamp out the illicit transfers. One of the main steps the company took came in June of 2012, when it required UnionPay card-issuing banks to put a 1 million yuan ($166,000) daily limit on any transaction in Macau, down from 5 million to 10 million yuan previously. That limit applies to actual sale transactions. UnionPay's rivals, meanwhile, don't appear to be playing the cashback game. Macau jewellery stores visited for this article said Visa and Mastercard were not generally used for cashback transactions. A senior executive with a rival card brand said his company had "zero tolerance" for the kind of cashbacks allowed by UnionPay. "We don't allow jewellery stores to give any form of cash whatsoever," this person said. "That's completely illegal... Both as a bank and a (card) network, we're supposed to close it down immediately." In a written response to questions for this article, UnionPay said it "has always strictly prohibited the swiping of cards for cash without any goods being purchased and has collaborated from many sides to boost the investigation of such risks." According to UnionPay's "Operating Regulations," overseas banks participating in the UnionPay system are required to close the accounts of merchants found to be engaged in fraudulent transactions. But local authorities such as the Macau Monetary Authority have the primary responsibility for investigating suspicious cross-border transactions, the company says. The Macau Monetary Authority said in a written response that bank card-related businesses in Macau have "been subject to very stringent ongoing supervision." The authority noted it has "come across a couple of cases of supervisory concerns, and legal proceedings were taken against the parties concerned, including merchants." It didn't elaborate. Deborah Ng, head of Macau's Financial Intelligence Office, said UnionPay has tried to take a more active role recently to "take care of whether there are some irregular activities involved." But the card company can do more, she said in an interview. "They need to have some monitoring of abnormally large transactions, (and) frequent transactions from some commercial merchants," Ng said. Despite the professed intensity in scrutiny, the practice continues openly. At a jewellery outlet run by Hong Kong-listed Chow Tai Fook in the Grand Lisboa casino, staff said customers could swipe UnionPay cards to buy gold bullion of up to 10 million yuan ($1.5 million) - then sell it straight back for hard cash. A Chow Tai Fook spokesman confirmed that. He said the store had "no specific limits on the amount that our customers can buy using any form of payment, as long as the payment is approved by the bank when we swipe the card." At a jewellery store inside the Venetian Macau casino run by Las Vegas Sands, a manager said card cashbacks constituted most of the shop's business. The shop was run by the owner of a VIP room or "junket" operator, which brings in big gamblers from the mainland. "I would say there's no upper limit for UnionPay," said the black-suited manager, who spoke on the condition he not be identified. "The credit limits aren't enforced at all." An executive at Las Vegas Sands, speaking on condition of anonymity, said vendors with UnionPay card-swiping machines have been caught wandering around the casino. "People walk around with mobile union pay card machines on the gaming floor," the executive said. "They are linked to China (computer) servers, not (ones in) Macau. So it is like they are getting cash out in China. When we see them on the floor we kick them out." That practice also exists outside the casinos, too. Macau's merchants lately have tried to better disguise the UnionPay transactions by routing transactions electronically across the border to China to escape the scrutiny of Macau authorities, a banker in Macau said. "They closed the Macau tap, but they've opened an even larger China tap," said the Macau banker with direct knowledge of the practice. "The merchants are always cunning." A UnionPay memo to banks and counterparties in Macau, dated October 29 and reviewed by Reuters, said the company was aware of these practices and had initiated steps to stop it. It urged Macau banks and UnionPay counterparties to crack down by blacklisting such retailers and fining them. UnionPay said in the memo it hoped that all parties with UnionPay linked business would make a "concerted effort to rectify Macau's UnionPay card transaction market discipline and sustain its stable longer term development." A visit to Macau since the memo was issued, however, found cashback services to be flourishing. Inside seven such stores, customers were observed swiping UnionPay cards at glass counters and receiving wads of cash without actually buying anything. "We can remit as much money as you like with your UnionPay card," said a red-haired man surnamed Lai at one jewellery shop. A yellow sign carried the slogan: "Welcome Renminbi. Welcome UnionPay cards." "You don't actually buy anything," said Lai, standing near a half-empty display case containing a messy spread of watches and jewellery. "We just help people get money out of China so they can gamble more." (Additional reporting by Farah Master in Macau and; Yimou Lee in Hong Kong. Editing by Bill Tarrant and Michael Williams) FREE AppDownload
Mark Wilson/Getty ImagesAn inefficiency in the US tax code is causing US multinationals to hold more and more cash overseas. According to data analyzed by Bloomberg, US companies are now holding about $2 trillion abroad. The multinational companies have accumulated $1.95 trillion outside the U.S., up 11.8 percent from a year earlier, according to securities filings from 307 corporations reviewed by Bloomberg News. Three U.S.-based companies -- Microsoft Corp. (MSFT), Apple Inc. and International Business Machines Corp. -- added $37.5 billion, or 18.2 percent of the total increase. The basic issue is that US companies are taxed again on money they make abroad when they repatriate that money to the US (for investment or dividends). So they opt to let it pile up in bank accounts abroad.  The US government has in the past had "holidays" where the money could be repatriated tax free, but there was found to be little economic benefit of that. While eliminating the repatriation tax makes sense to some, opponents have argued that this would merely create an incentive to book more and more revenue offshore (which companies can find creative ways to do) to avoid US taxes. And so it keeps piling up. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
It’s become very popular in recent weeks and months to argue that there’s building wage pressure and that this means inflation will pick up which means that the Fed has to start thinking about getting ahead of the curve here with rate hikes. It’s true that there’s some growing wage pressures, but let’s also keep things in perspective.  When reviewing this I find it helpful to go to the source of the actual wage pressures – businesses.  And the recent NFIB small business survey provides us with a pretty nice picture of what’s going on.  As you can see in the chart below there is a very clear upward trend in compensation.  But we’re also currently at levels that are consistent with previous recessions. NFIB So yes, there are growing wage pressures just as should be expected this deep into a recovery.  But this is not your normal recovery.  We’re crawling out of a particularly deep hole and the strength of this recovery is extremely tepid. With weak credit growth, declining commodity prices, weak foreign/domestic growth and only tepid wage pressure I think we could easily be having a discussion about deflation again sooner than some people think. So, is a rate hike in the cards?  I think it would be extremely misguided for the Fed to raise rates in an environment as weak as the current one.  It would not only send the wrong message to markets, but it would potentially snuff out any growth in credit we’ve started to see.  If the Fed is worried about financial markets and disruptions via the QE channels then they should continue their measured unwinding of the program.  But rate hikes are a whole different story.  And I fear, if they start raising rates we’ll likely be having a discussion not too long after about when to cut them (after the US economy sinks into a recession). FREE AppDownload
Every month, we are greeted with trade figures released by the Census Bureau. Over the past decade in particular, those figures have taken on added weight, largely because of the reported trade deficit with China. Month after month, that figure has grown, with barely a pause. In January, the reported deficit with China was a bit under $28 billion. The idea that China continues to undermine American industry and domestic wages is deeply entrenched in the United States. In the most recent Gallup poll, a majority of Americans view China as one of the primary economic and military threats facing the U.S. today. The trade balance between the two countries has not changed much in the past two years: The total goods deficit was at $315 billion in 2012 and $318 billion in 2013. It hasn’t been getting dramatically worse, but nor has the gap closed. That reported trade deficit helps fuel the belief that so much that was once made in the U.S. is now made in China. But what if the numbers we’ve been working with are wrong? Nations have been trying to track trade longer than almost any economic activity other than farming. Before the income taxes of the 20th century, the primary source of government revenue was tariffs on trade. The evolution of modern trade figures assumes a country that makes a certain amount of manufactured goods and either consumes them all domestically or exports them. If its domestic production is insufficient to meet domestic demand or if domestic goods are too costly, then it imports goods. Traditional macroeconomics also evolved in the early 20th century, and one of its core ideas is that each country is a closed economic system, one that should be in some sort of balance with other closed economic systems. Otherwise, the tenuous equilibrium between nations would be upset, leading to some form of crisis or realignment of power and prosperity. In those 20th-century terms, the trade balance between China and the U.S. is easily interpreted as an American weakness in the face of rising Chinese strength, just as American manufacturing and exports in the 1950s were seen as a foundation of American power. But that framework is out of date. The big problem with these numbers: They assume that each finished product is made in a single country. According to the “rules of origin” established by the World Trade Organization, a finished good is ascribed to the country where it underwent its last “substantial transformation.” Generations, ago, an American car was made in greater Detroit with parts from nearby factories in Ohio and steel from Pennsylvania. Today, however, almost nothing—not T-shirts nor Boeing Dreamliners nor Nike shoes nor iPhones—is made in one place. Take the iPhone or the iPad. They are, for the most part, assembled in factories owned by a Taiwanese company called Foxconn in southern China. They are then shipped to the Port of Long Beach, Calif., where they enter the U.S. as imports. Every iPhone that Apple sells in the U.S. adds roughly $200 to the U.S.-Chinese trade deficit, according to the calculations of three economists who looked at the issue in 2010. By 2013, Apple’s U.S. iPhone sales alone were adding $6–$8 billion to the trade deficit with China every year. But are iPhones really “made in China”? More than a dozen companies from at least five countries supply parts for them. Infineon Technologies, in Germany, makes the wireless chip; Toshiba, in Japan, manufactures the touch screen; Broadcom, in the U.S., makes the Bluetooth chips that let the devices connect to wireless headsets or keyboards. Analysts differ over how much of the final price of an iPhone or an iPad should be assigned to which country, but no one disputes that the largest slice should go not to China but to the U.S., where the design and marketing of such devices take place at Apple’s headquarters in Cupertino, Calif. The largest source of an iPhone’s value—and this goes for thousands of other high-tech products—lies not in its physical hardware but in its invention and the work of the individuals who conceived, designed, patented, packaged, and branded the device. Taking these facts into account would leave China, the supposed country of origin, with a paltry piece of the pie. The Asian Development Bank estimates that as little as $10 of the value of every iPhone or iPad actually ends up in the Chinese economy. Now magnify this across hundreds, even thousands of finished goods. Those Nike shoes that count as imports from China, all those flat-screen televisions, Android phones, clothing, furniture, Disney toys and figures. Almost all are the result of ideas generated in the U.S. (or Japan, or Germany, or Korea, and so on), with parts sourced globally and then assembled in China to be sold elsewhere. Global supply chains are now powered by information technologies that allow parts to be made anywhere in the world, shipped to various assembly points, and then re-shipped to any market that wants them. The notion of a “country of origin” thus seems like one big anachronism, but its effects deeply distort our sense of what’s what. On top of it all, our monthly bilateral trade figures (as opposed to annual ones) don’t even incorporate other data about trade in services where the U.S. runs quite a surplus—tourism is one example. But the monthly goods number, mired in 1950s thinking as it is, is the one most reported and the one that garners the most attention, casting China as a great economic threat to the U.S. If the statistics are fundamentally misleading, then we are fundamentally misreading the present. Our sense of “the economy” is primarily a function of statistics. None of us has a personal relationship with the trade deficit. It’s a number; we can’t see it. If it’s wrong, then it isn’t China that represents the economic threat. Instead, the threat is technology. It is robotics that make so many manufacturing jobs unnecessary. It is consumer demand in the developed world for lower-cost goods, whether those are made by low-paid labor in China (or elsewhere) and/or made at lower cost because of the efficiencies of technology. In the face of those trends, whether China is rising or falling or China is exporting less or more to the U.S. (or anywhere else) makes little to no difference. Focusing on our trade balance with China becomes a serious distraction, especially in light of how misleading those numbers are. If we can confront how our trade numbers paint a false picture, we’d be forced to look at the real drivers of our economic flux. True trade figures would reveal that China is not the issue, nor is any other country. Without China trade to blame for our issues, we could realize that the challenge lies not with China but with ourselves, and the world that our innovations have created. Americans invented most of the disruptive technologies that both make global supply chains possible and undermine traditional labor. If we got ourselves into whatever fix we are in, we can surely get ourselves out—but only if we stop looking for old dragons to slay abroad, bolstered by statistics firmly rooted in the past. Zachary Karabell is an author, money manager, and commentator. His most recent book is The Leading Indicators: A Short History of the Numbers That Rule Our World. FREE AppDownload
