China went into an unexpected trade deficit of $22.98 billion in February, official figures showed Saturday. The figure compared with a surplus of $14.8 billion in the same month last year, and a median forecast of an $11.9 billion surplus in a poll of 13 economists by Dow Jones Newswires. Exports fell 18.1 percent to $114.10 billion, while imports were up 10.1 percent to $137.08 billion during the month, which included most of the Lunar New Year holiday, the General Administration of Customs said. "The Spring Festival factor caused sharp fluctuations in the monthly growth rate as well as the monthly deficit," Customs said in a statement accompanying the data. Chinese traders followed their "business habit" of bringing forward exports ahead of the holiday, and focusing on imports immediately afterwards, it added. In the first two months of the year, China's exports were down 1.6 percent year-on-year to $321.23 billion and imports rose 10 percent to $312.34 billion, it said. The trade surplus in the two-month period narrowed by 79.1 percent on-year to $8.89 billion, it added. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
When buyers hear the term “short sale,” they typically think about distressed sellers and good deals — especially in markets where prices have ticked upwards. But the word “sale” can be misleading. In fact, many real estate agents have renamed “short sales” as “long-and-drawn-out sales.” Here’s why short sales often take a long time to complete. In a short sale, you need the seller’s bank to approve before you can close. Banks require dozens of pages of paperwork to evaluate whether or not to approve a short sale. Since the seller is asking the bank to accept a sale price that’s less than the mortgage amount, the bank needs to verify that a short sale is the right thing to do. Banks want to make sure the seller is indeed unable to stay in the home and can’t afford to pay off the difference between the market value and the bank’s loan amount.Just as a bank scrutinizes a buyer’s finances in order to approve their loan, the financial institution wants to closely examine the seller’s finances to be sure that it is not giving its money away. With many thousands of dollars at stake, banks don’t want to rush through this process. By comparison, when you’re buying from a person, he or she is more motivated to keep things moving. Banks require many documents, disclosures and signatures to complete a short sale. Many times they request that they are faxed in. If just one signature or page is missing from a file, the bank will likely hold off on the process until the file is complete. Given that these banks are losing money on short sales, they don’t allocate the same amount of resources they would to the customer service department for paying (and profitable) customers. With limited staff and so much paperwork, things get lost — and then the short sale process drags on. Many times a short sale seller has two loans. The larger loan is being shorted while the second, smaller loan — usually a home equity line of credit — is being completely wiped out. Often, these loans are with two separate banks. Each bank has its own system that doesn’t in any way communicate with the other bank’s system. The second bank may approve the short sale but put on a 30-day expiration. If the first bank’s approval comes at day 31, the seller must go back to the second bank and start over. As you can see, this too can drag out the short sale. Is it possible to work the system and speed up short sales? Absolutely. If you’re selling a home as a short sale, don’t use an agent who doesn’t not have short sale experience. There are so many areas where short sales can get tripped up, so look for an experienced agent who knows how to push through the process. If you’re a buyer and you found a short sale home you love, determine if the agent is an expert in short sales. If the agent doesn’t have much (or any) short sale experience, expect a long, rocky road.Short sales are a different animal from traditional home sales — from how they’re priced, how they’re marketed and the lengthy sales timeframe. A savvy short sale agent will know exactly what they’re dealing with and what to expect, and can shorten the process immensely. Related: For more strategies about how to buy short sales and distressed properties, read Brendon DeSimone‘s new book, “Next Generation Real Estate.” Brendon’s practical real estate advice is regularly sought out by print, online and television media outlets including FOX News, CNBC, USA Today, Bloomberg, FOX Business and Forbes. A licensed Realtor and an active investor himself, Brendon owns real estate around the U.S. and abroad and is licensed to sell in California and New York. Consumers often call on Brendon for advice and to help them find a real estate agent. You can follow him on Twitter or Google Plus. Note: The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the opinion or position of Zillow. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon  The search for a missing Malaysia Airlines flight, carrying 239 people, continued on Saturday afternoon after it went missing earlier somewhere in the South China Sea between Malaysia and Vietnam.  Two large oil slicks, between 6 and 9 miles long, spotted by a Vietnam Navy aircraft in an area where the Boeing 777 is thought to have disappeared may be one of the first signs that the plane crashed, although nothing has been confirmed.  The Vietnamese government says that the oil spill, spotted near the southern tip of Vietnam, could be from the jet engines of the missing plane.  REUTERS/Trung Hieu/Thanh Nien NewspaperVietnamese Navy aircraft captured late Saturday an aerial view of oil on the surface of the water near the southern tip of Vietnam that could be a sign of the missing plane. “We have announced that information to Singapore and Malaysia and we continue the search," Lai Xuan Thanh, the director of the Civil Aviation Administration of Vietnam told The New York Times.  The Vietnamese government said it was sending vessels to investigate the oil slicks, which can be seen about 90 miles south of Tho Chu island. Malaysia, Singapore, China, and the Philippines have also contributed planes and ships to the search effort. The U.S. Navy said it was sending a nearby destroyer to the region.  Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 has been missing since early Saturday morning. Flight MH370 was flying from Malaysia's capital, Kuala Lumpur, to Beijing, a route that normally takes six hours. The flight left from Kuala Lumpur at 12:41 a.m. local time and was expected to land in Beijing at 6:30 a.m. According to the airline, the aircraft fell off the radar at 2:40 a.m., around two hours after departure.  The missing plane did not send a distress call and at takeoff had enough fuel to fly for seven hours. Thanh told The Wall Street Journal, that there were no reports of bad weather along the flight's route.  The aircraft was carrying 227 passengers, who hailed from 14 different countries, and 12 crew members, all from Malaysia. Two infants and three young children were among the passengers. The majority of passengers were Chinese, Xinhua reports. The U.S. state department said that there were three Americans on board.  REUTERS/Samsul SaidFamily members of those onboard the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 are interviewed by media at the waiting area at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Sepang March 8, 2014.  In a strange development, officials said two of the passengers listed on the manifest were not on board and had had their passports stolen. The Rome Foreign Ministry said that Luigi Maraldi, an Italian man, reportedly had his passport stolen last year in Thailand. Similarly, an Austrian Foreign Ministry spokesman told Reuters that an Austrian citizen listen on the manifest was not on board and had his passport stolen in Thailand two years ago. “While the stolen passports are interesting, they don’t necessarily say to us that this was a terrorism act," a senior U.S intelligence official told The New York Times.  The captain and first officer of the plane were experienced pilots. Capt. Zaharie Ahmad Shah, 53, began with the airline in 1981 and had logged 18,365 flying hours, while First Officer Fariq Ab.Hamid, 27, joined in 2007 and had 2,763 hours logged. FlightTrader24The search continues "At the moment we have no idea where this aircraft is right now," Malaysia Airlines Vice President of Operations Control Fuad Sharuji said earlier on CNN's "AC360."  Officials said that the plane was last detected in a region where the South China Sea meets the Gulf of Thailand, according to the AP.  Fortunately, the Gulf of Thailand is just 250 feet deep at its deepest point, according to airline analyst Robert W. Mann, Jr., which would aid in search and rescue efforts.  Although the sea search will continue overnight, the air search will resume in the morning.  The Boeing 777 flown by Malaysia Airlines is known as one of the world's safest jets. The only fatal accident in the aircraft's 20-year-history happened last July when an Asiana Boeing 777 crashed at San Francisco International Airport.  Malaysia Airlines also has a good safety record. The last fatal accident was in 1995.  "We are doing everything in our power to locate the plane,"a Malaysian Airways official told Reuters. "We are doing everything we can to ensure every possible angle has been addressed. We are looking for accurate information from the Malaysian military. They are waiting for information from the Vietnamese side." Boeing tweeted this statement: "We’re closely monitoring reports on Malaysia flight MH370. Our thoughts are with everyone on board." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary CameronThe icy steps at the U.S. Marine Corps War Memorial is seen during blizzard conditions in Arlington, Virginia during a snow storm in the Washington metroFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. LPL Blames Recruitment Slowdown On Weather And Stock Market Volatility (Investment News)  The severe cold that slammed the U.S. this winter has trickled through in the economic data. Now, LPL Financial is blaming a slowdown in recruitment on the cold as well, reports Bruce Kelly at Investment News. LPL also attributed part of the slowdown to stock market volatility. This is because at times of volatility advisors tend to strap in and settle down to take care of their clients. Kelly writes that "is closely watched by the rest of the independent broker-dealer industry and is considered a bellwether for the business." Merrill Lynch Advisors Worry About Changes After Veteran Managers Quietly Retire (The Wall Street Journal) Bank of America's advisors are worried that they will face more pressure to change the way they conduct their business, "more than a dozen veteran Merrill Lynch managers have quietly retired, resigned or been reassigned in recent weeks," report Corrie Driebusch and Matthias Rieker at the Wall Street Journal. A spokesperson told the WSJ that this is normal for this time of the year, but a Merrill Lynch advisor on condition of anonymity said, "this is the old guard, good managers, suddenly leaving." The One Big Story No One Is Talking About Right Now (Business Insider) John Stoltzfus, chief market strategist at Oppenheimer, thinks no one is talking about how unprepared baby boomers are for retirement.  "No one wants to talk about just how unprepared the Baby Boomer generation is for the years when they will no longer be able to work," he told Business Insider's Steve Perlberg. Investment and Insurance firms certainly provide informational commercials as background in the media on this but it does not appear that Washington or the folks on Main Street are considering the unpreparedness as the potential for crisis that it may be." Here's Where We Are In The Business Cycle (Fidelity) 2014 has got off to a rocky start. There's the severe weather impacting the U.S., emerging markets have taken a hit, concerns about Chinese growth have resurfaced, and geo-political tensions between Russia and Ukraine are in th headlines. Fidelity has put up a chart of where some of the world's biggest economies are in the business cycle. Fidelity It Is Important For Advisors To Help Clients See The Big Picture (Vanguard)  Investors have been rattled by events in global markets. First is was the blow to emerging market currencies, then the anti-government protests in Venezuela and Russia's actions in Crimea. Vanguard writes that at times like this it is important for advisors to step in and help clients understand these headlines and "create an investment plan aimed at achieving goals and stick with it."  From Vanguard: "A number of Vanguard funds hold assets based in Russia as part of diversified portfolios, with the percentage of assets in these funds ranging from 0.1% in our Total International Bond Index Fund to 13.7% in our Emerging Markets Government Bond Index Fund. (Data are as of January 31, 2014.) Such diversification offers some protection against the volatility of any one region and is in accordance with the funds' stated policies of seeking to track the performance of specific benchmarks that include those same Russia-based securities. "Nick Eisinger, an investment analyst in Vanguard's London office, said the Ukraine situation could result in a downgrading of the country's debt to junk status and continued flight of capital. The conflict also increases the likelihood of Ukrainian default and adds to pressure on emerging markets securities, he said. …But those are the details. As an advisor, you can help clients see that they shouldn't let those details push them off course." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David McNewSatoshi Nakamoto A spokesperson for the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department issued a statement Friday confirming the accuracy of quotes that appeared in Leah McGrath Goodman's Newsweek article allegedly outing the founder of Bitcoin.  The Department said two sheriff's deputies were called to Nakamoto's home in Temple City when Goodman came there to interview him Feb. 20 and they both "agreed" that the quotes in the story were correct. "I spoke to the two Los Angeles County Sheriff’s deputies who handled the call and who were present for the conversation," Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department Captain Mike Parker said. "Both sheriff’s deputies agreed that the quotes published in the March 6, 2014, Newsweek magazine Bitcoin article that were attributed to the resident and to one of the deputies were accurate." After Goodman's story was published Thursday, Nakamoto denied having anything to do with the cryptocurrency and said he was misunderstood by Goodman when he told her, "I am no longer involved in that and I cannot discuss it." Nakamoto said he was referring to his engineering career and not confirming he was involved in the creation of the cryptocurrency. He did not claim he was inaccurately quoted, only that his words were misunderstood. Goodman also quoted one of the deputies as having said, "This is the guy who created Bitcoin? It looks like he's living a pretty humble life." The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department also provided details about why the pair of deputies responded to Nakamoto's home when Goodman came to interview him. Read the other details the Department provided about the incident below: At 2:09PM, on Thursday, Feb. 20, 2014, Temple Sheriff’s Station of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department received a suspicious person call in Temple City.  The caller reported an unknown woman in her 20’s was knocking on the door at his home, and sitting on his porch for the past hour. The caller said he was afraid to open the door. Two deputies responded and spoke to the male resident caller and the woman.  The woman identified herself as Newsweek reporter Leah Goodman and the resident expressed reluctance to talk to her.  The deputies were present for the brief conversation between the two, and then the resident went back inside his home and the reporter left. Earlier today, Arthur Nakamoto, Dorian's brother, indicated to BI that Goodman had misquoted or misunderstood his comments. FREE AppDownload
FBNBusiness Insider is offering a new feature in our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" email newsletter where we interview top strategists, economists, and traders to get their thoughts on key market questions.  Thursday's interview was with John Stoltzfus, chief market strategist at Oppenheimer. Sign up for our newsletter at the bottom to receive Q&amp;As and more in your inbox every weekday morning. BUSINESS INSIDER: To what extent do you think poor weather has impacted this winter’s economic data?  JOHN STOLTZFUS: Reports we’ve seen have indicated that some 200 million people in the U.S. were touched in some way by these storms. That’s close to two thirds of the population! To us that says the weather had genuine material impact on retail sales, auto sales, housing sales, travel, hiring and more. BI: What’s the big story that nobody is talking about right ? JS: No one wants to talk about just how unprepared the Baby Boomer generation is for the years when they will no longer be able to work. Investment and Insurance firms certainly provide informational commercials as background in the media on this but it does not appear that Washington or the folks on Main Street are considering the unpreparedness as the potential for crisis that it may be. BI: Are you optimistic about Janet Yellen as Fed chair? JS: Yes. Have followed Janet Yellen for years prior to her selection as Fed Chair and find her to have the deep bench of experience as an Economist and as a Fed official — aka. the provenance the job requires — particularly for the times at hand. BI: The stock market is roaring back to all time highs. Do issues in EM not have as big an impact on U.S. markets as people argued a few weeks ago? JS: The recent "tremor effect" the Emerging market currency problems delivered to developed markets earlier this quarter indicated to us that indeed de-coupling has been debunked once again. That said, it has seemed clear to us for quite some time that it would be the U.S. first followed by Europe, Japan and the other developed nations of the world that would and are leading the emerging markets and the rest of the world away from what was the Great Crisis of 2008. BI: What’s something you’ll be watching this week and next? JS: The market’s response to the wrap up of Q4 earnings season as well as the effects of the economic data crossing the U.S. and global transom day- to-day. [This] week, it’s about the non-farm payroll number. After the disappointing figures of the last two months it’s, "Baby needs a new pair of shoes" time! FREE AppDownload
There's a revolution of sorts going on in the city of San Francisco against tech companies.  And Salesforce.com CEO Marc Benioff wants tech companies to open their wallets and do something to stop it. Tech companies are paying record high wages these days. That has caused housing prices to skyrocket. And that has led to some pretty scary protests. On Friday, Benioff and the nonprofit Tipping Point announced a new plan called SF Gives, reports the San Francisco Chronicle's Joe Garofoli.  SF Gives aims to raise $10 million over the next 60 days to fund Bay Area antipoverty programs. In a few days of working the phones, Benioff says he's already raised $5 million from companies like LinkedIn, Google, Zynga, PopSugar, IfOnly, Jawbone and Box. The gist is to convince 20 tech companies to contribute $500,000 apiece immediately, but he's hoping to grow it from there, to a $100 million endeavor. TechCrunch DisruptMarc BenioffBenioff, a self-made billonaire known for his philanthropy, wants wealthy CEOs and companies that aren't giving back to jump on board. He told Garofoli: "We still have some pretty epic companies here who have had IPOs and aren't giving - and aren't part of this and won't join. We don't want to be the industry that looks like 'The Wolf of Wall Street.' ... ... if you come to San Francisco, you need to also be committed to giving back. ... You can't just take from our city." Benioff grew up in San Francisco and his 12,000-employee company is headquartered there. Recently, companies like Pinterest, Twitter, Google and Mozilla opened up big offices there. Plus employees of other tech companies have moved to the city, suppored by private corporate buses that ferry them to their offices located elsewhere in the Bay Area. The money will be spent on programs throughout the Bay Area, not just in the city of San Francisco. Largely thanks to the tech industry, the whole area is an extremely expensive place to live. FREE AppDownload
The emerging markets have had a rough year. Concerns about the Federal Reserve tapering its monthly bond-buying program and a rise in interest rates got investors antsy. The concern was that this could cause a reversal in capital flows causing problems for many of the emerging markets that run huge deficits. There were also concerns about an economic slowdown in China, as well as risks associated with elections in many emerging economies. But the frontier markets have been thriving. Frontier markets, often dubbed pre-emerging markets, have lower market capitalization than emerging markets, and the assumption is often that if emerging markets are going down, frontier markets would fall further. But this hasn't been the case. BlackRock's Russ Koesterich has previously pointed out that frontier markets "have been relatively insulated from bouts of capital flight thanks to their robust growth, still low level of foreign ownership and pegged currencies." Oppenheimer's John Stoltzfus has published this chart that shows that the MSCI Frontier Market index was up 2.6% year-to-date, while the MSCI Emerging Markets index was down 3.6%. The Nasdaq Composite has been the only major benchmark to outperform the MSCI FM, rising 3.1%. Oppenheimer  FREE AppDownload
Getty Images NATIONAL HARBOR, Md. — Grover Norquist, one of the prime architects of conservative tax policy in the U.S., signaled he is open to killing the so-called "carried interest" tax loophole in an interview with Business Insider Friday.  "I'm insufficiently focused on that as a specific thing," Norquist, the founder and president of the powerful Americans for Tax Reform, said when we asked about carried interest at the Conservative Political Action Conference. "I would object to changing it standalone — because then it's just a tax increase — or as part of a net tax increase. But as part of a revenue-neutral tax proposal, it's less problematic." The carried-interest loophole is a benefit in the tax code that allows certain hedge fund and private equity profits to be taxed at a lower rate. Norquist supported the tax reform proposal offered by Republican House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Rep. Dave Camp last week, which was revenue neutral and included a plan to eliminate carried interest. However, Camp's plan was opposed by members of Congress from both parties and has little chance of becoming law.   The elimination of carried interest was one of the only elements Camp's proposal shared with the budget President Barack Obama budget released Tuesday.  When Camp's plan was first announced, it sparked rumors of a "revolt" on Wall Street with financial industry donors abandoning Republicans as a result of Camp's proposal. Norquist's organization is famous for sponsoring the "Taxpayer Protection Pledge," which has been signed by all but 13 sitting congressional Republicans. The pledge serves as a promise, in writing, that candidates will oppose all tax increases while in office. Norquist suggested killing the carried-interest loophole wouldn't force lawmakers to break the pledge. "It might be something we'd still oppose" after further study, he told Business Insider, "but it's not a violation of the pledge." Norquist described Camp's plan as a good start to a larger discussion on tax reform. He said the proposal helped draw contrast between Republicans who propose revenue-neutral tax code simplification and Democrats that back standalone tax increases. Norquist said Camp's plan was also important because it also included a dynamic — not static — estimate from the Joint Committee on Taxation, something with the potential to alter how tax-reform legislation is scored in the future. "Dynamic scoring" assumes any changes individuals and businesses pursue in response to a change in tax policy could significantly affect economic growth.  "That's a huge win. Huge, huge win," Norquist said. "That's why I think the bill is great — it's not a tax increase, it's scored dynamically. And it's not going anywhere, but it serves as a discussion point — because Democrats won't pass anything that's not a tax increase." FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Christian HartmannLet me tell you my two favorite stories of the financial crisis. One: According to Vanguard's Center for Retirement Research, just 3% of Vanguard customers actually cashed out of stocks during the financial crisis. In the summer of 2011, when stocks fell 19%, 98% of Vanguard investors didn't make a single change to their portfolio. Amateurs can be pretty good at exploiting the power of buy and hold. Two: I remember watching CNBC in March 2009, when the S&amp;P 500 bottomed out 70% below where it is today. David Faber noted that every trader he talked to knew a big market rally was coming. "So, how are you invested?" Faber asked them. "In cash," the traders replied. Why? Faber said it was because they couldn't afford to have another down month. It didn't matter if they knew a rally was coming. That rally might not come for another month or two, and they couldn't stand going to their bosses, or their investors, and explaining why they lost money again. So they hid in cash, knowing full well they'd lose out on part of the rebound (which they did). Amateur investors had something pros couldn't dream of in 2009: the ability to be blissfully ignorant. People spend too much time complaining about the advantage Wall Street has over them -- insider trader, high-frequency trading, etc. -- and not enough time realizing that the average country bumpkin who knows nothing about investing holds huge advantages over professionals. For example: The world is really complicated. There are things we just can't know. But analysts can't say, "I don't know." They're hired to know. When you're asked to have an opinion about things that are inherently unknowable, you are forced to make stuff up. Watch CNBC reporters ask their guests where the market is going to be a year from now. You may as well ask a goldfish for his one-year market forecast, and everyone knows this. But that's not the point. The point is that the analyst is paid to have an opinion, and he or she would love to share it with you. As John Kenneth Galbraith said, "Pundits forecast not because they know, but because they are asked." The worst part of this is that people forced to have an opinion about things they can't possibly know begin taking their opinions seriously. That's dangerous, because overconfidence in things that are random and unknowable inevitably leads to misbehavior. Having the ability to say, "I don't know, and I'm not going to pretend I do," is worth its weight in gold. "Do nothing" are two of the most important words in investing. Buying a portfolio of stocks or index funds and not touching it for years, even decades, can be a great option for most investors. But if investing is your full-time job, doing nothing isn't an option. I think most professional investors know deep down that doing nothing -- just letting compound interest do its thing -- is the most rational investment approach. But no one can justify a 1% management fee for watching paint dry. So they trade, rotate, take money off the table, worry, overreact, and generally makes fools of themselves. The person who bought an S&amp;P 500 index fund 30 years ago and checked his brokerage statement for the first time yesterday could legitimately call himself as one of the top investment managers in the country. That's the power of having the ability to do nothing. I feel bad for investors who work for organizations called "Peak Prosperity," "The Gloom, Boom, and Doom Report," "Euro-Pacific Capital," "The Active Bear," or "Shadow Stats." Their mind is already made up and can't be changed even when the world around them changes -- they'd literally have to rename their company.  Not being attached to a market theme, or a broad worldview, is so important to becoming a good investor. The world doesn't care if you're a card-carrying bull, bear, Keynesian, Austrian, Democrat, Republican, Fed critic, or environmentalist. Anytime you say, "I'm a ..." you're doing yourself a disservice as an investor. "I'm flexible and I understand the world changes" is the only rational stance. I've heard that 70% of a congressman's time is spent raising money for reelection. I doubt professional money managers are this burdened, but many investment managers -- especially small, newer ones -- devote enormous time and effort to finding new clients and raising more money. Perception can be bigger than performance, and professional investors know this. So you see some crazy behavior, like mutual fund managers selling declining stocks at the end of the year just to avoid disclosing in their annual reports that they owned losers, even if they still like the company as an investment. Or sticking to a losing strategy long after they realize it's wrong just because they don't want to admit to their customers that they were wrong. You're probably managing money for yourself and no one else. That's great. Being able to not care what other people think of your investments is a huge advantage. In his book David and Goliath, Malcolm Gladwell wrote that "there is a set of advantages that have to do with material resources, and there is a set that have to do with the absence of material resources -- and the reason the underdogs win as often as they do is that the latter is sometimes every bit the equal of the former." Sometimes, they're more than equal. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David McNewA man widely believed to be Bitcoin currency founder Satoshi Nakamoto is surrounded by reporters as he leaves his home in Temple City, California March 6, 2014. Newsweek is standing by Leah McGrath Goodman's assertion that Dorian Prentice Satoshi Nakamoto invented Bitcoin. Nakamoto is denying it. One source for McGrath Goodman's piece was Dorian's brother, Arthur. In a very brief phone conversation with Business Insider Friday, Arthur Nakamoto indicated he'd been misquoted or misinterpreted in some way, and had harsh words for McGrath Goodman.   "She's destroying my eldest brother," he said, adding, "this is sick," before hanging up. It was not clear whether he meant McGrath Goodman had gotten her whole story wrong, or that she had drawn unwelcome attention toward Dorian Nakamoto. Attempts to follow up by phone and email were unsuccessful. In the piece, McGrath Goodman quoted him as saying: "My brother is an asshole. What you don't know about him is that he's worked on classified stuff. His life was a complete blank for a while. You're not going to be able to get to him. He'll deny everything. He'll never admit to starting Bitcoin." In his interview with the AP's Ryan Nakashima, Dorian Nakamoto also said he'd been misunderstood by McGrath Goodman. "It sounded like I was involved before with bitcoin and looked like I'm not involved now. That's not what I meant. I want to clarify that," he said. Dorian has not spoken since that interview. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Edgar SuA group of people pose for pictures with Wayne Garrett and Caitlind Brown of Canada's light installation "CLOUD" during a media preview of the i Light Marina Bay festival in Singapore March 6, 2014.A better-than-expected jobs report did little to spur the stock market. It's worth noting, however, that stocks remain near all-time highs. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
muramatsub/FlickrWorkers in the Per Se kitchen in New York City.This week, foodies were floored when one of New York's best restaurants — Per Se — received a "grade pending" rating after racking up enough points to earn it a "C" from the Department of Health.  Chef Thomas Keller's three Michelin-star restaurant in Columbus Circle earned a whopping 42 violation points in its latest health department inspection, including for "Tobacco use, eating, or drinking from open container in food preparation, food storage or dishwashing area observed," and "Hand washing facility not provided in or near food preparation area and toilet room." It was particularly shocking considering the The New York Times declared it the best restaurant in New York in 2011, and customers typically drop $620 on a dinner for two. Grub Street's Hugh Merwin points out, however, that the violations at Per Se don't tell the full story. The restaurant — which prides itself on showing customers its well-run, pristine kitchen — isn't necessarily dirty by any stretch of the imagination. Merwin writes: It's difficult to glean any real information from either of those write-ups, or to identify what's really "wrong" in Per Se's kitchen. Someone was eating or smoking or drinking or possibly chewing tobacco somewhere in the kitchen? Was it the presence of a drink, or a drink without a lid that was the issue? Were the kitchen towels soiled, or were they just not being stored in sanitizing solution? Per Se is appealing the inspection, hence the current "grade pending" sign. Keller (who also helms the three-star Michelin restaurant French Laundry in California) responded to CNN: "We look forward to the opportunity to address the allegations with the Department of Health in the upcoming Oath Tribunal. At that time our final grade will be determined. As with all of our restaurants, we continue to maintain the highest standard at Per Se." CNNHe followed up on Twitter that the kitchen will continue to be open for diners: Our kitchen door is always open to our guests. We look forward to working with the DOH. http://t.co/66uqNmgXif Check out the screenshot from the Department of Health's Website below: NYC Department of Health FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
U.S. consumer credit expanded by only $13.7 billion in January to $3.11 trillion (up 5.3% from a year earlier) after rising a downwardly-revised $15.9 billion in December (up 6.2% from a year earlier), according to the latest data from the Federal Reserve. Revolving credit — credit cards, home equity lines of credit, and the like — fell $0.2 billion to $856.2 billion in January, down 0.3% from a year earlier. Nonrevolving credit — auto loans, student loans, and the like — rose $13.9 billion to $2.26 trillion, up 17.5% from a year earlier.   FREE AppDownload
DETROIT (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co &lt;F.N&gt; Chief Executive Alan Mulally was awarded performance bonuses for 2013 worth $13.8 million, the No. 2 U.S. automaker disclosed to U.S. regulators on Thursday. The amount Mulally makes from the restricted stock he received depends on its value on the day he sells it. The shares were worth $13.83 million based on Thursday's closing price of $15.67. Ford said Mulally, 68, who is credited with reviving the Detroit-area automaker's fortunes after arriving in 2006, also received $3.3 million of shares after taxes, which vest fully this week, based on 2011 equity awards. Mulally now owns Ford common stock worth $96.9 million at Thursday's closing price. In January, Mulally removed himself from the running to become the next CEO of Microsoft Corp after months of speculation, and he reaffirmed plans to stay at Ford through the end of this year. Mulally's 2013 restricted stock award is 882,352 shares. The restricted awards Ford made to Mulally and other top executives this week convert to common stock on March 4, 2016, according to a company filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Bill Ford Jr., the company's executive chairman, was awarded restricted stock for 2013 work that was worth $6.45 million on Thursday. He also received $1.6 million of shares after taxes that fully vest this week, based on 2011 equity awards. In a statement, the company said, "We remain committed to aligning executive compensation with the company's business performance and to tying a significant portion of executive compensation to long-term shareholder value." Mulally took Ford's helm in 2006 and spurred a cultural change that helped Ford take quicker action and make bolder bets, analysts, executives and other industry observers have said. Ford warned in December that the cost of launching a record 23 new vehicles and a deteriorating Venezuelan economy would dent its 2014 profit. Sixteen of those launches will be in North America, including the highly profitable F-150 full-size pickup in the fall. Getting the truck launch running smoothly is key because the vehicle accounts for the majority of Ford's North American profit. Other details of Mulally's compensation including his 2013 salary will be released later this month. His 2012 compensation was cut by 29 percent to about $21 million, based on share values last March, that included salary, stock awards, stock options and other perks. Mulally's pay was reduced in 2012 in part because Ford missed some key goals for market share, profit and cash flow. GM has said CEO Mary Barra will be paid up to $14.4 million in cash and stock this year, including $10 million under the company's long-term compensation plan that is still subject to shareholder approval in June. Mark Fields, Ford's chief operating officer, was awarded $4.6 million worth of shares for last year's work and now owns $12.8 million in common shares of the company. Joe Hinrichs, head of North and South American operations, was awarded $2.2 million of shares for 2013 performance, and now owns $5 million in common shares in Ford. (Reporting by Bernie Woodall; Editing by Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
Rhonda and Doug HessEarlier this year, Warren Buffett announced Berkshire Hathaway would put up $1 billion as part of a promotion from Quicken Loans to reward anyone who filled out a perfect NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament bracket. Buffett is one of the most charitable men on the planet, giving away billions each year, and has plans to donate the majority of his fortune upon his death.  However, a day after we wrote about Buffett's challenge, we got an email from Rhonda Hess, a retired kindergarten teacher and mother of three other teachers. She thoughtfully laid out her frustration that such a huge sum would be rewarded for what amounts to dumb luck, and detailed her family's concerns about paying off their sons' college loans. With her permission, we published her remarks: ...Life is good and don’t get me wrong, we are blessed. We have so much more than countless others in the world and we know that. We have the luxuries of a roof over our heads and a car and can pay our bills even though most months are tight. However, the college loans drag on us like a ton of bricks. With them, we have no flexibility. Now we worry about things like how we are we ever going to replace the roof or the furnace when they quit. Any type of health issue would be devastating. Our finances depend totally on our prayer life and we are very thankful, God has been faithful. Why couldn’t Mr. Buffett’s organization instead of giving a billion dollars to one lucky person for something as frivolous as a basketball bracket (and I had three sons that played the game and love it) help LOTS of families that struggle to always do the right thing and never seem to get a break on the hardwood court of life... The next day, we got another email. "I would love to get in touch with Diz &amp; Riz if possible and help pay off their loans (anonymously)," the individual said. We did not think we would be crossing an ethical line by serving as an intermediary. After confirming his identity, we asked him to send us his legal counsel's contact info, which we then passed along to the Hesses.  A few weeks later, we got an email from Rhonda and her husband Doug saying college loans they held for two of their sons had been paid off.  "We've prayed a lot of years about these college loans," she told BI by phone. "We really had never seen a way that we could pay them off quickly ourselves, and our fear had always been that our kids would end up strapped if something happened to us, like if we died suddenly and our kids would suddenly be strapped with them. Our kids worked hard, they had their own college loans they'd been paying them off. This was so unexpected, it's really a miracle." The individual would only allow us to say that he is a partner at a hedge fund and owns a media firm on the West Coast. He said he was simply struck by the parallels between the Hess family and his own — he also has three sons — as well as the devotion to teaching demonstrated by the entire Hess family.  "People who are gainfully employed, with real jobs that help people in society, who teach our youth, are stuck in a structure where they can't get out from under [their debts]," he told us. "There's no program or mechanism to help them work through that," he said. "It was clearly frustrating and weighing heavily on them.  He explained that the story came out at a time where he was feeling particularly fortunate, and that it felt inequitable to him that a family like the Hesses should have to struggle. "There are ways to do things that are more scalable, but this was a way to do something that was very direct and meaningful to them, and I was fortunate in a position." Andrew Hess, 33, is an adjunct Bible studies instructor at Colorado Christian University in Colorado Springs, and also teaches at his church. He serves as writer and content manager at Focus on the Family. He'd taken out loans to pay for his psychology degree at Taylor University in Indiana. The Hesses deferred to the benefactor's judgment to disclose the amount paid off, and but he declined to do so.  "I'm pretty busy, I'd kind of put it out of my mind," Andrew Hess said. "Of course I was hopeful that it actually would work out. Then on the morning of, my mom forwarded the email they'd gotten from loan service that said 'we received your payment.' We were all kind of rejoining together, that's how I found out, I responded to thee email just saying 'Praise the Lord, that is outstanding.' I think my words were 'unbelievable.'" The benefactor does not believe America needs to rethink how it does charity. But he does hope others will be inspired to make a similar gesture.   "It would be terrific if someone else thought of something that was as directed and impactful on certain people's lives as opposed to something more diffuse, where the money run through organizations where it's difficult to follow.  He continued: "If people think through anything having read that I did this, it would be just how rewarding, how impactful this was for them [the Hesses], from the perspective that you can do this, that I had the wherewithal to help somebody I had never met before. That carries more significance for me than donating to the Red Cross...I think doing  a random good act, it makes me feel and continues to make me feel really good." The Hesses now say they will focus on helping others around them, despite their apparent lifelong commitment to doing so. They are grateful that the benefactor recognized the effort teachers put into their profession. "I think teachers are sometimes misunderstood," Rhonda Hess said. "Unless you have teachers in your family, I don't think the public really, truly understands the hours that teachers can put in. It's easy to think 'Oh teachers are off all summer,' or that type of thing." Even so, she quickly added, "We think teaching was just wonderful careers for us. We love being teachers."  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Keith Bedford William Dudley, President of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, speaks at Brooklyn College in the Brooklyn borough of New York, March 7, 2014. NEW YORK (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve is not about to back off its highly accommodative policy, though investor predictions of a rate rise by midway through next year are reasonable, an influential U.S. central banker said on Friday. New York Fed President William Dudley outlined some bright spots in the long U.S. recovery from recession, calling U.S. economic prospects "reasonably favorable." But Dudley, a key Fed decision-maker alongside Chair Janet Yellen, stressed that the labor market is still hobbled, saying in a speech he would like to see faster economic growth and more rapid progress in lowering unemployment and raising inflation. Dudley did not comment specifically on the Fed's bond-buying policy. And while his comments on the economy were relatively upbeat, his still-dovish stance on policy reinforces the notion that the Fed is nowhere near ready to tighten after more than five years of near-zero interest rates. The market generally expects the Fed to raise rates "sometime toward the middle of 2015," he said at Brooklyn College. "I think those are a very reasonable set of expectations based on what we know today, and our economic forecasts." According to forecasts published in December, 12 of the Fed's 17 policymakers expect to start to tighten policy in 2015. Two officials predicted the move would come this year, and three said not until 2016. The Fed, tasked with obtaining maximum sustainable employment in the world's largest economy, has promised to keep rates low until well after U.S. unemployment falls below 6.5 percent, as long as inflation stays in check. The jobless rate rose to 6.7 percent last month from 6.6 percent in January, according to fresh data that also showed better-than-expected jobs growth last month. Dudley noted that most market participants who closely follow the Fed are expecting a rate rise when the unemployment rate falls to around 6 percent. The central bank is also buying $65 billion in bonds each month to stimulate growth, though policymakers have trimmed the program twice and expect to wind it down before the year is through. Dudley, on a tour of the New York City borough, predicted sustained U.S. growth above 2.25 percent on the horizon, enough to boost the labor market. But he warned of "substantial underutilization" of both labor and capital resources. "This implies, in turn, that the current, highly-accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time to come," Dudley told a small library auditorium of students and staff at the college. The government report showed on Friday that the portion of Americans who either have a job or are looking for work held steady, despite a downward trend in this so-called labor force participation rate. Dudley said that while the aging of the population is playing a role in the drop, he expects more Americans to return to the workforce. "The decline of the unemployment rate significantly overstates the degree of improvement in the labor market," he said. Asked about the unfolding crisis in Ukraine, the policymaker said the U.S. central bank has people who are monitoring it and providing analysis for any possible fallout for the U.S. economy. "Exactly where it's going is not clear at this point," Dudley said. "Obviously we hope that cooler heads prevail." (Reporting by Jonathan Spicer; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama and Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
PIMCO / YouTubeBill GrossSince reports of Bill Gross' issues with co-CEO Mohamed El-Erian surfaced last month, it seems like the media has made it its mission to air PIMCO's dirty laundry. It makes you wonder if PIMCO's investors watching this drama are getting skittish. Sure, all of this drama has little to do with investment philosophy. But the distraction can't be helping PIMCO's analysts do their jobs. What would you do if these were the stories coming out about your money manager? The Wall Street Journal reported that it was Gross' management style that drove El-Erian away, and that he doesn't even like employees looking him directly in the eye. Reuters' story on Thursday may have been even worse for Gross. "You're on his [El-Erian's] side," he said to reporter Jennifer Ablan. "Great, he's got you, too, wrapped around his charming right finger." If you talk to the wealth managers that allocate funds to the $2 trillion AUM mutual fund, though, there are two distinct issues at PIMCO: this El-Erian-Gross drama and the fund's performance. It is the latter that makes them move their money first. "Since the events have unfolded, because we only had 5% [invested with PIMCO], it hasn't caused us to do anything," said one money manager. "But I think if we had more we would have sold down." Over the last several months, the manager said he's drawn his allocation to PIMCO down to 5% from 20%-25% of his bond portfolio.  The money that was once Gross' is now in the hands of competing bond firms like DoubleLine Funds, Jeff Gundlach's firm with about $47 billion in assets under management.  This is how money managers think about it. We now live in a low interest rate world — one that coincided with the end of the 30-year bull market for bonds. This is an environment where you want a steady hand at the helm. Instead, however, investors say Bill Gross has just been plain wrong about the market. So citing a sickly bond market, poor returns, and longer-than-desired holding periods, investors have been taking money out of PIMCO for months.  In February, alone they took $1.6 billion from the PIMCO Total Return Fund, which Gross manages himself, and that's the least amount they've withdrawn since May 2013. In 2013, investors redeemed a total of $41.1 billion from the fund. Gundlach's DoubleLine, on the other hand, saw inflows of $252 million in February into the institutional share class of the fund. So far this year, Total Return has returned 1.9%, lagging 59% of its peers. "I think there's a combination of things that should have people concerned," said one institutional investor. "First, the macro perspectives of Gross have been shaky the last few years including the recent Chinese Renminbi tweet, and the US Treasury 'mea culpa'. Everyone has times that they're wrong, but the concern might be more process versus outcome." A year ago, Paul Schatz of Connecticut's Heritage Capital pulled his firm's money from PIMCO entirely, citing these issues. Now his money's with smaller bond fund managers, like Dan Fuss' Loomis Sayles.  Watching this drama between Gross and El-Erian makes Schatz even gladder he did it. Without El-Erian, it seems there's no clear plan for succession. Worse still, he says this conflict is showing that Gross is an example of a financial industry phenomena that Schatz affectionately refers to as "a cowboy."  "What's becoming apparent is that Bill Gross is just a one-man shop," he said.  El-Erian was not only the heir apparent, it seems, but also a "ying to the yang kind of a calming influence at a massive firm," he continued. "Maybe I'm an outlier but I think it's far more deep problem. It really calls into question the culture and structure of the firm." Other institutional money managers have said that this succession issue makes them "uncomfortable" putting their money with PIMCO as well. That said, there is a long term bull argument for Gross, and it goes like this: Every money manager takes his lumps, and for Gross those lumps — in the market, in his own strategy, and in his personal/professional life, are all converging. "My gut reaction is 'this too will pass'. He's [Gross] survived bull markets and bear markets," said Charles Sizemore, CEO of Dallas-based wealth management firm Sizemore Capital Management LLC. "I would not so much worry that his performance is going to slip. What I would worry about is if you're investing in a fund and lot of people are pulling money out of it — it's not good to be invested in a fund with big outflows." Why? Outflows bring out nasty tax issues and troublesome asset sales. There is, however, a way to still invest with Gross without having to deal with mutual fund outflow issues. "If you still like Gross and you think this is just a temporary rough patch, I would say stick with the [PIMCO] ETFs, the mutual funds outflows aren't going to be an issue with that," said Sizemore. Either way, consensus is that things are going to be ugly for at (the very) least the near time. Can you handle that? FREE AppDownload
Magnolia PicturesSeaWorld Entertainment is down 5.4% to $33.2. The stock was down as much as 7.4%, but is now paring some of its losses. This comes on the back of reports that California assemblyman Richard Bloom is introducing legislation to phase out captivity of whales and dolphins, according to Candace Calloway Whiting at Seattlepi.com. And remember, SeaWorld has a location in San Diego. From Whiting: "If the bill passes into law, it will allow for the gradual transition of Orca confinement from entertainment purposes to solely keeping Orcas captive for research, rescue, and rehabilitation.  It would prevent the breeding of captive animals, and require that those animals maintained in captivity either be released to the wild or be kept in sea pens, which are defined as open water enclosures, anchored to the seafloor and the shoreline. The sea pens must be accessible to the public, but shows and entertainment are not allowed." Bloom is expected to hold a press conference today. SeaWorld has had a ton of bad publicity after the release of the damning documentary Blackfish last year. The stock however is up 15.6% year-to-date, but down 0.6% since it went public last year. This five-day chart shows today's sell-off: Google Finance   FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 1: Food prices. The Commodity Research Bureau's BLS Foodstuffs index — a composite of prices of hogs, steers, lard, butter, soybean oil, cocoa, corn, Kansas City wheat, Minneapolis wheat, and sugar — has suddenly exploded higher in 2014 following a multi-year slide from all-time highs, as chart 1 illustrates. In the year to date, the index is up 14.9%, marking an upside move more than two standard deviations above the historical 3-month average return. Simply put, food markets are seeing prices increase at a pace reminiscent of the historic surge of 2010 and 2011, in the run-up to the high. One of the biggest factors driving global disinflation over the past three years or so has been the slide in commodity prices. Therefore, if the current uptrend continues, it will likely have major implications for the global economy. Unfortunately, this is not the sort of "demand-pull" inflation that policymakers so strongly desire, but rather the sort of "cost-push" inflation that can hit the consumer where it hurts. "This sharp rise in food prices could prove a significant problem for some economies ahead, particularly as many currencies have weakened considerably, making imports more expensive," says Bartosz Pawlowski, global head of EM strategy at BNP Paribas. Pawlowski figures the most exposed countries are those whose food imports comprise the largest share of total imports and have seen their currencies slide most against the dollar over the last year. WTO, BNP ParibasChart 2: Food's share of total imports versus annual change in USD exchange rates.That means the Philippines, Colombia, Kazakhstan, Indonesia and Russia (see chart 2). "Obviously, we do not know whether the recent spike in commodity prices will be sustained," says Pawlowski. "Perhaps it is just the result of heightened geopolitical pressures and could prove temporary. Then again, it is also possible that the reason might be the weather, which has been somewhat unpredictable of late. In fact, the Climate Prediction Centre issued an El Niño watch status this week, saying that the probability of this phenomenon occurring later in the year has increased to 50%. While this doesn’t mean that El Niño conditions will necessarily happen, the growing risk of such an event could keep food prices supported." FREE AppDownload
Dorian Nakamoto of Temple City, Calif. had an interesting day yesterday. He was the subject of a Newsweek article that pegged him as "Satoshi Nakamoto," the creator of the digital currency Bitcoin. Immediately following the article's publishing, media outlets flocked to Nakamoto's front door and even engaged him in a car chase to a sushi restaurant. But Nakamoto denies being the man behind Bitcoin. And there's compelling evidence that suggests he's telling the truth, not least of which being that the genuine Satoshi Nakamoto denies the media has their man. The Bitcoin community is pretty unimpressed with how the whole thing went. They doubt the article's accuracy and feel sorry that Nakamoto spent the day being hounded. Andreas Antonopoulos, the Chief Security Officer of Blockchain.info, has undertaken fundraising effort to compensate the man for his highly irregular day. Funds are of course being raised via Bitcoin and Antonopoulos has implemented some security to make sure people donate to the correct wallet. Screenshot Because of the currency's transparent design, we can watch donations roll in to the official fundraising wallet. At the time of this writing, there are just over 7.6 Bitcoins in there, roughly $4,600. Screenshot FREE AppDownload
Megan Willett/Business InsiderOn a recent trip to Las Vegas, I stopped by the Heart Attack Grill. The restaurant has been in the news recently after its owner "Doctor Jon" Basso gave a bizarre interview on Bloomberg TV where he said his restaurant kills its customers. He even carried the (alleged) cremated remains of a customer with him. And while it's a macabre gimmick, it's not entirely inaccurate. Heart Attack Grill is crazy unhealthy: The restaurant's signature dish is its 9,982-calorie Quadruple Bypass Burger, which weighs a staggering 3 pounds. Customers can order burgers with up to eight patties, all topped with chili, tomato, cheese, onion, and bacon (for an extra fee). Inside, the restaurant has an ironic medical theme with nurse waitresses and hospital-themed decor. Even the customers have to wear hospital gowns, and anyone more than 350 pounds eats for free. Disclosure: Our trip to Las Vegas, including travel, food, and lodging expenses, was sponsored by MGM Resorts International.
The MSCI World Index closed at an all-time-high Thursday, blowing past the pre-recession peak in October 2007 for the first time. This coincided with the S&amp;P 500's all-time-high, which came on the fifth anniversary of the U.S. bull market. As American Enterprise Institute's Mark Perry notes, the MSCI has spiked 17.5% in the past year. "Bottom Line: The global stock market rally over the last five years to a record high yesterday for the MSCI world index has added back more than $36 trillion to world equity values since 2009, and demonstrates the incredible resiliency of economies and financial markets to recover and prosper, even following the worst financial crisis and global economic slowdown in at least a generation," Perry concludes. MSCI FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David McNewSatoshi NakamotoIt now appears a toss-up as to whether Dorian Prentice Satoshi Nakamoto is the same Satoshi Nakamoto who created Bitcoin. Newsweek reporter Leah McGrath Goodman continues to stand by her assertion that the Temple City, Calif. resident created the worldwide digital currency phenomenon. Dorian Nakamoto denies it. McGrath Goodman was assisted in her reporting by Sharon Sergeant, who in the Newsweek piece is listed as a forensic analyst.  A systems engineer by training with experience in computing security, military protocol analysis, and artificial intelligence, Sergeant said everything she found converged on an individual with a background apparently similar to hers — and who ended up sharing a name with Bitcoin's creator. "I said, 'I think I know this guy — he wears a pocket protector, he has a slide rule, he comes from that genre,' which was very different from other characterizations," she told BI by phone Friday.  Sergeant started out by looking at the original Bitcoin spec paper, and immediately seized upon references to what she said were old-school technological tropes: disk space and and Moore's Law. That pointed to someone with a long career in computing, something McGrath Goodman confirmed about Dorian Nakamoto in her reporting. Bitcoin "The idea of conserving any kind of resources, and this is part of my formation, my long background in systems testing, that was a critical issue. But those are very very old-time concerns," she said. "To even mention disk space, things like that — disk space is cheap! And Moore's Law is an old maxim that computing power will double. We've gone exponentially away from Moore's law, but that was what it was all about in that interim period." One element seized upon by many informal Nakamoto sleuthers is a discrepancy between the language used in the Bitcoin paper and in online conversations in which Satoshi was a participant. In an interview with Business Insider, McGrath Goodman said it appeared Nakamoto would shift his register depending on his audience. Sergeant says that from her perspective, the language discrepancies were insignificant. "I was really surprised that people would do such superficial work on trying to look at how Satoshi Nakamoto wrote," Sergeant said. "The 'two spaces after a period' thing — there's an evolution of that particular pattern — it actually continues today — but that's the way Satoshi Nakamoto's generation was taught. So all those superficial things — the references to the British spelling, we said well that's really kind of random. There are so many things that were superficial." She continued: "I said, 'People are running with that too much,' it's too easy to do, particularly in technology, particularly if you work with multinational people, you pick up things." Despite all the denials, Sergeant says all the evidence she found still points to Dorian Nakamoto. "It still comes down to the fact that we could not rule him out. And we tried. You don't want to go down 50 million paths barking up the wrong tree. There was a point at which we turned everything over to the journalist, and now it's, 'you gotta talk to people and see if there's any more info that does not converge.' And the only thing that does not converge is Dorian says it's not him." But even his denials fit the stereotype, she said. "I don't know whether that's true or not, but I have seen people deny everything up to the last minute. So my confidence level in the research is, this is the character of the developer, and the name, but more so the career-path of Dorian Satoshi Nakamoto does converge." Newsweek and McGrath Goodman continue to stand by the story. FREE AppDownload
Turbulence in emerging markets, worries about China, poor weather, and geopolitical issues in Ukraine may have made the start of 2014 rather cooky for global markets, but the U.S. is still in a "steady, mid-cycle" trend, according to Fidelity. "While a solid 2014 U.S. economic outlook became the market consensus in the latter half of 2013, the stability in the U.S. outlook is an additional advantage relative to many other areas," writes Fidelity's Dirk Hofschire. "China has maintained a relatively fast pace of growth, but late- cycle trends amid high credit imbalances represent significant downside risk. We continue to be concerned that Japan’s April consumption tax could create a negative demand shock in the region, making Asia’s cyclical outlook more ambiguous." Here's Fidelity's chart showing where various country's stand in the business cycle: Fidelity FREE AppDownload
 This imagery is from the world's first commercially available, daily HD video satellite system. The footage, from Skybox Imaging's SkySat-1 micro-satellite, is as mesmerizing as the implications are powerful. In a blog post this week, John Clark of SkyBox wrote: Businesses can, for the first time, monitor a network of globally distributed assets with full-motion snapshots without needing to deploy an aircraft or field team. The movement captured in these short video windows, up to 90 seconds in length, yields unique insights that improve operational decisions. The U.S. company's vision is to "leverage timely satellite data to provide insight into daily global activity." Digital cartographers are figuring out ways to use the new source of geospatial data, but simply being able to watch part of the world several times a day from space is profound. What the insights are, and who benefits from it, has not been seen yet. No one outside the military has ever been able to access data like this: Theoretically, one could follow individual people from space. Nevertheless, the potential in industries like agriculture, airports, asset monitoring, security, supply chain management, nuclear plants is vast. The technology is cutting edge. The company asked: “What’s the smallest box I can fit something of real commercial value into?” SkyboxSkySat-1 is arguably the highest performance micro-satellite ever built. The challenge is that space assets are traditionally extremely valuable, extremely expensive, and extremely risky.  So the next technological frontier for quality imaging from space involves systems that can both capture data of high enough quality (resolution) to show economic activity and be cost-effective enough to deploy in large numbers (timeliness). And Skybox thinks they've nailed it given that the circutiry of the SkySat is about the size of a phone book and consumes less power than a 100w light bulb: Skybox On November 21, Skybox launched SkySat-1 into orbit:  Skybox is currently taking off as it sells its full-motion video and imagery systems and build  SkyNode ground station in various countries. The company is now planning to build a constellation of 24 satellites that can cover almost the entire expanse of the Earth.  Welcome to the future.  Here's another video of the real-time HD imagery:   FREE AppDownload
Ukraine today is clearly at a crossroads, and its market has been volatile. We expect ongoing noise and political tensions will continue there for a while. Central power in Ukraine is in disarray while, in many regions, local governors have either resigned or have effectively stopped managing their territories due to uncertainty in the capital city of Kiev. Ukraine’s parliament (Rada) has wasted no time proposing new legislative reforms, including one to limit presidential powers. Speaker Alexander Turchinov is serving as acting president until elections are held in late May. While the opposition has taken control, the country is fairly divided between east and west and between views of whether it should move closer to the EU or closer to Russia. That divided view among the Ukrainians is expressed in the political rhetoric and, unfortunately for the people there, I don’t think there’s going to be a quick solution. You can see the political dividing lines in Ukraine drawn in its electoral map; the parts of the country oriented farther westward, toward Europe, have been the areas where the most fervent protests have taken place. Closer to the Russian border on the east, you’ll find more Russian-speaking Ukrainians, and more support for the more pro-Russian policies of former President Yanukovych. As long-term investors, my team and I continue to be interested in Ukrainian equities where we see opportunities on an individual company level. Looking past the headlines, it’s important to remember that Ukraine offers Russia access to its only naval seaport on the Black Sea, it has gas pipeline access to Europe, and it is considered Europe’s breadbasket. Ukraine is geopolitically one of the most important countries in Eurasia, and, assuming the country doesn’t break apart, I think it will need to use diplomatic skills to maintain friendly relations with Russia while also opening to the West. Another Soviet-bloc country and neighbor to Russia, Georgia, represents an example in this regard. Russia still holds influence there, but Georgia is forging its own path, as I wrote about in a post in December. While global escalation of the current conflict remains a possibility in Ukraine, we think this is unlikely as it is in the interest of all parties to have a unified and stable Ukraine. There are four sources from which financial support for Ukraine could come: the EU, the US, Russia and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Amid an escalation of conflict, Russia has suspended its financial aid package, which had been keeping Ukraine solvent. The EU might come through with some aid, but it will probably not be close to what Ukraine needs. Also, European aid could come with considerable delays due to procedures in the EU. The United States could also offer aid, but probably not the entire US$15 billion-plus sought by the Ukrainians. It seems to me that the IMF would be the only realistic option. We cannot rule out a possibility that the IMF could soften its conditions for release of a new tranche of aid now, particularly when (as we suspect) the EU and the United States have asked, or will ask, it to. This option could also suit Russia. Ukraine has to repay about US$8 billion on its debt this year, and the next large payment is scheduled for June. The Rada’s decision to call new presidential elections on May 25 could also have been influenced by this timeline. The situation in Ukraine remains confused, but it seems that Russia on the one side and the US and the EU on the other, do not want a military confrontation. As we see it, Russia certainly does not want an unstable government in Ukraine and the EU certainly does not want it in view of the enormous amounts of gas that are pumped to Europe from Russia to Ukraine. For these reasons, it is no surprise that Russia has moved back from an armed conflict by having the Russian troops on the eastern Ukraine border retreat back to base. President Putin also held out the possibility of recognizing the winner of the May presidential elections as well as participating in a multilateral program for the country. Factors tempering Russia’s behavior in Ukraine have been the big decline in the ruble and the Russian stock market since the conflict began to escalate, a confirmation that Russia is subject to international pressures. Russia needs to attract foreign capital and the Ukraine situation will likely impact flows, so their actions will likely need to be measured, in our view. The important point is that Russia now has de facto control of Crimea and has stated that it would intervene militarily in eastern Ukraine if asked by the local Russian-speaking population. Overall, because of the intense interest from Russia and the West, we think Ukraine will not likely be short of finances from either or both sides, if the new leadership is able to act wisely and diplomatically. We will be watching developments in Ukraine closely, and are hopeful for a peaceful resolution. We are also hopeful that we’ll see a quite different Ukraine story in a few years—and that it will be a much more positive one. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his “Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets” blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including “Trading with China,” “The Investor’s Guide to Emerging Markets,” “Mobius on Emerging Markets,” “Passport to Profits,” “Equities—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” “Mutual Funds—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” ”The Little Book of Emerging Markets,” and “Mark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets » FREE AppDownload
The end of this week will make it five years since the second most powerful bull market in post-WWII history began [Figure 1]. After five years, only the bull market that began on August 12, 1982 was stronger. It is not over yet. In fact, the bull market may be getting a second wind. LPL Financial Stock Market Investors Chase Five-Year ReturnsDespite its strength, the bull market has only recently been discovered by individual investors. Investors tend to chase returns. For the U.S. stock market, investors have most closely followed the rolling five-year annualized return, based upon their investing behavior [Figure 2]. The five-year trailing annualized return for the S&amp;P 500 Index had been weak, especially when compared with bonds, in recent years. But in 2013, the five-year return began to see a dramatic change. LPL Financial Even as recently as the end of August 2013, the difference in the five- year annualized return between stocks and bonds was only about 2%, hardly enough to compensate investors for the volatility they experienced. By November 2013, the five-year return soared into the double digits — reflecting not only a strong recent gain in the stock market, but the dropping off of much of the horrific declines in the fall of 2008, when the financial crisis took hold. This week as we approach the March 9, 2014 five- year anniversary from the bear market low in the S&amp;P 500—assuming no change in the S&amp;P 500 between now and then—the five-year annualized return will have exceeded bonds by 20% [Figure 3]. LPL Financial With the five-year trailing annualized returns for stocks in the double digits for the first time this cycle, investors are beginning to pour money into funds that invest in U.S. stocks after years of selling, according to data from the Investment Company Institute (ICI). It is no surprise that this took place just as the five-year trailing return for stocks began to soar into double digits. In fact, even during this year’s January stock market pullback that peaked out at about a 6% decline, U.S. stock funds saw inflows during three of January’s four weeks. This may be because the five-year return investors tend to focus on actually rose despite the decline in the stock market in January (since the even steeper decline in January 2009 rolled off the five year period). Corporate share buybacks have accounted for much of the stock buying in recent years, and corporations will likely remain buyers in 2014. However, individual investors as a group may finally be starting to buy stocks again in contrast to much of the past five years. This may help to continue a rise in valuations and sustain the bull market. The Next 10 YearsThe last five years have been outstanding, but what do the next five or 10 years look like for the stock market? Many investors who avoided stocks during much of the past five years did so because they thought stocks may not ever again produce gains like they did in the 20th Century. Historically, the valuation of the stock market, measured by the trailing price-to-earnings ratio, has been a very good indicator of long-term returns. Currently, the S&amp;P 500 valuation suggests that over the next 10 years, stocks may produce mid- to high-single-digit gains, as you can see in Figure 4. This does not include dividends, which may add another 2%, based on current yields. Even though this is likely to come with volatility including a possible recession and bear market along the way, this performance would be substantially better than the next 10 years of low single-digit gains of 2–3% suggested by current values for bonds in Figure 5. LPL Financial LPL Financial While the relationships highlighted over the past 25 years in Figures 4 and 5 are compelling, the longer-term look back in Figures 6 and 7 show that the predictive relationship of valuation and performance has worked consistently in the many different economic, political, and demographic environments of the 20th Century—and into the 21st as well. The Barclays Aggregate Bond Index does not go all the way back to the early or middle part of the 20th Century, so instead we have used intermediate-term government bonds as a proxy for all high-quality bonds. LPL Financial LPL Financial New investors in the stock market and those that have participated for many years can take heart. While a great five years of stock market performance is now behind us, we have the potential for a good 10 years to look forward to based on predictive relationships that have withstood the test of time. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
NewsweekHere's where we are in the movie-like saga of Satoshi Nakamoto, a 64-year-old Japanese American living in Temple City, California who reportedly created the world's foremost cryptocurrency. After two months of investigation, Leah McGrath Goodman reported for Newsweek's highly-hyped relaunch issue that she had found the man behind Bitcoin, the elusive Satoshi Nakamoto. For years, people were basically certain it was a pseudonym. Which, as Goodman notes in her story, made it all the more strange when she found him more or less by looking up people who were named Satoshi Nakamoto (he goes by Dorian, but his given name is Satoshi). Goodman's story ignited a media frenzy. For hours, reporters camped out of Nakamoto's home — humble digs for a supposed multi-millionaire — until he emerged to grab sushi with an AP journalist. The throng of reporters tailed Nakamoto's Prius on his way to lunch, making this the digital currency world's White Bronco moment. Then, in the AP's story, Nakamoto denied he had anything to do with Bitcoin. But people had been poking holes in Goodman's story since it ran. Here are the unanswered questions. Aside from Goodman's circumstantial evidence, the biggest problem is obviously that her subject is denying the veracity of her story. "In an exclusive two-hour interview with The Associated Press, Dorian S. Nakamoto, 64, said he had never heard of Bitcoin until his son told him he had been contacted by a reporter three weeks ago," reported the AP's Ryan Nakashima. Today, The Wall Street Journal extended the doubt to Nakamoto's family members: One of Mr. Nakamoto's siblings, Tokuo Nakamoto, said his brother was talented in science and mathematics, but that he doubted he was bitcoin's creator. "I don't think he is hiding anything. I don't think he's that smart," he said. "He has never been a chief scientist or a chief engineer." It stands to reason that the founder of Bitcoin wouldn't want people to know about it. He'd be worth an absolute fortune. But as Goodman reported, the smoking gun is the short exchange she had with Nakamoto outside his home. From the story: "I am no longer involved in that and I cannot discuss it,” he says, dismissing all further queries with a swat of his left hand. “It’s been turned over to other people. They are in charge of it now. I no longer have any connection.” "No longer." Boom, she had her confirmation. In an interview with BI's Rob Wile, Goodman described how she got that quote: I let [Nakamoto] know I was coming, I did all I could to be really open. When I did come, I left him a Bitcard [a Bitcoin gift card — ed.] endorsed by Gavin. I came back two hours later, knocked on the door, and he called the cops.  But when they got there they said, "Oh what did you want to say?" I said, "I want to talk to him about Bitcoin," and it turned out they wanted to hear what he had to say — they were just like "Oh really?" It ended up that I was able to ask a few things ... It was his response to me that made it clear — if I weren't the founder I'd be like, "That's very amusing, I run a bagel shop." As the AP noted, Nakamoto doesn't speak perfect English. Is it possible the exchange was lost in translation? Could Goodman have extrapolated more from "no longer" than she should have? Or did a shrewd reporter catch the Bitcoin mastermind off guard. Was this a brief moment of truth, and now he's desperately trying to walk it back by playing the "confused old man" con? Here's a video of Nakamoto speaking with the AP. He seems pretty clear, but at one point he mispronounces "Bitcoin" as "bitcom." Slip of the tongue or a serious Keyser Söze maneuver? Hard to say.  The Reddit Bitcoin community also pointed out that the "real" Satoshi's writing style doesn't seem to match this man's at all. Here's a side-by-side image getting passed around: bh3244/redditThere are other unanswered questions. Last night, a social account known to have been used by the Bitcoin-creating Satoshi reemerged after five years of dormancy (by the user himself) to deny the Newsweek report. Of course, that could be our 64-year-old Nakamoto too. Felix Salmon thinks Goodman's interaction with a police officer in the piece is also a little too perfect: Then there are the duff notes in the piece. “This is the guy who created Bitcoin? It looks like he’s living a pretty humble life.” That, supposedly, is a verbatim quote from a Temple City cop: it’s possible that a cop uttered those words, but that doesn’t stop them from sounding like very bad expository dialogue... ...But the fact is that if you believe that Dorian is Satoshi, you have to accept that there are still a lot of things which don’t really add up. And conversely, if you believe that Dorian is not Satoshi, then you at the very least have to wonder at the astonishing number of coincidences that Goodman has uncovered. Plus there's the fact that the Newsweek story documents Nakamoto's financial difficulties, which presumabely shouldn't happen to a Bitcoin gazillionaire. Again, it's certainly possible that Goodman's story is correct. She told our Rob Wile "I don't have any doubt in my mind," when asked if she really believed Nakamoto was indeed the founder. But there's clearly still more to this story. FREE AppDownload
PIMCO / YouTubeReuters stands by a story it published yesterday that further dented the reputation of embattled PIMCO CEO Bill Gross. Gross, one of the most successful bond investors in history, has come under fire in recent years for expressing questionable economic logic and making a couple of bad calls on the stock and bond markets. More recently, and more damagingly, a Wall Street Journal story portrayed him as an arrogant control freak whose ego and decision-making caused his co-CEO, Mohamed El-Erian, to suddenly quit the firm. In what appears to have been an attempt to limit that damage, Gross got on the phone with Reuters last Friday and, according to Reuters, made some remarks that underscore the depth of his anger with El-Erian and made him sound emotional and paranoid. Specifically, Reuters quoted Gross as saying that El-Erian had basically written the Wall Street Journal article himself and that, when Reuters asked for evidence of this, he accused Reuters of being in the tank with El-Erian, too: "You're on his side. Great, he's got you, too, wrapped around his charming right finger." Reuters also quoted Gross as saying that he was "so sick of Mohamed trying to undermine me" and that he knew El-Erian had spoken to Reuters because he had "monitored" El-Erian's phone calls. PIMCO later denied that Gross said any of what Reuters said he said. And the firm said Gross "categorically denies saying this firm ever listened in on Mr. El-Erian's phone calls."  PIMCO, in other words, is accusing Reuters of being grossly incompetent or worse. So we asked Reuters about that. Reuters sent us the following quote:  “We stand by the fairness and accuracy of our story.” With respect to the spying on phone calls, there's room for both sides to be right. Gross may not have "listened in on" El-Erian's phone calls. Rather, he may have determined that El-Erian spoke to Reuters by looking at phone records. This ex-post-facto phone-record investigation seems paranoid and unbecoming, but perhaps all's fair in love and corporate feuds. The quotes about how Reuters is apparently in the tank for El-Erian, however, sound so undisciplined and emotional as to border on unhinged. This is the CEO of a massive global asset management firm we're talking about. And he's accusing two respected global news organization of being so "charmed" by his former partner that they're unwilling to print the truth?  It's no wonder that PIMCO insists that Gross never said such things. PIMCO declined to comment. SEE ALSO: Bill Gross Says He's Sick Of El-Erian Trying To "Undermine" Him FREE AppDownload
For the last several weeks, activist investor Carl Icahn has been waging a written war against eBay's board of directors. In particular, he's been attacking the ethics of venture capitalist Marc Andreessen. Andreessen keeps firing back with his own biting responses. Today, he's published another. In a blog post, he's written that according to Icahn's current logic, Ichan would have been horrified at Icahn's own business ethics back in 2005.  Icahn's original accusation was that Andreessen is not loyal to eBay due to too many conflicts of interest.  His main evidence is that Andreessen's VC firm profited big time when eBay spun out Skype. Andreessen Horowitz took a stake in Skype following the spin out in 2009 and it made bank when Microsoft bought it at a higher valuation in 2011. Icahn believes that Andreessen wasn't a good eBay board member because as an investor he had dual loyalties. He doesn't think that Andreessen ever should have bought a stake in eBay. Today, Andreessen is using Icahn's own history against him. Back in 2005, Icahn was on the board of a company called XO, and yet he then purchased $700 million worth of the business. The company was going to use that money to pay its debts and buy back its preferred stock. But at the time, Icahn also owned the companies that controlled all $213 million worth of XO’s preferred stock, so XO would essentially be paying that money back to him. Icahn was buyer and seller, debtor and creditor. Without saying it outright, Andreessen is pointing out that what Icahn did in the 2005 XO deal is much more ethically questionable than what he did with Skype.  Here's the full blog post: Carl Icahn 2014, on eBay: “I have never seen what looks to me to be such blatant disregard for fiduciary obligations to stockholders.”  Carl Icahn 2005, according to the Washington Post:  Carl Icahn is chairman of the board of XO and owns more than 60 percent of the company, a telecom-crash survivor that provides telephone and data communications services for businesses, using conventional wires and new-generation wireless hookups. Just over a week ago, XO announced it is selling the wired part of its business for $700 million. Selling it to . . . Carl Icahn. XO said it will use most of the $700 million it gets from Icahn to pay back its debts and buy back its preferred stock. Debt and stock owned by . . . Carl Icahn. Companies he owns and controls hold all $213 million worth of XO’s preferred stock and more than 90 percent of its $392 million in debt, XO financial reports show. The bottom line is that Icahn &amp; company will give $700 million to XO. Then XO will give $600 million of that back to Icahn. He will end up owning XO’s traditional wired phone business outright. And he will still own his 60 percent stake in what’s left of XO. Buyer and seller, debtor and creditor, Icahn’s simultaneous roles may sound like potential conflicts of interest. But in Securities and Exchange Commission filings, XO explains that a special committee of its board of directors weighed Icahn’s bid and declared it the best of the offers the company got for its wired business. Investment bankers determined Icahn’s offer to be “fair.” The stockholders will have the final say — they must vote on the transaction before it can go through. Of course, stockholder approval is a foregone conclusion. As the company noted in one of its filings, “Mr. Icahn owns sufficient shares of our common stock . . . to assure the approval and adoption” of what he wants to do. And the directors named by Icahn hired the investment bankers who put their stamp of approval on his offer. XO referred questions about Icahn’s role in all these maneuvers to his office in New York; Icahn did not respond. Disclosure: Marc Andreessen, co-founder of Andreessen Horowitz, is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
FacebookAfter every crisis, someone has to pick up the pieces. In the financial world, the cleanup crew often involves hedge funds and private equity firms that understand how to deal with distressed assets — how to restructure them, and make things shiny and new again. You would think those funds would be quite busy over the last five years given the global financial crisis and subsequent European sovereign debt crisis, but they haven't. That changed in February, though, when distressed focused hedge funds posted their best returns in two years, according to research firm eVestment. They've produced the second best average returns of 2014 so far, at 3.57%. That's after activist hedge funds, who've returned an average of 3.91%. "We saw improvement in sectors that have benefitted from the evolution of the market since February," said Peter Laurelli, a VP and head of research at eVestment. More specifically, Laurelli points to a turn around in the fortunes of emerging markets. At the beginning of the year, countries like Turkey, Argentina, and China were getting killed in the market. Since then, they've stabilized, and they make up a healthy portion of the distressed space. Another reason why this space is improving is that investments that were made last year are starting to play out quite nicely.  Investors allocated heavily to distressed funds in the second half of 2013 (to the tune of $4.3 billion) and now we're seeing how that money was put to work, especially with funds focused on turn-around situations and taking advantage of mispriced assets in securitized credit markets.  This great news for firms like Blackstone — which raised a $4 billion fund to invest in the distressed space in Europe back in 2009 — and for Avenue Capital, the hedge fund founded by billionaire Marc Lasry, which raised a European distressed fund in 2012. According to Bloomberg, deals in that space have surged as well. Nice to know things are going to look a little more tidy around here.   FREE AppDownload
Copper prices are down 3.4% to $3.11 a pound. Copper prices had picked up earlier this week but are down now. Remember, copper is considered an important gauge of economic health. China had its first domestic bond default on Friday. "I think the China default sparking some forward credit concerns," said Dave Lutz, head of ETF trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus. Precious metals are down too. Gold is down 1.6% and silver is down 3.6% after a better-than-expected jobs report. Here's a look at sharp tumble in copper prices today: Fin Viz FREE AppDownload
Last night, Dorian Prentice Satoshi Nakamoto told the AP that he is not the Satoshi Nakamoto listed as the creator of Bitcoin. That is contrary to a Newsweek cover story reported by Leah McGrath Goodman, along with at least two forensic analysts, arguing that he is. Now, the "real Satoshi" may have surfaced to further confirm he is not Dorian Nakamoto. Last night, a social network account known to have been used by the Satoshi credited with Bitcoin suddenly came alive after nearly five years of dormancy (by the user himself). Here is what was written: P2PFoundationThe social network is called Ning, and it's used on the Peer2Peer Foundation's site.  Josef Davies-Coates, the creator of Ning, confirmed that whoever has access to the Satoshi account there uses the same email address listed on the original Bitcoin spec paper. proof reg'd email of #SatoshiNakamoto on @P2P_Foundation @Ning same as one in #bitcoin paper https://t.co/5WFdE087x1 pic.twitter.com/kNkaEtdcDq It remains possible Dorian Nakamoto could be the person with access to the account, and is just confusing everyone. FREE AppDownload
BloombergTV via YouTubeThe Wall Street Journal's Gregory Zuckerman and Kirsten Grind had the story of the month in February with their inside account of trouble at PIMCO, Bill Gross's behemoth bond shop. The story showed how Bill Gross often clashed with Mohamed El-Erian — the departing CEO — and called himself "Secretariat" after the undefeated race horse. On Thursday, Reuters' Jennifer Ablan reported that Bill Gross said he had evidence El-Erian wrote the story himself in order to "undermine" him. The Wall Street Journal denied the claim in a statement to Business Insider (also given to Reuters): "This is an astoundingly incorrect claim about a thoroughly reported article that was in the best tradition of The Wall Street Journal," a spokesperson said. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) Following this morning's release of the February jobs report, rate hikes are back on the market's agenda. Over the past several months, there has been a growing sentiment in the investment community and in policy circles that despite unprecedented weakness in certain areas of the labor market — long-term unemployment, for example — overall labor market slack is disappearing as the unemployment rate falls, and the Federal Reserve is probably getting closer to considering hiking short-term interest rates than Fed officials want observers to believe. "You can argue that maybe the Fed has convinced investors of their commitment to low policy rates and a slow pace of policy rate increase in 2015 and beyond, but we find a lot of skepticism among investors that there is as much slack out there as the Fed has indicated," said Steven Englander, global head of G10 FX strategy at Citi, before this morning's release. "In fact, we think that a solid [nonfarm payrolls number] either in Friday's release or next month's will cause investor fears of Fed tightening to [rise] back up sharply." Sure enough, the market's knee-jerk reaction has been to move up the timeline for rate hikes this morning in the wake of the release. Money-market yields implied by 3-month eurodollar futures are up sharply, as are long-term interest rates — like the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note, which is currently trading at 2.81%, seven basis points above Thursday's closing levels. The Fed tightening trade had been derailed since shortly after the turn of the year by the recent slowdown in economic activity, much of which has been attributed to one of the worst winters on record in terms of bad weather. Investors betting on higher interest rates were forced to close out of costly short positions and wait out the weather until signs of clarity in the economic data emerged. Although the monthly jobs report is noisy and subject to large revisions, a few items in the February release may provide hints that the labor market is poised to re-accelerate as the blizzards recede. Namely, the headline number of workers hired to nonfarm payrolls in February, at 175,000, was well above the Street's consensus forecast of 149,000, despite poor results from private-sector surveys released earlier in the week that suggested the risks were to the downside headed into today's release. Meanwhile, the unemployment rate ticked up to 6.7% from 6.6% — but 601,000 were unable to work due to weather, almost double the historical February average of 317,000. That figure implies a lower unemployment rate, discounted for weather effects. Perhaps most significant were the data on wages contained in the jobs report. Average hourly earnings of private-sector nonsupervisory employees rose 2.5% from a year earlier in February — a fresh cycle high. "Given the uncertainty there is about how much slack is left in the U.S. labour market, this should be ringing alarm bells all over the place," says Kit Juckes, a global strategist at Société Générale. And the market's reaction so far this morning has been to push yields higher across the curve, as today's report is likely to add more fuel to the fire in the debate over how tight the labor market actually is — and by extension, how close the Fed actually is to raising short-term interest rates. FREE AppDownload
The February jobs report is out, and it was solid. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that 175,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls in February, above Wall Street's estimate of 149,000. The unemployment rate climbed to 6.7% from 6.6%. All told, markets are pleased with the report, but it's still a reminder that the U.S. labor market is far from healed. Bill McBride of Calculated Risk runs a chart every month that puts the jobs recovery into better perspective. "This graph shows the job losses from the start of the employment recession, in percentage terms, compared to previous post WWII recessions," writes McBride. "The dotted line is ex-Census hiring. This shows the depth of the recent employment recession — worse than any other post-war recession — and the relatively slow recovery due to the lingering effects of the housing bust and financial crisis." Calculated Risk FREE AppDownload

REUTERS/Joshua RobertsJanet YellenThe February Jobs Report just came out. There are three things you should think about. 1) The Non-Farm Payrolls report was solid. This suggests that the economy was a bit stronger than we thought. 2) But the unemployment rate ticked up, which markets will like, since that gives the Fed some slack. 3) But there was a big gain in average hourly earnings (+0.4%), the strongest in a long time. This is a sign of a tightening labor force, which is something markets have been talking about lately, that the market is tighter than people realize. Bottom line: A solid, goldilocks report that the market will like. But the average hourly earnings is a big story. FREE AppDownload
APThe February jobs report is out, and nonfarm payrolls climbed to 175,000 when 149,000 was expected. The big storyline was if this winter's poor weather had an impact on the report. Indeed it did. 601,000 people in nonagricultural jobs were unable to work due to bad weather, Bloomberg reports. That's the most since 2010. The average for February is 317,000. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sue OgrockiTrading resumed with a flourish in the S&P 500 pit at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, October 26, 1998.The February jobs report is out and the numbers were strong. And the markets are moving. Dow futures were up 71 points. S&amp;P 500 futures were up 8 points. Nasdaq futures were up 12points. Gold is down $13 per ounce. Futures were up marginally ahead of the report. Dow futures were up 12 points, S&amp;P 500 futures were up 1.5 points, and Nasdaq futures were flat. The 5-year yield was at 1.57% and the 10-year yeild was at 2.73%. FREE AppDownload
Flick/Dell IncThe February jobs report is out. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics says 175,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls in February, well above Wall Street's consensus estimate of 149,000. 162,000 of those hires were to private payrolls, above expectations for a 145,000 rise in the ranks of private-sector workers. The unemployment rate unexpectedly rose to 6.7% from 6.6%. Labor force participation was unchanged at 63.0%. 601,000 were unable to work due to inclement weather in February, above the historical February average of 317,000. Average hourly earnings rose 0.4% from the previous month in February, bringing year-over-year hourly earnings growth to 2.2% from 1.9% in January. Economists were predicting a smaller acceleration. Below is a summary of job gains by industry from the BLS release: Employment in professional and business services increased by 79,000 in February. Accounting and bookkeeping services added 16,000 jobs. Employment continued to trend up in temporary help services (+24,000) and in services to buildings and dwellings (+11,000). Over the prior 12 months, professional and business services added an average of 56,000 jobs per month. In February, wholesale trade added 15,000 jobs, with nearly all of the increase occurring in durable goods (+12,000). Over the prior 12 months, the employment gain in wholesale trade averaged 9,000 per month. Employment in food services and drinking places continued to trend up in February (+21,000). Over the prior 12 months, this industry added an average of 27,000 jobs per month. In February, employment in construction changed little (+15,000). Over the past year, construction has added 152,000 jobs. Within the industry, employment in heavy and civil engineering construction rose by 12,000 in February. Employment in health care changed little in February (+10,000). This marks the third consecutive month of little employment change in this industry. Offices of physicians added 8,000 jobs in February. Employment in hospitals changed little over the month but is down by 10,000 over the past 3 months. Retail trade employment changed little in February (-4,000). Among the component industries, a job gain in food and beverage stores (+12,000) was more than offset by declines in electronics and appliance stores (-12,000); sporting goods, hobby, book, and music stores (-9,000); and department stores (-7,000). Over the year, retail trade has added 282,000 jobs. Information lost 16,000 jobs in February. Most of the decline occurred in motion picture and sound recording (-14,000); employment in this industry can be volatile from month to month. Employment in other major industries, including mining and logging, manufacturing, transportation and warehousing, financial activities, and government, changed little over the month. Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERSThe February jobs report is out. The labor force participation rate came in at 63%, the same print as last month. Our Joe Weisenthal summed up the three biggest points — the payrolls number was solid, the unemployment rate ticked up (giving the Fed some slack), and average hourly earnings posted a big gain. FREE AppDownload
Creative ToolsTwitter is bearish on today's jobs report. The median estimate for today's nonfarm payrolls number is 128,000, below the Wall Street consensus estimate of 149,000. The mean estimate is 130,000, and the standard deviation is 29,658. These numbers were calculated from 102 tweets using the hashtag #NFPGuesses through 8:05 AM ET this morning. The top and bottom 10% of responses were thrown out. The jobs report is out at 8:30. Follow the release LIVE on Business Insider » FREE AppDownload
APUkraine Prime Minister Arseniy YatsenyukArseniy Yatsenyuk, prime minister of Ukraine, has told CNBC he is not prepared to make any concessions over Crimea, the region of Ukraine which is at the center of tensions between Russia and the West. Crimea, which is currently part of Ukraine but has a large Russian-speaking population, is holding a referendum on March 16 on whether to become part of Russia in what threatens to be a potentially epoch-making dispute. (Read more: Will Ukraine crisis impact investors?) The threat of military conflict over Crimea has loomed ever larger this week, after troops in Russian army uniforms appeared there. Russia's President Vladimir Putin has claimed that they are local militia who have bought Russian uniforms. "No one will recognize this referendum, apart from maybe North Korea, Syria and Venezuela," Yatsenyuk said. "I want to be very clear—Crimea was, is, and will be an integral part of Ukraine. No concessions. Full stop." (Read more: Vitali Klitschko: Putin worried over Ukraine) The U.S. and Russia seemed to be at loggerheads on Friday, after Putin reiterated his wish to protect the Russian-speaking people of Ukraine, and U.S. President Barack Obama announced asset freezes and visa bans on some Russians and Ukrainians accused of threatening Ukraine's sovereignty. Yatsenyuk, speaking in Kiev, struck a more optimistic note when asked about the possibility of opening negotiations with Russia. He described the situation as "not as bad as we expected and not good as we need to do." (Read more: Putin rebuffs Obama as Ukraine crisis escalates) Yatsenyuk defended his "entirely legitimate" government against Russian claims that it is "fascist." He came to power in February following protests in Kiev against Kremlin-backed Viktor Yanokovych's rule. He pointed out that the government was supported by the majority of members of Ukraine's parliament, and by minorities who are not usually part of Ukraine's government. FREE AppDownload
en.wikipedia.orgFor decades it has seemed as if God has played a great joke on mankind, granting the best fuel reserves to the worst places. Iran, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Turkmenistan – all have been able to run fairly repressive regimes, feeling no need to become open, competitive democracies. As Vladimir Putin has found, if you own the gas which the rich world needs, then you can get away with murder. Consider yesterday’s European Union summit. Leaders agreed, in effect, to be jolly annoyed about Putin’s annexation of Crimea. They may even cut up some oligarchs’ Harrods storecards. But to go much further? Difficult, when Russia is supplying a third of Europe’s gas. As Finland’s Europe minister candidly put it: “There isn’t that much that we could do, at the end of the day. And I think the Russians know that.” Europe is a recession-struck continent dependent on a Kremlin-controlled energy price. Putin cleverly cut Gazprom tariffs to the region last year, ramping up its dependence on Russian gas to record levels. And in so doing, he effectively bought EU foreign policy. He’d find it harder to buy America’s nowadays. As Barack Obama considers his options, he has a substantial new weapon that he is not sure how to deploy. In the last few years, the shale revolution has utterly transformed America’s energy fortunes. When Putin invaded Georgia, it seemed as if the US was running out of natural gas – and George W Bush meekly wondered whether to buy some from Russia. Since then, the shale bonanza has sent American crude output soaring by 60 per cent, taking the country into a thoroughly unexpected era of energy abundance. Its gas prices have fallen by two thirds; factories and jobs are flooding back to former rust belt states. By the end of this decade, America will be exporting more energy than it imports. This is redrawing the global energy map, and the implications go way beyond the economic. If America doesn’t need Arabian oil, why should it spend billions having the US Fifth Fleet keep the peace in the Persian Gulf? Why spill so much blood and treasure in overseas entanglements where no national interest can be found? Why not let Europe sort out its own back yard – and let this debt-addled continent confront the consequences of its failure to pay for a proper military? But events in the Crimea have now added another question: why shouldn’t America use its new-found energy reserves as a weapon? It would be easy enough to do. If Barack Obama were to export more of this gas, he could send world prices to the floor – hurting not just the Kremlin, but the oligarchs who support Putin. Of all the weapons in America’s arsenal, its new energy power is perhaps what the Kremlin fears most. Russia is, in effect, a giant gas company with a military attached to it. Moscow’s interests are synonymous with that of its state-owned gas concerns, which explains much of its bizarre foreign policy. Why should Putin have protected Bashar Assad when he was gassing his own people? We were reminded of the answer on Christmas Day, when Russia signed a 25-year deal with the Assad regime, handing the state-controlled energy firm Soyuzneftegaz a chunk of the Levant Basin. In this way, Assad’s Syria has joined Putin’s virtual empire. This is why hawks in Washington are not content with Obama deploying F-16 fighters to Poland, and are urging him to retaliate with robust pipeline politics. A Texan congressman, Ted Poe, yesterday introduced a Bill that would speed up the delivery of American gas to Ukraine and other threatened regions. John Boehner, the Republican Speaker of the House, is telling Obama his prevaricating over gas export licenses has helped Putin “to finance his geopolitical goals”. The fuel hawks are clear: energy has strategic value, and Obama’s failure to use it has emboldened the enemy. Another weapon the president might deploy is approving the Keystone XL pipeline, which would take oil to coastal refineries, ready for export. Then he could lift the ban on exporting crude oil, which has lingered since the crisis of the Seventies. He could fast-track the 15 gas export terminals still waiting for planning approval, to send supplies to America’s allies. All of these demands have been made, for years, in the name of cheaper energy. The Greens protested, as did those who feared exports would make fuel pricy again. But only now does exporting energy seem like an essential tool of American statecraft – a weapon in a new cold war. It’s not hard to guess what Hillary Clinton, favourite to be the next US president, would do. When she was Obama’s secretary of state, she spotted early on the chance to exploit American oil. The word “energy” was mentioned 81 times in her Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review, which proposed building a Bureau of Energy Resources “to unite our diplomatic and programmatic efforts”. This bureau has been working away behind the scenes and is credited for helping Ukraine reduce its dependence on Russian energy – although not, as it turned out, fast enough. The hawks can argue that America’s new weapon has already been used to great effect – on Iran. The recent sanctions, credited with forcing the ayatollahs to the negotiating table, only worked because the US had so much energy. Not so long ago, if 1.5 million barrels a day of Iranian oil were taken off the market, prices would spike – hurting everyone. But this time, America was able to persuade its allies that it would increase production, keeping prices stable. When the US threatened deeper cuts to Iranian exports, the ayatollahs blinked. Without the shale revolution, such a gambit would not have been possible. So after Tehran, should Moscow be the next testing ground for America’s E-Bomb? Obama is a naturally cautious president, and here he has much to be cautious about. He is being asked, in effect, to behave like the Russians – and explicitly use energy as a diplomatic trump card. This risks making any future development of America’s energy industry look like a hostile act. Also, Putin would respond, which would hurt his European allies a lot more than it would hurt America. As yesterday’s summit showed, Germany has no appetite for confronting the Kremlin. Even conservative Die Welt declared that “the West should embrace Putin”. The shale revolution, and its awesome implications, have taken most of Washington by surprise – it was unforeseen, even six years ago. And in six years’ time, America will have overtaken Saudi Arabia as the world’s top supplier of hydrocarbons, with all the extra clout that will bring. Ten years after that, it will be completely self-sufficient – a development that may transform world politics as profoundly as the collapse of the Berlin Wall. But for now, the Ukraine crisis will have served to remind Obama that America is not – yet – ready to use its energy glut to full effect. It doesn’t have the export apparatus, and is only beginning to learn how to use the extra leverage. But it is, at least, far clearer now why America needs the ability to pump out far more gas when it’s needed – and this, in itself, should focus Russian minds. Like the Cold War, the principle will be that of deterrence. Putin will be less likely to strike if he realizes that, next time, America and its new energy industry will be ready for him. Fraser Nelson is the Editor of 'The Spectator’  FREE AppDownload
REUTERSDave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a summary of what traders are talking about ahead of today's big jobs report. Good Morning! US futures are slightly higher, and we have light trading in Europe ahead of US Jobs Report. Aside from a one hour phone call between Obama and Putin that yielded no momentum – things were very quiet on the Ukraine front. Ukraine’s FX is acting well early, and Russia’s equity market is up 1%, despite the heavy RSX put buying yesterday. In Europe, the DAX is off 1% in light trading, weighed down by their industrials. The Nikkei hits a 5week high, gaining 1%, while Shanghai was up small, despite their first corporate bond default in recent memory. As we have been discussing, India stocks remain on a sharp upward trajectory as elections are viewed as a positive catalyst – the Sensex closed at a record high overnight, gaining almost 2%. Overall Materials and Property stocks are giving back some recent ground globally, while Financials continue their upward momentum.The 10YY is off small, after being rejected from the 100dma again overnight. The Yen has a slight bid to it, but the 2 FX that are the story this week are keeping their upward trajectory: The € is leaping further, hitting new 2 ½ year highs against the Dollar, and the shift back towards risk was evident in Sydney, where the Australian dollar jumped to a three-month high overnight. The DXY has smashed under the 80 level, providing a big tailwind for commodities – that said Copper is off 2% (China Credit Concerns), and Nat Gas is giving some back in the USA. Oil has a bid to it, after WTI bounced near the $100 level yesterday, while it’s discount to Brent has narrowed back towards the $6 level. The AG complex is en fuego – with Coffee, Corn, Wheat, Soy and Cotton all 1%+ higher. The main event today will be Employment in the States at 8:30 – with the weather providing a big skew – We also get Trade Balance at 8:30 – There is no POMO operation today – we have Dudley (done) speaking at 12pmET and Bernanke delivers comments at 12:30pm – followed by Consumer Credit at 3pm. Reminder, we have daylight savings this weekend in the States! FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ David McNewIs this the man behind the coin?Good morning! Here's what you need to know. It's jobs day in America. The monthly report will come out at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists estimate that U.S. companies added 149,000 to nonfarm payrolls in February, up from the prior print of 113,000, and that the unemployment rate stayed unchanged at 6.6%. "The market appears to be set up for a weak number, and a disappointing report will be taken with a grain of salt," said TD Securities' Millan Mulraine. "Hiring in February looks unlikely to have snapped the recent slowdown," said Wells Fargo's John Silvia. "Another winter storm hit the Southeast and Northeast during the survey week, which is likely to have curtailed hiring over the period." Will the real Satoshi Nakamoto please stand up? Yesterday, Newsweek dropped a bombshell report outing Satoshi Nakamoto, the creator of Bitcoin, the prominent digital crypto-currency. According to Newsweek's Leah McGrath Goodman, Satoshi Nakamoto is 64-year-old Japanese American man living outside Los Angeles. His name is indeed Satoshi Nakamoto, once thought to be a pseudonym. Later in the afternoon, Nakomoto emerged from his house — which was surrounded by reporters — to have lunch with a journalist from the AP. The AP's story conflicted Goodman's account. Nakamoto had nothing to do with Bitcoin and had never even heard of it before his son was contacted by Newsweek three weeks ago, he told the AP. Newsweek stood by it story. Everyone is still confused. Bill Gross vs. Mohamed El-Erian. Things got feistier between the two former PIMCO colleagues — Gross still heads the bond fund while El-Erian just had a high-profile exit — after Gross told Reuters that El-Erian is trying to "undermine" him in the press. Gross said that El-Erian "wrote" a damning account in the Wall Street Journal himself. And when Reuters pushed back on that assertion, Gross accused the news organization of also favoring El-Erian. Gross also suggested that he had been monitoring El-Erian's phone calls. Then PIMCO said the Reuters article was wrong. Putin brushes off the west. The Russian president spoke with President Obama over the Russian incursion into Crimea. He said that "Russia cannot ignore calls for help and it acts accordingly, in full compliance with international law." Also, Russian parliament will support the region's bid to join Russia, the speaker said. We'll get trade balance data at 8:30 a.m. Economists think the trade deficit widened to $38.5 billion in January. "We anticipate a widening of the trade deficit in January due to a pickup in imports," wrote Citi's Peter D'Antonio. "January is a month when imports typically decline, yet customs duties increased in the month, suggesting a sizable rise in the seasonally adjusted figure. Our forecast actually includes a pullback in oil imports reflecting a decline in price." At 3:00 p.m., consumer credit will be released. Economists predict consumer credit balances expanded by $14 billion in January. "After rising by $18.8bn in December, we forecast that total US consumer credit outstanding rose by $13.0bn in January," wrote Barclays' economists. "As has been the case in the past few years, this would largely reflect steady growth in the nonrevolving component, specifically in federal student loans; over the course of 2013, nonrevolving credit rose by over $165bn, while revolving credit increased only $16bn." Global markets were mixed in overnight trading. Japan's Nikkei climbed 0.92% and Korea's KOSPI fell 0.05%. European markets were broadly lower, with Germany the most off the mark. U.S. futures were roughly flat. German manufacturing lights up. Industrial orders in the country jumped 1.2% in January, double the forecast from economists. "Industrial orders started the new year well, despite a small volume of big-ticket orders... The strongest momentum is coming from abroad, from both within and outside the euro zone. Domestic demand is also developing positively, at a slightly more modest pace," the economy ministry said in a statement. Finra strips red flags on its brokers. A new WSJ report from Jean Eaglesham and Rob Barry shows that the Wall Street regulator "routinely" removes red flags on brokers from its database. Investors can look up brokers on a Finra database, but according to the Public Investors Arbitration Bar Association, the regulator was "scrubbing potential black marks from the information it provided to investors," the Journal reports. China sees its first domestic corporate bond default. Solar-equipment maker Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science and Technology Company did not meet interest payments on a bond, becoming the first Chinese company to default on a bond traded in the mainland, the WSJ reports. "Defaults of some debt products are not on a similar scale to a collapse of a major financial institution," Patrick Chovanec at Silvercrest Asset Management told Business Insider in January. "As we think corporate bonds and incoming trust loan defaults will not lead to a credit crunch, and we are reasonably confident with our 7.6% GDP growth forecast for this year." FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business Insider  After months of research, debate, and more research, Business Insider is proud to present our annual Silicon Valley 100, the authoritative ranking of the people who matter most in Silicon Valley. The list covers people who backed promising companies and saw big exits; were star executives; created new, interesting things; changed entire industries; and made industry-defining acquisitions or took their companies public. In sum, these people aren't riding on old reputations. All of them did something of note since our last installment in February 2013, and they won big. And if you feel that we missed someone, tell us — we're not all-knowing, and we love telling stories about amazing people. In A-Z Order » The Complete List 1-100 » Acknowledgments Thanks to our many readers who took the time to send us nominations. The Silicon Valley 100 was assembled by Megan Rose Dickey, Jillian D'Onfro, Alyson Shontell, Jim Edwards, and Steve Kovach. Copy editing by Elizabeth Wilke and Jill Klausen. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/suckamcThe coffee hit is an essential start to the day for millions of people around the world each morning. Australians spent almost $800 million on over two billion cups of coffee last year – and that’s just the start of the caffeine habit. But like all drugs, overuse of caffeine has risks. According to Food Standards Australia New Zealand, a regular flat white could have as much as 282mg of caffeine in one serving. Studies show more than 400mg per day can put a person at risk of adverse effects. So after your double shot in the morning and your Coke with lunch, you may be doing more damage to your body than you realise. Here are 20 dangers of partial and total caffeine overdose, in order from the first symptoms to be exhibited to the severe, later stage ones. 1. Increased heartbeat Caffeine acts as a stimulant on the central nervous system, increasing your heart rate. This can be expected as soon as 15 minutes after ingesting.Energy drinks: health risks and toxicity 2. Heartburn/ RefluxCaffeine has been shown to relax the esophagus, contributing to gastroesophageal reflux. This can either cause or exacerbate heartburn in susceptible individuals.Neuropsychiatric effects of caffeine 3. Jitters/ RestlessnessCaffeine stimulates hormones, such as adrenaline, sending your body into jitters and tremors.Energy drinks: health risks and toxicity 4. AnxietyThe stimulant effect on the body form caffeine such as increased heart rate, increased adrenaline hormones and heightened senses, can cause an overwhelming sensation in some people causing them feel anxious.Neuropsychiatric effects of caffeine 5. Muscle Twitches and SpasmsA high volume or prolonged use of caffeine in the body can cause the muscles in the body to cramp or move erratically.Energy drinks: health risks and toxicity 6. Rambling Thought and SpeechAlong with many of your other senses, speech and thought speed up in response to the stimulant in caffeine. While this can be very useful for concentration, too much can cause confusion and stuttering.Neuropsychiatric effects of caffeine 7. Heart palpitationsCaffeine stimulates the central nervous system, it speeds up the heart rate and cause the heart to flutter or palpitate.Energy drinks: health risks and toxicity 8. DiuresisCaffeine increases the need to urinate because it increases blood flow through the kidneys and dilates the blood vessels hence making the kidneys produce more waste.Neuropsychiatric effects of caffeine 9. Gastrointestinal disturbanceCaffeine acts like a laxative, by increasing contraction in the small and large intestinal muscles. This can cause pre-digested food to move into the intestine, triggering stomach cramps.Energy drinks: health risks and toxicity 10. DehydrationPersistent diarrhea and urination can lead to dehydration, which can upset the body’s fluid balance depleting it of the water, vitamins and minerals it needs to order to function.Neuropsychiatric effects of caffeine 11. InsomniaCaffeine inhibits the activity of a neurotransmitter called Adenosine. Adenosine is one of your brain’s natural tranquilizers. It puts you to sleep when levels are high enough. By inhibiting Adenosine activity, caffeine inhibits your ability to fall asleep.Energy drinks: health risks and toxicity 12. HeadachesThe combination of diuretic and stimulant pulsing through the body causes the receptors in the brain to become overloaded and leads to a headache.Energy drinks: health risks and toxicity 13. HallucinationsHallucinations are believed to occur when an overdose of caffeine causes the body to become stressed. This is a result of high adrenaline levels and stimulant.Energy Drinks and the Neurophysiological Impact of Caffeine 14. AddictionCaffeine addiction or dependence begins because it originally creates the alert feeling that caffeine drinkers crave, and later becomes a chemical that the body needs to prevent going through withdrawals such as headaches, lethargy and depression.A critical review of caffeine withdrawal: empirical validation of symptoms and signs, incidents, severity and associated features 15. Increase Blood PressureCaffeine causes your adrenal glands to release more adrenaline, which causes your blood pressure to increase.Energy drinks: health risks and toxicity 16. Stomach UlcersCaffeine speeds up the process of gastric emptying, which may result in highly acidic stomach contents passing into the small intestine more rapidly than normal causing injury or ulcers.Effects Of Caffeine And Coffee On Heartburn, Acid Reflux, Ulcers And GERD 17. Cardiac arrestAn increased blood pressure from high caffeine intake and the effects of the stimulant on the cardio-vascular system can have a devastating outcome for people with weak hearts.Caffeine Intake in Relation to the Risk of Primary Cardiac Arrest 18. ComaWhen a person consumes too much caffeine, they go into what is known as caffeine intoxication where they become confused and disoriented. This is when a caffeine coma can occur, as well as seizures.Tachycardia, Intoxication, and Coma: The Physiological Effects of Caffeine on Daphnia magna and Humans 19. DeathPeople with caffeine sensitivities can died from caffeine overdose. While achieving a lethal dose of caffeine would be difficult with regular coffee, high doses with caffeine pills are a known cause of many caffeine overdoses.Massive caffeine ingestion resulting in death This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe euro sign landmark is seen at the headquarters of the European Central Bank (ECB) in FrankfurtFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Banks will return 11.401 billion euros ($15.78 billion) in crisis loans to the European Central Bank next week, more than six times than the amount that was expected, accelerating the drain of extra cash out of the euro zone financial system. The amount banks will repay on March 12 beat this week's repayments of 3.012 billion euros and is more than the 2.1 billion forecast in a Reuters poll. &lt;ECB/REFI&gt; It is the largest repayment since the end of last year, when banks returned large chunks of the long-term loans they took from the ECB in late 2011 and early 2012 to ride out a credit crunch. Many banks used the cheap funds to buy higher-yielding government debt and next week's hefty repayment could be "mainly related to the expiring of some short-dated Italian bonds in early March", Annalisa Piazza, analyst at Newedge Strategy, said. The euro hit a 2014 high of 1.3892 after the release of the repayment figures. The year-end marked a cut-off point for an ECB snapshot of banks' balance sheets that it will assess this year and in the run up to the so-called asset-quality review, banks shed assets, such as loans. The speed with which banks have been repaying the three-year loans has picked up over recent weeks again as confidence returned and banks began to rely less on central bank funding. With banks repaying ECB crisis loans, the amount of excess liquidity, the amount of money banks have beyond what they need for their day-to-day operations, is falling. It stood at 112 billion euros on Friday, the lowest level since late 2011, just before the ECB flooded the market with its cheap loans. Excess liquidity peaked in early 2012 at around 800 billion euros. ECB Executive Board member Benoit Coeure said last month market participants were learning to adapt to an environment of less excess liquidity, "learning their way back to normality". On Friday, the ECB said six banks would repay 3.133 billion euros from the first LTRO on March 12, and eight banks would pay back 8.268 billion from the second LTRO. ($1 = 0.7225 euros) (Reporting by Frankfurt newsroom) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michael SohnWASHINGTON (AP) — Underlying talk about taking harsh punitive measures against Russia for its military incursion into Ukraine are economic complications and worries that sanctions levied against Moscow could backfire on the U.S. and Europe. Heavier U.S. and European Union sanctions could sting Russia's already slow-growing economy and hurt its financial sector. But Moscow could retaliate and seize American and other foreign assets or cut exports of natural gas to Europe, which is heavily dependent on Russia for energy. Declaring his determination not to let the Kremlin carve up Ukraine, President Barack Obama on Thursday slapped new visa restrictions on Russian and other opponents of Ukraine's government in Kiev and authorized wider financial penalties against those involved in the military intervention or in stealing state assets. Obama emphasized his resolve in an hourlong telephone call with Russian President Vladimir Putin, affirming his contention that Russia's actions violate Ukraine's sovereignty. On Capitol Hill, both chambers of Congress looked to advance legislation imposing hard-hitting sanctions on Russia. Obama hailed U.S. cooperation with the European Union, which on Thursday suspended talks with Putin's government on a wide-ranging economic agreement and on granting Russian citizens visa-free travel within the 28-nation bloc. But Europe's presidents and prime ministers remain divided on taking more drastic steps such as freezing assets and issuing travel bans on Russian officials. European hesitancy reflected the reality that targeting influential Russian businessmen or major Russian companies would also harm Europe's economic interests. U.S. trade with Russia is less than one-tenth of Europe's. Russian investors hold assets worth billions in European banks, particularly in Britain which is highly protective of its financial sector, and major exporters such as Germany and the Netherlands have far more at stake than the United States in Russia's consumer economy. Showing greater caution than Obama on sanctions, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said European penalties against Russia depend "on how the diplomatic process progresses." EU President Herman Van Rompuy said travel bans, asset freezes and the cancellation of an EU-Russia summit could still come. Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk acknowledged "no enthusiasm" in Europe for economic sanctions. In some ways, the debate over sanctions echoes the Cold War doctrine of military strategy in which if two opponents fired off nuclear weapons, both sides would be annihilated. "There is a kind of mutually assured destruction relationship here," said Steven Pifer, a former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine and analyst at the Brookings Institution think tank in Washington. "Russia could say, 'Well, we're going to cut off your gas and you guys can now scramble and buy extra gas and pay big prices.' "It would hurt the Europeans, but it also would cut off the biggest source of cash that flows into Russia today," he said referring to oil and gas sales that account for about 60 percent of Russia's exports and half of its government revenue. "So the Russians may threaten some things, but they also have to consider that if they do that what it would do to the Russian economy." The State Department sought to allay fears that Europe might find itself short on Russian gas. "We understand that European gas inventories are well-above normal levels, due to a milder than usual winter, and could replace a loss of Russian exports for several months, if necessary," said State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki. "Naturally, we take the energy security of our friends very seriously." House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, saw an opening for U.S. gas producers. He called on Obama to fast-track approval of U.S. exports of liquefied natural gas, claiming the Energy Department has a slow approval process that amounts to a de facto ban on American natural gas exports. "We should not force our allies to remain dependent on Putin for their energy needs," Boehner said. Ariel Cohen, an expert on Russian and Eurasian affairs at the Heritage Foundation in Washington, said he doesn't know if the Europeans would be willing to impose tough sanctions, particularly against Russia's banking and financial systems. Even if the Europeans don't, the U.S. needs to take the lead or risk allowing Russia to alter current world order, he said. "Either we take a lead or the international system goes back to the chaos and high-risk levels that existed before World War I and between World War I and World War II," he said. "This is very serious. I cannot emphasize that enough. People who talk about 'Oh, we won't get cheap gas from Russia' or 'The Russians will get angry' — they do not look at it beyond the current geopolitical and international order." If Russia grabs Crimea, Iran would be less willing to give up an ability to develop nuclear arms. "The message to Iran would be: If you have nuclear weapons you will not be attacked, your regime will be intact. If you don't have nuclear weapons, your regime can be toppled and pieces of your territory can be taken away." As a result of its move into Ukraine, Cohen said Russia already has lost billions in its stock market drop and devaluation of the Russian ruble. It also stands to lose from a decline in tourism and future energy sales if European nations decide it's time to reduce their dependence on Russian gas and buy it from North Africa, Qatar, Nigeria and the U.S. For the U.S., the worst that can happen is that Russia will partially seize assets of companies like Coca-Cola, Boeing or Pepsi, he said. But that also would make Russia's investment climate more difficult than it already is because of arbitrary rules, corruption and hard to understand taxation. "It's not clear how nasty Russian retaliation might be, but the main thing is not punishment," Cohen said. "The main thing for both sides is to have sanity prevail — to get into a negotiating process. We need to walk this baby back, put it in a box and put it away." ___ Associated Press writers Julie Pace and Matthew Lee in Washington, Juergen Baetz and Mike Corder in Brussels and Yuras Karmanau in Simferopol, Ukraine, contributed to this report. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alex KuzminUkraine's acting President Oleksander Turchinov attends a parliament session in Kiev February 28, 2014.After losing control of Crimea, Ukraine's embattled new government is turning to the nation's oligarchs to stamp out the flames of separatism in the mainly Russian-speaking east. The fledgling leadership has appointed tycoons to head up the Donetsk and Dnipropetrovsk regions -- once bastions of support for Kremlin-backed former president Viktor Yanukovych. The 58-year-old leader of the Industrial Union of Donbass, Sergiy Taruta, is the new governor in the rust belt region of Donetsk, which has been in upheaval since Yanukovych fled to Russia. Taruta's net worth is estimated by Forbes magazine at $600 million (435 million euros) and his nomination has been supported by Rinat Akhmetov, the wealthiest man in Ukraine. The influential Akhmetov himself helped bankroll Yanukovych's Regions Party and like Yanukovych is a Donetsk native. But he has been quick to distance himself from the ousted president. Akhmetov has called the use of external force in Ukraine "unacceptable" -- a reference to the de facto takeover of the Crimea peninsula by Russian forces over the past week. In Dnipropetrovsk, the new governor is Igor Kolomoiski, 51, who is co-owner of the powerful Private banking and metal industry holding. A leader of Ukraine's Jewish community, Kolomoiski is worth $2.4 billion. With that kind of money, analysts say, it is hardly surprising that business leaders in the country have an interest in stability. "The oligarchs have every interest in maintaining the sovereignty of Ukraine. Under (Russian President Vladimir) Putin, they would lose their power and their business," Taras Berezovets, a political expert, told AFP.  - Putin 'has gone mad' - The two tycoons said they were accepting the governor posts to counter Russia's plan to spread its influence in southern and eastern Ukraine. Kolomoiski in particular has been vocal in his opposition, saying: "Putin is not normal." "He has gone mad with his mission to re-establish the Russian empire," he said. "Separatism will not pass in Dnipropetrovsk," Kolomoiski has said, adding: "This risks provoking a catastrophe on a global level." Putin himself responded by calling Kolomoiski "garbage" and a "scoundrel". Taruta said a decision by the Russian parliament authorising Putin to use force in Ukraine was "horrible" and stressed that Ukraine's "economic weakness" made it vulnerable to such a threat. Three months of deadly anti-Yanukovych protests in Ukraine have seen violence unheard of in Europe since the wars in the Balkans and have pushed the ex-Soviet republic to near-bankruptcy. The new government lacks "efficient levers in the pro-Russian east and south", said Volodymyr Fesenko, a political analyst. "The elites linked to (Yanukovych's) Regions Party are demoralized, as are local administrations and law enforcement," he said. "They are scared to act, not knowing who will be in power tomorrow". The oligarchs who control Ukraine's economy employ hundreds of thousands of people and have long-established links with regional elites and law enforcement, helping control the regions.  - 'Colossal' resources - In the eyes of the many Ukrainians disgusted with corruption, oligarchs in power are less likely to try to enrich themselves even more because of their already substantial fortunes. "They have colossal administrative and financial resources," said online business journal Ekonomichna Pravda. It said political power for the oligarchs was a chance for a "whitewash" for the many implicated in Yanukovych's corrupt schemes. Some analysts warn there is a risk the new authorities could be creating "fiefdoms" and breaking promises made time and again to protesters to do away with corruption. "The tycoons will want guarantees on security in exchange for their service," Fesenko said. "The common interest at the moment is preserving the unity of the country," he said. Berezovets said the power of the oligarchs will hinge on the choice of the next president, who is due to be elected in a vote on May 25. The analyst said the tycoons would maintain or increase their influence if former boxer turned protest leader Vitali Klitschko wins. That would not be the case if the winner is Petro Poroshenko -- himself an oligarch who helped fund the protests with a fortune made in the chocolate and auto industries. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
btckeychainTOKYO (Reuters) - A week after the collapse of Mt. Gox, Japan is still struggling to craft a response to the bitcoin phenomenon, saying the crypto-currency is not legal tender, though it might be taxable and subject to money-laundering controls. In its first detailed response to the bankruptcy of the Tokyo-based company, once the world's biggest bitcoin exchange, the government issued a statement assessing how bitcoin is covered - or more often, not covered - by existing law. The issue took on new prominence in Japan on February 28, when Mt. Gox sought Chapter 11-style bankruptcy protection, saying it had lost bitcoins and cash worth some half a billion dollars due to hacker attacks. Bitcoin is not a currency, but could be taxable under some circumstances, the statement says. Although the government understands that bitcoin is not issued or backed by any government or central bank, "we have not grasped the situation in its entirety." The authorities are monitoring the Mt. Gox bankruptcy process and, if necessary, will consider a response, said Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga. Fewer than 1 percent of Mt. Gox's 127,000 creditors are Japanese, the company has said. Yet across the government, officials are wrestling with how to handle bitcoin. "It's not money," said Finance Minister Taro Aso. "Does the Financial Services Agency have jurisdiction? The Finance Ministry? The Consumer Affairs Agency? The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry?" he asked at a regular news conference. "Opinions are divided." The government statement, citing 18 sections of 11 laws and regulations, says bitcoin is not a currency or an asset within the purview of professional trading or asset management, while trading the virtual currency is not a banking or financial-instrument transaction. But, generally speaking, bitcoin could be taxable if it meets certain conditions of income, corporate or consumption tax laws, the statement says. This leaves open the possibility that bitcoin could be treated as a commodity like gold, although the statement does not specify this. Regarding money laundering, certain transactions - whether with bitcoin or not - require people to identify themselves, it notes. The 6-page document is the government's official response to questions posed by Tsutomu Okubo, a member of the opposition Democratic Party of Japan and former managing director at Morgan Stanley. (Additional reporting by Hitoshi Ishida, Kazuhiko Tamaki and Stanley White; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidIn addition to today's Non-Farm Payrolls report, two other economic datapoints are coming out today. From Calculated Risk: • At 8:30 AM, the Trade Balance report for January from the Census Bureau. The consensus is for the U.S. trade deficit to increase to $39.0 billion in January from $38.7 billion in December. • At 3:00 PM, Consumer Credit for January from the Federal Reserve. The consensus is for credit to increase $14.5 billion in January.  Neither one will likely be particularly market moving, but both are interesting and fun to comb through for nuggets. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVThe reputation of legendary bond investor Bill Gross continues to take blows. This is a story that's been building for a while, but is crescendoing right now. First it started with his underperformance as a fund manager, getting the last leg of the bond rally spectacularly wrong. But getting a call wrong isn't in itself that big of deal. Things started taking a turn for the worse in January when news came out that PIMCO's former co-CEO with Gross, Mohamed El-Erian, was leaving the firm. At first this was plausibly chalked up to normal differences or El-Erian wanting to do something else. Then it came out in the Wall Street Journal that there had been serious clashes between El-Erian and Gross, and that Gross had insulted El-Erian in front of colleagues, while referring to himself as "Secretariat." But again, even this story could be ascribed to the natural existence of big tensions and egos at a massive, important firm. But the new shoe that just dropped makes Gross look even worse. Jennifer Ablan at Reuters quotes Gross as saying things about the El-Erian feud that make him sound angry and paranoid. According to Ablan, Gross said that Mohamed El-Erian is trying to "undermine" him and that El-Erian "wrote" the Wall Street Journal story. When Reuters pushed back on this assertion, Gross accused Reuters of being in the tank for El-Erian, too, and then suggested that he had been spying on El-Erian's phone calls: When asked if Reuters could see the evidence about El-Erian and the allegation he was involved in the article, Gross said: "You're on his side. Great, he's got you, too, wrapped around his charming right finger." He said he knew that El-Erian, who had been widely seen as the heir apparent to Gross but is now due to leave in mid-March, had been in contact with Reuters as well as the Wall Street Journal. Gross indicated he had been monitoring El-Erian's phone calls. PIMCO later denied that Gross had made those statements to Reuters, but admitted that it keeps records of employee phone calls. Bottom line: The biggest bond manager in the world has gone from having a tough run in performance to a terrible run in the press. FREE AppDownload
At one point, there was a pretty big obsession with "Dr. Copper" the industrial commodity that was said to possess a PhD in economics due to its ability to forecast the economy. In other words, the price of copper has at times been seen as an important economic indicator. There's been less talk about that lately that then in the past. But still it's interesting that it's having a bad year amidst generally soggy economic data around the world. Here's a chart, via FinViz: FinViz You can see it's been losing steam all year, and today it's down pretty big again. It could be something related to the global economy. It could just be specific. Perhaps it's something you should have your eye on. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Joe TraverPerhaps the most notable development in the run-up to Friday's jobs report is just how low the bar has been set. The fact that the survey period over which the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics collected data for the report (the week that included the 12th of February) coincided with nasty winter storms has received a ton of attention on the Street and in the press. Moreover, Wednesday's economic data docket delivered two data points that further served to reduce expectations. The first one was payroll-processing firm ADP's February National Employment Report, which estimated only 139,000 workers were hired to private-sector payrolls last month (below market economists' consensus 155,000 forecast). The second one was the Institute for Supply Management's February survey of non-manufacturing firms (the non-manufacturing sector accounts for around 80% of U.S. economic activity), the results of which were indicative of the first monthly contraction in hiring since 2010. The median estimate of economists polled by Bloomberg prior to the pair of Wednesday releases predicted 150,000 workers were hired to nonfarm payrolls in February. The median estimate of those economists who submitted forecasts after those releases is 136,000. What all of this means, as Millan Mulraine, deputy head of U.S. research and strategy at TD Securities puts it, is that "the market appears to be set up for a weak number, and a disappointing report will be taken with a grain of salt." Two investor surveys conducted by Wall Street bond desks over the past few days reinforce this view. "This month's pre-NFP survey was decidedly bearish, with more respondents eager to sell into a rally and looking for the next move in yields to be higher," says David Ader, head of government bond strategy at CRT Capital. "Specifically, 58% would look to sell if the market rallies after the number vs. an average of 38% over the last six months. That's the highest portion of sellers into a rally since April 2009." A similar survey of clients conducted by interest rate strategists at RBS yielded similar results. "Our nonfarm payroll survey results showed that 73% of those surveyed think the next 25 basis points in 10-year yields will be higher, marking the most bearish print ever recorded (data back to 2005)." The upshot of these anecdotes is that investors are already positioned for a bad number, and would see an even worse number as an additional opportunity to fade the weather. Below are consensus estimates for Friday's release, compiled by Bloomberg: The release is due out Friday morning at 8:30 AM ET. Follow it LIVE on Business Insider » FREE AppDownload
REUTERSTrading resumes with a fury in the Standard and Poors stock index pit at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange following a 30-minute halt in trading triggered when the Dow Jones industrials average plummeted 350 points, October 27, 1997.Good morning and Happy Jobs Day to everyone! Today at 8:30 AM ET we get the latest Non-Farm Payrolls report. The media prediction from Wall Street analysts is below 150,000 for today's report. Estimates have been drifting lower thanks to the weak ADP report and general glumness surrounding weather and other data. In the meantime, European stocks are drifting lower (Germany's off 0.7%) and US futures are roughly flat. China experienced its first ever domestic corporate bond default, though it was widely anticipated. Still a historical event. FREE AppDownload
