What comes to your mind when you put Charles Dickens and soap operas together? For Michelle Miller, a banker-turned-writer, it’s a venture-capital backed serial novel that’s trying to create a new revenue model in the much-squeezed book industry. With its own music, audio, and photography, The Underwriting runs like a TV series. Each Wednesday, it releases a new “episode” on its website and will be free to read for 24 hours. After the “air,” the episode will only become available by subscription, which costs readers $1.50. At a time when the traditional publishing industry is constantly challenged by the digital media, The Underwriting tries to find a new space for not-so-established writers to distribute their books. Unlike traditional publishing houses that design, package, and market the books, or self-publishing platforms such as Amazon.com that only distributes e-books for self-publishers, The Underwriting takes the responsibility of both publishing and distributing. “There’s self-publishing, which is writing a book on an island and putting it onto Amazon, hoping it sticks. Then there’s the traditional publishing house, where writers get away with a lot of things that the publishing house can do,” said Miller in an interview with VentureBeat. “I believe there’s a space in between.” Traditional publishing houses typically pay authors 10 to 25 percent loyalties, and “25 percent is like you were John Bushore,” according to Miller. In contrast, self-publishing distributers like Amazon.com do not provide services such as proofreading and marketing of the book, but they provide a larger gain for the author: 70 percent for a book costing $2.99 to $9.99, subtracting delivery charges based on the size of the e-book file; or 35 percent for a book sold for less than $2.99. Though the self-publishing percentage seems more tempting for authors, Miller said authors actually couldn’t get as much since they have to pay for design and marketing out of their own pockets. The problem with traditional publishing, on the other hand, is that not so much effort would be put into a book written by an unknown author. “Publishers are curators, that’s why it’s really hard to break into the traditional publishing media as a self-published author,” said Brooke Botsford, co-creator of The Underwriting and a marketing specialist. “They get hundreds of books from the big guys, and they just don’t have the time to review all those books from independent publishers.” The revenue model of The Underwriting allows the author to take full control of the costs and profits of the publishing process. Besides the $1.50 per-episode fee or the $10 subscription fee for all 12 episodes this “season”, the author also profits from the sponsorship provided by various companies, including boutique confectionery Lavolio and mobile hotel booking app Hotel Tonight. Readers who purchase an episode ofThe Underwriting will get a discount for the products of that week’s sponsor, and part of the sales revenue generated by the readers will go to The Underwriting. No gains come without investment. To create the multisensory experience, Miller has to put together her own team of editor, designer, photographer, music composer, web developer, and audiobook narrators. Though she raised money from angel investors and venture capitalists from both the U.S. and the U.K., recruiting the team was costly. Still, Miller said she’s profiting more than she would have been earning had she published with Amazon.com. So far, The Underwriting has more than 6,000 monthly readers, most of which come from Miller’s targeted cities: New York, San Francisco, and London. “What’s really unique about Michelle’s idea is that it doesn’t let the distribution shape the content,” said Botsford, who has been working with more than 50 authors to market their work. “It’s funny to see how people get stuck in a box related to content. It’s the thinking of 140 characters, a book, an article, and a blog. They think about the distribution first and then the content.” As the title of the novel suggests, The Underwriting is a fictional tale about the IPO process of a Silicon Valley online dating startup, Hook. Through the relationships between six young professionals, Miller wants the readers to understand the background that shapes the behavior of people working on Wall Street or in Silicon Valley, which she thought were missing in popular culture. “The point is really to give voice to their contexts so that you understand why they do what they do, and why they think what they think,” said Miller. “You may still not agree with those views, but you understand why.” At 29, the former banker at JP Morgan Chase takes advantage of her own experiences to depict the stereotypes in the startup and finance communities. The characters in her story started out as a “good-looking tall alpha male, a sort of bitchy investment banking woman, a socially awkward computer programmer.” But Miller decided not to write “mean,” even though readers love “mean,” as proved by Miller’s popular essay “Why San Francisco really is that bad.” Even Miller herself was having trouble getting rid of that meanness. While writing the first draft of the novel in London, Miller spent three days just walking around the city trying to convince herself that Nick Winthrop, the CFO of Hook, was not a bad guy. “I finally got there; now I really do love Nick.” Miller said with a tone of accomplishment. Even more satisfying is the readers’ feedback. From time to time, Miller gets emails from readers expressing their views of The Underwriting. The most rewarding moment, Miller said, was when she received a letter from a Latino reader that commented on the socially isolated immigrant computer programmer. “You got the feeling of what that is really like,” the letter says. “You get to see her try and verbalize a lot of the lifestyles that I have seen,” said Brad Skaf, an analyst at a financial advisory firm and a loyal reader of the novel, “Whenever the character says something or makes a decision, she justifies it in certain ways.” Skaf, 26, said that he and his friends would read each week’s newly released chapter and discuss the lifestyles of the characters. One of the scenes that Skaf feels extremely familiar with, is when Neha Patel, an analyst of the investment bank that underwrites Hook’s IPO, pulled several all-nighters at the office to finish the work. The exhausting, long days were actually what first motivated Miller to start thinking about The Underwriting. During the 16-hour workday at JP Morgan, Miller had plenty of time reading blogs between works or at lunch, but there was a “hole” in her life that she couldn’t fill in. “I was sick of reading the top-10 list of how to get a flatter stomach and reading the New York Times for the seventeenth time,” said Miller, “Meanwhile when I got home, I missed reading fiction.” With a B.A. in English literature from Stanford University, Miller was always interested in writing. Her M.B.A degree at Stanford adds the business background to her resume and makes The Underwriting a natural product of her experiences. But it wasn’t until last year while sitting at home watching the soap opera All My Children that a thought suddenly strike Miller: “Had women changed that much that they no longer want a juicy one-hour story each day?” For 41 years, All My Children has been able to get housewives (and others) to tune in at a specific time of the week. If soap opera can create an “event” that people put onto their calendar, Miller thought, why not novels? Miller named the new combination of soap opera and literary fiction an “E-series,” the digital form of serial novels. She registered her project as a limited liability company (LLC) under the name of MM Project 1, and plans to run The Underwriting for five seasons. Despite the brand new concept and experimental models, Miller said she’s still in love with traditional media forms. She still has the paper books on her bookshelves and occasionally listens to NPR 12 hours in the course of a single day. Unlike many startup founders who are determined to disrupt the status quo of an industry, Miller said her project was not intended to break anything. “I hate the word disrupting. I don’t like this notion of you have to break down other industries in order to create something interesting,” said Miller, “It’s just about creating something new.” FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBerkshire Hathaway shareholders listen to CEO Warren Buffett and vice-chairman Charlie Munger seen on a projection screen in the background at the annual meeting in OmahaOMAHA, Nebraska (Reuters) - Warren Buffett on Saturday defended his recent controversial vote on executive pay at Coca-Cola Co and disappointing performance at railroad BNSF as investors grilled him on his Berkshire Hathaway Inc conglomerate at its annual shareholder meeting. The investment guru was peppered with questions at the meeting, part of a mostly festive weekend that Buffett calls "Woodstock for Capitalists," following concerns that Berkshire last year missed Buffett's five-year growth target for the first time in his 49 years at the helm. Buffett, 83, and his partner and company Vice Chairman Charlie Munger, 90, faced off with the audience and a hand-picked panel often excusing recent worries at the sprawling conglomerate. "Over any cycle we will over-perform, but there's no guarantee on that," he said, saying that Berkshire is designed to perform best when markets are at their worst - unlike last year's 30 percent jump in the S&amp;P 500. At the start, Buffett was immediately questioned about Berkshire's abstention in the Coca-Cola equity compensation plan vote. Buffett said last week that he thought Coca-Cola's controversial equity compensation plan was excessive, but Berkshire Hathaway abstained in the shareholders vote. That revelation drew sharp criticism in the run-up to the meeting - particularly since Buffett has in the past called options wasteful and akin to a free lottery ticket. On Saturday, Buffett said that "going to war" would likely not have been productive, and that Berkshire's abstention sent a clear message. "I think the best result for the Coca-Cola Company was achieved by our abstention, and we will see what happens in terms of compensation between now and the next meeting of Coke." But he also talked about the social pressures of board votes on compensation plans. "The social dynamics are important in board actions," he said. The questions came a day after Berkshire Hathaway released first-quarter earnings that just missed analyst expectations. That report noted weather-related disruptions at railroad BNSF - another topic of questioning on Saturday. Buffett handed off, calling in BNSF executive chairman Matt Rose to talk about the company's service challenges. "We're making significant investments," Rose reassured the audience. And Buffett added that Berkshire could spend "many, many billions" to improve operations at the railroad, which is the country's largest player in the booming oil-by-rail business. Last year, Berkshire Hathaway underperformed for the first time in nearly 50 years by Buffett's own preferred measure: gains in the company's book value, or worth, over five years lagged total returns in the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index. That has prompted questions on whether the so-called Oracle of Omaha is finding it harder and harder to generate the stellar returns he's delivered for decades, particularly as the company grows so big it needs larger deals to make a difference to the bottom line. The annual meeting in Omaha draws tens of thousands of people to hear Buffett and Munger answer hours of questions. The two talk about not only on the company's future, but on such topics as U.S. monetary policy and politics. The meeting includes a massive exhibit floor that highlights the breadth of Berkshire's holdings - from ice cream at Dairy Queen to insurance at Geico, the BNSF railroad to jewelry retailer Borsheims. While Buffett faced some pointed questioning from shareholders, many people in attendance here just listened to him because they consider themselves fans. At one point Buffett, surprisingly, was asked if he had lost confidence in Berkshire Hathaway. In his annual letter to shareholders, Buffett disclosed that he had suggested to his estate's trustee that money left to his wife be largely invested in a low-cost Standard &amp; Poor's index fund. The question posed: Why an index fund and not Berkshire stock? Because, he said, he's unconcerned about maximizing the money he will leave his wife after he passes away. "There will be loads of capital left over" for her, Buffett said. (Reporting by Luciana Lopez and Jonathan Stempel in Omaha, Nebraska; Editing by Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
ReutersEconomists everywhere may soon be thanking Seattle Mayor Ed Murray.  Not because of his inspired policymaking, but because Murray seems ready to turn his city into a gigantic laboratory for one of the most ambitious, and quite possibly misbegotten, labor market experiments in recent memory. Yesterday, Murray announced a plan that would gradually raise Seattle’s minimum wage to $15 an hour and tie it to inflation, which won approval from a large committee of business and labor leaders, as well as some city council members. Today, Washington state’s minimum is a comparatively piddly $9.32. The full council still has to consider Murray’s proposal, but should it pass, Seattle might not just have a far higher minimum wage than its surrounding suburbs, where businesses can easily move; it might well have the highest minimum wage in the world. I generally support a higher pay floor. And I love a good experiment. But I can’t help but wonder if Seattle is poised to take a step too far. The nationwide push for a $15 minimum wage that began with striking fast food employees has been a masterful public relations stroke. Its sheer audacity grabbed the media’s attention and has arguably reset the terms of the entire debate about worker pay. It has certainly made the proposal by congressional Democrats and President Obama for a $10.10 federal minimum look reasonable by comparison. But while the fight for $15 has made for great politics—in Seattle, both mayoral candidates only adopted the idea last year after it waspopularized by a socialist city council candidate, Kshama Sawant, who ultimately won her race—it’s built on dubious economics. The truth is, nobody has any idea what would happen if the minimum wage jumped that high. But there are good reasons to worry that results would be ugly. The research literature on whether minimum wage increases kill jobs is decidedly mixed. Some economists have found that hikes lead to small job losses among teens and in industries like fast food. Others have found that losses are nonexistent, or at least negligible. In the end, I tend to argue that even if you assume reasonable job losses, middle-class and poor families come out ahead in the bargain. Though some workers end up unemployed, enough get raises to make the tradeoff worthwhile. But that assumes we don’t lift the pay floor too high, too fast. Minimum wage studies have typically looked at small increases, somewhere around 50 cents or a dollar. Seattle’s proposal would be far larger. It would also have virtually no U.S. precedent. (Nearby neighbor SeaTac recently upped its own minimum to $15, but the city is little more than an airport and only 1,600 workers are affected.) Adjusted for inflation, the value of the U.S. minimum wage peaked at $10.66 in 1968, as shown in this American Enterprise Institute graph. That’s the ceiling on America’s historical experience. via Slate Seattle’s plan has little global precedent, either. As Tim Fernholz at Quartz notes, the city is essentially considering adopting the highest minimum wage on the globe.  That may come as a surprise, if you’ve ever read about Australia’s roughly $15 minimum.  But once you adjust for purchasing power, the wage floor down under, as well as in high-pay countries like Belgium and France, is closer to $10, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.  If the Swiss vote to raise their minimum to $25, as they are considering, Bloomberg reports it would be worth just $14 on a purchasing power basis. via Slate Any plan that makes hiring a worker more expensive than in France should be cause for concern. We know that businesses in high-wage countries are especially eager to replace workers with software. Fast-food restaurants in Europe, for instance, have been some of the earliest adopters of labor saving technologies like digital kiosks where customers can order.  Those innovations are already beginning to make headway in the United States. But by passing a $15 minimum, Seattle would risk speeding the process up within its city limits. Don’t take my word for it. Listen to Arindrajit Dube, the University of Massachusetts at Amherst economist who is perhaps the foremost advocate for the idea that minimum wage increases don’t kill jobs. “Would I be concerned about possible job losses if there were a $15 minimum wage in the restaurant industry, yes, I’d be concerned,” he told the New York Times in December. “There are concerns that it might lead to the substitution of automation for workers.” The move is especially risky for a single city, where businesses can easily choose to open or relocate in the suburbs. That fear convinced Washington, D.C. to coordinate its own recent minimum wage increase with some of its surrounding counties. Seattle isn’t taking any such precaution. (Again, SeaTac is barely a city.) To his credit, Murray’s is trying to implement the idea gradually. Under his proposal, businesses would have between three and seven years to phase in the new minimum, depending on their size and whether employees get health care coverage or tips. Through 2024, some businesses will also be able to count $3 worth of tips or benefits toward the $15 total. By introducing the change over time, the city will give businesses leeway to adjust, if they can. If they can’t, however, the impact could be vast. Researchers at the University of Washington have estimated that 102,000 workers in Seattle make $15 or less, meaning they would be directly affected by the hike. Murray is running his experiment with a quarter of his city’s workforce. And yet, for all the red flags, I’m oddly glad he’s giving it a try. If the plan passes, it will be fascinating, and instructive, to see how such a hike plays out in a major American city. If it succeeds, it could mean a profound shift in how we think about worker pay. If not, Seattle will have taken out the idea for a test drive. Better that one city’s job market crash than a whole country’s. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA video display panel is seen outside Sotheby's in London BOSTON (Reuters) - A U.S. court rejected activist hedge fund manager Daniel Loeb's bid to force auction house Sotheby's &lt;BID.N&gt;to remove its shareholder rights plan, which limits the amount of stock he can buy. Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons ruled late on Friday that he would not overturn Sotheby's so-called poison pill, which blocks activist investors from buying more than 10 percent of the company's stock while passive investors can buy 20 percent. The ruling ensures that Sotheby's annual meeting will go ahead as scheduled on May 6 in New York. It may also be seen as a blow to activist investors who have increasingly been prohibited from crossing the 10 percent ownership threshold in companies where they want to push for change. Loeb's $14.3 billion hedge fund Third Point, the 270-year old auction house's biggest investor, this week argued in court that the poison pill hurt its chances to get its three dissident shareholder candidates elected to the board. Loeb, a prominent art collector, has long criticized Sotheby's for spending too much and not being properly positioned in the modern art market. Last year he sought to remove chief executive William Ruprecht, prompting Sotheby's to put in the shareholder rights plan. The poison pill prevents Third Point, and other activists, from buying more than 10 percent of the company even as passive investors can own as much as 20 percent of it. "I find that the plaintiffs have not demonstrated that they have a reasonable probability of success on the merits of their claims," Parsons wrote. "Therefore, I deny the plaintiff's motion for a preliminary injunction." Courts have long upheld shareholder rights plans and lawyers this week said the case was an important one because it marked the first time an activist challenged the use of the poison pill in court. Third Point cited testimony from Sotheby's board members this week in court that said in emails that Loeb's criticisms about the company were right and that he would have an easier time of winning a proxy contest if he owned a bigger stake. In an email to a fellow board member, Steven Dodge wrote that Loeb has a "killer set of issues" and that the board was "too chummy and not doing its job." Even with a 10 percent ownership stake, Third Point has mounted a fierce proxy contest and won a fair number of supporters, including proxy adviser ISS, which recommended that shareholders vote for two members of the dissidents slate. Late last month activist investor Mick McGuire, whose Marcato Capital Management owns 6.6 percent of the company, threw his weight behind the Third Point slate. (Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss; editing by Gunna Dickson) FREE AppDownload
Everything's bigger in Texas. There's large oil production and cattle production. Texas is home to three of the top 25 overweight cities in the U.S. We compiled these maps to show there's more to the Lone Star state, but we do agree, everything is bigger in Texas. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
YouTube/Thirty-One GiftsThis year's winning company, Thirty-One Gifts. Think it's still a man's world? These women would beg to differ. The Women Presidents' Organization (WPO), a nonprofit membership group for women presidents of multimillion-dollar companies, today releases its seventh annual list of the 50 fastest-growing women-led companies. This year marks the first time it has included applicants from outside the United States. "We saw production soaring, with an average revenue growth of 203% from 2009 to 2013," says Marsha Firestone, Ph.D., president and founder of the WPO. "Not only is the financial growth of these companies impressive, it shows that women entrepreneurs are making inroads in non-traditional businesses, such as information technology, transportation, and engineering." The incredible growth of these companies is particularly impressive given the current business environment. Privately held U.S. companies ended last year with an average annual sales growth of 5.4%, the slowest growth rate since 2009, according to the WPO. To qualify for the ranking, businesses had to be privately held, woman-owned or led, with annual revenue of at least $500,000. The ranking was determined by both percentage growth and absolute growth over the four-year period from 2009 to 2013. This year, the average company on the list has revenue of $99 million and employs 657 people. And, proving it's never too late to launch the next big thing, 90% of the women are founders, and the average age is 48. FREE AppDownload
The ECB meeting in the week ahead may be a window of opportunity for more activity.  Yet, neither the threat of asset purchases and/or a negative deposit rate nor heightened tensions over Ukraine, or a re-acceleration of the US economy have seemingly provided new trading incentives. Most participants expect the ECB to move in June, but standing pat this week may not be a non-event.  Getting past the residual event risk may be important. The event risk includes comments from Draghi, who despite the critics who claim action is necessary, continues to do a fairly good job staying true to the spirit of the G20 "best practices" regarding the foreign exchange market, and checking the euro's advance. He has not succeeded in pushing it down as remove, or at least greatly reduce, the upside momentum. Over the last three weeks, the euro has been confined to a $1.3775-$1.3890 range.  With a couple minor and brief exceptions the dollar has traded on the JPY102-handle for seven weeks. For the last three week, the Dollar Index has traded between 79.55 and 80.00. The narrow price ranges are both the cause and effect of the lack of participation, which is reflected in the minor position adjustments in the currency futures and what appears to be lower volumes in the spot market.More light will be shed when several central banks report their estimate of foreign exchange turnover covering this period, later in the year. Given the narrow ranges and recognition that our technical tools are less effective in such market conditions, we offer this week, only a brief overview of how we see the price action. Euro: We are more inclined to see an upside than a downside break. There seems to be a reasonable risk of the euro moving above $1.3900, but whether it can break $1.40 now is a different matter. The importance of the $1.37775 area support appears to be growing. Yen: Buying the dollar against the yen now seems to be a bet, if you will on two things. First, that the downside reversal in US equities seen before the weekend is not the start of a significant pullback. Second, that the US Treasury yields and the premium over Japan are near a bottoming. The US premium dipped below 200 bp last week for the first time since early February, when it was a bit of a one-day fluke. Last week premium stayed below that threshold for two consecutive days, the first time since last October. Japanese markets are closed early in the new week. Sterling: New four year highs were recorded last week, but the move does not appear to be complete. The strength of the UK economy, and this quarter it will likely surpass its pre-crisis peak is helping to widen interest rate differentials in sterling's favor. We look for bulls to continue to absorb the offers ahead of $1.70 and eventually drive sterling through there. The referendum in Scotland poses some political risk (that can have serious economic repercussions) but that is not a near-term consideration. The May 25 EU parliamentary elections may be more important, especially if the UKIP turns in a strong performance, perhaps aided by the European Court of Justice decision not to stop the plans for some members to implement a financial transaction tax. The $1.6780-$1.6800 area is forming an important area. It probably requires a break of $1.6760 to suggest a break out. Dollar-Bloc:  The US dollar is supported around CAD1.0940. The upper end of the range, which we favor a test on, is seen in the CAD1.1050-70 area. On a more medium term perspective, we still look for weakness in the Canadian dollar. The Australian dollar staged an impressive recovery before the weekend after testing the $0.9200 area support. A move now above $0.9315-25 would suggest that 1) the pullback from $0.9460 in early April was a correction and 2) that another run toward $0.9500, the measuring objective of an old head and shoulders bottom pattern. Mexican Peso:  The dollar closed lower against the peso every day last week, slipping to its lowest level in almost a month. However, the price action did not persuade us that the a breakout is at hand. The dollar's resilience and ability to hold the low from early April near MXN12.94 and resurface above MXN13.00 suggests some additional upside in the days ahead. Observations on speculative positioning in the CME currency futures:  1. For the second consecutive reporting period, the week to April 29, saw minor position adjustments.  The largest gross position adjustment was short Australian dollar position that rose 6.1k contracts to 39.3k.  Second place went to the 3.8k contract decline in gross long sterling positions, bringing them down to 85.9k contracts.  That is the second largest gross long currency futures position, behind the euro's 102.3k contracts.  2.  It was the fourth reporting period that the net euro position has been largely flat.  The net position in the Swiss franc has been essentially flat for six weeks. 3.  The net short yen position increase to 70.4k contracts from 67.2k.  It is the first increase in four weeks.  It was more a function of gross longs being reduced (2.7k contracts to 13.8k) than new shorts (400 contracts to 84.2k).   4.  The decline in the next long Australian dollar position from 16.4k to 10.7k contracts in the latest reporting period break a seven week streak in which the net shorts were cut or net longs grew.   The gross long Aussie positions were not cut.  Instead they rose by a slight 500 contracts to 50.0k.5.  The net short Canadian dollar position slipped to 30.3k from 35.4k contracts.  This is the smallest net short position since last November.     Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jeff ZelevanskyCarl Icahn has a piece up in Barron's blasting Warren Buffett. At issue is a compensation plan at Coca-Cola — which is a longtime Berkshire Hathaway holding — that transfers billions to company management over the next several years. You can see some details here, but even by modern standards of executive pay, the plan is thought to be egregious. Buffett has said that while he doesn't approve of the package, he nonetheless wouldn't vote against it. Icahn's piece slams Buffett for not standing up for what's right: My colleagues and I have fought long and hard to change fellow board members' attitudes and beliefs concerning their responsibility to shareholders, even if this change angers the CEO and some of his cronies sitting on the board. But if a man of Warren Buffett's stature openly states he abstains from voting on plans he doesn't agree with because he "loves" management and he doesn't want to "express any disapproval," how can we expect other board members in this country to voice their opinions, especially if they are opposed to the CEO's interest? In Thursday's Wall Street Journal, Buffett reiterated, "I am against the plan," but went on to state he wanted to make clear he wasn't attacking Coke's management or directors. But if this is taken to its logical conclusion, you should not vote no, even if you are diametrically opposed to what the CEO and certain of his crony board members want. This week it came out that Coca-Cola would likely change its comp plan under pressure from Buffett, so it seems that Buffett's strategy is to exert influence through ways other than a public vote, which seems reasonable. In fact, Buffett had a quick reply at Barron's stating there are multiple ways to affect change. Read Icahn's full piece here &gt; FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBerkshire Hathaway CEO Buffett throws a newspaper during a competition at a trade show, at the company's annual meeting in Omaha(Reuters) - Warren Buffett on Saturday said Berkshire Hathaway Inc &lt;BRKa.N&gt; &lt;BRKb.N&gt; would team up again with 3G Capital on more transactions, perhaps very large ones, despite criticism of the Brazilian firm's slashing of too many jobs at HJ Heinz &amp; Co. "I think 3G does a magnificent job of running businesses," Buffett said at Berkshire's annual meeting. "We're very likely to partner with them, perhaps on some things that are very large." Berkshire contributed $12 billion toward the more than $23 billion purchase of Heinz, but gave 3G day-to-day control of operations. Some critics have said 3G's cuts do not reflect Berkshire's typical values toward people who work at companies it acquires. "We have not enforced, or attempted to enforce, nor do we wish to enforce, a strong discipline in every subsidiary as to whether they have a few too many people or not," Buffett said. "A great many don't." (Reporting By Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Julie BortAnaplan CEO Fred LaluyauxA San Francisco-based startup called Anaplan is on a mission to kill the spreadsheet and is having incredible success. Think about it: spreadsheet was invented before most of the world had heard of the PC, much less had one, way back in 1979 when software pioneers Dan Bricklin and Bob Frankston, founders of Software Arts, built an app called VisiCalc. Flash forward to 2014, with cloud computing and mobile devices running amok. Yet most of the world is still running their businesses with spreadsheets, namely Microsoft Excel. Anaplan is slowing prying the spreadsheet from the grips of the business world. It offers cloud software that's as easy to use as a spreadsheet, yet does sophisticating financial planning and prediction modeling, with the click of a mouse. Plus, it does things Excel can't do, like let groups work together. The company was founded about eight years ago. But it's really been in the past year that it has started to flourish. That's largely due to CEO Frederic Laluyaux, who joined Anaplan two years ago, hired away from SAP, where he was in charge of SAP's competitive financial planning product. Wikimedia CommonsThis is VisiCalc, the original spreadsheetAnd now the company is making a killing. It went from making about $10 million in all of 2012, to $10 million per quarter in 2013. And $10 million per month as of Jan. 2014, it told Business Insider. Anaplan is attracting some big name customers too, such as HP, McAfee, and Pandora. We asked Laluyaux to tell us his tricks for success. This is what he said: Business Insider: Why has Anaplan become so popular all of a sudden? Frederic Laluyaux: This is a space that has been dominated by Oracle, SAP, and IBM and their technology is aging. ... We’ve been able to add hundreds of key accounts in the last few months. ... We patiently invested for more than five years in the development of our blazing fast core data engine which is really the “secret sauce” of Anaplan. BI: Who is using Anaplan and what does it replace? FL: We are now helping some of the largest companies (HP, Kimberly-Clark, McAfee, Diageo to name a few) ... For example with McAfee, Anaplan replaced their use of Excel and Oracle Hyperion. BI: How has expanding internationally helped you grow? FL: We opened operations in the UK, France, Sweden, Netherlands, Austria, Singapore, Malaysia, Australia and Russia. We have also a few strategic partnerships with global organizations like Deloitte and Accenture and with technology partners like Salesforce.com (with more on the way). I would estimate that 60% of our revenue is now coming from outside of the U.S. so we’re expanding and it’s driving increased deal size. ... We had an outstanding Q1 of 2014, as Anaplan achieved over 6x year-over-year growth for contract value booked. After doubling in employee count last year, Anaplan is set to double again in 2014. FREE AppDownload
CBS NewsThe Berkshire Hathaway Annual Shareholder meeting is underway, which means that Omaha, Neb. has been completely taken over by Warren Buffett's investors. The massive event is designed like an old country fair complete with dilly bars, bridge playing, and games for the kids. This event is not the only thing about Buffett that's traditional, of course. The Oracle of Omaha prides himself on conducting his business the old fashioned way. He reads tons and tons of SEC filings and doesn't even have a computer on his desk. In a world of massive trading desks and high speed everything, this is something to see. So you should. What follows is a guided tour of the office Buffett's been working in for half a decade. Try not to flip out or anything.
After more than 40 years, "The Price Is Right" remains one of the most consistent institutions of American television. It’s the longest-running American game show in television history. At this year’s South By Southwest Interactive festival held in Austin, attendees got a chance to spin the iconic wheel, which weighs around 2,000 pounds.Produced by Graham Flanagan.FOLLOW BI VIDEO: on Twitter.
