Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderIn December 2013, most of the tech world was appalled when Evan Spiegel and Snapchat turn downed Facebook’s reported $3 billion acquisition offer. I wrote at the time that people were overreacting and predicted a 3-5X valuation within 18 months. Snapchat has grown even faster than my expectations and is now rumored to be valued at $10 billion. I am now more bullish on Snapchat than ever. There are three factors that will drive additional growth and an ultimate IPO: 1) Snapchat’s daily usage among the under-25 crowd is insane. This demographic continues to send multiple Snaps a day, similar to their text messaging rates. It has become common to have a complete conversation with ephemeral photos. This places Snapchat as a competitor to WhatsApp, WeChat, or Facebook Messenger. 2) Snapchat’s My Story feature has filled a niche market need. Young people want to share content with each other in our public, social world. There are plenty of social networks that empower this sharing but they all have the same problem – the content lives forever. Snapchat was able to figure out a way to facilitate one-to-many communication without the fear of someone digging up the content two years from now. This small difference is powerful and compelling. 3) Snapchat ads are coming. Earlier this week, Spiegel hinted that the ads product would allow brands to tell a story in a similar fashion to My Story. With a highly coveted demographic, I’d expect brands to be attracted to this new, creative channel. Since self-service advertising appears to be farther down the product roadmap, I imagine the early advertising deals will be lucrative contracts with large agencies. Additionally, most social platforms receive another level of validation when unknown individuals are able to build a celebrity following on the platform. We have seen this occur on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Vine. Snapchat hit this milestone in the last 12 months. In some cases, thousands of kids are following a “random” person for multiple updates a day. Everyone thought Snapchat was a fad back in December. It is clear that the company is not going anywhere for awhile. The big challenge for the team will be whether they can successfully execute their ads business. If all goes to plan, expect an IPO in late 2015 at a $25-30 billion valuation. This will be fun to watch. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsPainiteGold is an incredibly expensive substance. But many things are worth more than their weight in gold. Ranging from foods to creams to gems to things the average person can't fathom, we pulled together a list of 19 of the most expensive items in the world. Think we missed something? Let us know in the comments. FREE AppDownload
JP Morgan Asset ManagementIt's been a tough few weeks for the stock market.  Over the last three months, each of the major averages has lost ground, and as of Friday's close, the Dow turned negative for the year. Additionally, the Federal Reserve is set to wind down its quantitative easing program at end of the month, after which investors will prepare for the Fed's first interest rate increase since 2006.  Also in the background are continued indications that Europe's economy is slowing down, as well as unrest in the Middle East and Ukraine.  Here to help investors navigate these market factors is JPMorgan's quarterly market guide, compiled by David Kelly and the Global Market Insights Strategy Team.  This 67-slide presentation gives investors an overview of what to watch out for in stocks, bonds, real estate, and the rest of the investable universe.  Thanks to JPMorgan Asset Management for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
Thomson ReutersJP Morgan Chase & Co sign outside headquarters in New YorkBy Andrew Chung (Reuters) - Unable to reach a compromise with JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co   over the use of the term "smart" in relation to its lucrative retirement savings products, major life insurance provider MassMutual is taking the banking company to court. MassMutual said discussions on Friday over its RetireSmart brand and the bank's SmartRetirement trademark had failed, prompting it to immediately file a lawsuit in Massachusetts federal court. The insurer is asking for a declaration that it is not infringing on JPMorgan's trademark. MassMutual, formally known as Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co, is owned by policyholders and manages $147 billion in assets in its retirement business. It has used the brand RetireSmart for its mutual fund and retirement planning services for eight years, the lawsuit said. The company also has a website under the same mark. JPMorgan first told MassMutual it was infringing the bank's trademark last May. The two sides engaged in discussions over the summer, according to the court filing, and a coexistence agreement was drafted, but it ultimately failed. Finally, in a telephone conversation on Friday, Dan Serrao, a managing director at the bank, told MassMutual's corporate vice president Todd Picken that they were at an impasse. The suit by MassMutual demands the cancellation of JPMorgan's trademark, because "many individuals and companies" use the terms "smart" and "retirement" in connection with helping people save for their post-work years. The company also argued there should be no trademark on a term that was "merely descriptive." "We are confident in our position," MassMutual spokesman David Potter said. Representatives for JPMorgan did not immediately return a request for comment. The case is Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co v. JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, No. 14-cv-30183.  (Reporting By Andrew Chung; Editing by Ted Botha and Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Brendan McDermidRosemary Martoma arrives with her husband Mathew at the Manhattan Federal Courthouse in downtown Manhattan in New York, January 17, 2014. Rosemary, who gave up her career as a pediatrician in 2003 to stay home and care for the couple's children and household, thinks that she has a claim to half of the family assets, as she gave up her own career "based on the promise that she would have equal, joint ownership of all income derived from the Defendant's work outside of the household."  Michael Bowe of Kasowitz Benson Torres &amp; Friedman, a lawyer whom the New York Post called for comment, said that, "If one spouse steals money, the other spouse doesn’t get to keep it just because she quit work." But why not? It's reasonably worth thinking through, even if you don't think she's entitled to any money. These are the facts as we know them: The children are cared for. The house is presumably clean. She has not been accused of any wrongdoing. So why should her assets, earned in the informal (but not illegal) economy, be forfeited? Why should the law punish her and her children for a crime they had no part in?  It's a fair legal (and moral) question, particularly if you believe that one spouse working outside the house and one working on the inside is an equitable way to distribute familial labor.   FREE AppDownload
The Old Fashioned was a popular cocktail in the 1960s but nearly forgotten over the years. The drink came back to the spotlight with the premier of "Mad Men" in 2007 as the Old Fashioned was the cocktail of choice for the show's lead character Don Draper.  For an easy-to-make at home bourbon cocktail recipe, we turned to the drink masters at Ward III in New York City. Owner and bartender Kenneth McCoy put a fall spin on the classic Old Fashioned, to create "The Fall Fashioned." Before the snow falls, warm up with this drink.  Sam RegaFor the Fall Fashioned, the ingredients are on point. Sam RegaWith these easy directions, you'll sit back and enjoy the night in no time. Produced by Sam Rega. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser.   
The current Ebola outbreak, unlike others throughout history, is lasting a very long time; with cases now being reported on a variety of continents well outside of its equatorial African origin. I'm not especially worried about Ebola striking me or my loved ones, for reasons I'll explain in a moment. But I'm growing increasingly concerned about government response to the outbreak. So let's spend some time understanding the nature of Ebola, specifically, and viral contagion, more generally. At the very least, Ebola can serve as an instructive reminder about how our society's responses to a viral outbreak could prove to be at least as disruptive and damaging as the virus itself. While very often cited as being 90% fatal once contracted, Ebola is rarely that lethal. In fact it was only that lethal in a single isolated outbreak. A 50% to 70% mortality rate is more common. As of Oct 10 2014, the latest outbreak had afflicted 8,376 and killed 4,024 -- a mortality rate of 48%. This places the Ebola strain responsible for the latest outbreak on the lower end of the Ebola lethality scale. Don't misunderstand me: this is still a very deadly virus, to be sure. But it's not a guaranteed death sentence, either. Viruses come in a wide variety of types and shapes. But the general structure they all share is that they have some form of nuclear material, either DNA itself or RNA, housed inside of a protein capsule. Think of a peanut M&amp;M, where the peanut is the genetic payload and the outer coatings serve both a protective purpose (while the virus is seeking a new host) and as the means of docking with a host's cell. That’s really all a virus is. A few proteins and some genetic material. No membranes, no sexual merging of genetic material, and no ability to replicate themselves all on their own. There are debates still ongoing today as to whether a virus should even be considered a living thing. The life cycle of a virus is very simple. A virus particle will dock with a target host cell (most viruses are highly specific for the precise sorts of cells they will and won’t bind to), insert its genetic payload which hijacks the host’s replicative machinery, replicate the genetic payload wildly which codes for both new genetic material and protein capsule subunits, and then reassemble lots of intact virus particles which then escape the host cell to go and find other cells to infect. Within a mammalian host, once a virus attack is recognized, an antibody response is mounted and the fight is on. As the virus particles escape the host cell (which is usually damaged or killed as a consequence of having been hijacked) it is vulnerable to being identified by a host antibody, itself a highly-specialized protein that will 'dock' with a virus particle more or less permanently (they bind together very tightly) and thereby incapacitate the virus’ ability to dock to a new host cell. With lethal viruses, something goes wrong with this process. Either the virus replicates too quickly for the host to counter effectively, or the virus tricks the immune response into either too little or too much activity -- both conditions which can end poorly for the host. For example, the Spanish flu epidemic of 1918 preferentially killed those between the ages of 20 and 40. This was unusual because it's exactly opposite the flu mortality patterns we normally expect, where the very young and the very old are the most susceptible. The best prevailing explanation for this is that it was the very health and vigor of the patients that did them in. The Spanish flu (and other avian flu strains) cause the host body to unleash a 'cytokine storm' which is a very unhealthy, and sometimes lethal, positive feedback loop between immune cells and a class of attractor signaling molecules called cytokines. As more cytokines are released, say into the lung tissue, immune cells are attracted and can then release more cytokines, which attracts more immune cells, and so on. The place to which they are attracted becomes damaged by this overly-aggressive response of the immune cells and for the Spanish flu victims, this happened in the lungs, critically impairing respiration. Hence, the 'healthier' a host was, the more damage the Spanish flu virus caused. In the case of Ebola, the virus preferentially targets the cells that line the inner walls of blood vessels (a.k.a. endothelial cells) as well as white blood cells, a fact which helps to spread the virus throughout the body fairly rapidly, as white blood cells actively migrate system-wide. Through a variety of mechanisms, the Ebola virus causes the endothelial cells to detach from the blood vessels and die, which compromises blood vessel integrity. This targeting of the blood vessels is why the Ebola virus is classified as a hemorrhagic fever. The patient's blood vessels literally break down. That leads to the many visible symptoms of an Ebola victim, not the least of which is various burst blood vessels all throughout the body.  (Source) Currently, it's thought that once exposed, an Ebola victim will incubate the virus for a period of up to 21 days before symptoms express. It's only once the victim is symptomatic that they themselves can transmit the virus and infect others. This characteristic of Ebola, more than any other, is why I don’t fear it overly much as a pandemic risk. A far more worrisome virus would be one that's infective during asymptomatic stages of its host cycle, as is the case with HIV. Early symptoms of Ebola include the sudden onset of fever, intense weakness, muscle pain, headache and sore throat. Unfortunately, that pretty much describes any reasonably intense flu, which complicates screening procedures and causes unnecessary worry among those who merely have the flu but worry about the possibility of Ebola. Nonetheless, authorities have no choice but to take every traveling passenger with these very ordinary flu symptoms as a possible Ebola case. It's a safe bet we’ll hear plenty in the coming days and weeks about Hazmat-suited response teams escorting sickly passengers off of planes. A tip: if you have a fever, don’t travel. You'll worry a lot of people unnecessarily. And you may end up in quarantine, really throwing your travel plans off the rails. While gruesome and heartbreaking, the actual number of deaths by Ebola as well as the total number of people infected is very, very low compared to other hazards out there. Are you more worried about Ebola than driving to work? If so, you have those risks entirely inverted.  (Source) In the above chart, there are 27 years worth of data contained in each data point. That means that if the chart reads 2,700 for a given day, then an average of 100 people died on US roads on that day each year out of 27. For the US, the above chart translates into ~33,000 vehicle deaths per year. Even in Africa where some 4,000 people have died from Ebola so far in 2014, America's vehicle fatalities dwarf that current statistic. Other communicable diseases such as HIV, tuberculosis, malaria, and diarrheal disease cause some 9 million deaths worldwide each year. This is why I'm personally not that worried about Ebola striking me or my family here in the eastern US at this time. Nor would I be overly worried in Dallas, where the first two US-soil cases of Ebola command national attention. The odds of getting infected at this point are very low at the individual level. However, I do think that the reaction to Ebola, which could include ex- and inter-US travel bans and other economically and socially disruptive practices could be another matter altogether at this moment in time. While there is a small, but non-zero, chance that this Ebola strain could morph into something more virulent, there is a very good chance of a more Draconian government response developing. In Part 2: Prudent Precautions To Take Now, we dive into not only what damage to our civil liberties and livelihood these heavy-handed and poorly executed government responses are likely to be, but we also address the actions that individuals can take today on important questions like: What Ebola reminds us of is that when a true pandemic arrives it will travel much faster than those in the past (thanks to air travel being an order of magnitude faster than dawning recognition) and that our complex, highly leveraged, just-in-time global economy is utterly unprepared for even a minor glitch in the flow of goods let alone the virtual lockdown that a true pandemic would require. A small amount of preparing can make you much less vulnerable should (when?) that comes to pass. Click here to access Part 2 of this report (free executive summary; enrollment required for full access) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIt's been over a week since we've seen a decent rally in the stock market. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. Friday's rally was led by the large-cap companies with the Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&amp;P 500 outperforming. General Electric rose 2.3% and Honeywell jumped 4.2% after announcing strong financial results. The Russell 2000 — an index of small and mid-cap stocks — closed down 0.2%. 2. "It has been an insane week for stocks, that's for sure," NYSE floor governor Rich Barry said. "[T]he market traded down 747 points from Monday's highs to Wednesday's lows — then reversed by 545 points from Wednesday's low to today's session-highs... Amazing." 3. Housing starts jumped 6.3% in September to an annualized rate of 1.017 million. This was stronger than the 1.00 million pace expected. The growth was driven in the multi-family sector of the housing market.  "Tight mortgage credit has resulted in all net new household formations continuing to go into rental units, driving multi-family to the highest share of new home construction (36% average this year) in thirty years," Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman noted. "With no immediate relief in sight for tight mortgage credit conditions and improving job prospects probably supporting some improvement in sluggish rates of household formations -- running about 500,000 a year still versus an underlying demographic trend closer to 1 million -- we look for the apartment share of starts to continue rising going forward as overall starts move higher." Homebuilder stocks DR Horton, PulteGroup, and Lennar all surged. 4. The University of Michigan's preliminary consumer confidence index unexpectedly jumped to a 7-year high of 86.4 in October from 84.6 in September. Economists were forecasting a decline to 84.0. This came despite escalating worries about things like the Ebola virus outbreak. However, Capital Economics' Paul Diggle noted "the preliminary survey results pre-date the recent equity market sell-off, so the final survey reading could come in substantially lower." Don't Miss: JPMorgan's Complete Guide To Everything Happening In The Markets » FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesBillionaire Warren Buffett is the second-richest person in America.What's the difference between someone who makes $1 million and someone who makes $1 billion? According to John Sviokla and Mitch Cohen, authors of "The Self-Made Billionaire Effect: How Extreme Producers Create Massive Value," it comes down to what the authors call "habits of mind." Sviokla, the head of global thought leadership at Pricewaterhouse Coopers and a former Harvard Business School professor, and Cohen, a vice chairman at PwC, conducted a study of 120 self-made billionaires, randomly chosen from a pool of 600 global candidates. They selected subjects who created $1 billion of wealth through "entrepreneurial activity," operated in regulated and somewhat transparent markets, and who didn't inherit the bulk of their wealth (although they did qualify if they grew their inherited wealth by 100 times or more). They then learned everything they could about the finalists. The authors write that while they expected to find commonality among the billionaires' external circumstances, be it disadvantaged backgrounds or existential challenges, the common thread they found among the billionaires was internal: habits of mind. Specifically, the billionaires are largely able to achieve what the authors refer to as a "duality of mind" between imagination and judgment — the ability to imagine something greater while seeing existing things truly as they are. Sviokla and Cohen write: These dual habits of mind and action enable them to function as what we term Producers: They envision something new, bring together the people and the resources to create it, and sell it to customers who didn't know they needed it. The opposite of this is what the authors term Performers: people who excel at operating within our existing systems and structures. Performers can be very successful, but there's a drawback to their strengths: That single-minded talent for reaching otherworldly heights within a defined environment — so necessary in many aspects of business — reinforces function-driven systems that discourage the integrated habits of mind and action necessary for Producers. There is, however, a ray of hope for those of us who recognize ourselves as Performers. Sviokla and Cohen found that while many of the billionaires they studied appeared to have an inherent Producer mindset, it's their practice and cultivation of needed habits of mind that make them stand out in the crowd. And, they write, anyone can change and improve their habits of mind. There's hope for us yet. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of Swiss bank UBS is seen at the entrance of an office building in Zurich(Reuters) - UBS AG  is sticking with its recommendations that some clients buy risky Puerto Rico closed-end bond funds, despite hundreds of arbitration claims by investors who blame the securities for huge losses, according to an internal document. UBS told brokers that they may continue to recommend the funds to clients following a $5.2 million settlement last week with Puerto Rico's financial institutions regulator about sales practices involving the funds, according to an Oct. 9 internal memo reviewed by Reuters.  (Reporting by Suzanne Barlyn; Editing by James Dalgleish) FREE AppDownload
ReutersPre-owned Nike shoes can sell for thousands of dollars.Nike's strategy of selling sneakers in limited quantities has created a massive reselling market.  The pre-owned sneaker market, which predominantly features Nike shoes, is now worth $1 billion, according to industry website Campless.  "If you had $1 billion you could buy the Chicago Bulls, New Orleans Saints, or San Francisco Giants," Campless founder and IBM consultant Josh Luber writes on his blog. "You could also buy every sneaker that was resold in the past twelve months." A growing culture of so-called sneakerheads buy collectible footwear on eBay, Craigslist, and other sites. Luber questions whether Nike's strategy of offering a limited number of sneakers that are sold for 10 times the original price is a missed opportunity.  Reselling sneakers has become an economy with "buyers, sellers, brokers, market-makers and third-party valuation services," Luber tells FiveThirtyEight. His company compiles data from millions of online auctions. CamplessCampless illustrates how the sneaker reselling market has grown in recent years.  "By restricting the supply of its popular brands, Nike is tapping into another consumer desire: to have something no else has," the website writes.  But when it comes to reselling sneakers with hefty mark-ups, Nike lets others take the profits.  "The average eBay price of the LeBron 10 What the MVP sneaker? $2,086," writes FiveThirtyEight. "The Nike Air MAG Back to the Future? $5,718. How about the Air Yeezy 2 Red October, designed by Kanye West and released by Nike this year for $250 retail? It sold on eBay for an average price of $2,958, with almost two dozen people paying at least $8,000."  If Nike created a platform for reselling shoes, it could arguably make a lot of money.  Despite the potential missed opportunity, Nike benefits greatly from the resell market through free exposure, footwear analyst Sam Poser at Sterne, Agee &amp; Leech tells FiveThirtyEight.  "They understand the cool factor, and they know how to stay cool," Poser says. "And if they don’t stay cool they know this business dries up, because this is fashion." Yahoo! FinanceNike's shares have continued to rise in recent years. Nike sold nearly $28 billion last year. FREE AppDownload
Federal ReserveFrom Janet Yellen's slide deck on wealth inequality Fed Chair Janet Yellen made a speech this morning at the Boston Fed’s conference on economic opportunity and inequality. She even had a slide deck! Her general point was that wealth inequality in the US is not only bad, but has gotten a lot worse since the beginning of the Great Recession (see the above slide). She also notes that America is actually pretty bad at the one thing that’s supposed to make ours the land of opportunity: economic mobility. Yellen presented four “building blocks of opportunity” — ways that the Fed’s data (mostly from the latest Survey of Consumer Finances) shows are effective in making people upwardly mobile. Before you get too excited, we should note that while tales of winning the lottery (or, similarly, getting VC funding) are fun to hear, the way that mobility works in reality is much more mundane. It’s, unfortunately, fairly heavily reliant on government policy and macroeconomic factors out of the control of most individuals. Nonetheless, here are Janet Yellen’s four ways to get richer in this economy: Early Education Children who start behind often get left behind, so resources for young children are critical in starting to close income and wealth gaps. However, Yellen recognizes that this isn’t an individual thing — the vast majority of people rely on public funding for education, particularly primary education. We need more public funding for pre-K, she says. Further, “the quality and the funding levels of public education at the primary and secondary levels vary widely, and this unevenness limits public education's equalizing effect.”  Yellen is also mildly critical of using local property taxes to fund schools, since that means rich kids tend to have access to better funded schools. Higher Education College is crucial to upward mobility, but it’s too expensive for too many people. It’s a problem, she says, that the lowest 50% of earners are seeing student loan debt soar at rates that wealthier people aren’t (proportional to their income). “ I fear the large and growing burden of paying for it may make it harder for many young people to take advantage of the opportunity higher education offers,” she says. Business Ownership It seems like common sense that owning a business is key to gaining wealth, but Yellen says the problem is that not enough Americans are getting in on the game. You’d never know it from the headlines out of Silicon Valley, but startups are in a slump in this country. Here’s Yellen: “The latest SCF shows that the percentage of the next 45 that own a business has fallen to a 25-year low, and equity in those businesses, adjusted for inflation, is at its lowest point since the mid-1990s.” This, she says, threatens the economic opportunity of not the wealthiest, but the middle classes. Inheritance  This is a counterintuitive one. While, Yellen says, the inheritances of the wealthy keeps them that way, there are plenty of people outside the top 5% of the wealth distribution who receive a sizeable chunk of assets when a family member dies. And that can be a good thing: “Considering the overall picture of limited resources for most families that I have described today, I think the effects of inheritances for the sizable minority below the top that receive one are likely a significant source of economic opportunity.” It may not be something that an individual can plan for, but it is something for policymakers and economists to take into account. Of course, like any good academic, Yellen concluded her speech by saying that these are merely observations, rather than conclusions. Actions and policies are for someone other than the Fed chair.  FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/The Dallas Morning News, Kye R. Lee, PoolPresident Barack Obama in July Obama mentioned his credit-card issue on Friday when he spoke while signing an executive order aimed at protecting people from credit-card fraud. He said his card was rejected when he was having a dinner date with his wife, Michelle Obama, in Manhattan during the UN General Assembly. "It turned out, I guess, I don't use it enough, to so they thought there was some fraud going on," said Obama. "Fortunately, Michelle had hers." Obama and the first lady dined at New York City restaurant Estela on Sept. 24 while he attended the annual UN meeting. The White House did not respond to a request for comment about whether this was the meal where his card was rejected. In July, a White House press pool report described Obama using his "JPMorgan card" at a barbecue restaurant in Austin, Texas. According to the report, before using the card, Obama asked an aide if it was good. He was assured it was and apparently used it without incident.   Business Insider reached out to JPMorgan to ask why Obama's card may have been shut off. A company spokesman declined to discuss the matter and said the company does not "comment on customers' accounts." This isn't the only recent issue with Obama's credit card. Earlier this month, a JPMorgan SEC filing revealed the company suffered a massive cyberattack where personal information from tens of million customers may have been "compromised." The company declined to comment about whether Obama was among users who may have been affected.   FREE AppDownload
 MILLER COORS  CHICAGO, IL  APPLY NOW   Job Requirements   APPLY NOW 
Wikimedia CommonsIt's been over a week since we've seen a decent rally in the stock market. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. Friday's rally was led by the large-cap companies with the Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&amp;P 500 outperforming. General Electric rose 2.3% and Honeywell jumped 4.2% after announcing strong financial results. The Russell 2000 — an index of small and mid-cap stocks — closed down 0.2%. 2. "It has been an insane week for stocks, that's for sure," NYSE floor governor Rich Barry said. "[T]he market traded down 747 points from Monday's highs to Wednesday's lows — then reversed by 545 points from Wednesday's low to today's session-highs... Amazing." 3. Housing starts jumped 6.3% in September to an annualized rate of 1.017 million. This was stronger than the 1.00 million pace expected. The growth was driven in the multi-family sector of the housing market.  "Tight mortgage credit has resulted in all net new household formations continuing to go into rental units, driving multi-family to the highest share of new home construction (36% average this year) in thirty years," Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman noted. "With no immediate relief in sight for tight mortgage credit conditions and improving job prospects probably supporting some improvement in sluggish rates of household formations -- running about 500,000 a year still versus an underlying demographic trend closer to 1 million -- we look for the apartment share of starts to continue rising going forward as overall starts move higher." Homebuilder stocks DR Horton, PulteGroup, and Lennar all surged. 4. The University of Michigan's preliminary consumer confidence index unexpectedly jumped to a 7-year high of 86.4 in October from 84.6 in September. Economists were forecasting a decline to 84.0. This came despite escalating worries about things like the Ebola virus outbreak. However, Capital Economics' Paul Diggle noted "the preliminary survey results pre-date the recent equity market sell-off, so the final survey reading could come in substantially lower." Don't Miss: JPMorgan's Complete Guide To Everything Happening In The Markets » FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Actively Managed Funds With Low Costs And High Ownership Outperform Others (Morningstar)  Actively managed funds were evaluated by American Funds over five and ten year periods to see which factors might contribute to their successes. The funds were broken into four categories: all actively managed funds, funds with lowest costs, funds with the highest manager ownership, and funds that had both low costs and high ownership. Actively managed funds with high ownership and low costs significantly outperformed the other three types. Those with highest ownership only came in second, and those with lowest cost came in third. "That cheaper was better is no surprise, nor that more manager ownership was beneficial," John Rekenthaler wrote. "It also is no shock that funds that combined the two attributes of low cost and high ownership fared best of all. However, I would not have predicted that manager ownership would be the stronger of the two effects. Merely tilting toward organizations that had high manager ownership, without regard to any other factor, moved active international funds to be even with the costless index and pushed active U.S. stock funds moderately ahead of their benchmark." UBS Was Ordered To Pay Puerto Rico $5.2 Million (The Wall Street Journal) UBS was ordered by Puerto Rico's financial regulator to pay $5.2 million in fines and restitution "over the bank's sale of bond funds that lost value because of the island's ongoing fiscal troubles," reports Matthias Rieker. Six UBS financial advisors were also placed under "enhanced supervision" because, according to the regulator, "they may have been engaged in 'objectionable' sales practices."  UBS will pay $1.7 million in restitution to 34 clients. The other $3.5 million will be paid to an investor education and investigation fund. Investors Should Go For Intermediate-Term Maturities Because The Fed Will Probably Delay Rate Hikes (Charles Schwab) The Federal Reserve probably will not be rushing to hike short-term interest rates because the global economy is slowing, inflation is declining, and the US dollar is rising versus other currencies, writes Kathy A. Jones. But "rather than waiting on the sidelines for the Fed to begin hiking rates, we suggest investors look to the intermediate-term portion of the yield curve to earn income," writes Jones. Because yields are currently low across the spectrum and the yield curve is steep, long-term maturities will "likely be highly sensitive to a rise in interest rates", and short-term securities "don't offer much potential for income," she adds. Longer-Dated Treasuries And Long-End Munis Are Looking Pretty Attractive (BlackRock Blog) This week the 10-year Treasury yield dropped to its lowest level in over a year — to below 2%. This dip will naturally have implications on investors' bond portfolios. "Favor longer-dated Treasuries. The 10-year Treasury yield still appears attractive relative to sovereign rates elsewhere in the world. In addition, longer-dated Treasuries also look more attractive than those with two- to five-year durations, which are likely to exhibit the most volatility and be most vulnerable to rising rates," writes Rick Rieder. Additionally, investors should look at long-end municipal debt. Long-end municipal bonds are still relatively attractive, especially because of "improving issuer credit conditions and higher tax revenues," writes Rieder. Top Performing Advisory Firms Focus On Revenue, Hand Pick Their Clients, And Had Involved Owners (Investment News) "Top performers are focused on revenue, revenue, and revenue," writes Matt Sirinides. Top performing firms were focused on getting their advisors to be more productive than other firms' advisors. Contrastingly, worse performing firms were more focused on operations productivity. Additionally, "top performers recognize the value in carefully monitoring and shaping their client base," writes Sirinides. Finally, the owners of top performing firms were more hands-on than their peers at worse performing firms. In fact, the owners at top firms tended to be the most productive advisors. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderTry buying things exclusively via mobile payments and you will surely die, either of starvation or of a caffeine overdose. Coffee shops aside, hardly any restaurants or retailers allow customers to pay by waving a smartphone.  That will soon change: on October 16th, just after The Economist went to press, Apple was expected to announce that, within days, the latest iPhone's mobile-payment feature, Apple Pay, will start working in America. It lets users tap their phones on merchants' terminals to make wireless payments. Such technology has been around for years. It has failed to take off, however, in large part because so many firms have fingers in the mobile-payment pie, and often block others from grabbing a big piece of it. Google Wallet, a mobile-payment service that started up in 2011 to great fanfare, for a long time worked on only one of America's four big wireless networks, Sprint. The other three have their own rival project, now called Softcard (it was named ISIS until events in the Levant forced a change). A consortium of big American retailers, such as Walmart and Target, also offers a mobile-payment service, called CurrentC, as does PayPal, whose main business is online payments. And then there are dozens of startups, from Stripe to Square, each with its own take on mobile payments. The fragmentation confuses merchants and consumers, who have yet to see what is in it for them. From their perspective, the current system works well. Swiping a credit card is not much harder than tapping a phone. Nor is it too risky, especially in America, since credit cards are protected against fraud. Upgrading to a new system is a hassle. Merchants have to install new terminals. Consumers need to store their card details on their phones, but still carry their cards around, since most stores are not yet properly equipped. The hope is that Apple Pay will help overcome these barriers. As with iTunes, for which the firm cut distribution deals with record labels and developed software to prevent piracy, Apple has pulled together a complete ecosystem. Card networks and banks have agreed to process payments, reportedly for lower fees than normal. From its launch, Apple Pay will be accepted at 220,000 outlets in America, including big chains such as McDonald's and Whole Foods (Apple has not said when the service will be available abroad). Apple/ScreenshotApple's technical choices may help to set industry standards. One is near-field communication (NFC), a wireless technology that links smartphones and merchant terminals. Another is "tokenisation": the devices do not exchange card numbers, but tokens (a sort of digital voucher), making fraud much more difficult. Apple has also made mobile payments less arduous. Users who already have an iTunes account do not have to type in their card details. They approve payments by touching the fingerprint reader on their device. Owners of the firm's new smartwatch, to be released next year, will only have to raise their hands. And tokenisation is appealing, given the recent data breaches at big American retailers (Kmart, the latest victim, announced on October 10th that some of its customers' payment cards had been "compromised"). But even Apple's magic may not be enough to make mobile payments fly. It is not clear how merchants will benefit from Apple's new ecosystem: it does not offer them lower fees for processing payments or useful data about their customers, as CurrentC does. As a result, they may refuse to sign up for Apple Pay or discourage its use. Even consumers may quickly lose interest. "Early adopters will try Apple Pay, but find that it is still easier to pay with a card," says Tim Sloane of Mercator Advisory Group, another market-research firm.  Tapping a phone is likely to remain just one of several widely accepted ways to pay. Starbucks's successful app, which lets customers pay by holding an image on their smartphone up to a scanner, shows one way to increase the appeal of mobile payments: it not only cuts the wait for the next dose of caffeine, but also awards loyalty points. Petrol stations, grocery stores and public transport seem ripe for similar services. That, in turn, may help to prepare people for more outlandish forms of payment. Apple has developed devices called iBeacons, small transmitters that can detect nearby iPhones, making it possible to pay without even pulling out your phone. Apple Pay may have a bigger, albeit indirect impact in the developing world, says Irving Wladawsky-Berger, who until recently advised Citigroup on mobile money. With many standards now set, he reckons, the technology will become cheap and ubiquitous--thus helping the world's 2.5 billion unbanked to connect to formal finance. Mobile phones have already enabled poor countries to leapfrog a few stages of development in telecoms and, in some cases, finance. Cheap mobile payments will allow them to jump further. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderTry buying things exclusively via mobile payments and you will surely die, either of starvation or of a caffeine overdose. Coffee shops aside, hardly any restaurants or retailers allow customers to pay by waving a smartphone.  That will soon change: on October 16th, just after The Economist went to press, Apple was expected to announce that, within days, the latest iPhone's mobile-payment feature, Apple Pay, will start working in America. It lets users tap their phones on merchants' terminals to make wireless payments. Such technology has been around for years. It has failed to take off, however, in large part because so many firms have fingers in the mobile-payment pie, and often block others from grabbing a big piece of it. Google Wallet, a mobile-payment service that started up in 2011 to great fanfare, for a long time worked on only one of America's four big wireless networks, Sprint. The other three have their own rival project, now called Softcard (it was named ISIS until events in the Levant forced a change). A consortium of big American retailers, such as Walmart and Target, also offers a mobile-payment service, called CurrentC, as does PayPal, whose main business is online payments. And then there are dozens of startups, from Stripe to Square, each with its own take on mobile payments. The fragmentation confuses merchants and consumers, who have yet to see what is in it for them. From their perspective, the current system works well. Swiping a credit card is not much harder than tapping a phone. Nor is it too risky, especially in America, since credit cards are protected against fraud. Upgrading to a new system is a hassle. Merchants have to install new terminals. Consumers need to store their card details on their phones, but still carry their cards around, since most stores are not yet properly equipped. The hope is that Apple Pay will help overcome these barriers. As with iTunes, for which the firm cut distribution deals with record labels and developed software to prevent piracy, Apple has pulled together a complete ecosystem. Card networks and banks have agreed to process payments, reportedly for lower fees than normal. From its launch, Apple Pay will be accepted at 220,000 outlets in America, including big chains such as McDonald's and Whole Foods (Apple has not said when the service will be available abroad). Apple/ScreenshotApple's technical choices may help to set industry standards. One is near-field communication (NFC), a wireless technology that links smartphones and merchant terminals. Another is "tokenisation": the devices do not exchange card numbers, but tokens (a sort of digital voucher), making fraud much more difficult. Apple has also made mobile payments less arduous. Users who already have an iTunes account do not have to type in their card details. They approve payments by touching the fingerprint reader on their device. Owners of the firm's new smartwatch, to be released next year, will only have to raise their hands. And tokenisation is appealing, given the recent data breaches at big American retailers (Kmart, the latest victim, announced on October 10th that some of its customers' payment cards had been "compromised"). But even Apple's magic may not be enough to make mobile payments fly. It is not clear how merchants will benefit from Apple's new ecosystem: it does not offer them lower fees for processing payments or useful data about their customers, as CurrentC does. As a result, they may refuse to sign up for Apple Pay or discourage its use. Even consumers may quickly lose interest. "Early adopters will try Apple Pay, but find that it is still easier to pay with a card," says Tim Sloane of Mercator Advisory Group, another market-research firm.  Tapping a phone is likely to remain just one of several widely accepted ways to pay. Starbucks's successful app, which lets customers pay by holding an image on their smartphone up to a scanner, shows one way to increase the appeal of mobile payments: it not only cuts the wait for the next dose of caffeine, but also awards loyalty points. Petrol stations, grocery stores and public transport seem ripe for similar services. That, in turn, may help to prepare people for more outlandish forms of payment. Apple has developed devices called iBeacons, small transmitters that can detect nearby iPhones, making it possible to pay without even pulling out your phone. Apple Pay may have a bigger, albeit indirect impact in the developing world, says Irving Wladawsky-Berger, who until recently advised Citigroup on mobile money. With many standards now set, he reckons, the technology will become cheap and ubiquitous--thus helping the world's 2.5 billion unbanked to connect to formal finance. Mobile phones have already enabled poor countries to leapfrog a few stages of development in telecoms and, in some cases, finance. Cheap mobile payments will allow them to jump further. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Cultures from rats caught in four Manhattan buildings and a park surprised even pathologists. This video originally appeared on Slate Video. Watch More: slate.com/video Dallas Jensen is a regular video contributor to Slate. Follow Slate: On YouTube
APRussian President Vladimir Putin. Vladimir Putin said Friday that the global economy would collapse if the oil price was allowed to remain at around $80 a barrel for too long. At a press conference following talks on the Ukrainian crisis in Milan, Italy the Russian president warned that prices as low as $80 a barrel would cause US oil production to crash as well as putting pressure on the rest of the global economy. He said: $80 a barrel would not be in the interest of any major players. This level is not in anyone's interest. The global economy would suffer. Oil prices below current levels present a particular pressure for the Russian government, which had budgeted on the basis of $90 a barrel. The collapse in the oil price has also hit the ruble, with the Russian central bank having burned through $13 Billion of foreign exchange reserves in an attempt to prop up the currency. Putin attempted to dismiss concerns surrounding the currency saying: Russia is among the world's leading countries in terms of foreign exchange and gold reserves. We have enough to adjust the rate of the ruble if necessary. However, this argument has previously been dismissed by Elvira Nabiullina, the head of Russia's central bank, who said Monday that if currency markets continue to turn against the ruble the bank "won’t be able to restrain them." Acknowledging the problems that falling oil prices pose to his government's budget plans, Putin said that if they remained depressed Russia "may need to adjust our budget" but stressed that social spending would not be cut. "We will not have to sacrifice that," he said. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueNote from dshort: This commentary has been updated with this morning's release of September Industrial Production. Official recession calls are the responsibility of the NBER Business Cycle Dating Committee, which is understandably vague about the specific indicators on which they base their decisions. This committee statement is about as close as they get to identifying their method. There is, however, a general belief that there are four big indicators that the committee weighs heavily in their cycle identification process. They are: The Latest Indicator Data  According to the Federal Reserve, "Industrial production increased 1.0 percent in September and advanced at an annual rate of 3.2 percent in the third quarter of 2014, roughly its average quarterly increase since the end of 2010." The full report is available here. Today's month-over-month increase of 1.0% beat the Investing.com forecast of 0.4%. My personal view is that Industrial Production is probably the least useful of the Big Four economic indicators. It's a hodge-podge of underlying index components and subject to major revisions, which undercuts its value as a near-term indicator of economic health. As a long-term indicator, it needs two key adjustments to have any correlation with Industrial Production reality. First, it should be adjusted for inflation using some sort of deflator relevant to production. Second, it should be population-adjusted. The chart below is my preferred way to look at Industrial Production over the long haul. I've used the Producer Price Index for All Commodities as the deflator and Census Bureau's mid-month population estimates to adjust for population growth. I've indexed the adjusted series so that 2007=100.  Click for a larger image The most recent data point in this adjusted series is an interim high off the post-recession trough (see the inset above). But it remains below the post-recession highs in 2009 and 2010. Note: I'm indebted to Bob Bronson of Bronson Capital Research for instructing me on the necessity of inflation and population adjustments to decipher of the Federal Reserve's otherwise misleading Industrial Production data. The Generic Big Four The chart and table below illustrate the performance of the generic Big Four with an overlay of a simple average of the four since the end of the Great Recession. The data points show the cumulative percent change from a zero starting point for June 2009. We now have the three indicator updates for the 61th month following the recession. The Big Four Average is (gray line below).  Current Assessment and Outlook The overall picture of the US economy had been one of slow recovery from the Great Recession with a clearly documented contraction during the winter, as reflected in Q1 GDP. Data for Q2 supported the consensus view that severe winter weather was responsible for the Q1 contraction -- that it was not the beginnings of a business cycle decline. However, the average of these indicators in recent months suggests that, despite the Q2 rebound in GDP, the economy remains near stall speed.  The next update of the Big Four be the month-end Real Personal Income less Transfer Payments. Background Analysis: The Big Four Indicators and Recessions The charts above don't show us the individual behavior of the Big Four leading up to the 2007 recession. To achieve that goal, I've plotted the same data using a "percent off high" technique. In other words, I show successive new highs as zero and the cumulative percent declines of months that aren't new highs. The advantage of this approach is that it helps us visualize declines more clearly and to compare the depth of declines for each indicator and across time (e.g., the short 2001 recession versus the Great Recession). Here is my own four-pack showing the indicators with this technique.   Now let's examine the behavior of these indicators across time. The first chart below graphs the period from 2000 to the present, thereby showing us the behavior of the four indicators before and after the two most recent recessions. Rather than having four separate charts, I've created an overlay to help us evaluate the relative behavior of the indicators at the cycle peaks and troughs. (See my note below on recession boundaries).  Click for a larger image The chart above is an excellent starting point for evaluating the relevance of the four indicators in the context of two very different recessions. In both cases, the bounce in Industrial Production matches the NBER trough while Employment and Personal Incomes lagged in their respective reversals. As for the start of these two 21st century recessions, the indicator declines are less uniform in their behavior. We can see, however, that Employment and Personal Income were laggards in the declines. Now let's look at the 1972-1985 period, which included three recessions -- the savage 16-month Oil Embargo recession of 1973-1975 and the double dip of 1980 and 1981-1982 (6-months and 16-months, respectively).  Click for a larger image And finally, for sharp-eyed readers who can don't mind squinting at a lot of data, here's a cluttered chart from 1959 to the present. That is the earliest date for which all four indicators are available. The main lesson of this chart is the diverse patterns and volatility across time for these indicators. For example, retail sales and industrial production are far more volatile than employment and income.  Click for a larger image History tells us the brief periods of contraction are not uncommon, as we can see in this big picture since 1959, the same chart as the one above, but showing the average of the four rather than the individual indicators.  Click for a larger image The chart clearly illustrates the savagery of the last recession. It was much deeper than the closest contender in this timeframe, the 1973-1975 Oil Embargo recession. While we've yet to set new highs, the trend has collectively been upward, although we have that strange anomaly caused by the late 2012 tax-planning strategy that impacted the Personal Income. Here is a close-up of the average since 2000.  Click for a larger image   Appendix: Chart Gallery with Notes Each of the four major indicators discussed in this article are illustrated below in three different data manipulations: Industrial Production The US Industrial Production Index (INDPRO) is the oldest of the four indicators, stretching back to 1919, although I've dropped the earlier decades and started in 1950.  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Real Personal Income Less Transfer Payments This data series is computed as by taking Personal Income (PI) less Personal Current Transfer Receipts (PCTR) and deflated using the Personal Consumption Expenditure Price Index (PCEPI). I've chained the data to the latest price index value. The "Tax Planning Strategies" annotation refers to shifting income into the current year to avoid a real or expected tax increase.  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Transfer Payments largely consist of retirement and disability insurance benefits, medical benefits, income maintenance benefits (more here). The chart below shows the Transfer Payment portion of Personal Income. I've included recessions to help illustrate the impact of the business cycle on this metric.  Total Nonfarm Employees There are many ways to plot employment. The one referenced by the Federal Reserve researchers as one of the NBER indicators is Total Nonfarm Employees (PAYEMS).  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Real Retail Sales This indicator is a splicing of the discontinued retail sales series (RETAIL, discontinued in April 2001) with the Retail and Food Services Sales (RSAFS) and deflated by the seasonally adjusted Consumer Price Index (CPIAUCSL). I used a splice point of January 1995 because that date was mentioned in the FRED notes. My experiments with other splice techniques (e.g., 1992, 2001 or using an average of the overlapping years) didn't make a meaningful difference in the behavior of the indicator in proximity to recessions. I've chained the data to the latest CPI value.  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Note: I represent recessions as the peak month through the month preceding the trough to highlight the recessions in the charts above. For example, the NBER dates the last cycle peak as December 2007, the trough as June 2009 and the duration as 18 months. The "Peak through the Period preceding the Trough" series is the one FRED uses in its monthly charts, as explained in the FRED FAQs illustrated in this Industrial Production chart. FREE AppDownload
Billionaire investor Mark Cuban says he's buying Netflix stock. He also thinks that someone will try to buy them. I'm buying NFLX stock. At half of YHOO, 10B&lt;Twitter and small pct of major media companies, Someone will try to buy them. #GetLongGetLoud Shares of Netflix crashed after the company reported disappointing third quarter financial results on Wednesday and lowered its fourth-quarter earnings-per-share guidance. On the same day, HBO announced plans to launch a standalone streaming video service sometime next year.  Yahoo! Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstFedChair Janet Yellen holds a news conference following two-day Federal Open Market Committee meeting at the Fedin Washington June 18, 2014.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The top 113 earners among staff at the Federal Reserve's Washington headquarters make an average of $246,506 per year, excluding bonuses and other benefits - more than Fed Chair Janet Yellen and nearly double the normal top government rate. Yellen, whose salary is set by Congress, earns $201,700 a year. The details on Fed pay were provided to Reuters in response to a Freedom of Information Act request for data on all employees of the U.S. central bank's board whose salaries outstrip $130,810, which is the top of the government's pay scale in most areas. However, the central bank only provided salaries for staff who make at least $225,000 a year, with some exceptions. It is the first time the list has been made public. Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives have sponsored a bill that would require the Fed to divulge that information publicly. Supporters of the Fed say the world's leading central bank needs top talent, and note that its expenses are not covered by taxpayers, but by the income it earns on securities it holds. Critics, however, think the Fed has too much discretion. "It certainly bolsters the case for more oversight," said Maggie Seidel, a spokeswoman for New Jersey Republican Scott Garrett, a co-sponsor of the bill. As of July 31, the Fed's inspector general led the list with an annual salary of $312,000, followed by the central bank's four division directors, its general counsel and its chief operating officer, who each earn a base of $265,000. Despite the relatively high pay of senior managers at the Fed board, the average salary of all its staffers was $121,279, excluding benefits, a figure that lags behind other financial regulators. At the Securities and Exchange Commission, the average salary was $157,946 in 2013, while at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation it was about $130,000. The average at the Commodities Futures Trading Commission was $146,323. Former Senator Ted Kaufman said it was important for the central bank to hire and retain talented staff who could fetch more in the private sector. Managing directors at large investment banks, for example, usually earn a salary around $250,000 and pull in bonuses that in good times can be double or triple that amount. Nevertheless, the Delaware Democrat said tracking the Fed's costs was a legitimate concern. "In the private sector, every business has incentives to keep costs down. In government, you have to overcome the issue that there is no natural need to keep costs down," Kaufman said. (Reporting by Michael Flaherty; Editing by Tim Ahmann and Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
CIM Group and Macklowe PropertiesConstruction topped out at 432 Park Ave. last week, meaning the tower is officially the tallest residential building in New York City. The luxury condo stands at 1,396 feet, slightly taller than One World Trade Center, which is 1,362 feet tall (not including its spire, which brings its official height to 1,776 feet). It contains 104 condos, including 10 floors of penthouses. One already sold for $95 million. The views from the residences, some of the highest homes in the world, are truly astounding. Residents will be able to see to the top of Central Park to the north, One World Trade to the south, and Brooklyn and New Jersey to the east and west.  Developers CIM Group and Macklowe Properties shared these incredible photos, snapped from the top of 432 Park. Looking north across Central Park, the George Washington Bridge can be seen in the distance.Richard BerenholtzFrom this height, the rest of the city looks tiny.Richard BerenholtzTo the south, there are views of New York City's iconic skyscrapers, including the Chrysler Building, MetLife Building, and Empire State Building. One World Trade is off in the distance.Richard Berenholtz432 Park has already altered the New York City skyline. It towers above the other new construction on 57th Street, nicknamed "Billionaires' Row" for the abundance of luxury condos cropping up there.DBOX for CIM Group & Macklowe PropertiesThe building's 104 apartments start at $7 million.DBOX for CIM Group & Macklowe PropertiesFor those prices, we have high expectations for the interiors. And they don't disappoint.Copyright CIM Group & Macklowe PropertiesDesigner Deborah Berke took a geometric approach. The huge windows are in a straight line from the front door, making the most of the apartment's perch above the city. Copyright CIM Group & Macklowe PropertiesAccording to Berke, the oak herringbone floors are a take on Park Avenue's more traditional apartment buildings.DBOX for CIM Group & Macklowe PropertiesThe kitchens will be outfitted with sleek marble countertops and stainless-steel appliances. Copyright CIM Group & Macklowe PropertiesBut the kitchen's best feature has to be this 10-foot-long marble breakfast bar framed against the window. Just imagine enjoying your morning coffee here, with all of Manhattan sprawled out below you. Copyright CIM Group & Macklowe PropertiesThe master suite's floor plan was designed so that the bed would be perfectly aligned with the window, offering the best views possible first thing in the morning. Copyright CIM Group & Macklowe PropertiesThe master suite has separated his and hers bathrooms. Looking north from the marble-covered shower, you'll get a peek of Central Park and the Upper East Side. Copyright CIM Group & Macklowe PropertiesAnd to the south, views of the Chrysler Building, the Empire State Building, and One World Trade can all be enjoyed from this free-standing tub.DBOX for CIM Group & Macklowe PropertiesThe building's amenities include a lap pool, with incredible views out double-height windows.Copyright CIM Group & Macklowe Properties Madeline Stone contributed to this post.
ReutersThe roof of the Great Hall of the People is reflected in a local journalist's spectacles during a plenary session of the National People's Congress in Beijing March 13, 2007. China flinched again. The country's central bank will inject $32 billion into the country's banking system, according to The Wall Street Journal. The capital will go to 2o major and regional banks. This is what the government refers to as "targeted easing," but many analysts say that these small jolts of stimulus will simply worsen China's mounting debt problems without solving the root of the issue. "China’s debt problem lies with the corporate sector," wrote Societe Generale analyst Wei Yao in a recent note. "The cure should be capacity consolidation and debt restructuring, rather than another stimulus package targeted to boost investment demand." It breaks down like this. The government has decided that China's economy must cool down to normalize, and that's hurting Chinese companies in a few ways. The government itself is spending less, investors are taking their money elsewhere — the country's dollar reserves declined more than ever last quarter — and consumers are buying less too. All in all demand is weakening. We know this because corporate margins are thinning and China's producer-price index has deflated 6.7% in the past 36 months.  So Chinese companies have been trying to take in as much cash as possible to ride this period. Short-term lending to corporates spiked in September to $26.8 billion from $11.2 billion in August. Long-term lending hit a four-month high of $45.9 billion in September, up from $39.3 billion in August. This is because corporates know the Central Bank (affectionately known as "Big Mama") isn't likely to help them out with a full-blown rate cut as long as it's committed to the economy's normalization. What all that means for banks is that companies — lacking revenue — may not be so regular with their debt payments. Banks are already holding a lot of debt on their balance sheets too; the country's debt to GDP level hit 250% this summer.  So banks are doing whatever they can to raise some cash to stay afloat. They see companies like Agile Property Holdings — the $20 billion company that canceled a debt issuance last week as its Chairman disappeared — and they worry of implosions across sectors the government once propped up (like housing, of course). The Bank of China is planning the biggest sale of shares ever — $6.5 billion to offshore investors, Bloomberg says. That's a debt cushion. Again, this isn't really addressing the problem: corporate debt. Companies in danger of defaulting on loans need to be restructured and recapitalized. Until that happens, Chinese banks will constantly be teetering on the edge — saddled with corporate debt, black holes for cash. Zombified.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steve MarcusHedge fund giant Steve Cohen is still killing it. The New York Times' Matthew Goldstein reports that Point72 Asset Management has generated about $1.8 billion this year and about $800 million this summer in gross profit, according to a person familiar with the company. This performance would have been higher if the S&amp;P 500-stock index did not fall roughly 6% this month. Point72 was dragged down with the index by about $400 million in stock positions, according to The Times. The average hedge fund was up 3.07% at the end of September, according to the Hedge Fund Research composite index. Cohen managed as much as $14 billion when Point72, now a family office, was SAC Capital. SAC plead guilty to insider trading last year.  Cohen agreed to stop managing money for outside investors in a plea agreement, and transformed SAC to become Point72. In April it opened with about $10 billion, and the exact amount it currently manages has not been disclosed. Cohen has a personal net-worth of $10.3 billion and saw a $1 billion jump in his fortunes in the past year, according to the Forbes 400 richest list. FREE AppDownload
Flick / EasylocumIt was hard to miss the headlines earlier this week about the 10-year Treasury yield dipping below 2% Wednesday, hitting its lowest level in over a year. And though the 10-year yield recovered somewhat Thursday as Treasury prices dropped, Wednesday’s dip below 2% came as a surprise. Many investors, me included, had been expecting a more consistently slow and steady rise in yields, as the U.S. economy continues to recover and the Federal Reserve (Fed)’s rate normalization nears. So what caused the sharp drop? A number of market watchers attributed Wednesday’s 10-year Treasury yield move to fears about a global economic slowdown, heightened geopolitical unrest, growing worry over the Ebola health risk and uncertainty about Fed policy. However, while these factors certainly played a role, and especially contributed to stocks’ recent losses, I believe technical market factors, not fundamentals, were more to blame for Wednesday’s Treasury movement. The extremity of the yield drop suggests it’s highly unlikely to have been caused by a wholesale reevaluation of fundamental economic conditions. Despite some weaker data releases Wednesday morning, U.S. economic growth is still in relatively good shape compared to the rest of the world. As such, in my opinion, the sharp decline in Treasury rates was largely the result of some large market players unwinding crowded trades in the Treasury futures markets, as they watched yields move differently from the expected road map. As for what this all means for fixed income portfolios, there are a number of implications. It’s clear that yields are likely in for a rocky ride as seasonal factors and technical unwinds of crowded positions play out in the weeks ahead, and as we get closer to a Fed rate hike, which should come sometime before mid-year 2015. But despite the recent risk-off rate rally, as we work through the recent duress and get into November and December, rates will likely drift higher again as the U.S. recovery continues and Fed tightening nears. However, the rise should be moderate given ongoing geopolitical turmoil and low rates in Europe and Japan. In part, it’s the very low rates in places like Europe and Japan that have increased demand for long-term bonds in the United States, supporting their prices and helping to keep yields low. Ultimately, I see the 10-year Treasury yield finishing 2014 around 2.65% to 2.75%, though I see it trending higher to 3% over the intermediate term. Against this backdrop, investors may want to consider five bond moves. Favor longer-dated Treasuries. The 10-year Treasury yield still appears attractive relative to sovereign rates elsewhere in the world. In addition, longer-dated Treasuries also look more attractive than those with two- to five-year durations, which are likely to exhibit the most volatility and be most vulnerable to rising rates. Go for high yield bonds. The 10-year Treasury yield’s recent move has high yield bonds looking more attractive on a relative basis. Earlier in the year, high yield levels sat at 5% vs. 2.5% for the 10-year Treasury. That relationship has changed to nearly 6.5% for high yield vs. 2% for the 10-year Treasury. As such, high yield bonds offer a better value, particularly as high yield defaults should remain muted for the time being. Consider long-end municipal debt. While munis are no longer cheap on an absolute basis, they remain relatively attractive, especially long-end muni bonds. Plus, the sector looks compelling given improving issuer credit conditions and higher tax revenues. Overweight mortgage-backed securities. Select commercial mortgage-backed securities and non-agency mortgages continue to look attractive given today’s low-rate environment. Don’t forget total return-oriented and opportunistic strategies. Given the likelihood of more volatility ahead as rates normalize, investors should consider allocating at least a portion of their fixed income portfolios to balanced approaches, as well as to flexible, go-anywhere investing strategies that look for opportunities across a wide set of asset classes and global markets, adjusting duration and rate exposure as needed. Such investing approaches can potentially help investors mitigate interest rate risk and protect against market shocks. For more on what this week’s market moves mean for portfolios, check out my colleague Russ Koesterich’s recent post on whether equities are entering a bear market. FREE AppDownload

Wikimedia CommonsChicken fried steak with gravyThe "gravy" train has stopped for Athena Capital Research. The SEC sanctioned the high-frequency trading firm and fined it $1 million for manipulating the prices of thousands of stocks on the NASDAQ in the final seconds of the closing auction for at least six months (way back in 2009). It’s the first high-frequency trading manipulation case from the SEC. This case, like so many before it, is complicated in its mechanics (see Matt Levine for a better explanation than I could ever attempt), but simple in its failure. There are lots of way to engage in financial fraud, but there’s pretty much one solid way to get caught: talk about it in an obvious way in a place where the SEC (or Preet Bharara, or Eric Schneiderman) can find you. The SEC’s order about the case reads mostly as a lesson in how not to communicate with your coworkers when engaging in market manipulation. Here, from the text of the SEC order, is how Athena allegedly manipulated the market — and what they did to get caught. Mistake 1: They used suspicious sounding names If you're trying to hide illegal activity, then don’t name your algorithm something that’s also a slang term for illicitly gained profits. “Between at least June through December 2009 (the ‘Relevant Period’), Athena made large purchases or sales of the stocks in the last two seconds before NASDAQ’s 4:00 p.m. close in order to drive the stocks’ closing prices slightly higher or lower. The manipulated closing prices allowed Athena to reap more reliable profits from its otherwise risky strategies. Internally, Athena called the algorithms that traded in the last few seconds ‘Gravy.’” Mistake 2: They got big  According to the SEC, “the massive volumes of Athena’s last-second trades allowed Athena to overwhelm the market’s available liquidity and artificially push the market price – and therefore the closing price – in Athena’s favor.” Athena, despite being a relatively small firm ($40 million in assets under management at the time), made up almost 70% of trades during the final seconds of trading in these stocks during the period the SEC looked at (between June and December 2009). Trading a lot is not necessarily indicative of market manipulation — HFT firms buy and sell a lot of shares very rapidly, that’s pretty much the definition. But the bigger you are the more attention you attract. And the more the SEC might look into whether what you are doing is market manipulation. That was sort of a problem for Athena, as its strategy only worked if its trades made up most of the market in the last few seconds of the day, every day (see below, the emails!). Mistake 3: They left a paper trail It's unwise to email your colleagues about the illicit scheme you are involved in together. The SEC will get you. And then they will publish your embarrassing emails on the internet. And we will all laugh at you. At one point, an Athena manager noticed that at too small a scale, Gravy didn’t have any price impact, and thus emailed another manager and the company CTO to suggest that they, “make sure we always do our gravy with enough size.” Later, after the NASDAQ issued an alert that “Suspicious orders or quotes that are potentially intended to manipulate the opening or closing price will be reported immediately to FINRA,” the SEC says that Athena’s CTO (their CTO!) forwarded the alert to the two managers involved and wrote: “Let’s make sure we don’t kill the golden goose.” Protip: brush up on golden geese in popular culture before adopting it as a code phrase. That said, the ultimate lesson here might be that market manipulation is worth it. The SEC fined Athena $1 million and made it promise never to manipulate the market in this way again. However, the company did not have to admit wrongdoing, despite the litany of embarrassing emails uncovered. The order never says how much Athena made off this strategy, but on one particularly bad day it lost $2-3 million. So this SEC order seems like not great for the firm, but a lot less of a deterrent than the flaws in the algorithm itself.  FREE AppDownload
Stocks in Greece staged a huge rally on Friday, gaining 7.5% to finish the week. It was still an ugly week for the Greek stock market, as the Athens Stock Exchange fell 7.3% this week despite the huge rally on Friday. Greek bank stocks gained 6.4% on Friday, but overall lost 7.8% this week. Here's the chart of Friday's action in Greek stocks. Bloomberg.com But here's the uglier chart showing the last three months in the Greek stock market. Bloomberg.com On Wednesday, stocks in Greece fell more than 9% as bank stocks in the country got hammered amid political tensions flaring both within Greece and between Athens and the rest of the eurozone. Business Insider's Mike Bird reported on some of the economic tensions in Greece, which earlier this year had been seeking an early exit from its EU bailout plan. An early exit from its bailout now seems impossible for Greece, as the decline in the stock market has hit Greek banks, which will get another 10 billion euros in liquidity from the ECB, according to the Financial Times. Greek bonds also had a terrible week, with yields on Greek 10-year notes spiking from below 6% to north of 9%.  Yields settled near 8% to finish the week. FREE AppDownload
Edit note: Pseudonymous blogger Squarely Rooted posted this on his ello page earlier today, proving that you really can describe anything in emoji. We have republished it with permission. Each emoji represents one one-thousandth (0.1%) of GDP. All data from 2013 BEA NIPA tables, with the exception of estimates of federal non-defense and state &amp; local consumption expenditure breakdowns, derived from CBPP and Mercator estimates. *Gross emojis actually total 1,334 because of imports and net foreign travel; net emoji equal 1,003 due to rounding. Without further ado, here’s your economy: PRIVATE CONSUMPTION:   PRIVATE INVESTMENT  GOVERNMENT FEDERAL DEFENSE  FEDERAL NONDEFENSE  STATE AND LOCAL  NET EXPORTS EXPORTS  IMPORTS  LEGEND (similar categories merged):  New Cars  Used Cars Car Parts Furniture Appliances Foodware Tools Information Equipment Sports Equipment Sports and Recreation Books Watches and Jewelry  Therapeutic Equipment Educational Books  Luggage Phones and Faxes Food Alcohol Women's Clothing Men's Clothing Children's Clothing Other Clothing Gas and Fuel Pharmaceuticals and Medical Equipment Recreational Items Supplies and Inventories Personal Care Tobacco Newspapers, Magazines, etc Rental Housing Owner Housing and Housing Construction Water Electricity Medical Services Hospitals Vehicle Services Transportation  Travel Culture Gambling Other Recreation Restaurants Financial Services Communications Education Professional Services Clothing Services Religious Activities Home Maintenance Net Foreign Travel Nonprofits Industrial Supplies Aircraft Other Exports Consumer Goods Intellectual Property Governance Exports Other Imports Durable Goods Nondurable Goods Governance Imports Defense  Structures Equipment Police Other Federal Services subtraction from the total Squarely Rooted blogs at squarelyrooted.com, tweets at @squarelyrooted, and, of course, ellos at @squarelyrooted. FREE AppDownload
Chip Somodevilla/Getty ImagesJPMorgan Chase plans to build two towers in Hudson Yards that will cost the bank $6.5 billion. The New York Times' Charles Bagli reports that in June the bank proposed to build a 62-story tower and a 40-story tower that would occupy as much space as two Empire State Buildings. It is negotiating a massive incentives package with the city for its new headquarters and at one point sought as much as $1 billion in concessions.  The list of concessions included lower sales tax on construction materials, job-training grants, and an underground passageway between both towers that would alter the design of a new subway station. But for the city, approving the new construction could contradict Mayor Bill de Blasio's stance against corporate subsidies, while rejecting it may hurt his administration's relationship with one of the city's largest companies. The bank has said the benefits of the new buildings outweigh the concessions it wants. The bank has sought fewer concessions in the past few days. “There’s no way that the city would entertain a demand for a billion dollars in additional incentives at Hudson Yards,” Alicia Glen, the deputy mayor for economic development, told The Times. About 16,000 JPMorgan employees would work in the new headquarters. The buildings would be located on 33rd street between 10th and 11th avenue. The area is an industrial hub with many warehouses, and it has transformed in the eight years since former mayor Mike Bloomberg rezoned it for high-rise developments. Last year, the bank sold Chase Manhattan Plaza to a Chinese group for $725 million. The company's leaked third-quarter earnings showed that it posted net income of $5.6 billion, or $1.36 per share, missing the expectation of $1.38 per share.  FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Hayley PetersonRecent efforts to redesign stores have done little to bring in Urban Outfitters customers.Urban Outfitters shares are crashing up to 15% after the retailer revealed that sales at its namesake brand are continuing to plunge. The company's third-quarter earnings could be negatively affected by disappointing sales, Urban said in a news release yesterday . Sales fell 10% last quarter.  Earlier this year, company executives identified several major problems in an earnings call with investors. Here are the biggest issues facing the brand right now.  Fashion misses. Urban Outfitters needs to sell hip, trendy apparel in order to bring in customers. But Urban Outfitters' latest offerings have been more obscure than hip. Take this bizarre bear coat from December, which retailed for $200. Urban's fitness brand, created in response to the popularity of brands like Lululemon, was criticized for being overpriced and skimpy. Urban OutfittersOff-pitch marketing. Urban Outfitters markets to teen customers. Unfortunately, those customers are price-conscious and would rather shop at fast-fashion brands like Forever 21 and H&amp;M, writes Miriam Gottfried at The Wall Street Journal. In order to turn business around, Urban Outfitters will have to resonate with older customers who are in college and beyond. Urban Outfitters CEO Richard Hayne said that the brand plans to improve store displays and advertisements.  Creative execution. Urban Outfitters is known for pushing the envelope. This year, however, the brand missed the mark. The brand was forced to pull a "Depression" t-shirt after customers expressed outrage. Urban Outfitters also pulled a shirt depicting "drunk" Jesus. These incidents eroded consumer perception in Urban's brand.  Twitter/@MintyFreshLou Hayne said that the brand is working to fix fashion assortments and get customers back in stores.  Urban Outfitters appointed Trish Donnelly as president of its North American brand earlier this year.  FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesConsumer confidence came in at 86.4, beating expectations, according to the preliminary October report on consumer confidence from the University of Michigan. Expectations were for the reading to fall slightly to 84 from last month's 84.6. The report's economic conditions sub-index held steady from last month at 98.9, while the economic outlook sub-index rose to 78.4 from 75.4 last month. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Predates stock correction, but in any event cheaper gas should offset the stock hit." Shepherdson added that, "Expectations are sensitive to gas prices, so the recent drop seems already to be lifting the index. Looking ahead, we think the drag on consumers' confidence from the correction in stock prices will be offset, more or less, by the further positive impact from the plunge in gasoline prices, keeping the headline index broadly unchanged. Either way, remember that what really matters is spending, not sentiment, and the kick from cheaper gas will far outweigh the stock price hit. We expect a hugely strong holiday shopping season; the plunge in gas prices could not have been better timed." FREE AppDownload
With Islamic State militants gaining ground in Iraq, Russia going head-to-head with the West over an uprising in Ukraine and chaos in Libya earlier this year it looked inevitable that numerous key oil producers were set for a squeeze. This presented one clear and compelling conclusion — oil prices were set to rise. And so the money flowed — and flowed — into the trade. In fact, bets by traders in the oil market that prices would rise reached their highest level in over a decade: Twitter/Eric Burroughs Well it didn't turn out too well. Rather than climbing, the oil price has collapsed from about $115 a barrel in June to $87 a barrel as of Friday. EIA Traders have flooded out their positions with "liquidation in net speculative length ... such that Brent is outright short with WTI net spec positions far off their highs," according to a note from Goldman Sachs.  The reason for the collapse? Almost every story traders were telling themselves about why oil prices just had to rise turned out to be wrong. The Libya Story Bob Strong/ReutersLibyan rebel fighters with the Tripoli Revolutionary Brigade after a live firing exercise during a graduation event near Nalut in western Libya on Aug. 6, 2011.Crude oil supply disruptions in Libya became a big problem again in 2013 with the US Energy Information Administration reporting that "from the end of July to the end of August, crude oil supply outages in Libya more than doubled" as the country fell back into civil war. This helped push prices higher and increase concerns about the prospect for further supply disruption. Little in 2014 seemed to count against those fears. In August, Islamist rebels captured the airport in the capital Tripoli, and last month the Libyan parliament was forced to flee to the town of Tobruk, where they took refuge on a Greek car ferry. Nevertheless, despite the huge disruption to the political and social life of the country the oil continued to flow against expectations. Goldman Sachs The Russia Story REUTERS/Mikhail Klimentyev/RIA Novosti/KremlinRussian President Vladimir Putin. Following protests in Kiev that saw the Ukrainian president flee the country and his government collapse, a secession movement in eastern Ukraine has been battling the Ukrainian government. These rebels have the political support of Russia, and many believe Moscow has also been supplying them with on-the-ground support including military hardware and personnel. In response, the US and the European Union have imposed sanctions on Russia targeting the country's banks, oil, and gas industries and imposing travel bans on numerous Russian citizens. Again, it seemed clear that Russia would either impose limits on oil exports itself as a tit-for-tat measure or would struggle to maintain the same level of trade with the West while the crisis continued. And yet, as Reuters reports: Output of oil and gas condensate in the world's largest producer rose 0.9 percent to 10.61 million barrels per day (bpd) last month [in September] from August, a touch under the post-Soviet record-high of 10.63 million bpd reached in December, Energy Ministry data showed.  The Iraq Story Islamic State militants operating across the porous border between Syria and Iraq have seized control of large swathes of land in Iraq. via Institute For The Study Of War The group's early success against Iraqi government forces caused many to worry that the country's oil producing infrastructure could ultimately be taken or damaged if fighting continued. However, Iraq was also able to shrug off international fears, adding 134,500 barrels a day to take its total production to 3.164 million barrels a day in September. Output rebounded because of higher exports from the south of the country and increased output from fields in Kurdistan, according to Reuters. Small wonder then that traders are panicking. Once again we have seen the difficulty markets face when trying to price in geopolitical risk. This also works both ways — widespread overconfidence about price increases can quickly become overconfidence in the likelihood of further price decreases. As Goldman said in its note: If the market does go much lower, we could see the mirror image of what occurred in the 2000s in that lower deferred prices kill off supply growth and stimulate demand. FREE AppDownload
Shares of cruise ship operator Carnival Corporation fell nearly 2%, but recovered all of those losses following a report that a passenger onboard one of its ships is a Dallas health worker who may have come in contact with the Ebola virus. Carnival is down 0.2%. Competitors Royal Caribbean and Nowegian Cruise Lines are down 0.6% and 1.9%, respectively. Meanwhile, the Dow, S&amp;P 500, and Nasdaq are all up over 1%. The unidentified woman onboard the ship in the Caribbean has reportedly not shown any symptoms. Furthermore, she never had direct contact with deceased Ebola patient Thomas Eric Duncan. She may have processed some of Duncan's fluids. Belize is not allowing the ship to dock. The Belizean government also refused to evacuate the woman off the ship.  In the meantime, the Dallas health worker, who is traveling with her husband, has agreed to remain isolated in her cabin.  Here's a five-day chart of Carnival:  Yahoo! Finance  FREE AppDownload
APNEW YORK (Reuters) - Donald Trump is personally liable for operating a for-profit investment school without the required license, a New York judge ruled in a lawsuit brought by the New York Attorney General against the real estate entrepreneur. New York state Supreme Court Justice Cynthia S. Kern said he was notified by the state in 2005 that his Trump Entrepreneur Initiative - known as Trump University until 2010 - was in violation of state education law. "It is undisputed that Mr. Trump never complied with the licensing requirements," Kern wrote in a decision made public on Wednesday. Damages will be determined later. Jeffrey Goldman, an attorney for Trump, said the ruling was mistaken, but ultimately little if any damages would be awarded. The decision came in an ongoing lawsuit filed last year by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman that accuses Trump of misleading more than 5,000 people who paid between $1,495 and $35,000 to learn Trump's real estate investment techniques. A trial still must be held to determine whether Trump and the school defrauded students. The judge did toss out some claims and ruled that some evidence was beyond the statute of limitations. Damien LaVera, a spokesman for Schneiderman, called the decision "an important victory" and said the office looks forward to proving the rest of the case at trial. Goldman said "the heart of the attorney general's case has been eviscerated." He said the judge ruled that the statute of limitations restricts claims to only the last six months the school was in existence. The university ceased operation in late 2010, Goldman said. The lawsuit sparked a bitter reaction from Trump, who called Schneiderman a publicity seeking "lightweight," attacked his "gross incompetence" and filed ethics complaints against him. The case is People v. Trump Entrepreneur Initiative, New York state Supreme Court, New York County, No. 451463/2013.   (Reporting By Karen Freifeld. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
hoyasmeg/FlickrMany a discussion of economic growth centers on the making and moving of goods, but what of the garbage that those products become when they’ve been consumed? The waste industry is a profitable business, and nowhere is it more so than in the world’s most populous country. China generates an estimated 400 million metric tons a year of waste, a total that’s expected to increase 50 percent to 600 million metric tons by 2020, according to Credit Suisse. Waste management companies are scrambling to keep up, and are increasingly turning to trash incineration because of a shortage of landfills. As a result, Credit Suisse estimates the country’s capacity to burn waste will increase 27 percent a year through 2020, while the amount of waste burned to generate electricity and heat should grow 33 percent by that year. High barriers to entry and the aforementioned landfill shortage mean existing industrial waste treatment companies should be well positioned, and Credit Suisse expects industry earnings to rise 15 to 30 percent a year. FREE AppDownload
       Watch Live                The distribution of income and wealth in the United States has been widening more or less steadily for several decades, to a greater extent than in most advanced countries.1 This trend paused during the Great Recession because of larger wealth losses for those at the top of the distribution and because increased safety-net spending helped offset some income losses for those below the top. But widening inequality resumed in the recovery, as the stock market rebounded, wage growth and the healing of the labor market have been slow, and the increase in home prices has not fully restored the housing wealth lost by the large majority of households for which it is their primary asset.     Accessible Version
Billionaire energy mogul T. Boone Pickens didn't earn his fortune without the help of others. Most notably, he finds that some of his best advice came from his father.  Produced by: Justin Gmoser; Reporter: Julia La Roche Follow BI Video: On Facebook     
wonderlane / FlickrHousing starts rose 6.3% in September to an annualized pace of 1.02 million. Expectations were for starts to rebound some, growing 5.4% month over month to an annualized rate of just over 1 million after last month's disappointing report. Building permits rose 1.5% to an annualized rate of 1.02 million from last month's revised level of 1.003 million. Building permits were expected to jump 2.7% month-over-month after last month's 5.6% decline. Last month's report from Census showed that starts plunged 14.4% to an annualized rate of 956,000, well below the expected decline of 5.2% to an annualized pace of 1.04 million.  Last month's housing starts rate was revised up slightly to 957,000. In a note to clients following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Details less impressive than the headline." Shepherdson added: "Almost all the increase in starts is in the hyper-volatile multi-family sector — up 16.7% in Sep after a 28.7% plunge in August — while single-family starts rose a trivial 7K. Given the fragility of the markets, though, what matters right now is the headline print. All the rise in permits was in multi-family, with single-family down slightly. The underlying trends in both single- and multi-family permits, which lead starts, are flat, and while the drop in mortgage rates likely will prompt stronger home sales by the turn of the year, we don't expect a significant upward trend in construction to re-emerge until next spring." Here's the full release from Census: The U.S. Census Bureau and the Department of Housing and Urban Development jointly announced the following new residential construction statistics for September 2014: BUILDING PERMITS Privately-owned housing units authorized by building permits in September were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1,018,000. This  is 1.5 percent (±1.1%) above the revised August rate of 1,003,000 and is 2.5 percent (±1.2%) above the September 2013 estimate of  993,000. Single-family authorizations in September were at a rate of 624,000; this is 0.5 percent (±1.1%)* below the revised August figure of 627,000. Authorizations of units in buildings with five units or more were at a rate of 369,000 in September. HOUSING STARTS Privately-owned housing starts in September were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1,017,000. This is 6.3 percent (±9.3%)* above the revised August estimate of 957,000 and is 17.8 percent (±14.4%) above the September 2013 rate of 863,000. Single-family housing starts in September were at a rate of 646,000; this is 1.1 percent (±8.3%)* above the revised August figure of 639,000. The September rate for units in buildings with five units or more was 353,000. HOUSING COMPLETIONS Privately-owned housing completions in September were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 999,000. This is 8.6 percent (±17.2%)* above the revised August estimate of 920,000 and is 31.3 percent (±23.7%) above the September 2013 rate of 761,000. Single-family housing completions in September were at a rate of 624,000; this is 1.0 percent (±11.6%)* above the revised August rate of 618,000. The September rate for units in buildings with five units or more was 368,000. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonChina's central bank has made a move to stimulate the slowing economy. "China’s central bank is planning to inject up to 200 billion yuan ($32.8 billion) into about 20 large national and regional banks, according to banking executives briefed on the matter, in another step aimed at spurring the world’s second-largest economy," the Wall Street Journal reported. This report comes amid data reflecting slowing growth and falling prices. "In view of strong growth headwinds, the PBOC is likely to maintain the loosening bias in monetary policy," Morgan Stanley analysts wrote earlier this week. FREE AppDownload
AP For the most part, it was a big snooze. The iPads exhibited only minor updates. Thursday night we were speaking with someone in the industry, and the person wondered why Apple even bothered with an event.  Apple probably would have been better off just doing select one-on-one briefings with the press, as opposed to dragging the media out to its headquarters and creating a big sense of hype — there was just no way to live up to the hype.  But, the event wasn't all for naught. There was something of importance for anyone watching Apple closely.  At the very beginning of the presentation, Tim Cook talked about the iPhone 6. He said: "These iPhones have become the fastest-selling iPhones in history. And the first 30 days we have set a new high-water mark for the most orders taken. And I don't mean by a little. By a lot, a whole lot."  He continued, talking about the iPhone sales in China. He said Apple was on the three major carriers and was timing its release to coincide with China's rollout of a faster, 4G network. The implication is that a lot of people will buy the new iPhone to take advantage of the new, faster network. He said the preorders "set a new record" for China. In all, Cook said, this was Apple's "biggest iPhone launch ever." Apple is the iPhone company, so this is what really matters. The other 80 minutes about the iPad, the iMac, OSX, and Apple Pay are nice, but this gets to the core of Apple. It's all about selling tons of iPhones.  Apple reports earnings on Monday, and we'll be all over it. We'll get a clearer idea then what the "high-water mark" really looks like. 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						Apple				 FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ralph OrlowskiECB President Mario Draghi at an ECB news conference in Frankfurt on March 6.The New York Times has acquired several months worth of European Central Bank minutes, running between May 2012 and January 2013.  The ECB is notoriously secretive, and unlike the Federal Reserve, Bank of Japan, and Bank of England, releases no immediate minutes from its governing council minutes — it waits for 30 years. Because the eurozone hasn't existed that long, none have yet been released. But The Times just got its hands on some, and the details show the massive split at the heart of the ECB during the financial crisis in Cyprus. German policymaker Jens Weidmann was calling privately for ECB assistance to at least one of Cyprus' struggling banks to be curtailed: Fearing possible contagion if the bank failed, the ECB’s governing council, a decision-making arm consisting of 24 members, had approved an emergency loan request by one its members, the Central Bank of Cyprus, in late 2011. As 2013 approached, the short-term loans to Cyprus Popular Bank had grown to €9 billion, about two thirds the size of the Cypriot economy, and Jens Weidmann, the hawkish head of the German Bundesbank, had begun to forcefully argue that this exposure was too large, according to the minutes of governing council meetings. By approving the loans — which were disbursed by the central bank of Cyprus — Weidmann said that the ECB was violating a core tenet. That rule holds that banks on the verge of failure should not be bailed out with additional loans. This won't be entirely surprising to ECB watchers, who are aware that Weidmann is much more hawkish than other members. But it does put clearly what he was saying for the first time. If the New York Times has a full series of minutes from May 2012, it would also cover president Mario Draghi's "whatever it takes" speech and show any major splits there. The eurozone's policymakers and governments are already strained by the bloc's terrible economic performance, and these revelations could make relations even worse. The ECB has responded to the claims with a statement. It says the council was in full agreement that it needed confirmation that the Cypriot bank was solvent:  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tyrone SiuPolice are cracking down on Hong Kong's protest encampments.Good morning! These are the major stories from around the world getting traction Friday morning. European Markets Are Rallying. After a dismal week, stocks across Europe are bouncing back, with every major index up between 1% and 2% on Friday.  The iPhone 6 Finally Hit China. Apple began selling its latest iPhone in China on Friday, nearly a month after other major territories because of a license delay by regulators. Virgin Bought Out Tiger Airways For 88 Cents. Virgin on Friday took full control of the budget carrier Tigerair Australia, buying the remaining 40 percent it did not already own for one Australian dollar (88 US cents).  Yellen Is Speaking Later. The Fed chair will speak at 8:30 a.m. ET, and September housing starts will be announced at the same time. Economists expect over a million new units. Russia Spent $13 Billion Trying To Prop Up The Ruble. The Russian central bank has been burning through the country's foreign exchange reserves as investors sell the ruble, driving its value ever lower. Police Are Cracking Down On Hong Kong’s Protesters. Hong Kong police cleared a pro-democracy protest site in the city's densely populated Mong Kok area early Friday. World Health Organization Says Ebola ‘Situation Is Deteriorating.’ While the US is panicking about three Ebola cases in one month, parts of West Africa are deteriorating rapidly, with little sign that the region is getting the outbreak under control.  Japan’s First Commercial Jet In 50 Years Is About To Be Released. Mitsubishi Aircraft will roll out a new commercial jet on Saturday.  Amazon Is Bringing Its Same-Day Delivery Service To New York. Amazon is expanding its online grocery-delivery program to Brooklyn's well-heeled Park Slope neighborhood on Friday.  The Bank Of England Is Signaling A Later Rate Hike. Chief Economist Andy Haldane said in a speech that he was “gloomier” about the economy than he was three months ago, and a rate hike might take more time.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Frederick Murphy/CDC/HandoutSome of the ultrastructural morphology displayed by an Ebola virus virion is revealed in this undated handout colorized transmission electron micrograph obtained by Reuters on Aug. 1.Sarepta Therapeutics could become an even bigger part of the Ebola trade. On Thursday, the company announced that two studies involving its Ebola treatment candidates, "demonstrated no clinical or toxicologic safety concerns with the company's drug candidates for the treatment of Ebola." In premarket trade on Friday, shares of Sarepta — which has a market cap a bit over $900 million — were soaring, gaining as much as 11%.  In a statement, Michael Wong, senior medical director at Sarepta said: "We believe these promising early clinical safety results, coupled with the strong safety and efficacy data generated from animal studies for all four PMO compounds, reinforce the use of our PMOplus® chemistry platform to pursue potential treatments for deadly infectious diseases such as Ebola and Marburg." The results of the study are set to be published in the November issue of the American Society for Microbiology's journal "Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy." Sarepta is engaged in the development of treatments for rare and infectious diseases and has been part of the "Ebola trade" that has taken place since the summer and includes stocks like Tekmira Pharmaceuticals and BioCryst Pharmaceuticals, as well as the protective-gear-makers Lakeland Industries and Alpha Pro Tech. Back in July, shares of Sarepta plunged after results from a trial involving the company's drug eteplirsen for the treatment of patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy disappointed.  Year-to-date, Sarepta shares are up about 9%, and just this week the stock was up 18% before Friday's premarket gains. Here's Thursday's full release from Sarepta: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Oct. 16, 2014-- Sarepta Therapeutics, Inc. (NASDAQ: SRPT), a developer of innovative RNA-based therapeutics, today announced the publication of results from two single ascending-dose studies that demonstrated no clinical or toxicologic safety concerns with the company's drug candidates for the treatment of Ebola and Marburg virus, respectively. The study results are to be published in the November issue of the American Society for Microbiology's journal, Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy and are available online at dx.doi.org/10.1128/AAC.03442-14. AVI-6002 for the treatment of Ebola is a combination therapy of two phosphorodiamidate morpholino oligomers (PMOs AVI-7537 and AVI-7539), which target the viral matrix proteins VP24 and VP35, respectively. AVI-6003 for the treatment of Marburg is a combination therapy of two PMOs, (AVI-7287 and AVI-7288), which target the viral proteins VP24 and NP, respectively. These drug candidates use Sarepta's advanced and proprietary PMOplus®chemistry, which is also the basis of the company's clinical-stage influenza drug candidate, AVI-7100. Results from previous viral challenge studies of AVI-6002 and AVI-6003 in non-human primates demonstrated prevention of disease development and death following exposure to Ebola or Marburg virus. Subsequent animal studies demonstrated that for each combination therapy, only one oligomer contributed to efficacy, and therefore, the lead drug candidates for Ebola and Marburg have since become the single compounds AVI-7537 and AVI-7288. "We believe these promising early clinical safety results, coupled with the strong safety and efficacy data generated from animal studies for all four PMO compounds, reinforce the use of our PMOplus® chemistry platform to pursue potential treatments for deadly infectious diseases such as Ebola and Marburg," said Michael Wong, senior medical director, infectious diseases at Sarepta Therapeutics. "We are particularly encouraged to see results such as these in the healthy human volunteers to what we have learned to be the effective agents, AVI-7537 and AVI-7288. These compounds have protected up to 80-100 percent of the non-human primates to Ebola and Marburg virus challenge infections, respectively." The two Phase I clinical studies were randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials designed to characterize the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of single doses of intravenous formulations of AVI-6002 or AVI-6003 in healthy adult volunteers. In each study, 30 subjects were enrolled in six cohorts receiving up to 9 mg/kg of the combination drug candidates (4 active:1 placebo per cohort) for a total of 60 subjects. Results showed the compounds to be well-tolerated with no dose limiting level demonstrated. No clinically significant or dose-dependent effects were observed at any of the safety endpoints evaluated. The safety and pharmacokinetics of the four PMOplus® compounds comprising the two combination therapies were similar, regardless of the target RNA sequence. A previously reported Phase I MAD study of AVI-7288 for the treatment of Marburg found no clinically significant or dose-dependent effects on any of the safety endpoints evaluated when tested at up to 16 mg/kg/day for 14 days in healthy adult volunteers. The results of these clinical studies add to a growing body of evidence supporting the safety of Sarepta's PMO-based chemistry platform across a broad range of disease targets. This work was conducted under contract with the Joint Product Management Office of BioDefense Therapeutics (BD-Tx). FREE AppDownload
Dave Lutz at JonesTrading has the top topics about which traders are talking about today: Good Morning, and welcome to Expiry Friday!   Dovish tailwinds are propelling the market higher, as BoE’s chief economist (usually hawkish) said overnight – “interest rates could stay low for longer,” reinforcing dovish momentum from Fed’s Bullard comments yesterday.   US Futures are up ~1%, led by a 1.4% pop in Nasdaq, despite weaker results from GOOG and AMD weighing.  Most of the upside coming from AAPL and Biotechs, along with Semis like QLGC and XLNX.    EU markets are responding well in heavy volume, with the DAX up 1% but off the best levels of the morning.   The FTSE is lagging a bit as Industrials under some pressure there, but GE’s earnings may provide tailwinds for US counterparts today.   Russia’s Micex is up 2% as Putin and Poroshenko are due to meet in Milan today.   Was a mixed sea in Asia, as China’s stocks fell on speculation a much-anticipated trading link between Hong Kong and Shanghai will be delayed, while the Nikkei finishes worst week in 6mos by losing 1.4%.   Tech Heavy Taiwan fell 1.4%, while Aussie finishes with its biggest weekly gain in two months. The US 10YY is testing 2.2% this AM, up 8bp from overnight lows as stress comes off from European buying.   PIIGS yields have all reversed lower, led by a 75bp reversal in Greek paper, helping the EU fins leap almost 3%.   The DXY is slightly weaker, losing ground against Euro, but gaining on Yen.  The energy complex is acting well, with WTI and Brent up 1.2%+ despite WSJ reporting that Gulf nations including Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates plan to oppose any cut to OPEC’s oil-production ceiling at next month’s meeting.  Despite the global enthusiasm, Industrial metals remain under pressure, while Corn and Soy are acting great this week.  Before the open, Fed's Yellen Speaks at Boston Fed Conference on Inequality at 8:30.  This is her last scheduled speaking event until the FOMC meeting – We get Michigan Confidence at 9:55, At 10 we get Housing Starts, there is NO PMO at 11 – at 1pm we get the Baker Hughes Rig Count, and after the close a Possible Moody’s update on Spain &amp; Norway.     FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Frederick Murphy/CDC/HandoutThe spread of the Ebola virus has been dominating headlines in recent weeks. While the ultimate death toll may be limited, the economic impact could potentially be significant. The "'fear factor' associated with Ebola appears more significant than in past instances of pandemic concern, in our view," Goldman Sachs' Kris Dawsey writes. Dawsey studied how other recent pandemic events ultimately played out in the US and Hong Kong. "Recent episodes of pandemic concern in the US — including SARS in 2003, bird flu (H5N1) in 2005, and swine flu (H1N1) in 2009 — resulted in little if any discernible effect on retail sales or tourist arrivals," Dawsey found. Still Dawsey offers downside and worst-case scenarios: 9/11 in the US and SARS in Hong Kong. From his note (emphasis ours): ... For the downside scenario, we think the example of the September 11 terrorist attacks could be informative. In the aftermath of the attacks, demand for air travel temporarily dried up, while some people reportedly preferred to avoid crowded public places such as subway stations, shopping malls, etc. At the time, concerns were further exacerbated by limited-scale anthrax attacks unrelated to the September 11th attacks themselves. If the Ebola situation was to worsen much more than expected, it is possible to imagine that a similar atmosphere of fear could arise. In terms of broader macroeconomic effects, Roberts (2009) estimates the drag on GDP growth from the September 11 attacks at roughly 0.5 percentage point for the year 2001. Some of this drag was certainly due to direct destruction of factors of production, and as such we would view this as an upper-bound on the drag from fear/risk-aversion effects. In terms of worst-case tail risk scenarios, the example of the SARS outbreak in Hong Kong during 2003 is worth considering. During this time, Hong Kong retail sales dropped roughly 10% from their peak, while air traffic plummeted even more than that seen after the September 11 attacks. Lee and McKibbin (2004) estimate that the SARS outbreak reduced Hong Kong GDP growth in 2003 by 2.6 percentage points. Incidentally, the World Bank cites shopping centers in Lagos, Nigeria—which has largely contained the Ebola outbreak at 19 confirmed cases—reporting sales down 20 to 40%, an even larger decline than that seen in Hong Kong during the SARS outbreak. Again, we believe a fairly limited economic outcome for US growth is most likely, and we present the examples of September 11 and the Hong Kong SARS outbreak only as examples of downside or worst-case tail risk scenarios. Here's Dawsey's charts, indexing the effects of those risk events: Goldman SachsSo far, the impact on consumer sentiment appears to be negligible. "The daily Rasmussen confidence index has been relatively range-bound since early September," Dawsey noted. "The daily economic confidence index from Gallup has actually risen over this period. Consensus expects the preliminary October read on consumer sentiment from the University of Michigan (to be released Friday, October 17) to remain roughly stable, although we see downside risk to the consensus view." Dawsey adds that the West Africa, where the Ebola outbreak is most serious, is an important exporter of iron ore. However, in the context of global supply, it's relatively small, and Goldman analysts believe iron ore is currently "fundamentally oversupplied." FREE AppDownload
Morgan Stanley smashed earnings expectations for the third quarter. The bank reported adjusted earnings per share of 77 cents. Analysts had expected Morgan Stanley to report adjusted EPS of 54 cents. Revenue for the third quarter came in at $8.9 billion, beating expectations by analysts of $8.16 billion. Morgan Stanley's stock was trading up about 5.7% in the pre-market.  "Morgan Stanley has delivered another quarter of earnings growth and strong performance based on consistent execution for our clients," Morgan Stanley CEO James Gorman said in the release. "We are well positioned to create superior returns for our shareholders, particularly as the US economy continues to strengthen." Here's the release: Morgan Stanley (MS) today reported net revenues of $8.9 billion for the third quarter ended September 30, 2014 compared with $8.0 billion a year ago. For the current quarter, income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley was $1.7 billion, or $0.84 per diluted share, compared with income of $889 million, or $0.44 per diluted share,for the same period a year ago. The current quarter included a net discrete tax benefit of $237 million or $0.12 per diluted share. Results for the current quarter included positive revenues related to the change in the fair value of certain of the Firm’s long-term and short-term borrowings resulting from the fluctuation in the Firm’s credit spreads and other credit factors (Debt Valuation Adjustment, DVA) of $215 million, compared with negative revenues of $171 million a year ago. Excluding DVA, net revenues for the current quarter were $8.7 billion compared with $8.1 billion a year ago. Income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley was $1.6 billion, or $0.77 per diluted share, compared with income of $1.0 billion, or $0.50 per diluted share, a year ago.  Compensation expense of $4.2 billion increased from $4.0 billion a year ago primarily driven by higher revenues. Non-compensation expenses of $2.4 billion decreased from $2.6 billion a year ago primarily reflecting lower litigation costs. For the current quarter, net income applicable to Morgan Stanley, including discontinued operations, was $1.7 billion or $0.84 per diluted share, compared with net income of $906 million or $0.45 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2013. (dollars in millions) Excluding DVA8 Business Overview James P. Gorman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, “Morgan Stanley has delivered another quarter of earnings growth and strong performance based on consistent execution for our clients. We are well positioned to create superior returns for our shareholders, particularly as the U.S. economy continues to strengthen.” Summary of Institutional Securities Results (dollars in millions) Excluding DVA9 INSTITUTIONAL SECURITIES Institutional Securities reported pre-tax income from continuing operations of $1.2 billion compared with $396 million in the third quarter of last year. The quarter’s pre-tax margin was 27% (excluding DVA, 23%). Income after the noncontrolling interest allocation and before taxes was $1.2 billion. Net revenues for the current quarter were $4.5 billion compared with $3.7 billion a year ago. DVA resulted in positive revenues of $215 million in the current quarter compared with negative revenues of $171 million a year ago. Excluding DVA, net revenues for the current quarter of $4.3 billion compared with $3.9 billion a year ago. The following discussion for sales and trading excludes DVA. Summary of Wealth Management Results (dollars in millions) WEALTH MANAGEMENT Wealth Management reported pre-tax income from continuing operations of $836 million compared with $668 million in the third quarter of last year. The quarter’s pre-tax margin was 22%. Net revenues for the current quarter were $3.8 billion compared with $3.5 billion a year ago. (dollars in millions) INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Investment Management reported pre-tax income from continuing operations of $188 million compared with pre-tax income of $300 million in the third quarter of last year. The quarter’s pre-tax margin was 29%. Income after the noncontrolling interest allocation and before taxes was $170 million. CAPITAL As of September 30, 2014, the Firm’s Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was approximately 14.3% and its Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was approximately 16.1%. The Firm is subject to a “capital floor” such that these regulatory capital ratios currently reflect the U.S. Basel III Advanced Approaches (“Advanced Approach”) transitional rules, which represent the lower of the Firm’s capital ratios calculated under the Advanced Approach and U.S. Basel I and Basel 2.5 capital rules, taking into consideration applicable transitional provisions under U.S. Basel III. At September 30, 2014, book value and tangible book value per common share were $34.17 and $29.25, respectively, based on approximately 2.0 billion shares outstanding. OTHER MATTERS The effective tax rate from continuing operations for the current quarter was 21.0%. The quarter included a discrete net tax benefit of approximately $237 million primarily associated with the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated. During the quarter ended September 30, 2014, the Firm repurchased approximately $195 million of its common stock or approximately 5.9 million shares. The Firm declared a $0.10 quarterly dividend per common share, payable on November 14, 2014 to common shareholders of record on October 31, 2014. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Wong Maye-E, FileA Rolls-Royce engine explodes on the Qantas A380 jet.Shares in Rolls-Royce tumbled more than 15% after the British engineering firm warned it would not return to profit growth next year, blaming worsening economic conditions and tighter Russian trade sanctions. The shares fell 143.5 pence to 797 pence, making them the biggest faller on the FTSE 100 index. The company said this had led a number of customers to delay or cancel orders, particularly in its nuclear and energy and power systems businesses. “In the last few months economic conditions have deteriorated and Russian trade sanctions have tightened,” Rolls-Royce said. It stuck to its forecast of “flat” profits this year but no longer expects to return to growth in 2015. Its current “best estimate” is that underlying profit will be flat to 3% lower next year, with revenues in the range of 3% higher to 3% lower. Rolls-Royce, the world’s second-largest aircraft engine maker behind General Electric, also cut its revenue forecast for this year. It now expects revenues to be 3.5% to 4% lower, rather than flat as previously thought. That excludes a negative currency impact of £500m, which had been flagged up before. In June, Rolls-Royce lost jet engine orders worth £2.6 billion after Emirates airline canceled a planned purchase of 70 A350 aircraft from Airbus. Rolls-Royce is the sole manufacturer and supplier of the engines for the A350, seen as Airbus’ answer to Boeing’s Dreamliner. Richard Hunter, head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers, said: “Despite the fact that a downgrade in fortunes had been largely expected, today’s profit warning from Rolls-Royce comes at a time when investors are taking no prisoners, and has resulted in an 8% dip in the share price in early trade. “The stock has been under pressure as general defence spending is under scrutiny, with the shares having dropped 15% over the last year.” This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk FREE AppDownload
The collapse in oil prices is already a major cause of concern for countries heavily reliant on exports of the commodity. For some, it could be a matter of avoiding a severe recession. Here's why: For governments in oil-exporting countries to meet their spending commitments they need oil to remain above a certain price. With oil prices under $87 a barrel, countries that rely on high oil prices, including Venezuela, Russia, and Saudi Arabia, may have a reason to be concerned. This chart shows the price per barrel that the six most exposed countries need to meet their national budgets. Remember, the price Friday is a piffling $87. Deutsche Bank, Business InsiderVenezuela literally needs the price of oil to double to keep its house in fiscal order. If the price remains depressed, these countries will either be forced to borrow more to cover the shortfall in oil tax revenues or backtrack on spending promises. Cutting back on spending pledges would be highly embarrassing for these countries' governments. In the cases of Russia and Venezuela, tapping bond markets for financing could be very expensive as both countries are currently regarded as highly risky by international investors. The problem for the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries is that it may no longer be able to control prices (as it has in the past) to avoid these problems. Previously, OPEC members would agree to cut oil production if falling prices posed a threat. That may now have changed because of the shale oil boom in the US, which has dramatically increased supply. As Goldman Sachs wrote in a recent note (emphasis added): [There is a] realization that the OPEC reaction function has changed and that the US shale barrel is now likely the first swing barrel ... When Saudi Arabia cut prices to Asia for November delivery it was interpreted as a shift in the Saudi reaction function to a focus on market share. This should have not been a surprise in the new world of shale that has flattened the supply curve, as economic game theory suggests that they should not be the first mover and that the US shale barrel should be the new swing barrel given how easily it can be scaled up and down. This may explain Saudi Arabia's unusual hints to market participants recently that it was comfortable with sub-$90-a-barrel oil prices — it doesn't want to admit that its power to shift the price has been eroded. FREE AppDownload
Chip Somodevilla/Getty ImagesGE Chairman and CEO Jeffrey Immelt delivers opening remarks for an event in D.C.(Reuters) - General Electric Co &lt;GE.N&gt; reported a higher-than-expected quarterly profit on Friday, as margin improvement across its industrial businesses offset revenue that came in below analysts' targets. The U.S. conglomerate posted a 4 percent rise in organic revenue, which excludes acquisitions, for its industrial manufacturing businesses, on which Chief Executive Officer Jeff Immelt is increasingly focusing the company. GE said such revenue was on track to hit the higher end of its projected range of 4 percent to 7 percent growth for 2014. GE's shares rose 3.5 percent to $25.10 in premarket trading. Third-quarter net income rose to $3.54 billion, or 35 cents per share, from $3.19 billion, or 31 cents per share, a year earlier. Excluding special items, earnings of 38 cents per share topped the analysts' average estimate by 1 cent, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Revenue rose 1 percent to $36.17 billion, below the $36.79 billion that analysts expected. GE's profit margin for its industrial businesses came in at 16.3 percent, expanding by 0.9 percentage points from a year earlier. Like those of other diverse U.S. manufacturers, GE's shares have underperformed the broader market this year after a big run in 2013.              (Reporting by Lewis Krauskopf; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
From Bitcoin to the Swiss gold referendum, and from Chinese trade and North Korean leadership, Jim Rogers covers a lot of ground in this excellent interview with Boom-Bust's Erin Ade. Rogers reflects on the end of the US bull market, citing a number of factors from breadth to the end of QE, adding that he agrees with Albert Edwards' perspective that now is the time to "sell everything and run for your lives," as the "consequences of [The Fed] are now being felt." Most notably, though, Rogers believes the de-dollarization is here to stay as Western sanctions force many nations to find alternatives.  Simply put, Rogers concludes, "we are all going to pay a terrible price for all this money-printing and debt." Excerpts: On US stocks: This is the end of the bull market. Stocks will fall 20% Market breadth is waning as evidenced by the lower number of stocks hitting new highs and trading above their 200-day moving averages. Small cap stocks have already corrected over 10 percent and almost half of the Nasdaq is down 20 percent — a bear market already. Where is this headed? Consolidation is the bare minimum. But, depending on the real economy, it could be worse. On The Fed: We are all going to pay a terrible price for all this money-printing ... They are doing this at the expense of people who save and invest. They are doing it to bail out the people who borrowed huge amounts of money. The consequences are already being felt. On de-dollarization: The move away from the US dollar is yet another reaction to Western sanctions placed on Russia since it annexed Crimea from Ukraine in March. Russia and Iran have agreed to use their own national currencies in bilateral trade transactions rather than the US dollar. An original agreement to trade in rials and rubles was made earlier this month in a meeting between Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak and Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Namdar Zanganeh. Similarly, Russia and China also agreed to trade with each other using the ruble and yuan in early September, following a Russian deal with North Korea in June to trade in rubles This article originally appeared at Zero Hedge.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Markets around the world are surging. And alongside stocks, oil (which has been getting positively demolished lately) is on a big rally. FinViz FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dado RuvicThe Nikkei closed down another 1.40% on Thursday night. It's currently the biggest underperformer of the year, beating the main equities index of every other advanced economy. As of Thursday, the S&amp;P 500 was still in the green for the year, up 2.4% since January. In comparison, Japanese equities were getting smoked, down 9.48% since January, and down 11% in the past three weeks alone. In terms of the Japanese economy, an April sales-tax hike had a significant impact, and Friday the Financial Times reports that Bank of Japan failed to meet its bond-buying target for the first time in two years, despite a massive quantitative easing program.  As the chart makes clear, Japanese equities are struggling to get any real traction at all this year.  BloombergOnly Germany's DAX, down more than 8% since January, comes close in terms of the world's major advanced economies. It's not all bad news for Japan's investors. Despite a miserable performance this year, stocks are still riding high in comparison with, say, their 2012 levels. That's because the Nikkei surged by an astonishing 57% in 2013. To put the recent drop in context, here's a longer-term graph:  Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
Jason Merritt/GettyVirgin Australia was co-found by Richard Branson.Sydney (AFP) - Virgin on Friday took full control of budget carrier Tigerair Australia, buying the remaining 40 percent it did not already own for Aus$1 (88 US cents) from its Singapore-listed parent. The deal was revealed as it was announced that Singapore Airlines (SIA) would take majority control of Tiger Airways -- of which Tigerair Australia was a subsidiary -- as part of a turnaround plan for the loss-making budget firm. Virgin Australia purchased a 60 percent stake in Tigerair in mid-2013 for Aus$35 million and said agreement had been reached to buy the rest of the carrier, which has struggled to reach profitability, for the tiny sum. Tiger will continue to license its brand to Virgin. Virgin Australia chief John Borghetti said the acquisition would allow it to fly to a number of new short-haul international destinations, providing growth opportunities for the business, while accelerating Tigerair's drive for profitability. Wikimedia CommonsTigerair Australia Airbus A320-232"Given the ongoing subdued consumer demand in the Australian domestic market, the growth of the Tigerair Australia domestic fleet is likely to be reduced," he said.  "Under this proposed transaction, we will benefit from the economies of scale and achieve profitability ahead of schedule by the end of 2016, by leveraging the resources of the wider Virgin Australia Group." In Singapore, Tiger Airways said SIA would convert its "perpetual convertible capital securities holdings" in the carrier into shares, raising its stake to 55 percent from 40 percent. It said the move would effectively make Tiger Airways a subsidiary of SIA, which also operates a long-haul budget unit called Scoot. Tiger Airways also said it will separately raise Sg$234 million (US$184 million) in a rights issue that will be mostly subscribed by SIA. The rights issue will be carried out after SIA increases its stake. Tiger has been struggling to make money owing to tough competition in the booming Southeast Asian budget carrier market, which is dominated by Malaysia's AirAsia and Singapore-based Jetstar Asia. Wikimedia CommonsVirgin Australia Airbus A330-200Earlier this year, it sold its entire 40 percent stake in Tigerair Philippines to rival Cebu Pacific, and in July, its joint venture in Indonesia's PT Mandala Airlines ceased operations owing to losses. The Tigerair Australia move, which is subject to Foreign Investment Review Board approval, comes after a difficult 12 months for Australian airlines as intense battle for market share saw both Virgin and Qantas suffer heavy losses. Virgin posted a full-year net loss of Aus$355 million, while Qantas suffered a record loss of Aus$2.8 billion. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonFireworks in New York Harbor to celebrate the 125th birthday of the Statue of Liberty, on Oct. 28, 2011.European markets are rallying on Friday, but it looks as if there is going to be some incredible volatility again following a rocky day for stocks.  France's CAC 40 is up 1.78% Spain's IBEX is up 1.95% Italy's FTSE MIB is up 1.70% Britain's FTSE 100 is up 1.04% Germany's DAX is up 1.68% In Asia, Japan’s Nikkei closed down 1.40%. It’s now down 9.48% since the start of the year, one of the worst-performing indices in the advanced economies during 2014 so far. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng closed up 0.60%.  US stock futures are climbing, with the S&amp;P up 10.5 points and the Dow up 85 points.  In Europe, construction output figures will be released at 5 a.m. ET.  It's a fairly light day for data from the US, but Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen will be speaking at 8:30 a.m. ET. Markets will be looking for any comment on the current volatility, or on the end of QE. US housing starts figures are also out at 8:30 a.m., with analysts expecting over a million units.  FREE AppDownload
The Russian central bank has been burning through the country's foreign exchange reserves as investors sell the ruble, driving its value ever lower. Figures released by the central bank on Friday showed that it spent almost $13 billion buying rubles from the market in an attempt to stem the collapse of the currency over recent weeks. Yet despite its intervention, the ruble continued to slide against both the dollar and the euro: BloombergRuble versus the dollar. BloombergRuble versus the euro. The falls have forced the central bank to shift its target trading range against the euro and dollar 37 times since the start of the month. On Monday, Russian central bank head Elvira Nabiullina appeared to concede defeat, saying that if markets continued to turn against the ruble further, currency interventions would not "be able to restrain them." And here's the chart that explains the sudden investor panic about Russia — the oil price is plunging: EIA Brent crude oil touched $115 a barrel in June but has since dropped to a low of $86 a barrel on Tuesday. The plunge has been driven by increased supply because of the US shale oil boom and record production from Russia, as well as slowing demand from a decelerating Asia (especially China) and renewed economic problems in the eurozone. Oil accounts for almost half of Russia's export income and about 30% of the country's GDP. Where goes oil, goes the ruble, in other words. High oil prices have allowed the country to grow at an average of almost 7% per year since the start of the new millennium, but that is now forecast to slow to 0.4% this year and between 0.9% and 1.1% in 2015, according to the central bank. FREE AppDownload
Wikipedia, Niccolò CarantiBank of England chief economist Andy Haldane at an economics event in Italy.Talking about the economy, Bank of England chief economist Andy Haldane said that it appeared "to be writhing in both agony and ecstasy," a way too intimate mental image from a central banker on a Friday morning.  He's blaming a slowdown in global growth, more international political tension, and the failure of wage growth to return to the British economy, despite the fastest drop in unemployment in modern history. The phrase applies just as much to the US: the equity sell-off and falling bond yields of recent days are happening despite a fairly solid economic performance, at least in comparison with recent years.  "Put in rather plainer English, I am gloomier," Haldane added. Like Fed policymaker James Bullard on Thursday, Haldane now sees the possibility that loose monetary policy could continue for longer, adding: "interest rates could remain lower for longer, certainly than I had expected three months ago." That's a fairly bold comment from someone in a high position at the Bank. Until pretty recently, some analysts had expected a hike in interest rates in the UK as soon as November. It now looks like central banks across the world are rushing to backpedal and promise low rates for longer.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters / Arnd WiegmannInfection control nurse Marc Dangel, right, assists his colleague Heinz Schuhmacher to wear a protection suit during a media presentation at an isolation ward for possible Ebola patients at the Universitaetsspital Basel hospital in Basel on Oct. 15. Good morning. Here's what you need to know for Friday.  1. A wave of deteriorating economic data in Europe has stoked fears of another financial meltdown. 2. The second Dallas nurse infected with Ebola is being transferred to a unit at the National Institutes Of Health in Maryland.  3. Meanwhile, US lawmakers sharply criticized the response of federal health officials to Ebola in a congressional hearing on Thursday.  4. Europe also said Thursday that it would step up efforts to contain the spread of Ebola and help the worst-hit countries in West Africa.  5. Police cleared a main protest site in Hong Kong early Friday, although pro-democracy activists and officials remain in a standoff after three weeks of demonstrations.  6. Kurdish fighters claim to have pushed back Islamic State militants in the Syrian town of Kobani but have asked a US-led coalition for more airstrikes and weapons.  7. Hurricane Gonzalo is barreling toward Bermuda as a powerful Category 4 storm.  8. A $54 billion so-called "tax inversion" deal under which Chicago-based AbbVie would buy the Irish drug company Shire is likely to collapse.  9. The iPhone 6 is finally available in China.   10. Apple unveiled its newest iPads — the iPad Air 2 and the iPad Mini 3 — in an event on Thursday. The iPad Air 2 will start at $499, and the iPad Mini 3 will start at $399. And finally ... The San Francisco Giants are heading to the World Series.  FREE AppDownload
Bond markets are heading for a "perfect storm," according to Andrew Bosomworth, head of Pimco's German portfolio management. Bosomworth was speaking to Bloomberg's Countdown program early Friday.  As if to prove a point, the Greek government's 10-year bond yield spiked above 9%. The cost of servicing Greece's government debt is now at its highest level in 2014 so far, pretty much killing the government's plan to leave its bailout early. And according to a note from Pantheon Macroeconomics on Friday morning, though bond yields are still low in comparison with their euro-crisis highs, we are seeing "clear and acute signs of stress" in Portugal, Spain, and Italy. Investing.com FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuri MaltsevAn employee looks at equipment in a new facility at a nuclear waste disposal plant in the town of Fokino in Russia's far-eastern Primorsky region June 24, 2014. For stock markets, October – with its fading light, silent leaf fall and first winter chills – is historically the cruellest month. This year is proving no exception. The crashes of 1929, 1987, 2001 and 2008 were all focused on this portentous month. And amid signs of another perfect storm of negatives brewing in the world economy, stocks are again plummeting. Since the beginning of September, the FTSE 100 has fallen by more than 10 per cent, with much of the drop concentrated in the last week – a level of deterioration that satisfies the official definition of a fully blown stock market correction. For many European bourses, it has been a great deal worse. Greece is already back in classic bear market territory – scarcely believable so soon after the last one. Not since the peak of the Eurozone crisis in 2011-12 have we seen such manifest panic, and before then, the collapse of Lehman Brothers, six years ago. Nor is it just equities; bond yields too are back at levels that indicate a clear and present danger of deflation and economic depression. Normally there is a trigger event for such meltdowns, but unless it be the Ebola outbreak in west Africa, this time it’s not entirely clear what. Rather, there has been a steady build-up of worry, culminating in an emerging consensus at last week’s meeting of the International Monetary Fund in Washington that the global recovery is again in danger of stalling. For some economies, still struggling to climb back to pre-crisis levels of output, prospects are again looking truly desperate. It is as if the last recession never really ended at all, lending weight to those who argue that advanced economies have succumbed to “secular stagnation”, a semi-permanent state of impaired demand that is unresponsive to even the extreme levels of monetary stimulus of the past several years. Indeed, judged in terms of UK stock market performance, we appear trapped in a 15-year long cycle of decline. The FTSE 100 has never regained its turn-of-the-century peak. The epicentre of alarm this time is again Europe, where both economic and political risks have climbed steeply in recent weeks. With Europe’s southern economies gripped by conditions reminiscent of the Great Depression in the Thirties, Italy’s Five Star protest movement – in some respects, the equivalent of the UK Independence Party – has promised a referendum on membership of the euro. In Greece, the ultra-Left Syriza has committed to repudiating virtually all aspects of the eurozone austerity programme, even though the country has little chance of regaining access to international debt markets once outside it. Yet again, the fiscal, monetary and political straitjacket that holds the single currency together is in danger of blowing apart. Just to get this in perspective, it is not yet 2012 in redux, with the explosion in risk premiums that took place back then. Even so, worries about the sustainability of European Monetary Union are back with a vengeance. Meanwhile, an extraordinarily low inflation reading for September has reinforced fears that the eurozone is on the slippery slope to outright deflation, a condition that if it became established would seem to condemn Europe to a repeat of Japan’s 20-year slump and would further steepen the challenge of getting on top of mountainous public debts. With falling prices come delayed spending and investment decisions, and a steady ratcheting up of existing debt burdens. In such circumstances, eventual default by heavily indebted nations becomes virtually inevitable. It is not a disease any continent would want to fall victim to. A tanking oil price, which in itself is partly a response to fast abating global demand, has only further increased the chances of Europe succumbing to the illness, even though, by putting more money in people’s pockets, it should in time prove helpful to the global economy. Not that the plunging oil price is all about weaker demand. Normally, such pressures would be countered by cuts to production from Opec’s big swing nation, Saudi Arabia. This time around, the Saudis have decided not to play ball, in apparent determination to inflict damage on other, higher-cost producers – Iran, Russia, the emerging Middle Eastern Caliphate and possibly even the US, whose shale revolution is endangered by low energy prices. These geopolitical aspects of the price correction have further added to anxieties in financial markets. In any case, the European Central Bank’s favourite gauge of inflationary expectations, the five-year forward swap rate, is currently at a record low. Europe’s apparent inability to mount a credible response to deflationary threats is again centre stage. Hemmed in by German intransigence and the apparent impediment of European treaties, the ECB has so far failed to apply the monetary therapy of quantitative easing, despite its evident success in Britain and the US. The working assumption in markets is that eventually it will; whether it acts in time, however, remains very much open to question. As if another leg in the eurozone crisis wasn’t bad enough, there are also signs of a pronounced slowdown elsewhere in the world, with China caught between a rock and a hard place – the imperative of growth at all costs knocking up against evident concern in the Communist Party elite about repeating the economic mistakes of the West. Attempts to dampen the credit-fuelled boom of the post-crisis era may have slowed Chinese growth to below 7 per cent, a level that would be regarded as stellar by Western standards, but which for China is close to disastrous. Adam Berry/Getty ImagesChristine Lagarde, managing director of the IMF.This slowdown has in turn inflicted damage on the big export nations of Germany and Japan, and those emerging market economies heavily reliant on the commodities boom of recent years, such as Brazil. Even the US shows early signs of stumbling. Such is the degree of concern that two members of the Federal Reserve’s Open Markets Committee have broken ranks to express reservations about ending asset purchases, as scheduled this month, and suggested that the Fed might be forced to consider a fourth round of them – so-called QE4. Neither of them are noted “doves”. Every time the Fed says QE is about to end, the markets react with horror, forcing policymakers to backtrack. It is as if the world economy can never get off the adrenalin fix of central bank money-printing. Market expectations of the first US interest rate rise have meanwhile been pushed dramatically back from the middle of next year to well into 2016. Overlaying it all is an even more concerning narrative – that evident fault lines exposed by the financial crisis, from dysfunctional monetary union in Europe, to growing imbalances between surplus and deficit nations, and increasing indebtedness almost everywhere, have been left festering and largely unaddressed. Worse, that attempts to smooth the post-crisis adjustment with fiscal and monetary stimulus have succeeded only in delaying the reckoning, or even adding to it. On top of all this comes anxiety about the impact of Ebola. We know from less lethal diseases that international pandemics induce a high degree of behavioural aversion, with profoundly negative consequences for the global economy. Set against this bleak international backdrop, the British economy looks like a beacon of sound governance and policy, hard though it sometimes is to believe for those of us who observe these things at close quarters. Unemployment is back virtually to pre-crisis levels, labour participation is at its best since 2005 and job vacancies are close to an all-time high. Even long-elusive real-wage growth seems to be returning, at least in the private sector. These gains have been hard won, yet they are again in danger of derailment by external developments. Last week, Christine Lagarde, managing director of the IMF, said that another global recession was avoidable, but only if surplus and deficit nations did the right things. Is there any likelihood of them doing so? Regrettably little.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGoldman Sachs sign is seen above floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the opening bell in the Manhattan borough of New YorkBy Lauren Tara LaCapra NEW YORK (Reuters) - Top Goldman Sachs Group Inc  executives are determined to keep compensation costs under control. And that means even when the bank's revenue spikes higher, bankers' bonuses won't. On Thursday, Goldman reported a 25 percent increase in quarterly revenue, but the money it set aside for compensation and benefits rose only 18 percent from the same period a year earlier. The amount of money it has set aside for compensation is more or less unchanged, as is the average compensation per employee, at around $320,000 for the first nine months of the year. Sources familiar with the matter inside Goldman Sachs described the restraint as a sign of the shifting mentality about bonuses at the bank: it wants to tightly control compensation, even if it has good quarters with big revenue gains. That translates to bigger profits for the bank, and more money for shareholders. Compensation experts say similar changes are happening across Wall Street. Morgan Stanley , which is Goldman's chief investment banking rival, has set a maximum target for compensation as a percentage of revenue in each of its business lines. Its progress in curbing compensation may be a key part of its third-quarter results, which are due out on Friday. "There is a desire to share more with shareholders, and that means holding the line on compensation expense," said Rose Marie Orens, a pay consultant for financial firms at Compensation Advisory Partners. "Just because revenue is up 20 percent, that doesn't mean bonuses will necessarily be up 20 percent." It wasn't always that way. In the third quarter of 2007, for example, when the financial crisis was in its preliminary stages, Goldman Sachs's revenue rose 63 percent from the same quarter a year earlier. But its compensation expense rose 67 percent. The bank has taken myriad steps to cut compensation costs. It has let dozens of high-earning partners walk out the door to make room for more junior employees who earn less. It has also moved as many jobs as it can to cities like Bangalore in India, and Salt Lake City and Dallas in the U.S, where wages are lower than in places like New York or London.  CAPITAL RULES Before the crisis, Goldman often boasted an annualized return-on-equity - a measure of how effectively the bank wrings profit from shareholder money - of 30 percent or higher. More recently those figures have been between 10 and 12 percent. Other banks, including Morgan Stanley, are still struggling to get returns above 10 percent, the minimum that analysts say is required to meet their cost of capital. Those returns have been hurt by new capital rules that make it more expensive to keep risky assets on balance sheets. Weak trading volumes have also kept a lid on revenue growth. A study in July from consulting firm Federal Financial Analytics estimated that new rules cost the six biggest U.S. banks some $70.17 billion in 2013, about double banks' regulatory and capital costs in 2007, just before the financial crisis. Some of Goldman's peers have tried to boost returns by getting rid of assets that can force the bank to hold more capital under new regulations, and exiting some types of trading, but Goldman has stuck with those businesses. Instead, it is trying to drive returns higher by cutting costs and hoping it can capture more trading revenue and increase its ability to charge more for its services. As the bank boosts profits, it can afford to buy back more shares, which boosts its return on equity. It can also raise dividends, a step it has taken four times since 2012, an unusual move for a bank that had previously shown little interest in the size of its dividend payments. Several stock analysts who cover Goldman Sachs commented on its compensation move on Thursday, saying it was a big reason the bank's earnings were better than expected. JPMorgan analyst Kian Abouhossein said Goldman's adjusted compensation ratio was 7 percentage points lower than he had estimated it would be. "Fourth-quarter results will tell, but we would be surprised if it (the ratio) were not down again for the fourth year in a row," said Chris Kotowski, an analyst with Oppenheimer &amp; Co. One employee on a Goldman trading desk who spoke with Reuters noted the gap between its revenue increase and compensation increase, taking it as a sign that, even if the fourth quarter produces great results, bonuses for this year's work might be disappointing. "People now understand you're not going to double your compensation every year," said Brian Byck, a recruiter who works with traders and sales staff at Odyssey Search Partners.  (Reporting by Lauren Tara LaCapra; Editing by Dan Wilchins and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
