On Sunday, Crimea will hold a referendum on whether or not to split from Ukraine and join Russia. Experts agree that the referendum will pass. "This is independent from the question of whether the international community — or Ukraine — will accept the result," said Citi's Tina Fordham. "The ballot question has two options: union with Russia or the “restoration of the 1992 Crimean Constitution,” by which Crimea is independent of Ukraine in all but name, its relations with Kiev determined by treaty. (This is why some analysts have said the referendum “has no ‘no’ option.”)" Tensions are expected to escalate as the U.S. and E.U are expected to respond by imposing sanctions against Russia. The concern for the everyone is how much more escalation there will be. Fordham lays out what could potentially happen next: The biggest risk to the current delicate situation would be Russian military intervention beyond Crimea, in Eastern or Southern Ukraine. Were this to occur, the Western allies would likely consider broader-based sanctions and a heightened state of NATO military readiness. In Kiev, the capacity of the Ukrainian military has prompted calls for a volunteer National Guard. The presence of far-right groups like the Right Sector, despite their limited popular support, has been cited by Moscow as evidence of “anti-Russian extremism”. The pollster Levada Center has released a survey reporting that 67% of Russians believe radical Ukrainian nationalist groups are behind the current situation, underscoring the divergence of views between Russia and the West, which is supporting the new Ukrainian government. Because it's unclear how much further things will escalate, strategists warn that the Ukraine crisis my not be fully priced into the markets. "Although global markets have largely shrugged off geopolitical risks, we remain cautious," said Fordham. "Renewed ethnic clashes could be a catalyst for Russian military intervention beyond Crimea, while the revival of negotiations for an EU Association Agreement could also inflame Russian concerns. The situation remains highly fluid — and combustible — posing a significant challenge to security and diplomacy. Media reports of massing Russian troops could add to regional and market jitters. A key positive signpost would be a shift in stance from Moscow, which has thus far declined to negotiate with the new government in Kiev." FREE AppDownload
First a word on exactly what the Federal Reserve custody program is. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York offers a range of services to some 250 central banks, governments, and official international institutions. These include payments services, investment services, and custody and safekeeping services. Most familiar to the public is the large volume of gold belonging to foreign central banks and governments held in a large vault carved out of bedrock in the basement of the bank. But it is US Treasury and agency securities that make up the largest volume of assets held in custody, which as of March 13 totaled $3.3 trillion. The number that received attention was the reported decline of in those securities. We don’t know who owns those securities.  Clearly the NY Fed does but secrecy prevents disclosure of that information. What is interesting is that custodial holdings do vary day by day and on a weekly average basis.  To put the $104 billion decline in perspective, the end-of -week to end-of-week change (the Fed computes end-of-week on Wednesdays) has typically been less than plus or minus $20 billion the past year or so.  However, despite the large decline this past week, the average custodial holdings are down only $17 billion from their level on March 13, 2013.  However, marketable Treasury holdings are down $34 billion over that same period, according to the Federal Reserve’s H.1. release. We do know that these weren’t the personal holdings of President Putin, as some have suggested, since custodial accounts are maintained only in the names of government entities. We do have some information as to who the holders of US Treasuries are. The most recent data come from the Treasury’s International Capital (TIC) data report. Total foreign holdings of US Treasury debt as of the end of December 2013 were about $5.8 trillion, of which $2.4 trillion is owned by China and Japan. The next largest owners were Caribbean Banking Centers at $290 billion. Russia was the 11th largest owner at $139 billion. About 58% of these foreign government securities holdings were in custody accounts at the New York Fed. We won’t know for sure from public data whether the custodial securities that were removed were Russian until new data are released by the US Treasury. We will need to compare the February and March data, which won’t be released for another couple of months. This is one time when being inside the New York Fed would really be interesting. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
andrew c mace via www.flickr.com creative commonsSunset over New York's financial district. New York has knocked London from its position as the world's leading global financial center after seven years, according to the Global Financial Centres Index compiled by London-based consultancy Z/Yen. London slipped from the top of the global rankings, scoring 784 against 786 for New York, because a series of own goals had tarnished its reputation, the report said. "London sees the largest fall in the top 50 centres," said Mark Yeandle, report author and associate director of Z/Yen, in a statement on the group's website. "This seems to be based on a number of factors including ... uncertainty over Europe, the perception that London might be becoming less welcoming to foreigners and perceived levels of market manipulation." Hong Kong and Singapore took third and fourth spots respectively, the same as a year ago, the survey showed. But the gap between the "Big Four" and the chasing pack, led by Zurich, Tokyo and Seoul, was narrowing, it said. Middle East centres, such as Qatar, Dubai and Riyadh, which took places 26, 29 and 31 respectively, continued to rise in the index, while 23 of the 27 European centres declined in rank. TheCityUK, a lobby group for British financial and professional services, said London slipping from the top spot should be a wake-up call for Europe's policymakers. "London is Europe's financial center and is hugely important to the continent's ability to finance growth and create jobs by attracting global investors," said Chris Cummings, chief executive of TheCityUK. The Global Financial Centres Index is compiled from assessments completed by 3,246 financial services professionals, Z/Yen said. (Reporting by Paul Sandle; Editing by Susan Fenton) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBuenos Aires, Argentina."And now we enter a Coen brothers film," said my Argentine friend Tony. He wasn't kidding. We turned off a noisy street into a plain unmarked office building in the center of Buenos Aires. Leaving the blazing sun behind, we entered a dark lobby. It wasn't cool inside but it was eerily quiet. Our mission: change our dollars into pesos. I was excited. Tony checked in with a man behind a desk. He mumbled a code word and just like that we were ushered into a rickety-old elevator — the kind in which you have to open and close the doors yourself. It looked like any pre-war office building. We stopped and stepped off onto the third floor. Tony led me to the left to a door marked El Morro Haba. (I wondered aloud later what it meant. "Actually, it means nothing," Tony said.) We tapped a bell and were buzzed into an entryway the size of a walk-in closet. On our left was a large bank teller-like window with no one behind it, and on our right was yet another locked door. A young man with a messenger bag was crammed into this closet with us, waiting. I glanced at the closed-circuit camera hanging from the ceiling in the corner. That's when I realized we were trapped. But since Tony didn't seem nervous, it all seemed normal. I came to learn that 'normal' in Argentina doesn't exist. Surreal moments lurk everywhere. We waited some more... I had arrived in Buenos Aires just five hours earlier and needed some pesos before dinner and a show. I had $400 to change. But in a country like Argentina, few people are naive enough to do this through official channels or exchange bureaus like you would in other countries. Strict capital controls, aggressive monetary policy, and blazing inflation rates have distorted exchange rates. The official Argentine Peso-U.S. Dollar exchange rate that day was around 7-to-1. Not so bad at all compared to 2013. But Tony insisted we could do much better. So we entered the murky environs of the black market exchange world. A gringo like myself can easily do this by flagging down one of the dozens of people on the pedestrian-friendly Calle Florida who is shouting out "cambio!" which translates to"'change!" But every Argentine has a "guy" who can give you an even better deal at what they call the "blue" rate. I imagine some people in Argentina are making a decent, albeit illegitimate, living playing off the spread between the "official" rate and the "blue" rate. Newspapers like La Nacion publish the spread daily. Tony put a call in to a friend who put him in touch with his "guy" — who was actually a woman. She was offering the best exchange rate Tony could find that day: 11.50 pesos for every dollar. Sounded good to me — that was about 3 pesos more for my dollars than the official rate.  So we headed east across town on the Subte (the city's subway system). Back in our tiny holding cell, I thought about taking a photo but didn't know if that would get us thrown out. Changing money outside the "official" exchange is technically illegal. Before I was able to ask Tony what I could and couldn't do, we were buzzed through into the main office by a young woman with dark hair who greeted us with a smile and escorted us to another room. The journey was underway. Justin Maiman"Tony" and I getting our money changedWe passed through a few rooms set up like waiting areas at a dentist's office. We also passed a pantry full of old computers — the kind you may have used in 1993. The woman motioned us over to a couple chairs, said something I didn't catch to Tony in Spanish, went through a door, and closed it behind her. Again, we waited. Across from us on a white couch was an older man with white hair and a beautiful mustache. At his feet was a big backpack full of something. Dulce de leche? Empanadas? Dollars? I was intrigued. He ignored us — staring straight ahead. Tony and I passed the time by catching up. We hadn't seen each other in a year. We traded stories for 10 minutes or so. The mysterious mustached man was called into a room next door on our left. The door was only halfway closed, and I could see that he was exchanging a stack of dollars for pesos. Just like we were supposed to. It seemed painless. The mustached man left. Again, we waited. Five minutes later it was our turn. Tony and I were called into the room next door where we were once again greeted by the woman who first walked us in. Tony had our combined money — $600 — in one stack and handed it to her. She stood up and left through yet another door behind her. So many doors in this place! But there was nothing on the walls. Just a desk and three chairs. Tony turned and winked at me. She came back just a moment later with a receipt highlighting a conversion rate and our peso total. The total was the number we had agreed to before on the phone. We nodded and smiled. She left again and returned immediately with our pesos which she re-counted using a money counting machine — the same kind you'd see at a bank. This woman was all gestures, no speech, and if I had to pick her out of a lineup tomorrow I'd fail. Tony had called her by name when he spoke to her on the phone earlier, but I had already forgotten what he called her. The office space we were in was so plain — from the white walls to the beige carpets and generic office desk and chairs — that it seemed to encourage forgetting. The details didn't matter. Faces blended into each other. We had our cash in hand. Tony and I echoed "muchas gracias" and it was done. We walked out past a group of people waiting their turn to change money. I ended up with 5,000 pesos at a fantastic rate. Plenty of money to spend on our week-plus vacation in Buenos Aires and in the northwest province of Salta. Tony and I and our wives enjoyed wonderful meals with fine regional Torrontes and Malbec wines for about $50 a day — for all four of us. What a deal! It's a really cheap travel destination for Americans right now. The currency exchange was just a minor, almost forgettable part of the trip. After so much anticipation, the final process was disappointingly anticlimactic because it was so quick. More importantly, the country is beautiful top-to-bottom. And Salta (near the Bolivian border) is like nothing I'd ever seen before — large cactus plants (cardones) loomed over lush vineyards. Llamas and goats frolicked across dusty roads. Mountains crowded around us. It really is paradise. You should go. And I know a "guy" who can hook you up with a great rate. Vamos. FREE AppDownload
Bill Gates has been the richest man in the world for the better part of two decades, and he's getting richer all the time. People tell him that he should feel guilty about it, he said in an interview with the American Enterprise Institute on Thursday. But if he's going to feel guilty, it's not going to be about the money he has, but about the money he spends. When people say, Mr. Gates, you should feel guilty because you have so much money. Well, it’s not that I have money, if I’m supposed to feel guilty [about something], it's my consumption. He didn't sound like he felt guilty about any of it, and for good reason. He donates billions of dollars to charity, committing $38 billion to his charitable foundation and encouraging other billionaires to donate most of their money to charity, too, through a program called The Giving Pledge. But for Gates, it's not just about donating his money. He's putting his considerably brilliant mind to the task of solving some of the world's toughest problems like poverty, childhood mortality, clean water, and improved education. And he reports a lot of progress on that. Gates thinks that in about 20 years, there will be no third-world countries. In his annual letter to his foundation he wrote: I am optimistic enough about this that I am willing to make a prediction. By 2035, there will be almost no poor countries left in the world. (I mean by our current definition of poor.) Almost all countries will be what we now call lower-middle income or richer. Interestingly, the discussion on guilt came up when Gates was talking about the U.S. tax code and how it will need to change to address changes in our workforce. Gates envisions a future where software will do more jobs, making it harder for people to find employment.  He thinks the government could encourage businesses to hire workers if it stopped taxing people on their wages. Instead, he thinks that it should tax them on how much they spend, an idea called the "progressive consumption tax." To the people who say he should feel bad about his wealth, he answers: Consumption is what you care about. ...  The idea that consumption should be progressively taxed, I think that makes a lot of sense. Here's the portion of the interview where he talks about the progressive consumption tax:  FREE AppDownload
Brown Harris StevensWith spring on the horizon, it's time to start gearing up for the upcoming Hamptons season. Summer rentals go fast, so it's always best to look early and look often. We scanned Sotheby's, Brown Harris Stevens, and Corcoran to find the greatest Memorial Day to Labor Day rentals currently on the market at every price point. FREE AppDownload
WeiboFamous Weibo users include UK prime minister David Cameron.Weibo, the Chinese version of Twitter, filed for an IPO yesterday. A look inside its F-1 disclosure shows that it is strikingly similar to Twitter in terms of its user base but is much smaller as a business. Here are some highlights: Here's Weibo's income statement (click to enlarge): SEC  Historic user growth: Weibo  Weibo daily user activity: Weibo The filing also has some useful information on the web in China generally. Here is a chart of internet penetration in China. You can see how much room Weibo has to grow — the Chinese population is 1.3 billion. Weibo This chart shows internet ad spending in China, which is now up to $15 billion a year. Weibo Here's an example of how Weibo posts go viral. A passenger on the jet that crashed in San Francisco last year uploaded some of the first pictures to Weibo. Chinese TV news stations used the pictures in their reporting. Weibo FREE AppDownload
WaterFXA parabolic trough collects energy from the sun. The heat is used to evaporate clean water from the salty agricultural drainage water of irrigated crops. This year, farmers in California's Central Valley likely won't receive any water through the federal irrigation program, a network of reservoirs, rivers, and canals that is normally replenished yearly by ice melt from the Sierra mountains. Crippling water shortages have made desalination technology more attractive, including a startup, WaterFX, that uses the sun to produce heat. The heat separates salt and water through evaporation. WaterFX has fewer environmental repercussions than traditional methods of desalination that rely on fossil fuels to generate electricity. The technology could not have come at a more desperate time.  No end in sight During a drought-free year, the federally run Central Valley Project provides enough water to irrigate 3 million acres of agricultural land. Last year, farmers only received 20% of their allotment.  The lack of water is not just worrying for growers. It affects all people who eat food. One third of the nation's produce is grown in the Central Valley — composed of Sacramento Valley in the north and San Joaquin Valley in the south — and the deep water cuts mean that more than half a million acres of crop land will be left unplanted. Some scientists predict California's drought could last as long as a century. Going forward, the state is going to need a substantial water supply that doesn't rely on the aqueduct system, says Aaron Mandell, WaterFX chairman and founder.  However, in order to counter California's drought, the push must be toward renewable desalination plants rather than fossil-fuel dependent facilities that further contribute to climate change. Making freshwater from sunshine In WaterFX's system, a solar trough, which looks like a jumbo-sized curved mirror, collects energy from the sun's rays and transfers that heat to a pipe filled with mineral oil. The mineral oil feeds the heat into a system that evaporates the salty water being treated. Steam is produced, which condenses into pure liquid water. The remaining salt solidifies and can be removed, says Mandell. That salts can be used in other industries as building materials, metals, or fertilizers. In order to operate continuously, the solar trough is very large so that it collects extra heat during the day. The energy is stored and used to run the system at night when the sun isn't shining. By using sun as the fuel source, WaterFX uses roughly one-fifth of the electricity consumed by traditional desalination plants, according to Mandell. Less electricity means lower operating costs. With conventional desalination, electricity makes up 50-60% of the water costs, says Mandell. A typical desalination plant in San Diego operates at about $900 per acre-foot, while it costs around $450 to produce an acre-foot of water with WaterFX. (An acre-foot is 325,000 gallons, or the amount of water it takes to cover an acre at a depth of one foot). WaterFXWaterFX chairman and founder, Aaron Mandell."Solar desalination is still a very immature technology so there's a quite a bit of room to drive that cost down even further," said Mandell. Many desalination facilities, including the $1 billion Carlsbad plant set to open in 2016, use a process known as reverse osmosis that forces seawater through billions of tiny holes that filter out salt and other impurities. This method can produce fresh water on a large scale, but has economic and environmental drawbacks. It uses an immense amount of electricity and only about half of the seawater that goes into the system comes out as clean water. The remaining half is dumped back into the ocean as salty brine where it can be harmful to marine plants and animals. By contrast, Mandell says that WaterFX has a 93% recovery rate, meaning that for every 100 gallons of water that goes in, 93 gallons of usable water are spit out. WaterFX also helps solve an issue that has long plagued irrigated land. Soils in the arid west of San Joaquin Valley naturally contain a lot of salt as well as high concentrations of metals, like selenium, which can be toxic to humans and wildlife. When the soil is irrigated, the salt, selenium, and other elements become concentrated in the drainage water that collects in a system of drains and pumps under the crops. In the past, harmful drainage water might have been discharged into rivers, wetlands, and aquifers in the San Joaquin Valley. Now, that otherwise unusable water can be diverted to WaterFX and turned into irrigation water again. The first test The Panoche Water District in Central Valley is home to the first demonstration plant, a 6,500-square foot system that is capable of producing around 10 gallons of freshwater a minute, or roughly 14,000 of freshwater each day. When the demonstration plant is operating in commercial mode, running 24 hours a day, it can put out 25 to 30 gallons of freshwater a minute, says Mandell. WaterFX The pilot project, funded by the California Department of Water Resources, will hopefully prove that the WaterFX system is more reliable (it doesn't depend on the Sierra snowpack) and affordable than other freshwater sources. The water that's being treated by the pilot plant streams in from a canal that collects salty drainage water from around 200 farms in the area and brings it to a single location. In the pilot phase, the clean water that's produced is blended back in with the drainage water, but a commercial plant would send the water back to farmers through a series of canals that are already in place. Additionally, small-scale systems could be used by individual farmers on site to recycle their own drainage water. A bright future WaterFX is not the first company to experiment with solar desalination. The Sahara Forest project in Qatar and an Australian company called Sundrop Farms are using the technology to grow food in greenhouses. But this is the first time a company has focused on using the sun's energy "to produce a scalable, long-term water supply," Mandell said. The goal is to eventually be able to treat salty groundwater in addition to drainage water. The immediate next step for WaterFX is to expand operations in Panoche to produce 2 million gallons of water per day. "From there it's about laying out a pathway for replicating this model all up and down the Central Valley," Mandell said. "We're trying to put a plan in place so that by 2020, we may be in a position to wean ourselves off the aqueduct system entirely." FREE AppDownload
The Federal Open Market Committee is set to meet next week. Consensus is for the Fed to lower its pace of monthly asset purchase programs by another $10 billion. FOMC members are also expected to discuss forward guidance and the nature of thresholds. Going into that meeting Bank of America has provided a helpful reminder of where FOMC members and nominees (Fischer and Brainard) sit on the hawk-dove spectrum: BAML 
Thomson ReutersA manatee is seen at an inactive power plant in Riviera Beach MIAMI (Reuters) - The riverbank that hugs this city's downtown has in recent years sprouted flashy rows of towering high-rises and trendy restaurants. More boat slips are envisioned so water taxis can handle larger crowds. But as business owners chart their course to prosperity, they have bumped up against a formidable adversary: Florida's much-loved "sea cow," the manatee. When a county commissioner recently suggested relaxing guidelines intended to protect the blubbery creatures on the Miami River and other waterways, it set off the latest iteration of a perennial battle. Floridians are generally supportive of development, but they also adore their manatees, a gray, bulbous endangered aquatic species that weighs 800 to 1,200 pounds (363 to 544 kilograms). "It's easy to draw battle lines, and it's really unfortunate," said Mark Bailey, executive director of the Miami River Marine Group, which includes marinas and shipyards that would like a chance to expand. Native to Florida's rivers, bays and coastal waters, manatees have for decades been listed as an endangered species. They have no real defenses and cannot survive long in water colder than 68 degrees Fahrenheit (20 degrees Celsius). Designated as the state marine mammal, the creature is a tourist draw in parts of the state where dozens of them cluster near warm springs and power plants. A National Park Service website described the manatee's appeal as that of "a plump grandmother with flippers like oven mitts, outstretched as if inviting a hug." Anyone who harms the so-called gentle giants risks arrest. Last week two men pleaded guilty to manatee abuse after a Facebook video showed them luring manatees dockside and jumping on them in violation of the Florida Manatee Sanctuary Act. The state law makes it a second-degree misdemeanor to "annoy, molest, harass or disturb" the manatee, an offense punishable by up to a year in prison and a $50,000 fine. In 2012, a woman was arrested for "riding" a manatee near St Petersburg on Florida's west coast, according to an official report of the incident. Many Florida counties have manatee protection plans, which need state and federal approval. Miami-Dade County's plan was adopted in the 1990s and is considered one of the state's best at protecting the creatures, said Katie Tripp, director of science and conservation for the Save the Manatee Club, co-founded by singer Jimmy Buffett and former Florida Governor and U.S. Senator, Bob Graham. The state's manatee population has jumped from about 1,200 to nearly 5,000 in recent decades, and federal officials have mulled downgrading the creature's status from endangered to threatened. But last year, a red tide of toxic algea killed a record number of manatees, reminding everyone of their vulnerability. Officials in Miami-Dade County count close to 200 sea cows. But manatees like to roam, and environmentalists say are more likely to swim through an area to feast on seagrass. Last year, 11 manatees died in Miami-Dade, two after being struck by watercraft, state figures show. One of their preferred waterways is the Miami River, meaning that property owners there face restrictions on adding boat slips. Some business owners find those curbs outdated, they have told commissioners, because so many restaurants and condos are now crowded along the narrow waterway. For several years, county officials have considered tweaking the manatee guidelines. Earlier this year, Miami-Dade County Commissioner Bruno Barreiro started the process to officially change some of them. "It's a very rigid plan," he said at a meeting this week. His proposal would have kept the slow-speed zones that help prevent collisions between manatees and watercraft. But environmentalists expressed outrage at the extra boat traffic it could have added. "They tipped the scales so far against the manatees," Tripp said. County staffers were also skeptical that the plan would pass state muster, said Lee Hefty, the county's assistant director for environmental resources management, particularly since it loosened restrictions in spots where manatees and boats often cross paths. Amid the outcry, Barreiro withdrew his proposal in hopes of reworking it to gain more support. "Is it going to risk the life of even one extra manatee per year?" Commissioner Lynda Bell asked at a meeting on Thursday. If so, she said, the proposal wasn't worth it. ($1 = 0.6014 British Pounds) (Editing by David Adams and Gunna Dickson) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPIMCO Japan Ltd managing director Hodge speaks during an interview with Reuters in TokyoFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Pimco Chief Executive Douglas Hodge said the resignation of his predecessor Mohamed El-Erian caught everybody by surprise but an internal succession plan enabled the bond fund manager to distribute his tasks swiftly. "Mohamed El-Erian's departure was a very personal decision and was a big surprise for all of us," Hodge was quoted as telling German newspaper Euro am Sonntag on Saturday. El-Erian, who had been widely seen as co-founder Bill Gross's heir apparent, stunned the investment community in January by announcing his departure. He will leave Pimco, a unit of Germany's Allianz &lt;ALVG.DE&gt;, Europe's largest insurer, in mid-March. Several U.S. institutional investors have said they are closely monitoring the developments at Pimco in the wake of El-Erian's abrupt resignation as CEO and ensuing acrimony between him and Gross. Hodge said El-Erian's departure was the third change at the top of management in the company's 43-year-history. "But we have always of course a succession plan and a strong team. That's why we could quickly distribute Mohamed's tasks internally," he said. He also said the realignment in responsibilities would enable Pimco to make some changes in order to cope with the immense growth in the past years as well as changes in market conditions and customer demands. (Reporting by Marilyn Gerlach; Editing by Susan Fenton) FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business Insider"Today we're going to show you the world's first olfactive message." Harvard professor David Edwards is sitting on the back of a couch at Le Laboratoire, the art and design studio he opened in Paris seven years ago. His casual perch and thick-rimmed glasses make him look more student than teacher, but the thicket of gray in his stubble gives him away. "So here I have an Android phone and we have an application that's called oNotes," he says to a group of twenty-somethings in cardigans. "Amy, which coffee would you like to smell?" Amy Yin, a Harvard student and Edwards' collaborator, orders espresso. Edwards taps his phone and Yin lifts a small white box to her nose. Two, maybe three seconds pass before she shoots her arm into the air. "I got it!" Yin passes the box to the man next to her. He sniffs. "Yeah, it's good." Pass. Sniff. "Oh wow, it's strong." Pass. Sniff. "Oh delicious."Vapor CommunicationsProfessor David Edwards, developer of the oPhone The device in her hand is the oPhone, which isn't a phone at all. It's a finger-sized plastic cylinder that encases four oChips, each holding four distinct odors captured in wax. "Like ink cartridges for aroma," Edwards says. Those 16 aromas, called oNotes, are the handiwork of an aroma expert who reduced a variety of scents down to their component parts, creating a periodic table of smells. The first oPhones will be able to piece those elements together into hundreds of aromas. Future versions will produce thousands, Edwards says. When the oPhone goes on sale later this year, users will be able to send those scents via a mobile app, which will also host a social network enabling users to share personalized aromas. Think of it as an Instagram for smells. "There's something unique in our perception of aroma, in what it does to us psychologically, that’s part of being alive," Edwards tells me. He hopes to harness that power, allowing individuals and businesses to utilize and deploy scents across geographic boundaries in much the way telephones did for speech and television for images. Such technology, he expects, will foster a "sophisticated aromatic vocabulary" that makes communicating with odors as natural as using verbal language.Vapor CommunicationsThe oPhone Say you want to message a co-worker to duck out to lunch. Instead of gchatting "Wanna make a run for the border?" you might send a whiff of a seasoned ground beef followed by a mild bouquet of chalky Pepto Bismol. Imagine a Cinnabon commercial consisting of 28 seconds of dead air accompanied only by the distinct smell of its doughy sugar bombs, followed by the devastating tagline "You know you want it ..." Old Spice could reveal what the hell Matterhorn body wash smells like, right after subjecting you to the odors it’s meant to wash away. You could include personalized scents with your online dating profiles, sniff out favorite new coffees when shopping online. The bacon-scent alarm clock was just the beginning. Professor Edwards is merely the latest in a long line of inventors and entrepreneurs who've sniffed around for the holy grail of olfactive technology: devices that elevate the sense of smell to the same lofty perch as sight and sound. After more than a century of rosy starts and rotten flops, Edwards thinks he's solved the puzzle. And he’s not alone. WikimediaAdvertisers would love to blast you with tempting aromas. A slew of innovators around the world are exploiting mobile technology and inexpensive hardware in the race to revolutionize the science of scent. The Japanese company ChatPerf already has its Scentee on the market. The bulb-shaped device plugs into a smartphone’s audio jack and emits a single aroma (either rose, rosemary, lavender, coffee or strawberry) on-demand or as a notification. Also in Japan, a group of university scientists developed a TV with four small fans in each corner, allowing users to experience localized scents "as if an odor source had been placed on the screen." In Europe, the Spanish company Olorama is marketing a Wi-Fi-enabled device to theaters, hotels and events agencies that want to "bring aromas to the audiovisual world," and a French doctor has started the Digital Olfaction Society, which held its first conference last year. The gaming sector, always eager to make the user experience more immersive, is rife with devices that aim to add scent to zombie murder. Most notable are the ScentScape and Game Skunk, which blast aromas synced with on-screen action. Even Microsoft flirted with putting an aroma-emitting device into the Xbox One controller. Next up: bringing scent to wearable virtual reality systems that already provide immersive visual and audio experiences in the art, therapy and gaming fields.   Naturally, marketers are especially eager to deploy the new technology. In 2012 Dunkin Donuts created a campaign in Seoul that filled city buses with a coffee aroma every time a Dunkin ad played on the loudspeaker. Sales at locations near city bus routes spiked 29%. In December of last year Pop Secret introduced the Pop Dongle, a popcorn-shaped device that plugs into an iPhone's audio jack and oozes a buttery bouquet when playing a Pop Secret-branded game. And of course there’s the aforementioned Oscar Meyer bacon app. WikimediaSome odors prompt a complex response. Research has consistently shown that scent increases sales, and yet smell remains the most overlooked and underutilized sense. Our visual culture treats odor as a taboo, meant to be scrubbed away or covered up rather than enjoyed for its emotional power. That’s probably got something to do with our inability to control it. We can turn off sights and sounds, but controlling odors isn’t as easy. Aromas seep into our noses whether we like them or not, and quickly, into our brains. They conjure visceral memories, tapping our subconscious in unpredictable ways. "Smell is very closely tied to emotion," says Stuart Firestein, head of the Department of Biological Sciences at Columbia. "And the emotions aren’t always good." That could explain our aversion to odor, which is just as likely to make us feel disgust as it is to conjure hidden memories of sharing dessert with an aunt, as they did for Marcel Proust in "Remembrance of Things Past." "The thing to recognize is that the memories are always of an emotional type," Firestein says. "You don't smell something and remember an equation." There’s a biological explanation for that, says scent scientist Avery Gilbert, author of "What the Nose Knows: The Science of Scent in Everyday Life." "The olfactory nerves in your nose hit an area in the brain called the amygdala. It's an emotional center of the limbic system, so you get a very fast read on whether you're liking something before you can even think about it," he says. That reaction is a gut-level response that can be universal (we all like floral scents), culturally conditioned (only Swedes like canned fermented herring), or tied to a personal memory. It’s that untapped power, along with odor’s complete absence from our technological lives, that makes scent technology so appealing. Every person with a functioning nose is a potential customer, and the first innovator who gets this idea right stands to both make a mint and cement a legacy. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersElection commission officials count ballots ahead a referendum at the polling station in the Crimean town of SimferopolSIMFEROPOL, Ukraine (Reuters) - Pro-Russian leaders in Crimea made final preparations on Saturday for a referendum widely expected to transfer control of the Black Sea peninsula from Ukraine to Moscow, despite the threat of sanctions and condemnation from Western governments. Sunday's vote, dismissed by Kiev as illegal, has triggered the worst East-West crisis since the Cold War, and ratcheted up tensions not only in Crimea but also eastern Ukraine, where two people were killed in clashes late on Friday. The streets of the Crimean capital of Simferopol were calm on Saturday, despite a heavy military presence incongruous with the normally sleepy town. Crimean Prime Minister Sergei Aksyonov, whose election in a closed session of the regional parliament is not recognized by Kiev, said there were enough security personnel to ensure that Sunday's vote would be safe. "I think we have enough people - more than 10,000 in the self-defense (forces), more than 5,000 in different units of the Interior Ministry and the security services of the Crimean Republic," he told reporters. In Kiev, the Ukrainian parliament voted to dissolve the Crimean regional assembly which has organized the referendum and backs union with Russia. One Ukrainian nationalist leader in the Kiev legislature said the Crimean assembly must be sanctioned to discourage separatist movements in the mainly Russian-speaking east of Ukraine. Aksyonov and Moscow do not officially recognize that Russian troops have taken control of Crimea, and say that thousands of unidentified armed men visible across the region belong to "self-defense" groups created to ensure stability. But the Russian military has done little to hide the arrival of thousands of soldiers, along with trucks, armored personnel carriers and artillery. Masked gunmen surrounding Ukrainian military installations in Crimea have identified themselves as Russian troops. Moscow leases the Crimean port of Sevastopol from Kiev to station its Black Sea Fleet. Under the deal it can station up to 25,000 troops there but not on other Ukrainian territory. The intervention follows the fall of Ukraine's pro-Moscow President Viktor Yanukovich on February 22 amid street protests in Kiev over his decision to ditch a trade deal with Europe in favor of economic ties with former Soviet overlord Russia. Most of Crimea's electorate of 1.5 million is expected to choose joining Russia in the referendum, reflecting an ethnic Russian majority. For many locals, the choice is as much economic as political. "In Russia I can earn over three times what I do in Ukraine," said Svetlana Dzubenko, a Crimean employee on Ukraine's rail network in her 20s. "My pay now is 3,000 hryvnias ($300) a month, but in Russia I would earn 45,000 roubles, or about 12,000 hryvnias... I have nothing left once I've paid for housing, heating and food. What if I want to save up? What if I get sick?" "CRIMES GO UNPUNISHED" Pro-Kiev Ukrainians complain about the highly visible military presence and growing number of pro-Russian volunteers, many carrying batons, patrolling streets and conducting searches at Simferopol's main railway station. "The Russians are intimidating us, beating us, they are abducting activists, they are exerting pressure on media, but we must persevere," said Oleh Mykolaichuk, 21, at a small rally of around 100 people in Simferopol. "We cannot fight them with arms, we must do it peacefully." Ethnic Tatars, Sunni Muslims of Turkic origin who make up 12 percent of Crimea's population, have said they will boycott the referendum, despite promises by the authorities to give them financial aid and proper land rights. Human Rights Watch (HRW) said on Saturday that self-defense units and paramilitaries in Crimea had attacked and harassed activists and journalists. "Crimean authorities are allowing illegal and unidentified armed units to run the show in the peninsula, and to commit crimes that go uninvestigated and unpunished," said Rachel Denber, deputy Europe and Central Asia director at HRW. Aksyonov said there had been no attacks on journalists, blaming some media for provoking confrontations deliberately. He also said this week that more than 80 percent of Crimeans supported the break with Ukraine and union with Russia, and that the referendum would be free and fair. Aksyonov was cautious on how long Crimea's annexation might take should the vote go as he expects, saying the process could last up to a year. But the United States and Europe could impose sanctions on dozens of Russians linked to Crimea's takeover as soon as Monday, even before the final referendum results are published. Despite the regional government's confidence in that outcome, it was taking no chances, distributing fliers around Simferopol recalling the patriotic fervor whipped up by the Soviets during World War Two. "Your Motherland is calling!" said one. "Say Yes to Russia!" Russia has justified taking control of Crimea by saying it was defending its people against "fascists" in Kiev, a reference to far-right protesters who fought police in deadly clashes in the capital that led to the fall of the government. Underlining the confidence authorities have in the outcome of the referendum, cinemas will begin dubbing Western films in Russian rather than Ukrainian. But considerable uncertainty surrounds the future of pro-Kiev Ukrainians should Crimea become a part of Russia and of the thousands of Ukrainian troops who have looked on helplessly as Russian forces take over. "All decisions on that are being made on a strategic level in Kiev," said a Ukrainian defense ministry official in Crimea, Vladislav Seleznyov. "We are trying to fulfill our duties here on the ground for now." (Writing by Mike Collett-White; Editing by Angus MacSwan) FREE AppDownload
    CrossFit is a wildly popular core strength and conditioning workout. Here are three exercises Christian Fox from CrossFit South Brooklyn showed us to improve upper body strength. FREE AppDownload
This week's Barron's has a great interview with Jeremy Grantham, the veteran fund manager at the top of GMO. Grantham, who has a penchant for sniffing out market bubbles, continues to warn stock market investors that they're in for an era of low returns. GMO's Ben Inker recently said we should expect average annual returns of -1.3% for the next seven years. This is not to say that stock prices can't still surge in the near-term. "They're 65% overpriced," Grantham told Barron's Lawrence Strauss. "If they go up another 30%, you would have a true bubble, at which point stocks would be close to twice their fair value. Similarly, in 2000, stocks were more than double their fair value. So they are quite capable of doing that." Here's Grantham on bubbles: There are two good standards for a bubble. One is boring statistics, and the other is an exciting behavioral frenzy, on which so many good books have been written. And based on the boring statistics, the data is really very clear: We are not even that close to a bubble. With the S&amp;P 500 at around 1860 recently, we are at about a 1.4- to 1.5-sigma event. Another way to say that is that we are between one and two standard deviations outside the normal distribution of stock-valuation levels. A two-sigma event would put the S&amp;P 500 at 2350. So using the standard definition, it has to go up another 30% from here to get to a bubble. But you don't know when an ordinary market move is a bubble; you only know that in hindsight. As for the second test, which is euphoria, I like to joke that in 2000 here in Boston, Celtics replays were displaced at lunchtime at the greasy spoons by talking heads on TV. You would go to one, and they would be touting the latest Internet stock. But I've noticed recently that they are still playing the sports highlights on the televisions in the pubs here. Grantham spends some time talking about investor sentiment, bonds, and food. Read the whole interview at Barrons.com. FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Petar KujundzicBEIJING (AP) — China announced Saturday it will ease exchange rate controls that have been criticized by Washington and other trading partners as part of reforms aimed at making its economy more efficient. The band in which the tightly controlled yuan is allowed to fluctuate each day against the U.S. dollar will double in size but stay relatively narrow, allowing a 2 percent change up or down. The move, widely expected, adds to a steady drumbeat of policy changes announced as part of plans by the ruling Communist Party to give market forces a bigger role in the state-dominated economy. Widening the trading band will help to "optimize the efficiency of capital allocation and market allocation of resources to accelerate economic development," said a central bank statement. Washington and other governments complain Beijing suppresses the value of the yuan, unfairly making Chinese exports cheaper abroad and hurting foreign competitors. Some U.S. lawmakers have demanded punitive tariffs on Chinese goods if Beijing failed to ease controls, but successive American administrations have resisted imposing sanctions. Allowing the yuan to rise in value would increase the buying power of Chinese households, helping to achieve the ruling party's goal of nurturing more sustainable economic growth based on domestic consumption instead of trade and investment. Reform advocates say that by suppressing the yuan's value, Beijing has been forcing even poor households to subsidize exporters. In recent weeks, the central bank has been guiding the yuan's exchange lower against the dollar in what analysts said was an effort to discourage speculators who are moving money into China to profit from the currency's rise. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe IRS has yet to rule on how to report income from Bitcoin. That has left Bitcoin enthusiasts — assuming they are interested in passing an IRS audit — in a legal no man's land. So we spoke with Tyson Cross, an attorney in San Diego specializing in IRS compliance who has extensively researched Bitcoin's tax implications since the currency blew up. His company is BitcoinTaxSolutions.com. The Q&amp;A has been lightly edited for brevity and clarity. BI: Do you even need to report Bitcoin income in the first place? TC: Most people who take a sensible approach say it is taxable and reportable, so they need to make sure they're being compliant in their filing. The question of whether bitcoins are taxable is really not much question at all if you look at the way income defined, and the way courts have applied that definition, it reaches everything. If the guy who caught Barry Bonds' [record-breaking] home run ball had income from that, I'm sure will have something coming for Bitcoin. BI: Okay, so how should you report it? TC: We've narrowed it down to two likely categories: as a foreign currency or capital gains item or a capital asset. So when choosing between those two alternatives, there's two considerations I tell people to make. The first is that capital asset has a very broad definition that almost certainly includes bitcoin. So reporting it as a capital gains is probably the safest route as far as meeting requirements of laws. On the other hand, while there's a much more narrow definition of foreign currency — and it'd be much more difficult to do that without taking a risk that the IRS won't agree — the tax you pay is higher. So there's an argument that it's safer to go that route, because if in the future the IRS decides it's a capital asset, then you're entitled to refund, and if they go the other way, then don't have anything to worry about. But if the IRS decides Bitcoin is a foreign currency, and you were reporting it as capital gains, then you'd be responsible for that difference in tax. BI: What if your assets are being held overseas? TC: It doesn't matter where your income is, it's all taxable. If there was any income, it's taxable. But how you report holdings in general depends. Myself and other attorneys say cold wallets, paper wallets, aren't subject to reporting. But an account on a foreign exchange is holding not just Bitcoins in your name, but also fiat. So if you've bought and sold in your name, anytime a foreign institution is holding something in your name it's taxable. So that's a big risk for people who deal in Bitcoin, something few have maybe considered. BI: What about at that state level?  TC: Typically most states follow whatever the federal government does, whatever the IRS does. In California, they basically follow every rule the IRS has, they pretty much just copy-pasted. A couple things might change, but you can expect states to go the same way in the future to whatever treatment the IRS applies. I'd be surprised if a state tried to take a different approach. BI: What should Bitcoin miners do? TC: There are a couple different schools of thought out there. One group says you receive taxable income when Bitcoin is first mined, once it's agreed on the Blockchain, and then again once you sell it; the other school says it's only taxable on the sale. I have a couple clients who do mining, and addressing the situation is hard — there's no clear answer to that, there's never been anything like bitcoin mining. At the current time, it depends on your exact situation, there is no one clear answer. It depends on which is more favorable to the client, and how risk averse they are. BI: If the IRS makes a ruling after April 15, what then? TC: A lot of people are concerned that it could be applied retroactively. An IRS regulation isn't a law, it's the interpretation of a law. And so basically the law is the same, but now the IRS is saying this is how we view it. So if you didn't do it correctly, you need to amend your tax return or pay it according to the new treatment. I don't think it's safe to say that just because the IRS hasn't hasn't given guidance you don't have to file. As a practical matter you probably can expect to get some leeway if you do file, because it's just so complicated, so difficult to figure out the treatment, I would be surprised if the IRS dropping hammer on people who made an effort to accurately report their income. BI: Has there been any indication of when the IRS will rule? TC: The IRS says they're looking into it. If you recall, for a long time there was issue over airline miles, and it was years before they came out with a clear stance. That is very simple compared with bitcoin, so I don't know when they would come out with a response.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERSTraders speak on the phone and watch a monitor in Moscow's International Currency Exchange (MICEX) August 13, 1998.Value investors are drooling over Russia where the stock market is down around 20% since the beginning of the year. It's the worst performing emerging market so far this year. There's no shortage of reasons why prices are down. The economy is slowing, the ruble is tanking, and its leaders are posturing in such a way as to engage in a costly military action that could result in economic sanctions. Relative to expected earnings, Russia is trading at a sharp discount to its emerging market peers. "Valuations have fallen sharply, with the forward P/E down near 4.0x forward earnings, its lowest since February 2009, and the P/B has fallen to 0.7x, just 10% above the 2008-9 trough of 0.63x," noted UBS's Geoff Dennis. But Dennis and his team aren't ready to scream "Buy." "[T]he worst case scenario that Russia becomes uninvestible (capital controls, such as in Malaysia in 1998, and even the expropriation of foreign owned assets in Russia) with Russia kicked out of MSCI GEMs cannot be entirely ruled out," he warned. For now, Dennis' is holding a "Neutral" view of Russia. "Overall, our view is that investors should react to this crisis, not by cutting positions, but by rotating out of domestic names which are vulnerable to a growth slowdown into export names, which are more defensive to the weak Ruble," said Dennis. UBS FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA drummer plays during the St. Patrick's Day Parade in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - Two major beer manufacturers on Friday dropped sponsorship of St. Patrick's Day parades in New York City and Boston to protest bans on gays marching openly. Sam Adams pulled out of Boston's parade, which takes place on Sunday, and Heineken yanked its support of the New York City parade, slated for Monday. Both parades are allowing gay groups to march but are banning signage about sexual orientation. Sam Adams made the announcement after coming under pressure from Club Cafe, a Boston bar patronized by the gay community. The bar threatened in a Facebook post on Thursday to stop pouring Sam Adams unless the company withdrew sponsorship. "We were hopeful that both sides of this issue would be able to come to an agreement that would allow everyone, regardless of orientation, to participate in the parade," Jessica Paar, a spokeswoman for Boston Beer Company, which brews Sam Adams, said in a statement. "But given the current status of the negotiations, we realize this may not be possible." Gay rights activists praised Heineken's decision. "Heineken sent the right message to LGBT youth, customers and employees who simply want to be part of the celebration," Sarah Kate Ellis, president of gay rights group GLAAD, said in a statement. A Heineken representative told CNBC on Friday: "We believe in equality for all. We are no longer a sponsor of Monday's parade." In February, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that he would not be marching in this year's parade in support of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community. Boston Mayor Martin Walsh has vowed not to attend the parade unless LGBT groups are allowed to march openly. (Editing by Barbara Goldberg and Mohammad Zargham) FREE AppDownload
