SEATTLE/ MEXICO CITY/ WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen vowed on Wednesday to "do all that I can" to boost a U.S. economy where unemployment is too high and inflation is too low. "The economy continues to operate considerably short" of the central bank's objectives of full employment and stable prices, Yellen said at a swearing-in ceremony at the central bank in Washington. "The economy is stronger and the financial system is sounder," added Yellen, who succeeded Ben Bernanke on February 1. "We have come a long way, but we have farther to go." The brief comments were a broad reiteration of what she told two congressional committees last month: that the United States appears to be clawing its way back from the 2007-2009 recession but that the Fed is in no rush to tighten policy. Speaking clear across the country, San Francisco Fed chief John Williams gave a more upbeat assessment of the economy, and suggested that rate hikes could come as soon as next year. "My own view, based on my own forecast, is that it would be sometime around the middle of next year," Williams told reporters after a speech to students at the University of Seattle. "It could be later or earlier, depending on how the economy does." Williams said he projects the economy to grow about 2.5 percent this year, slower than he had earlier projected because of the effects of an unusually cold weather, but fast enough to bring down the unemployment rate to 6.25 percent by year's end. That is down from a 6.6 percent reading in February, said Williams, who was Yellen's top researcher when she ran the San Francisco Fed before moving to Washington as Fed vice chair in 2010. Next year, he projected, 3 percent growth will likely bring unemployment down to near-normal levels of 5.5 percent by the end of 2015. Still, he said, because of the lasting damage of the financial crisis to the economy, the Fed may not raise rates all that high, at least at first. "My own view is that we still have significant, if you will, headwinds to the economy over the next several years that are still slowing growth in terms of demand, relative to trend, so that we need a lower real interest rate, fed funds rate, than you would in say, over history," he said. The views of the policymakers that head the Fed's 12 regional reserve banks are sometimes at odds with those of the Fed chair in Washington. The differences underscore the challenges Yellen will face in crafting the future of monetary policy as she heads to her first Fed policy-setting meeting as chair, later this month. Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher, one of the Fed's most vociferous opponents of its massive bond-buying program, made his differences with Yellen clear in a speech in Mexico City on Wednesday. "There are increasing signs quantitative easing has overstayed its welcome: Market distortions and acting on bad incentives are becoming more pervasive," he said of the Fed's asset purchases, which are sometimes called QE. Yellen has supported the bond-buying from its beginning, though she has also lent her weight to the decision late last year to begin paring the program back, with a view to ending it this year. The program has resulted in a Fed balance sheet of more than $4 trillion and ballooning reserves at banks, which Fisher and a few others at the Fed worry could fuel future inflation. "The real tools that we are focusing on are how we manage the exit from the current hyper-accommodative monetary policy and how do we make sure ... that we do it in a way that doesn't allow the current very large and presently non-inflationary monetary base ... from becoming inflationary," Fisher said following his speech. The world's biggest economy expanded at a decent 2.4 percent rate in the fourth quarter and has slowed this year due in part to severe weather. The U.S. unemployment rate is down from a recessionary high of 10 percent in 2009, but it remains high and jobs growth is erratic. Inflation, meanwhile, is languishing near 1 percent, about half the Fed's 2 percent target. "Too many Americans still can't find a job or are forced to work part time," Yellen said on Wednesday, underscoring her long-standing focus on the troubled labor market. "I promise to never forget the individual lives, experiences and challenges that lie behind the statistics we use to gauge the health of the economy," she said. "When we make progress toward our goals, each job that is created lifts this burden for someone who is better equipped to be a good parent, to build a stronger community, and to contribute to a more prosperous nation." (Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Kevork Djansezian/Getty ImagesThe cutoff in extended unemployment benefits by Congress wasn't just vile, it explains much of the economic weakness so far this year. Before getting to the main subject of this post, let me say that I consider it an act of moral depravity to have cut off extended unemployment benefits when both unemployment and underemployment remain so high. Even if I were to accept the critique that such benefits create a "hammock" making certain people comfortable in their unemployment, the fact is that millions of the unemployed are *not* comfortable in their unemployment. There simply aren't enough jobs to absorb the millions of people who have looked for a job and cannot find one. That ought to be obvious from the fact that there are still nearly 3 unemployed people actively looking for work for every one job opening: cutting off benefits to those people is an act of unconscionable cruelty, leading as it must to privation and maybe even homelessness for some. But cutting off extended unemployment benefits at the beginning of this year wasn't just vile, it is actually harming the economy. It appears to be the primary additional factor beyond the unusually severe winter weather in the raft of relatively poor data we have seen so far this year. To begin with, let's quantify the scope of the lost benefits: Federal unemployment benefits that continue for 26 weeks after a person uses up the 26 weeks of state unemployment benefits ended Saturday, so now some 1.3 million people won’t be getting their $1,166 (on average) monthly check. By June, another 1.9 million will be cut off. It is believed that another 600,000 or so lost benefits in February, which brings us to 2,000,000 people having lost unemployment benefits roughly equalling $1200 a month so far this year. Simple multiplication means a loss of $2.4 billion in spending ability per month, or $28.4 billion for the whole of 2014. It is ultimately estimated that about 4,000,000 people may be affected. That's a loss of $56.8 billion annually. But it gets worse. Let's stick with just the 2,000,000 people affected so far. When a similar cutoff was being debated in 2011, the Department of Labor noted tha This is because, as Business Week noted in an article in December, "the unemployed reliably spend that money, creating a multiplier effect in the economy." As a result, the Labor Department estimated that there would be a net negative effect of $62 billion in 2012 from a cutoff then. Applying the multiplier to the present situation gives $1200/mo * 2 million people * 12 months * 2 multiplier =$50-$60 billion loss in 2014. With GDP running at $16 trillion in 2013, that translates into a -0.3% to -0.4% hit to GDP this year. The Business Week article cited above indicates that a smaller, but similar multiplier of 1.55 was calculated by economist Mark Zandi of Moody's Analytics. More recently the Congressional Budget Office estimated that: the proposal would increase outlays relative to those under current law by nearly $26 billion—by about $19 billion in fiscal year 2014 and by $6.5 billion in fiscal year 2015. The net increase in deficits over the 2014–2023 period would amount to about $25 billion because the proposal would also boost revenues by $0.5 billion over that period. CBO estimates that extending emergency unemployment benefits would raise gross domestic product (GDP) and employment in 2014 relative to what would occur under current law. Recipients of the additional benefits would increase their spending on consumer goods and services. That increase in aggregate demand would encourage businesses to boost production and hire more workers than they otherwise would, particularly given the expected slack in the capital and labor markets. However, those positive effects on output and employment in 2014 would be partially offset by ... [the belief that] in response to the extension of benefits, some unemployed workers who would be eligible for those benefits would reduce the intensity of their job search and remain unemployed longer—which would tend to decrease output and employment. CBO estimates that those negative effects would be modest, though, in 2014 because most of the jobs that would not be taken by some of the people receiving the additional benefits would instead be taken by some of the many people searching for work who would not be eligible for those benefits. Combining the ... effects ..., CBO estimates that extending the current EUC program and other related expiring provisions until the end of 2014 would increase inflation-adjusted GDP by 0.2 percent and increase full-time-equivalent employment by 0.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2014. Those figures represent CBO’s central estimates .... The full ranges that CBO uses for those parameters suggest that, in the fourth quarter of calendar year 2014, GDP could be increased very slightly or by as much as 0.3 percent, and employment could be increased very slightly or by as much as 0.3 million. It appears that the CBO did not address the spending multiplier issue, since its $26 billion estimate is close to the raw $28 billion estimate we obtained by simply multiplying the number of people affected by the average amount in monthly benefits received. Even at a multiplier lower than 2, for example the 1.5 multiplier proposed by Mark Zandi, gives us a likely negative affect of GDP of about -0.3%. Since almost 1/3 of all of the people who would be affected in all of 2014 were cut off in January, it is in the January and February consumer spending numbers that we would expect to see the biggest hit. And so far, that is indeed what we have seen. For example, here is the 4 week moving average of same store sales going back to the end of the recession (h/t Bearnobull): Note that the YoY% increase in spending since the turn of the year is the lowest during the entire period. For the last two weeks, including the week reported just yesterday, the ICSC same store sales index recorded YoY gains of only +1.4% and +1.5%, respectively, so the effect is continuing right up until the present. Now here is a graph comparing real personal consumption expenditures (blue) and real retail sales (red). Since PCE's are the broader measure, and encompass "wants and needs" vs. the narrower measure of retail sales, which are more focused on "wants," this comparison tells us how confident or pinched consumers feel: As I have previously shown, in every business cycle since World War 2, YoY retail sales have declined further than YoY PCE's prior to the onset of a recession. January 2014 marks the first month since the beginning of the 2009 economic expansion that YoY retail sales are significantly below YoY PCE's. Real personal income minus transfer payments (such as food stamps and unemployment insurance) has also turned flat for the last several months: There has been much commentary that the relatively poor winter weather only explained part of the slump in much of the economic data these last several months. The sudden elimination of $1200 a month spending power to 2 million people since January first is an excellent candidate for explaining that slump. So the cutoff in extended unemployment benefits isn't just vile, it is counterproductive as well. FREE AppDownload
-Warren Buffett  The quote above comes from an article Mr. Buffett wrote with Carol Loomis for Fortune Magazine back in November of 1999. He was making the case that stocks would inevitably disappoint investors over the coming decade because prices were too high and profit margins could not increase further (beyond 6%) in order to justify those high prices. He was absolutely right about disappointed investors but his prediction about profit margins was woefully wrong. Though they have reverted lower a couple of times since then, today profit margins are nearly double that 6% ceiling Buffett predicted: Jesse FelderIt's important to understand that current stock market valuations, as measured by price-to-earnings, are very high (23 versus a historical average of 15) even though they are being depressed by soaring profit margins. If profit margins were to revert back even to 8%, the top end of their historical range, the resulting decline in profits would mean valuations would become be even more elevated than they are today. So the bull case for stocks over the next decade relies on profit margins remaining at current record levels simply to sustain current high valuations. Jesse FelderThe main problem with this is that it's clear to see from the first chart that, in the words of Mr. Buffett, "it's wildly optimistic" to expect high profit margins to last, "for any sustained period." Just as he suggests, competition and potential political problems (aka, class warfare) will see that they mean revert.  John Hussman explains: I’ve noted frequently that after-tax corporate profits as a share of national income are about 70% above historical norms; that these profit shares are heavily mean-reverting and strongly (inversely) associated with subsequent profit growth over the following 3-4 year period; and that the current surplus of corporate profits is the mirror-image of corresponding deficits in household and government savings. Recent profits data, as well as the entire historical record, are tightly explained by these factors. After the internet bubble, the Federal Reserve came up with a great definition of a bubble. They posited that a bubble is formed when investors, "extrapolate recent price action [or economic action] far into the future." I believe this is exactly what they are doing today: extrapolating record high profit margins far into the future in order to justify current valuations. And just as Mr. Buffett posited back in 1999, they are likely to be greatly disappointed. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. GARY SHILLING: Here Are My 9 Investment Picks For This Risk On World (A Gary Shilling's Insight) Gary Shilling thinks that "despite the many warning signs related to economic growth and financial markets here and abroad," we're still in a risk-on world. Shilling has nine investments he thinks are attractive  1. Treasury bonds; 2. Selected income-producing securities; 3. Small luxuries; 4. Consumer staples and foods; 5. The dollar against the Canadian and Australian dollars; 6. Selected health care providers and medical office buildings; 7. Low P/E stocks; 8. Productivity enhancers; 9. North American energy producers ex renewables. Meanwhile, he thinks select commodities and emerging market stocks and bonds are unattractive. Investors Pour Money Into US-Based Bond Funds For Third Week (Reuters)  Money poured into U.S.-based bond funds for the third straight week, Reuters reports. Investors in mutual funds put $2.3 billion into bond funds in the week ended February 26. "We're now seeing stability (in bond yields), and that's a comfort to investors," Todd Rosenbluth, director of mutual fund research at S&amp;P Capital IQ told Reuters. Stock funds saw $5 billion in inflows in the same week. An Important Difference Between The All-Time-High Stock Market Today And The Dotcom Bubble Of The 90's (Morgan Stanley) The S&amp;P 500 hit an all-time high on Tuesday. Some might think this is similar to what we saw before the tech bubble in the 90s. The “price to opportunity” and “price to eyeballs” metrics that appear to be justifying recent tech deals and software and internet valuations are fueling this sentiment," writes Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker.  But Parker does think there is an important distinction between what we're seeing now and what occurred in the 90s. "The percentage of stocks with price-to-sales exceeding 5x that are in the top quintile of the market by market capitalization. Most of the highly priced stocks are not the mega caps that dominated the expensive spectrum during the internet bubble." Morgan Stanley Advisors Warn About Taking Loans Against 401(k)s (The Wall Street Journal) 401(k) participants have been taking out larger loans against their plans since the financial crisis, reports Murray Coleman at the Wall Street Journal citing a recent study by AON Hewitt. One in four participants in 401(k) plans and related accounts has borrowed against their account, according to the study. But people need to be cautious about taking out such loans, advisors warn. This is because if they default on these loans the amount that is still owed will most likely be considered taxable income. And if they're below a certain age they can also face a 10% early-withdrawal penalty. "It's important to let people know that they risk kissing any chance for a tax refund at the end of the year goodbye if they take out a 401(k) loan and can't pay it off," Marilyn Plum at Ballou Plum Wealth Advisors tells Coleman. IRA Investors Waiting Until The Last Minute Are Paying A 'Procrastination Penalty' (Vanguard) Individual retirement accounts (IRA) are very popular and play a significant role in retirement savings. But many IRA investors wait until the last minute to make a tax contribution, even though their window extends from January 1 through the April tax filing deadline the following year, according to Stephen Weber and Maria Bruno at Vanguard. But they warn that those who wait till the last minute are missing out.  "Missing out on a year’s worth of tax-advantaged compounding is like paying a “procrastination penalty.” As shown in the hypothetical example at right, over 30 years, a “last-minute” investor could wind up with $15,500 less than an “early bird” investor, even assuming the same contributions and investment returns." Vanguard FREE AppDownload
When markets became jittery over the situation in Ukraine earlier this week, European natural gas prices surged. The thought was that a conflict between Russia and Ukraine would disrupt gas distribution in Europe, since Russia is such a major exporter. But as Guggenheim's Scott Minerd writes, "The threat of natural gas pipeline disruption may be less severe than initially feared." He explains: Europe has diversified its sources of natural gas over the past decade, almost halving its reliance on Russian gas. Much of the remaining dependence on Russian gas is concentrated in Eastern Europe’s less globally important economies. Furthermore, gas inventories were built up over an unusually warm winter, so most major European countries have a buffer of several months supply in the event of a shock. This is not to say gas disruption would be totally immaterial. But it certainly would have less of an impact today than it did a decade ago. Check out the chart: Guggenheim Partners FREE AppDownload
Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesIn a recently published paper, we showed that the world is going through an unprecedented shift of economic growth distribution and trade patterns. We also extrapolate what the world trade situation will look like by 2020 if this continues. The situation is hugely influenced and complicated further by the development of China and its changing economy, which is likely to grow at a slower rate in this decade than in the last. China will find it more difficult to export as much and will import more. Nonetheless the Chinese share of global GDP and trade will rise further. Other countries from the so called emerging world will have a smaller role in this changing landscape but a non-trivial one. All of this surely means the need for a significant shift in world economic governance is becoming pressing. For Europe, and within it, the EU and especially for those inside EMU, the need to change both their policy framework is particularly clear, not least as they hold many of the important keys for better global governance. In the paper, we show that by 2020, China will probably be Germany’s number one export market. China will be close behind Germany as France’s next most important export market (a finding that might surprise some people even more than the German export shift). Italy, the euro area’s third largest economy, will not see its export share to China rising quite as much, but it will be exporting more to so-called emerging/developing markets than its developed market counterparts. This means that the euro area’s 3 largest economies are going to be thinking more and more about their trade relationships with countries outside the euro area. Figure 1. Exports to China, % of total exports O’Neill and Terzi  Our findings suggest that this same pattern will not be repeated for all euro area members, and for some, their own exports to these larger European economies will remain very significant. This is an important finding also as otherwise, one could simply question whether the euro area will still satisfy the most basic of optimal currency area (OCA) criteria. In theory, an optimal currency area has strong economic basis when the OCA member countries are conducting most of their trade with each other. This was the main economic rationale behind EMU’s introduction and of course, one of the most bullish arguments of its supporters were that under a single currency, trade between member countries would flourish even more (see ‘One Market, One Money’, European Commission). What has happened 14 years on is that, trade has flourished even more outside the euro area. Figure 2: Exports to euro area and emerging/developing markets in 2020 (forecast), % of total O’Neill and Terzi In addition to these unexpected patterns of trade, of course, most European economies continue to see their share of global GDP decline as many other parts of the world grow faster. Despite these realities, global governance is only shifting in the appropriate direction at a snail’s pace. At the discussion surrounding the launch of our paper, the IMF pointed out that in 2010, it had been agreed that the respective shares and voting rights for the IMF should change based on criteria determined by 2005 relative economic and financial positions. These criteria included, among others, the size of GDP and performance in trade. As a result, the share of China would be rising to 3rd if implemented. However, these agreements are yet to be implemented and in fact, the US Congress in January passed on an opportunity to vote in favour of the IMF proposed changes. In any case, these were based on 2005 criteria which is now 8 years away. Today, China is two times the size of Japan following the release of final year GDP data, yet the proposal yet to be ratified suggests a share for China still behind Japan. China is also now bigger than the GDP of France, Germany and Italy combined, and despite some disappointments with their own economic growth in the past couple of years, the BRIC countries combined GDP is bigger than that of the euro area. For Europe that still will hold a disproportionate share of IMF power even if the 2010 agreements ever get implemented (in which they lose 2 individual IMF seats), what would be the right thing to do? The current problems surrounding Ukraine in many ways epitomize the slow and byzantine way Europe behaves about many issues. In public, European countries talk frequently about the rights and wrongs of how the Ukraine should be, but in the build up to this problem, they didn’t appear capable or willing to decide swiftly on tangible benefits for Ukraine or encourage it to accelerate any possible future as an EU member. This is symptomatic of the broader issues facing the EU and euro area in particular in their policy development. As it relates to the euro area’s external credibility and achieving a better balance of global governance, as we argue in the paper, they can kill two (big) birds with one stone. They should stop representing themselves individually in the G7 (and G8) and encourage more shared representation in terms of IMF seats and voting rights. By doing the latter, they would also put more direct pressure on the US for their own intransigence in adopting change. By doing the former, they would not only allow for a more ideal G7 to become apparent- one in which China was sitting at the table- but it would send a huge message that the euro members were together as “ one” on monetary and fiscal , and broader economic matters for the future. As necessary as these steps are, they are far from sufficient as they should be accompanied by other changes. There are perhaps three additional specific steps we would recommend for Europe to become more adaptable and less rigid in its approach to this fast changing world. First, if the euro area is becoming more heterogeneous in terms of trade partners, the likelihood of an asymmetric macroeconomic shock and the risk that different European countries might find themselves at different points of the business cycle will be increasing. This, in turn, will make the conduct of a single monetary policy more challenging. As such, mechanisms which allow to shore up against this risk will be needed. This will need to include some sort of fiscal transfer or macroeconomic stabilization mechanism (see Kennen, 1969), together with a more solid integration and supervision of the financial sector (see Sapir et al., 2013). If this contention is right, it could be claimed that the euro area has been moving steps in the right direction as part of its crisis management strategy, given this included a tighter coordination of fiscal policies from the centre, the establishment of a common lending facility (European Stability Mechanism), and a move toward the creation of a banking union. We would however warn against the strict rule-based approach that is prevailing among European policymakers. While obviously the euro area needs to have appropriate economic discipline, events of recent years have demonstrated that when stresses occur and pressures build, these criteria don’t stop countries from breaching them. Moreover, the more-or-less strict consensual basis on which the EU operates, characterized by eternal negotiations, countless summits, and a myriad of veto players does not cater for the fast-paced uncertain world in which we have moved. The original sin of EMU itself was its conception as a rigid structure, allowing for no way to deal swiftly and effectively with unforeseeable external (the Great Recession) or internal (asset bubbles and competitiveness losses) shocks. We would thus favour a stronger centralization of competencies, associated with discretionary powers to cope with a fast-paced changing world, and the necessary democratic legitimization that this new governance will need. Finally, connected to this last point, we do realize that not all EU countries may be ready to give up crucial parts of their sovereignty, now or in the foreseeable future, and so should do EU policy-makers. A stronger, more flexible, EU might thus need to accept the idea of being permanently characterized by a varying geometry. FREE AppDownload
Coffee prices are exploding again. Futures are spiking, sending prices up 8% for the day to $2.00 a pound. "Coffee prices are crashing up," tweeted trader Kevin Ferry, chief market strategist at Cronus Futures Management. There isn't an obvious reason for what's been driving prices in the last hour.  A severe drought and record temperatures in Brazil had markets concerned about major crop damage. Brazil is the world's largest coffee exporter and produces 40% of the world's coffee. There has been some concern that will drive up costs for companies like of Starbucks.  Prices were at a two-year high of $2.0065, and are up 81% since the start of 2014, reports Wall Street Journal's Leslie Josephs. Here's a look at the run-up in coffee prices today: FinViz FREE AppDownload
Robert Johnson for Business InsiderReally expensive and worryingly empty. That's what we thought about Atlantic City's Revel Casino Hotel when we visited on a recent Saturday afternoon. It's not a good combination. Revel, which opened in 2012, has already entered and exited bankruptcy with a tremendous writedown and is now reportedly up for sale at a bargain price. It is "a magnificent failure that has obliterated at least $2 billion in investments," reports The Philadelphia Inquirer. We photographed the beautiful interior of the casino while reflecting on how it and the rest of Atlantic City fell on hard times.
REUTERS/Scott OlsonKaren Herbst relays trade information to the S&P 500 futures pit at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange in hectic activity March 15, 2000.After closing at a record high on Tuesday, the U.S. stock markets didn't do much. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Hodinkee, InstagamTwo generations of A. Lange & Sohne ChronographsThere comes a time in every gentleman's life when he starts to value time — he values it so much, in fact, that he wants to wear it as a gorgeous piece on his wrist. At this point, it is time to start a watch collection. This should be done carefully. A gentleman should conduct his research before selecting his first watch. It is a deduction that requires an understanding of not only what is out there, but also of one's own personal style. And of course, one's own financial limitations. "Unless you're spending $5,000 to $10,000 you're not going to have an investment-grade watch," says Benjamin Clymer, editor of men's watch site, Hodinkee. "Just make sure you buy something that you love ... Really do your homework. ... There's nothing worse than realizing you don't have the watch that you think you have." Now here's what you can have. You must decide if you would like your watch to be automatic or manual (meaning you'll have to wind it). You must decide if you would like to purchase a vintage watch (from, say, eBay or a flea market) or a new watch. After that, there are still almost too many options, so here are some things to keep in mind. "Like so many other things in men’s dress, it is best to keep your watch pretty simple and restrained," says Justin Jeffers of men's style blog, The Fine Young Gentleman. "Not restrained in the sense that you shouldn’t wear a $25,000 watch ... But restrained in the sense that a man shouldn’t wear some oversized, over iced or over styled watch (or anything else) on his wrist. ... A watch should not be so big that your shirt cuff cannot fit over it. There are few things more gaudy than a huge watch face staring you in the face from someone else’s wrist. It takes attention away from the things that matter (like the wearer's face) and puts it where it doesn’t matter (the wearer's wrist)." Now let's say you're starting out at a fairly low price point (under $500). What should you get? Consider going vintage; it's more work but it's also more rewarding. Clymer recommends purchasing an old Omega brand.  You'll want to make sure the vintage piece you buy has as much of its old parts intact as possible, especially with things you can see, like the dial or the face. You want your watch to look old — like it's been passed down from generation to generation. "The dream watch for a vintage watch collector is a watch that has never been serviced or messed with at all," says Clymer. If you want a new watch, things are a little different. "To get a really good mechanical watch [under $500] you're going to want to look at Seiko," said Clymer. Citizen Citizen, Eco-Drive $250You could also check out Pulsar, Timex, Citizen, Daniel Wellington, Bulova, Shinola, ESQ, Luminox, and Tissot. There's a debate raging in the men's watch world about whether or not you should buy from a company that creates items other than watches (like, say, a Burberry) — but it's bloody, and Business Insider is staying out of it. What's more important is that you take care of your watch. "Keep your watch away from super magnets (large speakers, buckyballs, etc).  Although unlikely, it could move pieces inside," says Kirk Miller, nation editor at men's lifestyle newsletter, InsideHook. "Extreme temperature changes, shouldn't be a problem, but again be careful. Expansion and contraction do funny things to watch insides. Leave your watch in the locker when going into the sauna." And take care of how you use your watch, as well. "Do not wear a sports or digital watch with a suit. It’s like putting VW wheels on an Audi," says Jeffers. All this said, you're going to have to service your watch. Especially if you buy something high end or vintage. If your watch is new, you can take it to the manufacturer. If it's vintage, make sure to go to someone who understands what you want, and won't Frankenstein your watch with new parts you don't want. If you do all that, your watch could last forever. FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesNot the author.I sometimes get amused looks from North Americans when I tell them that I moved to Singapore. They tend to reflexively respond that I must be crazy to move to a country where "consuming even chewing gum is a crime." The interaction that happens between us leaves me thinking that they want to rationalize not having to do the hard work of understanding what other places are like. I love North America. A section of Americans are very free-thinking, and I enjoy their company. Such people—in such large numbers—are hard to find elsewhere in the world. But as political entities, both the US and Canada are on a rather rapid decline. After a balanced look through respective facts at what else the world has to offer, one might still stay in North America. But warping our thinking and facts to adjust our actions to what feels easy in the short-term could have disproportionate, long-term negative consequences. So let's have a closer look at Singapore, starting with chewing gum. On a few occasions, I decided to have chewing gum right in front of a difficult-to-find policeman. Each time, I made sure they saw what I was consuming. They ignored me completely. The reality is that while they ban chewing gum from being sold in stores, they don't have any issue with people consuming it or importing it for personal purposes. What they do have a problem with is if you spit it on the sidewalk. They penalize you aggressively if you do—and I'm happy they do. Of course, such perpetrators are hard to trace, and regulation is not a panacea. The authorities try to keep "wrong" kinds of people out of the country. And people have a very strong sense of civilized conduct. Despite having among the highest population densities in the world, you almost never get pushed in public places. People respect your distance, and the young never occupy reserved spaces on public transport, if there is a slightest chance that someone might need them. Locals are almost always well-dressed and students well-behaved. To those amused Americans who feel proud about their freedom to consume gum, I often ask if they would rather have freedom to buy and consume alcohol wherever and whenever they want, as is the case in Singapore, or worry about the small issue of unavailability of gum in stores. But it's extremely hard to make people aware of the slavery and indoctrination they have grown up in, for the chains they wear are not visible to them. I often lose their attention. What about guns and drugs? Yes, both of these are illegal in Singapore. But I do not use drugs; and despite wishing that others had the freedom to live their lives the way they wanted, I'm not affected by this rule. Guns are very strictly controlled, but then the reality is that a 16-year-old girl can pretty much go wherever she wants to late in the night just by herself and not have to worry much about risks, certainly not the pervasive ones she would have to worry about in US cites. Criminals are quickly canned and put in prison—and packed off back home if they're an immigrant. In early December 2013, there were riots in Little India, an area of Singapore frequented by those of Indian descent: Indians, Pakistanis, and Bangladeshis. While the full story is still awaited, it seems that the rioters had seen too much of a race issue in what was likely an accidental death of an allegedly drunk Indian on the road. A crowd of Indians—very irrationally—obstructed the emergency vehicles from reaching the injured person, who succumbed to his injuries on the road. In India, it's very common for crowds to beat up drivers in such situations while paying no attention to the dying victims. Again, the full story is still not known, but one can be assured that the rioters who were arrested will be packed off home, as happened with some Chinese bus drivers last year, who had assumed that it was OK to go on strike in a country where any failure of public transport creates an emergency. Moreover, Singapore thrives on smooth functioning of its society and commerce. If street protests and taking away other people's rights by destroying their property (as is the issue in the story above) is your way to claim your rights, Singapore is not for you. So what about the race issues? Sometimes when I call people about renting their apartment, I am asked without hesitation if I am an Indian. It saves us drama and hassles, if a landlord really doesn't want to give me his apartment. After a bit of inquiry, I realized that for a lot of them the worry was that Indian cooking leaves a smell that does not disappear easily. I see nothing wrong with not wanting to deal with that. But there is indeed a growing frustration among the locals that they lose out in careers because of the ease with which foreigners can come and because of demand-side inflation that rich people bring to the property market. Today, one of out of every three in the work force holds a foreign passport. There is increasing public pressure for a "Singapore for Singaporeans." But if you're Caucasian, you will likely in totality be a beneficiary of any race issues. Would Singapore ever become socialist? There's likely an increase in a sense of entitlement among the young, who lack the comprehension that without the free market, Singapore, instead of being one of the richest places in the world, would still be a mosquito-infected swamp of poverty that it was a mere 40 years back. These people indeed ask for more government, but I seriously doubt if Singapore will fundamentally change in the near-term—as a city-state, the free market is its core competency. Singaporeans are very hardworking. Commitments are mostly honored. But one must realize that despite a very good educational system as is conventionally defined, Singaporeans in their upbringing are indoctrinated and molded to become nice, shining cogs in a big, efficient machine. They perhaps lack critical thinking, like many others who go through the public school systems in other parts of the world. Perceived personal barriers are mostly a result of indoctrination during their upbringing; otherwise it is a free-wheeling society, making its institutions and systems extremely conducive to entrepreneurial and creative endeavors for those who are positioned to exploit them. I must quickly add a very important nuance to the above portrayal. My two years, with frequent travels abroad, have given me a bit of linear view of Singapore's culture. Excessive emphasis on material possessions and desperation for a regular, secure job that comes from the not-too-long-ago poverty of Singapore is likely rapidly on its way out. Several people who have lived in Singapore longer than I insist that the cultural undercurrent is such that it is at a cusp of a revolution in creativity, with top international companies increasingly moving their R&amp;D work and with world's best universities setting up their operations there. Top leadership positions are increasingly taken up by locals. From a long-term view, being able to participate in an increasingly creative society might be the biggest advantage of moving to Singapore. Getting a job leads to very quick approval for residency, perhaps within a couple of days. If you decide to open your own business—which takes less than a day—and employ yourself in it, it might cost you a couple of thousands of dollars to do all the paperwork to get an employment permit; less than that will get all your corporate and regulatory filing done each year. Filing of personal income tax will likely take you a minute or two—only earnings are taxed. Your capital gains, dividends, and bank interest are yours to keep unmolested. Singapore doesn't tax any overseas earnings either. As a corollary, you don't have to expose your wealth to the government. Virtually everything dealing with the government is done on the Internet in an extremely efficient and friendly way. I have never encountered a busybody from the government, and sightings of the police are rare to none. Most people I've known take residency and avoid becoming citizens, despite that the Singaporean passport offers some of the best advantages anywhere in terms of traveling: visa-free travels to most countries in the West, and even to many places where Western passports need visas, like China. Given that Singapore doesn't get involved in imperialistic adventures, its passport offers higher safety as well—neither Christians nor Muslims seem to have any specific reason to dislike them. Alas, a Singaporean passport comes with a mandatory national service requirement—which is a very major drawback; a need to participate in the provident fund; and some other minor liabilities as well as benefits. Singapore also does not allow dual citizenship. Except for those from the US and Eritrea—the only two countries that treat you as a tax slave for life irrespective of where you live—Singaporean residency might be all that you want as your first step to expatriation. My guess based on the above is that Americans and Eritreans hoping to leave their native shores—particularly for citizenship reasons—might find taking citizenship in another country more beneficial and easier to get than from Singapore. Moreover, Singaporeans are becoming increasingly resistant to new emigrants; as a result, by the time your turn to get a passport comes—several years after you move—the laws might have changed. Is Singapore perfect? No. Is it for everyone? No. But shrugging it off just because it does not allow the sale of chewing gum is irrational. Jayant Bhandari, a resident of Singapore, is constantly traveling the world to understand it and to look for investment opportunities, particularly in the natural resource sector. He advises institutional investors about his finds. He also runs a yearly seminar in Vancouver titled "Capitalism &amp; Morality." Find him at www.jayantbhandari.com. This article originally appeared at International Man.  Copyright 2014. Follow International Man on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman Vladimir Putin has a network of lobbyists and lawyers working for him here in America. These executives can be identified through disclosure forms required by the Foreign Agents Registration Act, which mandates people who work "as agents of foreign principals in a political or quasi-political capacity" document these relationships with the Department of Justice. Business Insider went through these records and identified the American executives who are working with Putin's regime. Adam Waldman Adam Waldman is the founder, chairman, and president of the Endeavor Group, a D.C. consultancy based about two blocks from the White House. In May 2009, Waldman filed paperwork with the DOJ indicating he would be working with Russian billionaire Oleg Deripaska to provide "legal advice on issues involving his U.S. visa as well as commercial transactions." Deripaska had his U.S. visa revoked in 2006 due to longstanding concerns about his links to organized crime and because the State Department was concerned he lied to American investigators who were looking into his business. However, in August and October 2009, shortly after he began working with Waldman, Deripaska was allowed to make two visits to the U.S. During those trips, Deripaska met with FBI agents about an unspecified criminal probe and with top executives at American companies. The Wall Street Journal reported Deripaska's 2009 trip included meetings with Morgan Stanley, General Motors, and Goldman Sachs Chairman and CEO Lloyd Blankfein. In his initial FARA paperwork, Waldman indicated Endeavor would receive "a monthly retainer of $40,000" for his work with Deripaska. Waldman also said Deripaska was not being "supervised" or "directed" by any foreign government. However, in October 2010, Waldman made another filing indicating he would be working with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, "gathering information and providing advice and analysis as it relates to the U.S. policy towards the visa status of Oleg Deripaska." As part of its work with Lavrov, Waldman said Endeavor would "engage in correspondence and meetings with U.S. policymakers" about Deripaska's visa. Waldman indicated he had no "formal written contract" with Lavrov and did not specify how much he was being paid. However, Waldman included a letter Lavrov wrote to him Sept. 15, 2010 describing the assignment. "Mr. Deripaska is one of our country's prominent business leaders who controls or directly manages a significant number of enterprises, which employ hundreds of thousands of people in Russia. … Yet over the past several years, there has been certain ambiguity upon his visa status in the United States. A persistent state of limbo regarding Mr. Deripaska's ability to travel freely between our two countries has become an impediment to the promotion of mutually advantageous contacts between the business communities of the two countries," Lavrov wrote to Waldman. "The Russian side has raised this issue with various U.S. officials on numerous occasions, including in the course of bilateral discussion with both the White House and the State Department at different levels. I believe the involvement of your firm will contribute to the ongoing efforts aimed at achieving a successful resolution of this problem." Business Insider contacted the State Department to inquire about Deripaska's visa status Tuesday. Citing the confidentiality of visa records, a State Department spokesman declined to comment. Waldman has not responded to multiple requests for comment from Business Insider about his work with Deripaska and Lavrov. Based on the information in his 2009 FARA filing, Waldman has received at least $2.36 million working to help Deripaska with his visa. Ketchum.comKetchum Inc.  The New York City-based public relations agency Ketchum seems central to the Russian Federation's American PR and lobbying push. Except for Endeavor Group, all of the other American companies working on behalf of the Russian government's interests are contracted through Ketchum, which is led by CEO Rob Flaherty and Chairman Ray Kotcher (pictured at right). Documents filed with the DOJ in 2007 indicate Ketchum provides the Russian government with "public relations counsel, lobbying, and media relations support." Ketchum also provides "media relations support" to Gazprom Export, a subsidiary of Russia's state-owned gas company, Gazprom. Gazprom Export focuses on natural gas exports to Europe and the former USSR, which are crucial to the Russian economy. According to ProPublica, Ketchum received about $23 million in fees and expenses on its Russian account from mid-2006 through mid-2012. During that same period, Ketchum received $17 million for its work with Gazprom Export. Ketchum has not responded to a request for comment from Business Insider. NBC News, which also took a look at Ketchum and other businessmen working for the Russian government Wednesday, reported the agency received $1.5 million for its work on behalf of Russia and $3 million for working with Gazprom Export in the most recent six-month reporting period.  Alston.comRobert C. Jones  Robert Jones heads the Legislative and Public Policy group at the D.C. office of the law firm Alston &amp; Bird LLP. According to FARA filings, Alston &amp; Bird began providing "advisory services" to the Russian Federation through Ketchum in January 2009. In multiple contracts sent to Kotcher stipulating the terms of the deals between Alston &amp; Bird and Ketchum, Jones identified himself as the "attorney ultimately responsible to Ketchum, Inc." and outlined the types of services the firm would provide the Russian government. "Alston &amp; Bird LLP will gather information and provide advice and analysis on various areas of international politics, and U.S. foreign and foreign economic policy, which affect the bilateral US-Russian relationship. Alston &amp; Bird LLP will also monitor and report on legislative developments in the Congress in similar issue areas," Jones wrote. "Assistance will be provided to Ketchum, Inc. for dissemination to the foreign principal at their discretion pursuant to our agreement with Ketchum, Inc." Prior to joining Alston &amp; Bird, Jones spent 18 years at the law firm Patton Boggs LLP. According to his biography on the Alston &amp; Bird site, "before entering private practice, Mr. Jones served as counsel to the Senate Appropriations Committee and as appropriations counsel to Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD)." Jones' correspondence with Kotcher also revealed how much the firm was being paid for its work for the Russians. In his first letter, Jones said the firm would charge $35,000 per month in "advisory fees for this engagement from Jan. 1, 2009 until May 31, 2009. In December 2012, Jones wrote to Kotcher again outlining a new deal for the firm to advise Russia through Ketchum for $20,000 a month from February 2013 through Oct. 31, 2013. Jones sent Kotcher another contract in December of last year that said the firm would be paid $15,000 a month to provide services to Russia through Ketchum from Nov. 1, 2013 through Oct. 31 of this year. Based on these contracts Alston &amp; Bird is set to make a total of $535,000 working for Russia. "We are privileged and delighted that Alston &amp; Bird will work with Ketchum, Inc. to advise the Russian Federation for the purposes described herein and we thank you very much for choosing us. We look forward with enthusiasm and appreciation to working with you," wrote Jones in his most recent letter to Kotcher. Business Insider reached out to Jones for comment on his work for the Russian Federation and received an email from Alston &amp; Bird Policy Advisor Eric Shimp. "On all matters regarding the Russian Federation, we would refer you directly to Ketchum, Inc," Shimp wrote. Ketchum has not responded to a request for comment about Alston &amp; Bird's work advising the Russian Federation.  Venable.comWilliam Nordwind  Venable LLP partner William Nordwind is another former congressional aide who is now working for Russian interests as part of a private practice. Nordwind's biography on the Venable site describes him as a "15-year veteran of Capitol Hill" who spent 12 of those years working for Republican Michigan Congressman Fred Upton. According to records filed with the DOJ FARA unit, since June 2010, Venable has been working through Ketchum to advise Gazprom Export. In a contract sent to FARA in 2010, Nordwind identified himself to Ketchum partner Kathy Jeavons as "the responsible partner in charge" of Venable's work for Gazprom and Ketchum. "My understanding is that our representation in this matter involves government relations, with an emphasis on energy policy." Norwdind wrote. The contract Nordwind sent to Jeavons also stipulated how much Venable would be paid: $28,000 a month beginning in June 2010 to assist Ketchum in its representation of Gazprom Export. Based on this figure, Venable has made $1.26 million working for the Russian gas company. Business Insider emailed Nordwind and received a response from Venable Director of Communications Chris Till who directed us to Ketchum. As of this writing, Ketchum has not responded to a request for comment about Venable and Gazprom Export.  FREE AppDownload
                        Click here for a high-resolution version of this photo.                      Good afternoon. Thank you Dan, and thank you to everyone gathered here and others throughout the System who are listening in.    
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesMathew MartomaFormer SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma is no longer a graduate of Stanford's business school. A university official told the Wall Street Journal's Melissa Korn that Martoma, who was convicted of insider trading in February, does not hold a degree from Stanford Graduate School of Business anymore. Most convicts don't lose their degree, but it now appears Martoma got into Stanford on false pretenses. During Martoma's trial, it was revealed that Martoma was kicked out of Harvard Law School for doctoring his transcript — and then forging documents to cover his tracks (that information was never introduced into evidence during the trial). Two years later, he got into Stanford and graduated with an MBA, leading us to wonder if Stanford knew about the Harvard mishap when considering Martoma's application. "Stanford’s policy provides it can revoke an offer of acceptance and a degree, if it was found that an individual gained admission through false pretenses," the spokesperson told Dealbook. For Martoma, the more immediate issue is that he's facing around 10 years in prison after his conviction last month. Read the full report at the WSJ »  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Fed's latest Beige Book is out. The word "weather" is mentioned 119 times in the release. Below is the full text: Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and based on information collected before February 24, 2014. This document summarizes comments received from businesses and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials. Reports from most of the twelve Federal Reserve Districts indicated that economic conditions continued to expand from January to early February. Eight Districts reported improved levels of activity, but in most cases the increases were characterized as modest to moderate. New York and Philadelphia experienced a slight decline in activity, which was mostly attributed to the unusually severe weather experienced in those regions. Growth slowed in Chicago, and Kansas City reported that conditions remained stable during the reporting period. The outlook among most Districts remained optimistic. Retail sales growth weakened since the previous report for most Districts, as severe winter weather limited activity. However, Richmond, St. Louis, and Minneapolis reported modest sales growth since the beginning of the year. Weather was also cited as a contributing factor to softer auto sales in many Districts, with the exception of Cleveland, which saw strong gains. Tourism increased in a number of Districts but declined in Philadelphia and was reported to have been mixed in New York and Minneapolis. The demand for nonfinancial services was mixed compared with the last report; however, both Boston and San Francisco reported strong demand for technology related services. Manufacturing sales and production in several Districts were negatively impacted by severe winter weather; however, modest improvements were noted in Boston, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Dallas. Residential real estate markets continued to improve in several areas, albeit modestly. Boston and New York gave mixed reports on sales, and Philadelphia, Cleveland, Minneapolis, and Kansas City noted a decrease in sales. Many Districts cited low inventories of housing and continued home price appreciation. Commercial real estate leasing expanded, according to most reports, while reports on construction activity were mixed. Demand for commercial real estate loans was solid in Boston, improved slightly in Dallas, and continued to grow steadily in Chicago and Kansas City. Of the Districts that reported on agriculture, conditions softened in Kansas City and Dallas as dry soil adversely affected wheat crops. Districts reported that energy production and demand continued to increase as a result of increased demand due to the unusually cold winter. Employment levels improved gradually for most Districts, and shortages of specialized skilled labor continued to be reported. Price pressures remained subdued, with the exception of upward cost pressures for some energy and construction products. Wage pressures remained stable for most Districts. Consumer Spending and TourismMost Districts reported sales growth had softened from January to early February. New York reported noticeable weakness; however, Richmond, St. Louis, and Minneapolis reported modest growth since the beginning of the year. The extreme winter weather conditions reportedly contributed to the decline in sales in some markets; however, Richmond, Chicago, and Minneapolis reported that weather-related goods contributed to positive sales growth. Reports from furniture retailers in Boston and Minneapolis indicated strong sales. Contacts in Cleveland, Richmond, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco expected retail spending to improve going forward. Vehicle sales varied across Districts. Severe weather conditions resulted in softer vehicle sales as reported by New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas. Cleveland noted a modest increase in auto sales compared with a year ago. New York cited upcoming auto shows as an expected boost for future sales, while Chicago anticipates that sales incentives will increase near-term sales. Travel and tourism was generally strong across most reporting Districts except for Philadelphia who recorded a slight decrease. San Francisco stated that the level of travel and tourism increased in their region. Recent winter weather conditions benefited many ski resorts in Kansas City, Richmond, and Minneapolis. Atlanta and Boston also indicated that hotels fared well from the weather, but that restaurants, museums, and other attractions were negatively impacted. New York reported mixed activity from January to early February. Hotel occupancy rates in Manhattan and New Jersey increased, buoyed by the Super Bowl, while hotel business was down in western New York State due to the harsh winter storms. Airline contacts from Dallas indicated solid to slightly stronger demand, with some temporary disruptions due to severe winter weather across the nation. The majority of Districts reported a solid start in the first quarter for hotel bookings, occupancy, and revenue with an optimistic outlook for the remainder of the year. Nonfinancial ServicesReports from Districts mentioning nonfinancial business services indicated that activity has been mixed since the previous report. Both New York and Philadelphia reported that severe winter weather reduced demand for services in their region. Activity in Minnesota and San Francisco's professional business service firms improved since their last report. Boston said that demand for software and information technology was stronger than expected, and demand for cloud computing remained strong according to San Francisco's report. Richmond service providers noted flat revenue in recent weeks, while sales were characterized as stable among Kansas City service providers. The outlook among contacts was mixed, as well. Planned activity in St. Louis was described as negative, while contacts in Minneapolis and Dallas noted optimism. Contacts in Kansas City anticipate activity will pick up, while software and IT professionals in San Francisco are cautiously optimistic and anticipate revenue growth will be positive this quarter. Transportation activity since the previous report was mixed. Severe weather reportedly disrupted supply chains and delayed shipments in several Districts. In Dallas, railroad cargo volumes fell slightly below year earlier levels, with winter weather conditions across the country largely to blame. Port activity in Atlanta and Richmond reflected increases in auto shipments, while Dallas reported declines in container volumes. Atlanta and Dallas indicated air cargo was down, compared with year earlier levels. Kansas City cited increasing optimism about future transportation activity, while Cleveland noted expectations that demand in 2014 will be the same or only moderately higher than a year ago. ManufacturingManufacturing activity expanded at a moderate pace from January through early February in most Districts. Several Districts reported that severe winter weather had a negative effect on sales and production during this period, including Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas. The weather was cited to have caused utility outages, disrupted supply chains and production schedules, and resulted in a slowing of sales to affected customers. Philadelphia and Richmond reported that shipments and orders declined during the first half of February. Steel producers in Cleveland indicated that they have excess capacity, and San Francisco reported low capacity utilization rates at steel mills. Boston and San Francisco indicated that semiconductor sales had been particularly strong. High-tech contacts in Dallas reported a slight improvement in orders, as demand for memory chips remained strong and demand for logic devices remained weak but stable. San Francisco also cited growth in the commercial aerospace industry due to a backlog in orders for commercial aircraft, while defense-related manufacturers reported sluggish overall conditions and expected sales to trend downward. Auto production was strong in Chicago despite weather-related slowdowns in sales, and Cleveland reported auto production to be higher than a year ago. Most Districts were optimistic about the future and expect manufacturing activity to rise in the coming months. Real Estate and ConstructionReports on residential housing markets were somewhat mixed. Many Districts continued to report improving conditions but noted that growth had slowed. Most of the Districts indicating otherwise attributed the slowing pace of improvement to unusually severe winter weather conditions. Home sales increased in Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas, while sales were down in Philadelphia, Cleveland, Minneapolis, and Kansas City. Boston and New York reported that the trend in sales for their Districts was mixed. New home construction increased in Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis, and remained flat in Kansas City, and was down slightly from the previous period in Philadelphia. Most Districts reported low levels of home inventories and indicated that home prices continued to appreciate. The outlook for sales and residential construction was positive in Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, and San Francisco. Strong multifamily construction was cited in New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, and Dallas, while Boston indicated that its pipeline of multifamily construction was declining. Dallas experienced rent growth above its historical average, while New York reported mixed trends in rent growth. Cleveland noted that it expects healthy growth in rents this year. Many Districts, including New York, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco, indicated that commercial real estate activity had increased and that conditions continued to improve since the previous report. Philadelphia noted that there was very little activity to report in construction or leasing due to severe winter weather. The outlook for nonresidential construction was fairly optimistic in Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco. Banking and Financial ServicesDistrict reports of loan demand and volume were mixed. Demand for residential mortgages decreased in New York, Richmond, St. Louis, and Kansas City, and softened in Philadelphia and Dallas. Cleveland and Atlanta noted increased demand for new purchase mortgages, while mortgage refinancing declined in New York, Richmond, Atlanta, and Kansas City. Demand for consumer loans grew slightly in Philadelphia, Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas, and held steady in Kansas City. Decreased demand for consumer loans was noted by Richmond and St. Louis, and among small to medium-sized banks in New York. Boston reported commercial real estate loans were highly competitive and demand was solid. Richmond businesses looked for shorter-term commercial real estate loans in order to benefit from lower interest rates those loans offered. Chicago and Kansas City reported steady growth in commercial real estate loans, and demand for such loans improved marginally in Dallas. Small to medium-sized banks in New York reported no change in commercial real estate loan demand. New York noted modest declines in delinquency rates. Cleveland reported delinquencies were stable or trended lower, and St. Louis indicated delinquencies for most types of loans decreased. Loan quality in Kansas City improved compared with a year ago and continued to strengthen in Dallas. Bankers in Cleveland and Atlanta voiced concerns about recently enacted regulations and the potential negative impact on lending. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesAgricultural conditions softened since the previous report. Severe winter weather affected several Districts with some crop damage being reported by Richmond and Atlanta, while Chicago noted disruptions in the flow of agricultural products. Both Kansas City and Dallas cited dry conditions adversely affecting wheat crops, while San Francisco reported concerns about water shortages and water costs. Several Districts noted falling feed prices had a positive effect for cattle and hog producers. Kansas City indicated farmland price appreciation moderated from the rapid pace seen in the past few years. Crop prices received in January by farmers fell from a year earlier for corn, wheat, soybeans, hogs, and chickens; prices increased for cotton, rice, oranges, cattle, milk, eggs, and turkeys. District reports showed continued strength in energy production and demand for oil and gas; much of the increased demand was driven by unusually cold winter weather. Cleveland, Richmond, and St. Louis reported coal production was down, with steam coal plant closures in Richmond. Cleveland, Atlanta, and Dallas described growth in drilling (both inland and offshore) and refining activity. In contrast, Minneapolis indicated that oil and gas exploration decreased slightly from recent months, primarily due to the extremely cold weather. Inventory drawdowns and supply shortages of natural gas and propane were reported in Atlanta, Chicago, and Dallas due to increased withdrawals that were exacerbated by the severe weather. Nearly all Districts attributed energy price surges to increased demand during the unusually cold weather; yet, Boston reported that natural gas prices were also driven up by pressure on pipeline capacity in New England. Some firms in the Richmond and Chicago Districts indicated that they elected to delay production and/or reduce usage rather than pay high prices. Dallas indicated that increases in the price of West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil were being bolstered by debottlenecking at Cushing, Oklahoma. Employment, Wages, and PricesSince the previous report, the pace of hiring had reportedly softened in Boston, Richmond, and Chicago, with those Districts attributing at least part of the recent slowdown to unusually bad winter weather. Despite a pickup in hiring in some sectors across New York, Cleveland, Atlanta, and St. Louis, notably in manufacturing, overall employment growth for these Districts remained sluggish. In Philadelphia, as outlooks for long-term overall economic growth improved, firms reportedly continued to expand their headcounts cautiously. In contrast, labor markets in the Minneapolis District tightened slightly. The rate at which temporary employees were converted to permanent hires remained strong across Boston, while contacts in Richmond reported this conversion was happening at a slightly faster pace than previously noted. Many Districts continued to note shortages for particular types of specialized, technical skilled labor, such as healthcare professionals and information technology workers. Atlanta and Dallas also noted shortages for freight truck drivers. Inflation pressures remained largely unchanged across most Districts. Price pressures were described as minimal or roughly steady in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco. There were some mentions of rising raw materials prices passing through to final goods. Boston indicated that higher material costs and rising costs of overseas labor could have an upward influence on apparel prices. Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas noted that unseasonably cold weather had pushed up costs for some energy products. Construction materials prices remained a source of upward cost pressure, according to contacts in Atlanta and Kansas City. Retail contacts in New York and Philadelphia reported deep product discounting; however, reports from Dallas indicated that retail prices were stable. Most Districts noted that wage pressures were largely steady since the last report; however, a few Districts cited upward wage pressures in some highly skilled jobs in industries such as information technology, transportation, and construction. Reports from Cleveland, Kansas City, and San Francisco indicated that businesses were anticipating wage growth to increase from the recent mild pace as the year progresses. Contacts in Chicago indicated that higher healthcare premiums increased non-wage labor costs, while a growing number of employers in Cleveland reported passing through rising healthcare costs to their employees. Return to top Business contacts in the First District continue to report modest increases in revenues and sales. Respondents in several sectors cite negative effects of severe winter weather. Firms report little hiring and wage increases remain very modest. Price pressures are reportedly minimal, but a few contacts note specific items for which prices are rising or are expected to rise. The outlook is generally positive, albeit cautiously so. Retail and TourismThis round's retail contacts completed their 2013 fiscal years at the end of December or in mid-February. Most report 2013 year-over-year sales increases ranging from 3 percent to the mid-single digits, though one cites an increase in the mid-teens. Several respondents report continued good results so far in 2014, but two retailers indicate that the pace of sales has slowed a bit. Some of this softness is said to be due to weather-related issues or to tough year-over-year comparisons with the post-Hurricane Sandy rebound. A furniture retailer reports that President's Day sales were extremely strong. Prices remain steady overall, though contacts say a modest increase in apparel prices is coming, reflecting a rise in some raw material prices and overseas labor costs. Retail respondents expect continued overall improvement in U.S. economic conditions and consumer sentiment in 2014. Boston area hotels attained new record highs for hotel occupancy rates and revenues in 2013, building on the strong records sent in 2012. Expectations are for continued strong growth in 2014, though hotels expect to see revenue growth but not increases in occupancy rates; these are forecast at 80 percent, a 1 percentage point increase over 2013. Severe winter weather in January and February had hotels faring well, but restaurants, museums, and other venues losing revenue due to the harsh weather conditions. An industry contact says that this pattern seems to hold for much of the eastern seaboard. Manufacturing and Related ServicesOf 13 manufacturers contacted this round, nine report higher sales than the same period a year earlier. Two firms, a toy manufacturer and a publisher, cite flat sales but the reasons appear to be idiosyncratic. Two others, a manufacturer of electrical equipment for residential and commercial buildings and a maker of membranes, report falling sales but both attribute the drop to the weather. The direct effect of the storms was the loss of several days of production in February. In addition, demand fell both because some of their products are intermediate goods for other plants in afflicted areas and because end users demanded less. For example, reduced construction meant that there was less demand for electrical supplies. Three firms in the semiconductor industry report strong sales, confirming the end of that sector's slowdown, which began in 2011. Two firms, a maker of electrical equipment and a tool maker, both reported that residential investment was a significant driver of growth. The news on inventories is mixed. Six contacts say that they continue to make a concerted effort to reduce inventories. However, one contact was building inventory on the assumption that the drop in sales due to the winter weather would lead to an increase in demand in the second quarter to make up for it. An electrical equipment supplier said that in some product lines, bad weather led to higher demand for replacement parts which reduced inventories. None of our contacts report any major pricing pressure, up or down, either from suppliers or customers. One contact said that pressure on pipeline capacity in New England is driving up natural gas prices. Most firms report increased capital spending in 2013 and plans to increase again in 2014. However, most of those plans were already in place and there is little evidence of positive revisions in recent months. Five contacts report flat employment, four note positive hiring, and four cite reduced staffing. Respondents say engineering staff remains somewhat difficult to find, but otherwise none of our contacts have complaints about the labor market. Eleven of 13 contacts report positive or very positive outlooks for 2014. The exceptions are a toy maker, who is generally cautious, and a publisher anticipating falling sales. Software and Information Technology ServicesFirst District software and information technology services contacts generally report stronger-than-expected business activity through February, with revenue growth exceeding earlier forecasts. For example, a healthcare contact expected a large year-over-year revenue decline due to the expiration of federal stimulus for health records software; however, the firm ended the year with just a marginal dip in revenues and positive net income growth. Only one contact, a provider of payment and banking software, reports accelerated growth, with year-over-year revenue increases in the 15 percent range. The majority of firms are maintaining headcount; one contact added positions in sales and marketing. Wages remain steady, with firms awarding (and in one case reinstating) merit increases in the 2.5 percent to 3.5 percent range. Both selling prices and capital and technology spending have gone largely unchanged. The outlook among software and IT contacts is cautious optimism, with expectations of modest revenue growth through the end of the quarter. Contacts remain concerned about general macroeconomic conditions and uncertainty surrounding healthcare reform. Staffing ServicesNew England staffing contacts report softened business conditions in recent months, attributed to both the holiday season and the large number of snowstorms occurring throughout the Northeast. Although revenues are up slightly year-over-year, they are down on a quarter-over-quarter basis. Despite these difficulties, labor demand remains strong across most industries, with contacts noting particularly high demand in the software, engineering, legal, specialty manufacturing, and healthcare sectors. Demand has weakened in the defense sector. On the supply side, contacts cite a shortage of candidates to fill nursing, specialized manufacturing, and IT roles. This reportedly reflects a skills mismatch, amplified by the holidays and severe weather. In response, firms continue to invest in social media initiatives to reach a broader audience of candidates. The temporary-to-permanent conversion rate remains strong. Bill rates and pay rates have generally held steady, with the exception of two contacts reporting an upward trend in pay rates and one contact reporting a slight increase in bill rates. Looking forward, staffing contacts are optimistic that growth will accelerate as weather conditions improve, expecting mid-single-digit revenue growth through the next few months. Several contacts express concerns about continued uncertainty regarding how healthcare reform will affect the staffing industry. Commercial Real EstateCommercial real estate activity was mixed across the First District, but contacts report that leasing fundamentals were largely stable in recent weeks. In Providence, demand for multifamily housing remains strong downtown, while industrial leasing activity is still weak. In Boston, office demand continues to be uneven within the city, with strength in the Seaport District, increasing demand in some suburban areas, and comparative weakness--including downward pressure on rents--in the Financial District. In Boston and Hartford, severe winter weather modestly reduced office leasing inquiries. Also, according to one contact, investment sales activity slowed in the region in the aftermath of a year-end surge in transactions. At the same time, contacts indicate that investment demand for commercial real estate remains strong across the region, and especially strong in Boston. A Portland contact characterizes leasing activity as solid and notes that land sales continue to gather momentum. Planned developments in Portland include a diverse mix of structures: recreational facilities, hotels, office space, and specialty retail. According to a regional banking contact, the bank lending environment for commercial real estate remains highly competitive, with solid loan demand across numerous sectors, albeit including fewer condominium development loans than had been expected. Recent trends in construction activity persist, with slow growth in the institutional sector, a declining pipeline of multifamily structures, and an increase in planned mixed-use developments and speculative office construction in parts of Boston. While contacts are mostly optimistic concerning the outlook for commercial real estate in their respective markets, some downside risks are noted, including renewed macroeconomic uncertainty stemming from recent, weaker-than-expected employment reports, an uncertain future path of interest rates, and fallout from unrest in the Ukraine, Syria, and Venezuela. Other factors seen as restraining growth include rising construction and maintenance costs, and, in Rhode Island, political stagnation stemming from the current gubernatorial election. Residential Real EstateThe First District experienced mixed results for sales of single family houses and condominiums in December. Contacts in New Hampshire and Rhode Island cite declines in sales of single family homes, while Massachusetts experienced no change, and respondents in Connecticut, Maine, and Vermont cite increases in sales relative to December 2012. Scarce inventory is said to be the most significant constraint on the growth of sales, while uncertainty from new qualified mortgage rules and flood insurance reforms are also believed to be causing buyers to remain cautious about making offers. Contacts in Connecticut say that sales are being affected by weak consumer confidence and a shortage of stable employment opportunities. Median sale prices increased year-over-year in four of the six New England states, decreasing only in Connecticut and Vermont. In Massachusetts, particularly in the Greater Boston area, price appreciation driven by low inventory levels has become a concern as realtors caution that high prices could keep first time home buyers out of the market. Pending sales suggest the market for single family houses and condos is off to a good start in 2014, increasing in all states except Rhode Island. Contacts express optimism about local housing markets looking forward but say they expect the snowy winter to depress sales in the near term. Return to top Economic activity in the Second District declined modestly in the first few weeks of 2014, hampered by inclement weather. Contacts report some broadening of price pressures in the service sector, though retail prices remain mostly stable. Manufacturers in the District report that activity was stable whereas service-sector firms report some weakening, on balance. Labor market conditions have continued to improve gradually since the last report. General merchandise retailers report that sales were below plan and down sharply from a year earlier, due to unusually harsh weather in January and early February. New auto sales weakened noticeably in January but showed signs of rebounding in the first half of February. Tourism activity was mixed in January and early February, hampered by harsh weather but boosted by the Super Bowl. Housing markets were mixed, while commercial real estate markets firmed slightly. Finally, banks report some further weakening in loan demand from the household sector, little change in credit standards, and steady to declining delinquency rates. Consumer SpendingGeneral merchandise retailers report that sales weakened noticeably in early 2014, running below plan and well below year-ago levels. Two major retail chains indicate that sales during the first six weeks of the year were down sharply from comparable 2013 levels, mainly due to the weather. One contact notes exceptionally low gift card redemptions--viewed as a likely harbinger that much of the shortfall in sales will be made up when warmer weather arrives. Similarly, contacts at major malls in upstate New York report that sales were weak in January and early February, due largely to heavy snow and extremely cold weather, particularly during weekends. Not surprisingly, one category that has performed reasonably well is cold-weather outerwear. Inventories are mostly at or modestly above desired levels. Prices are reported to be little changed, though some retail contacts describe the environment as increasingly promotional. After a strong 2013, auto dealers in upstate New York report that new vehicle sales weakened noticeably in January but showed some signs of rebounding in early February. Inclement weather is viewed as having been an inhibiting factor in January, but not the only one; conversely, some of the pickup in February is attributed to a major auto show in Buffalo, and an upcoming show in Rochester is expected to provide some boost as well. Wholesale and retail credit conditions for auto purchases remain favorable. Tourism activity has been mixed thus far in 2014. Despite the bad weather, attendance at Broadway theaters is up about 7 percent year-to-date, form 2013 levels, and total revenues are up 12 percent; however, it should be noted that there are roughly 15 percent more shows running in 2014 than in 2013. Manhattan hotels report that occupancy rates were little changed from a year earlier in January, though room rates were up sharply--cold and snowy weather dampened demand but this was largely offset by business related to the Super Bowl, which buoyed occupancy and especially room rates in late January and early February. Hotels in northern New Jersey, where occupancy rates are typically much lower this time of year, reportedly saw a more pronounced boost during the weeks around the Super Bowl. Hotels in western New York State, on the other hand, report that winter storms depressed business in January--particularly in Rochester and Niagara Falls. Finally, consumer confidence improved in January: the Conference Board's surveys of residents of both the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) and New York alone show confidence surging to a six-year high, while Siena College's survey of New York State residents indicates a more moderate increase, to a six-month high. Construction and Real EstateThe District's housing markets have been mixed since the last report. Contacts in western New York State note some softening in both activity and prices in early 2014--largely a function of the unusually cold and snowy weather, but also reflecting increased difficulty obtaining credit. More broadly, though, home sales across New York State showed resilience in January, slipping only slightly from the elevated level of a year earlier, while prices reportedly rose 10 percent. Sales activity in New York City's co-op and condo market slowed somewhat in January and early February, as weather greatly inhibited buyer traffic. Sales prices for apartments were flat in Manhattan but continued to trend up in Brooklyn. Similarly, the market for apartment rentals has remained steady, with rents edging down in Manhattan but rising in Brooklyn. Weather has also been a factor in northern New Jersey since mid-December for both sales and new construction, though the underlying fundamentals also remain weak: mortgage delinquencies remain high, and a stubbornly high inventory of distressed properties is dampening market conditions. The multi-family market in northern New Jersey (mostly rentals) is reported to be faring well. Commercial real estate markets were stable to slightly stronger in early 2014. In New York City, office leasing activity was characterized as very brisk; but this was accompanied by several new spaces becoming available in both Downtown and Midtown Manhattan, leaving the overall availability rate little changed. Asking rents for office space, however, continued to rise and were up 6 to 9 percent from a year earlier. Elsewhere around the District both office availability rates and rents were little changed in early 2014. In general, the market for prime (Class A) space has underperformed the rest of the office market. Industrial vacancy rates were mostly steady to down slightly across the District, while asking rents were little changed. Other Business ActivityThe labor market has shown further signs of gradual improvement in early 2014. Business contacts in both the manufacturing and service sector report steady to rising employment; and more firms plan to increase than reduce staffing levels in the months ahead--particularly in the manufacturing sector. Separately, a major employment agency specializing in office jobs reports that the market continues to improve gradually, though weather appears to have been somewhat of a deterrent to hiring. Many job postings are challenging to fill because they call for specialized skills; salaries generally remain flat. Manufacturing firms in the District report a slight pickup in activity in early 2014, on net, whereas service sector businesses have seen a pullback--apparently driven, in large part, by the inclement weather. Still, business contacts remain widely optimistic about the near-term outlook. Overall, price pressures remain stable and generally subdued in the manufacturing sector but have grown increasingly widespread among service-sector businesses. Financial DevelopmentsSmall to medium-sized banks across the District report a further decrease in demand for consumer loans and residential mortgages but no change in demand for commercial mortgages and commercial &amp; industrial loans. Bankers also indicate a decrease in demand for refinancing. Respondents note that credit standards were unchanged across all loan categories. Respondents indicate a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for commercial loans and commercial &amp; industrial loans, but report no change in other categories. Respondents indicate little or no change in average deposit rates. Finally, bankers report modest declines in delinquency rates, on balance, for all loan categories. Return to top Severe winter weather caused aggregate business activity in the Third District to decline slightly during the current Beige Book period (beginning with the first full week of January). Nearly all sectors were impacted; however, only a few sectors are expected to suffer permanent losses, according to contacts. For example, while many general retailers have had to realize their losses by heavily discounting their winter inventory, auto dealers anticipate a release of pent-up demand when spring arrives. The general services sector was the only one to maintain some growth in this period, but even it slowed to a modest growth rate. After growing in the previous Beige Book period, general retail sales and residential construction declined moderately; auto sales, existing home sales, and commercial real estate construction declined modestly; and manufacturing, commercial leasing activity, and tourism declined slightly. Staffing services showed little net change after growing modestly over previous periods. Lending volumes also changed little change this period but credit quality continued to improve. Contacts reported slight overall increases in wages, home prices, and general price levels--similar to the last Beige Book period. Despite the temporary declines in many sectors, most contacts remained optimistic although they now expect only modest growth over the next six months. Contacts in most sectors continued to express confidence in the underlying economy. In regard to hiring and capital expenditure plans, firms continued to expand cautiously. ManufacturingThird District manufacturers reported deteriorating levels of activity through the current Beige Book period, as severe winter weather repeatedly disrupted sales and production. A slight pace of growth in orders and shipments as reported for the last period continued for several weeks then gave way to slight overall declines by the end of this Beige Book period. The share of all firms reporting increases in general activity fell from about one-third to one-fourth, while the share reporting decreases rose from about one-fourth to one-third. The makers of paper products, fabricated metals, industrial machinery, and instruments have reported gains since the last Beige Book. Reports of decreases came from the makers of food products, chemicals, primary metals, and electronic and other electric equipment. About 40 percent of manufacturers cited negative impacts from the severe winter weather, including lower demand or sales, disruptions to supply channels and to deliveries, fuel and power outages, lost production days, and cost of snow removal. Optimism that business conditions will improve over the next six months remained nearly as high as last period and continued to be widespread across sectors. Over half of the firms continued to anticipate increases in activity; however, firms were somewhat less optimistic about new orders and shipments six months out. Contacts reported similar expectations of future hiring and greater expenditures for future capital spending plans than during the prior Beige Book. RetailThird District retailers reported that malls and stores lost shopping days to snow storms and power outages, including significant holiday weekends, resulting in an overall moderate decline in sales since the last Beige Book. According to one mall contact, Valentine's Day weekend typically accounts for 40 percent of February sales, but the holiday's sales were off 40 percent this year due to a weekend snowstorm. Retailers have engaged in heavy discounting to move winter gear due to a dearth of shoppers. Also, spring inventory is not moving yet. In addition, retailers' margins have eroded from higher heating bills and snow removal costs. Brick-and-mortar retailers expressed uncertainty as to whether consumers have held on to their holiday gift cards or used them at online retailers. Although most of the lost sales opportunities are gone, retailers are hopeful that some pent-up demand will emerge as temperatures rise and that the prior pace of retail sales growth will resume. Auto dealers have reported a modest decline in sales since the last Beige Book period--another casualty of the recurring winter snowstorms. Dealers' lots were covered with snow; car buyers were scarce. Pennsylvania dealers expect sales to be off at least 15 percent (year over year) in February, while January sales were up a little. New Jersey dealers reported relative softness, adjusting for seasonal trends through January, although last year's comparative sales were boosted by replacement vehicles following Hurricane Sandy. Contacts in both states described dealers as currently "pretty grouchy, but upbeat for the year." Auto dealers harbor greater hopes than general retailers that spring sales will capture pent-up demand from the winter losses. The outlook for 2014 remains positive. FinanceThird District financial firms reported little overall change in total loan volume. Many loan categories appeared to decline slightly in volume. Credit card lending fell faster; however, that is a typical seasonal trend as consumers pay down their post-holiday balances. In contrast, other consumer credit loans and home equity lines have grown slightly since the last Beige Book period. Contacts continued to characterize the lending environment as steady, very slow, and highly competitive. Real estate lending softened considerably as the wintry weather reduced the pace of new contracts. Despite this current softness, contacts described an improving lending environment with a stronger labor market, greater consumer confidence, and healthier balance sheets. Overall, most bankers remained optimistic for continued slow, steady growth and for some pickup from pent-up demand for housing, autos, and other loans when the spring thaw finally arrives. Real Estate and ConstructionThird District homebuilders have reported that both new home sales and construction activity were depressed by the unusually severe winter weather, generating moderate declines from the prior-period construction levels. One builder reported production at 60 percent of plan, while sales were only about 50 percent of plan. Builders expect to accelerate production and catch up with prior schedules as the weather permits, and they are hopeful that spring sales may rebound. However, extra overtime coupled with increased demand from future sales may create labor shortages and escalate other input costs. According to residential real estate brokers, sales of existing homes were flat to down (year over year) in many of the Third District's major metropolitan areas in January. Pending sales and new listings were also reported as declining at a modest pace; February closings, traffic, and sales are expected to be negative throughout most of the District. Brokers are somewhat less bullish for a significant increase in 2014 over 2013 levels. Nonresidential real estate contacts indicated some weather disruptions have delayed ongoing construction activity. Modest declines in current construction are expected to be offset in the near future as contractors hustle to resume their schedules. Leasing activity was quiet--as businesses were often shuttered--but is expected to resume its modest pace next period. Little change was reported in leasing activity. Two more major buildings were announced for Center City Philadelphia since the last Beige Book: a 59-story major office tower and a 32-story residential tower. Added to the two 47-story office/residential towers already slated for groundbreaking in 2014, these four projects have caused most contacts to become increasingly optimistic for stronger growth as the year progresses. Meanwhile, most contacts speak of incremental improvement, despite the winter lull. ServicesThird District service-sector firms have slowed to a modest pace of growth since the last Beige Book--again with weather dampening demand for a variety of services. Although the District's ski resorts benefited from the additional snowfall, even they were plagued by the storms' timing, which made travel to the resorts difficult on several weekends. In addition, school districts that have amassed too many snow days may shorten spring breaks resulting in cancelation of vacation bookings. Some have already interfered with the Presidents' Day weekend by holding classes. Other service firms reported mostly modest growth rates--whittled down from recent moderate rates, as heavy snowfalls and power outages prevented workers from commuting and businesses from opening. As with general retail, some of the service-sector revenue will not be recouped after the snow has melted. For example, staffing firms cite the loss of billable hours that will not be made up. Other segments of the staffing industry offset those losses with slight growth. Overall, most of service-sector losses were viewed as manageable, and most contacts expect current activity to resume and grow. Prices and WagesOverall, Third District contacts reported no change to the steady, slight pace of price level increases, similar to other recent Beige Books. Manufacturing firms reported that prices paid and prices received tended to rise slightly, but more modestly than before. Auto dealers reported little change in pricing, general retailers reported deep discounting, and most builders reported holding prices steady. Many contacts continued to report tight, or narrowing, margins. Generally, real estate contacts continued to report rising prices for lower-priced homes, while higher-priced homes are aligned to local market conditions. Very few contacts are seeing wage pressures, other than for a few highly skilled occupations. Return to top Overall business activity in the Fourth District continued at a moderate pace early in 2014. While the severe weather contributed to some temporary slowing across industry sectors, it was viewed mainly as an inconvenience. Demand for manufactured products remained at a moderate to robust level. Activity in the construction sector slackened a bit compared to the same time period a year ago. Post-holiday retail purchases were characterized as disappointing. In contrast, January's auto sales showed strong gains month-over-month. The energy sector was little changed: shale gas activity stayed at a high level, and coal production trended lower. Freight volume was slightly higher. Demand for business credit showed little movement, whereas consumer credit usage was somewhat better than expected. Hiring was sluggish across most industry sectors, though we are seeing a pickup in manufacturing jobs. Staffing-firm representatives reported that the number of job openings is trending higher, while placements are flat. Vacancies were found primarily in manufacturing and healthcare. Wage pressures were contained. Input and finished goods prices saw little change, apart from some increases in building materials, energy, and diesel fuel. ManufacturingReports from District factories indicated that demand stayed at a moderate to robust level during the past six weeks. Any production declines were attributed to the severe winter weather disrupting raw material deliveries or to seasonal variation. Supply chain disruptions were viewed more as an annoyance than an event that could negatively impact business activity. Compared to a year ago, production levels were generally consistent or somewhat higher. Almost all of our respondents expect production will rise relative to current levels in the upcoming months, with the strongest demand coming from the aerospace, capital equipment, housing, and oil and gas industries. Since the beginning of the year, steel shipments grew slightly--mainly a seasonal effect. Producers predicted that their industry will not exhibit strong growth until there is considerable strengthening in the construction sector and a greater sense of confidence in the economy at large. Steel shipments for the remainder of the first quarter are expected to pick up only slightly. Auto production at District plants increased along seasonal trends during January on a month-over-month basis. Compared to a year ago, production was moderately higher. Several factory representatives commented that capacity utilization rates were above their normal range or were increasing in the last six weeks, while steel producers noted significant open capacity. Capital budgets for 2014 are generally higher than last year, although very few contacts are allocating monies for capacity expansion. Outlays are being used primarily for equipment purchases, product development, and maintenance. Raw material prices were mainly flat to lower. We heard a few reports of an upward drift in scrap metal and agricultural commodity prices after coming off of last year's low level. Energy prices (electricity and natural gas) rose, which was attributed to the severe weather. Some producers of industrial durables raised prices at the beginning of the year with little pushback. Otherwise, most manufacturers reported that their ability to raise prices has been limited. Job markets are showing some signs of strengthening, with half of our respondents indicating that they are hiring production and salaried workers. Wage increases are expected to be slightly higher in 2014 compared to the past couple of years. A growing number of employers are passing through rising healthcare costs to their employees. ConstructionSales of new and existing single-family homes across much of the District were significantly higher in 2013 relative to the prior year, while average sale prices showed a moderate increase. Builders reported that sales of new single-family homes slowed during the first few weeks of 2014, which they attributed to the extreme cold. Web traffic trended higher. New-home contracts were found mainly in the mid-price category, and the selling prices of new homes continued to stabilize. Reports indicated that multifamily housing remains the strongest segment in the District's construction sector, and some believe there is a risk of overbuilding. Nonetheless, rents are expected to rise 3 to 4 percent this year. Builders anticipate that the housing market will grow at a steady pace in 2014. The pace of activity in nonresidential construction has slowed a bit relative to the same time period a year ago. Builders said that while inquiries, many from first-time customers, are strong, projects keep dropping out of the pipeline due to financing issues or a last minute decision not to proceed. Backlogs are down slightly, and the severe winter weather has slowed fieldwork. Demand was strongest for industrial and institutional building, including flex-space, distribution, manufacturing, student housing, and senior living. Our contacts remain fairly optimistic about near-term prospects, and they are anticipating moderate growth this year. Prices for drywall, steel, and plumbing fixtures are trending higher. General contractors reported satisfaction with current staffing levels and will only hire for replacement or if business activity rises above expectations. Reports of rising costs related to healthcare were widespread. There is concern among small builders that employees may lose their employer-paid insurance. One report indicated that a growing number of builders are offering employees a lump sum payment to purchase their own health insurance rather than offering it as a benefit. Consumer SpendingAlmost all retailers we contacted expressed disappointment with January sales. Revenues were below those seen in December, and they were down compared to a year earlier. Cold-weather gear and consumables were in highest demand. Most of the decline was attributed to persistently poor weather conditions. However, two retailers commented that part of the decline is related to a fundamental shift in how consumers spend money. A furniture dealer reported that his customers are less inclined to buy quality goods that can be handed down. Rather, consumers are buying only what they need and are looking for the best value. Projections for the second quarter call for sales to be modestly higher relative to those in the first quarter. Vendor and shelf prices held steady, though a few retailers noted that they are running more promotions than normal. One contact reported that he has been introducing more products at a lower price point. This year's capital budgets will be mainly higher than in 2013. Most of the monies are allocated for opening new stores and e-commerce expansion. Hiring will be limited to staffing new stores and e-commerce support. The number of new motor vehicles sold in January was significantly higher than in December. On a year-over-year basis, sales showed a modest increase. Buyers continued to shift from smaller, fuel-efficient cars to SUVs, crossovers, and light trucks. One dealer told us that truck sales in the southwest region of the District rose 11 percent last year, which he believes reflects an uptick in commercial and construction activity. New-vehicle inventories were described as slightly elevated, which was attributed to leftover 2013 models and the extreme weather. Used-vehicle purchases during January were slightly ahead of those in December and on a year-over-year basis. Expectations for sales of new and used vehicles are positive. Dealers cited the arrival of income tax returns and interest generated by regional auto shows. Used inventory will start building due to the expiration of 2011 leases. Payrolls held steady. BankingDemand for business credit showed little movement. Brisk competition continues to put downward pressure on loan pricing. Consumer credit demand grew slightly since our last report, primarily for auto loans and home equity products. Residential mortgage activity picked up a little, more so in the new-purchase market. Several bankers raised concerns about recently enacted regulations and their potential negative impact on lending. Delinquency rates were stable or trended lower. Bankers reported no significant changes to loan-application standards. On net, core deposits were flat: increases by consumers were offset by declines in commercial deposits. Little net growth in staffing is expected. Many new job openings are in the areas of regulatory compliance and IT. EnergyJanuary's aggregate coal production across the District fell below year-ago levels. Going forward, little change in output is projected. Spot prices for metallurgical and steam coal were flat. The number of drilling rigs in Ohio's Utica shale region has increased since the beginning of the year. Natural gas production was stable and continuing at a high level. Cold weather helped boost wellhead prices for natural gas and oil. Reports on capital spending were mixed, although one respondent commented that his firm plans to increase funding to its drilling-program in Marcellus and Utica shales by 80 percent year-over-year. Production equipment and materials prices were flat. Hiring was for replacement only. Freight TransportationFreight executives reported that it is difficult to gauge changes in shipping volume due to supply chain disruptions attributed to severe weather. Nonetheless, most respondents believe volume has risen slightly year-over-year. Shipments of motor vehicles and machinery were strong. The industry outlook for 2014 is somewhat less favorable than in our previous report. Most of our contacts now expect volume will be in-line or moderately higher than a year ago. Recently enacted environmental and safety regulations are constraining capacity and putting upward pressure on rates. Diesel fuel prices moved higher in January. Operators have been unable to pass through the entire increase via surcharges. Reports on capital spending plans for 2014 were mixed. The industry is hiring primarily for replacement and to maintain capacity. Return to top Economic activity in the Fifth District increased modestly on balance, despite snow, ice, and unusually cold temperatures that caused many business closings. Manufacturing operations generally slowed as winter storms closed some plants, although a few firms reported an uptick in new orders. Retail sales increased modestly overall, even though many stores and auto dealerships closed during the snow storms. While some retailers benefitted from increased demand for cold-weather items, auto sales declined. Non-retail service providers reported flat revenues in recent weeks. In contrast, tourism and corporate travel picked up, and hoteliers reported strong bookings. Consumer borrowing slowed since the start of the year, while commercial lending remained strong, with several bankers reporting a healthy pipeline for business lending. Residential real estate strengthened, with Realtors reporting faster absorption in some submarkets. In addition, construction of single family homes has been slowly improving, while multi-family housing remained strong. Non-residential construction was generally soft. Commercial leasing ranged from no change to a slight increase since our last report. Agricultural activity slowed seasonally, while contacts were optimistic about a good year ahead. In the energy sector, natural gas production accelerated. In contrast, coal mining fell and some steam coal plants closed. District labor markets were mixed in recent weeks, as extreme weather affected production and services. However, demand was high for semi-skilled workers; also, more quality temp employees were being offered permanent work. According to our latest survey, employment declined at retail establishments and increased at non-retail services firms, while average wages rose across the service sector. Manufacturing employment slowed and average wages ticked up. Service sector prices advanced more quickly, while manufacturing prices increased at a slower pace. ManufacturingManufacturing activity slowed in recent weeks, with winter storms affecting business operations throughout the District. There were a few weather-related plant closures since our last report, totaling between three and four days. In one instance, a North Carolina food manufacturer stated that recent storms caused his plant to close for a few days, resulting in lost wages, hours, and production. A few District plant managers said that the facility downtime would reduce shipments, and in February, survey respondents also indicated that shipments and new orders declined. However, some manufacturers reported that new orders have risen slightly and plants are working to catch up after a slow start in January. A metals manufacturer in South Carolina reported an increase in January sales, slight growth in export sales, and a stronger March forecast. Overall, contacts expected improvement in the spring. Prices of raw materials and finished goods rose at a slower pace, according to our survey. PortsReports from port officials were mixed but indicated that activity increased overall. Auto imports remained robust, and container volume continued to be strong and growing year over year, particularly at the Port of Virginia. Exports of agricultural materials leveled off in Baltimore, while in Charleston, South Carolina, exports of containerized grains and soybeans were very strong. International coal exports declined slightly while coal shipments to domestic locations fell sharply. Dockworkers at the Port of Baltimore with unresolved labor contracts have remained on the job as mediators work toward a conclusion. Seasonal slowdowns related to the Chinese New Year are expected to last into mid-March. RetailDistrict retailers reported modest revenue growth, restrained in part by the unusually cold temperatures and multiple winter storms that forced many stores and auto dealerships to close temporarily. An auto dealership in West Virginia reported getting 18 to 20 inches of snow, with only one customer on the lot the next day. Sales of weather-related goods were up for a chain hardware merchant in central Virginia, and the manager of a West Virginia sporting goods store said that the weather helped sales, despite declining foot traffic. Post-holiday discounting boosted sales at several stores in January following mediocre results in December. The manager of a discount department store in the Tidewater area of Virginia reported little change in recent weeks and noted that 2013 had ended with sales below the previous year. Looking ahead, a representative of central Virginia retailers stated that with Easter falling in late April, merchants have more time for promotions, especially for warm-weather apparel. Retail price growth accelerated moderately. ServicesRevenues at non-retail services firms remained flat since our last report. An executive at a national freight trucking firm reported that he still expects double-digit tonnage growth in the first quarter, despite closed roads and terminals as winter storms moved across the country. However, several other businesses reported no change in demand for their services, and an executive at a wealth management firm in central Virginia described business as "status quo," even with improved client optimism. An executive at a North Carolina healthcare system reported that flu cases were below typical seasonal levels. Services prices edged up at a slightly faster pace. Tourism was booming at winter resorts, as natural snowfalls were abundant and colder temperatures allowed additional snowmaking. In several locations, mid-February bookings were solid because Valentine's Day and Presidents' Day sandwiched a weekend. However, an hotelier commented that this pushed bookings into one good weekend instead of two. A hotel manager in western North Carolina reported strong bookings and also noted a shift to more transient visits than conference or group bookings in recent weeks. In contrast, a contact in Baltimore saw increased corporate travel. On the Outer Banks of North Carolina, visitors now expect a package "experience" when renting a home, such as included linens, tickets to events, and restaurant coupons. FinanceSince our last report, consumer borrowing slowed considerably while commercial lending remained strong. Several contacts indicated that residential mortgage lending had nearly come to a halt, in part because of this winter's extreme weather. However, a Virginia lender believed that the demand for new homes is there, but that people are "just trying to survive the weather right now." Mortgage refinancing activity also declined in most areas. Interest rates flattened recently, after a decline in January. Meanwhile, credit standards remained tight, according to two bankers. According to sources, commercial lending picked up. Several bankers reported that loan volumes were robust and that they had a healthy pipeline for the future. One lender said that businesses were looking for shorter term commercial real estate loans in order to benefit from the lower interest rates that those loans offer. Real EstateResidential real estate strengthened since our last report. Several brokers reported a slight increase in home sales in recent weeks and generally higher sale prices. In addition, buyer traffic and pending sales rose in the past four to six weeks, although a few Realtors noted slowness due to winter weather conditions. A Northern Virginia Realtor commented that sales were more robust than expected, particularly in the high-end market. However, most brokers indicated steady improvement in the $200,000 to $500,000 price range. Realtors reported a mild decrease in housing inventory, with faster absorption in some submarkets. Construction of multifamily housing remained strong since our last report. In addition, single-family residential construction is returning throughout the district, according to contacts, but has been "slow to come out of the ground" primarily due to weather conditions. Other than in Washington, D.C., non-residential construction was softer. Commercial leasing ranged from unchanged to slightly stronger, with inquiries mainly for small spaces. While most Realtors reported little change in concessions and incentives, some in Washington D.C. and Northern Virginia saw more concessions, in the form of tenant improvements. Reports on vacancy rates varied across location and submarket. Lease rates were unchanged and sale prices rose mildly. Realtors reported either no change or a slight increase in demand for Class A office space. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesAccording to agriculture contacts, crop prices declined in recent weeks. Falling feed costs and higher cattle prices led contacts to believe it will be a good year for livestock producers. Also, farmers expect an increase in poultry production. However, a North Carolina respondent was concerned about an increase in swine virus in his region. A Virginia nursery owner stated that recent cold weather damage, if any, will not be known for a month or two; even so, he expects a ten percent increase in year-over-year sales this spring. A North Carolina agri-business contact reported that tobacco and vegetable producers in his region were cautiously optimistic for the year ahead. In South Carolina, recent ice storms have caused timber damage that is still being assessed. Natural gas production remained robust. A West Virginia executive reported "incredible" industry growth and noted that shale gas has fundamentally changed the industry outlook. Contacts remarked that energy prices had risen due to increased demand during the extremely cold weather, and a few businesses reduced usage as a result of the higher cost. An executive also noted that two nuclear power plants are expected to shut down because of high licensing costs. Coal mining continued to soften. Several observers have stated that while steam coal plants experienced closings, metallurgical coal is holding its own--but overall the coal industry is weak at best. In West Virginia, leaking chemicals from a coal processing plant were found in public drinking water, and in North Carolina coal ash was discovered leaking into a river. Labor MarketsReports on labor were mixed, as weather-related shutdowns slowed hiring slightly. Demand was strong for semi-skilled workers, project-based laborers, government and healthcare workers, and experienced administrative professionals. Increasingly, quality temporary workers were being offered permanent positions. Turnover remained high among low skill positions. According to our latest survey, retailers reduced employment and average retail wages declined slightly, while non-retail services providers moderately increased payrolls and average wages rose. Manufacturing employment slowed and average wages edged up.  Return to top Sixth District business contacts described economic activity as expanding slowly in January and early February. Some weather related effects were noted for a few sectors late in the period. However, the outlook remains generally optimistic as most contacts expect near-term growth to be sustained at, or slightly above, current levels. Overall, retailers cited sluggish sales growth for the beginning of the year. The District's tourism industry remained a bright spot with activity being bolstered by international visitors. Homebuilders and brokers noted home sales and prices were above year-ago levels for new and existing homes, while commercial real estate markets continued to witness steady improvements. Manufacturers reported increases in new orders and production. Reports from bankers suggested that loan demand increased for purchases but decreased for refinances. On balance, District employment gains were subdued and prices generally remained stable. Consumer Spending and TourismMerchants reported a slow start to the year with sales growth declining. Many contacts noted that the drop in sales growth was partially attributed to the unusual winter weather experienced in parts of the region. Others indicated that increased healthcare premiums were having a negative impact. Sales for vehicles were lower than expected. Hospitality contacts reported an increase in business and convention bookings. Reports also indicated that the favorable U.S. dollar exchange rate was a contributing factor to a rise in international visitors. However, contacts did convey that some of the region affected by the unusual winter weather in January and February experienced losses in revenue due to closures of attractions and restaurants, although most hotels were not as adversely affected. Hoteliers still expect only slight growth in occupancy rates for the first quarter of 2014 compared to the same period last year, while room rates and revenue per available room are expected to grow more robustly. Real Estate and ConstructionDistrict brokers indicated that growth in existing home sales had picked up modestly in recent months. Most brokers said sales were slightly up compared with a year earlier and more contacts noted that sales activity was in line with their plan for the period. By most accounts, inventory levels had fallen on a year-over-year basis. The majority of contacts reported that home prices remained ahead of the year earlier level but that price gains have slowed on a month-over-month basis. The outlook among residential brokers continued to improve since our last report. Reports from District builders were more positive than previous reports. Most contacts agreed that recent activity was in line with their plan for the period. The majority of builders reported that construction activity and new home sales were ahead of the year earlier level, although most reports indicated that unsold inventory levels had remained unchanged from a year ago. The majority of contacts also reported modest home price appreciation. The outlook for new home sales and construction activity remained positive, although many builders expressed concern about dwindling lot inventories and their inability to secure the financing needed to develop new lots. District brokers noted that demand for commercial real estate continued to improve. Absorption was picking up, although contacts cautioned that the rate of improvement still varied by metropolitan area, submarket, and property type. Construction activity continued to increase at a modest pace from last year; most contacts reported that their backlog was ahead of year earlier levels. Looking ahead, contacts expect that construction activity in apartments will continue to be somewhat strong in 2014 and that there will be a modest increase in construction activity across other property types. The outlook among District commercial real estate contacts remained positive with further improvements expected over the course of the year. Manufacturing and TransportationManufacturing contacts in the region cited expanding activity from January through mid-February, but the pace of growth was moderate. Contacts reported improvements in new orders and production. However, a number of contacts stated that the unusual winter weather affected production in late January and output was lower than planned for that month. That said, nearly two-thirds of purchasing managers polled expect production levels to be higher over the next three to six months. District transportation firms reported mixed results. Air cargo contacts cited nearly double-digit declines in overall tonnage from a year ago. Port contacts reported year-over-year volume increases in container traffic, bulk cargo, and automotive and machinery. Total rail carloads were down slightly over the same period last year; however, intermodal volumes continued to experience modest gains. Banking and FinanceBanking and credit union contacts expressed mixed concern about the implementation of the new Qualified Mortgage Rules. Some community bankers reported that they have exited the residential mortgage business altogether because of increased regulatory burdens, while others indicated that they do not believe it will have a negative effect on overall mortgage lending. A number of lenders reported increases in purchase mortgages, but not enough to offset the declines in refinances. Regional credit unions were reportedly offering highly competitive rates on CDs to attract deposits in order to sustain lending activity. Employment and PricesSince the last report, job growth remained muted across the District. Contacts in construction, manufacturing, energy, hospitality, and real estate noted modest growth in employment. Trucking companies continued to cite driver shortages even amidst rising pay. Rather than adding to payrolls, businesses reportedly continued to rely on technology to enhance output. Some employers continued to show reluctance in large-scale hiring due to concerns about healthcare reform. Most contacts reported modest and relatively stable labor and material cost pressures. Construction industry contacts remained a notable exception, indicating strong upward pressure on labor costs and some materials prices. According to the Atlanta Fed's February business inflation expectations (BIE) survey, costs were up 1.7 percent from a year ago and were expected to pick up slightly to 2.0 percent over the coming 12 months. In general, businesses continued to indicate that they had little to no pricing power. Natural Resources and AgricultureStrong production growth coupled with higher pipeline capacity continued to supply Gulf Coast refiners with ample light sweet crude. Natural gas storage levels were reported as notably low due to increased withdrawals that were exacerbated by the unusually severe weather. Commercial and residential demand for utilities increased significantly as a result of the weather, yet industrial usage remained fairly consistent with seasonal norms. The energy industry remains optimistic regarding their outlook for demand, pricing, and productivity. Recent rains improved soil conditions in parts of Florida and Georgia while portions of Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Tennessee experienced dry soil conditions. Meanwhile, freezing temperatures and cold winds had farmers and livestock producers taking precautions to mitigate damage to crops and livestock throughout much of the District. There were mixed reports of the impact on Florida crops with some indicating damage to vegetable and strawberry crops and others suggesting no damage to citrus. However, the Florida citrus crop continues to be adversely affected by citrus greening causing diminished production and increased expense battling the disease. On a year-over-year basis, prices paid to farmers for corn, soybeans, hogs, and broilers were down; while cotton, rice, oranges, beef, and eggs were up. The most recent domestic crop production forecasts for corn, rice, soybeans, oranges, and cotton were unchanged from a month ago. Similarly, pork and broilers projections were down moderately while beef projections were up slightly. Return to top Seventh District--Chicago Growth in economic activity in the Seventh District slowed in January and February, as severe winter weather affected activity in a number of sectors. The modest pace of growth to start the year tempered contacts' expectations only somewhat, as most generally maintained their optimistic outlook for 2014. Growth in consumer and business spending slowed. Manufacturing production growth and construction activity were modest. Credit conditions were little changed on balance. Cost pressures remained generally mild, though extreme temperatures caused energy prices to spike. Prices for corn, soybeans, and livestock were up slightly. Consumer SpendingGrowth in consumer spending slowed to a modest pace in January and February. Some retail categories initially benefitted from the poor winter weather, in large part reflecting increased outlays for necessities. However, retail contacts said that once necessary items were purchased, the persistent bad weather led to declining customer traffic and sales. Auto dealers also noted that the weather contributed to lower showroom traffic and sales. However, some contacts pointed to wavering consumer confidence as an alternative reason for lower auto sales. Many dealers expected incentives to increase in the near-term in an effort to rejuvenate sales. Business SpendingGrowth in business spending also slowed to a modest pace in January and February. Inventories remained at comfortable levels for most retailers and manufacturers. Growth in capital spending slowed somewhat, while plans for future capital expenditures edged higher. Several manufacturing contacts reported plans to purchase new equipment to increase capacity. Contacts in the manufacturing, banking and finance, and retail sectors reported plans for expansion, either by building or buying new structures or through mergers and acquisitions. The pace of hiring slowed, as did expectations of future hiring, though expectations for the coming year remained positive. A staffing firm reported continued growth in demand for its industrial services, despite some weather-related closures. In contrast, growth in demand for its professional services weakened. A banking contact noted an increase in layoffs due to declining mortgage refinancing. Many contacts noted continuing strength in the demand for skilled workers, with positions often difficult to fill in engineering, information technology, accounting, and other technical occupations. Construction and Real EstateConstruction and real estate activity again increased modestly in January and February. However, the pace of growth slowed over the reporting period, with homebuilders reporting that the unusually cold weather had added to costs and led to construction delays. The weather also affected home sales, as several contacts indicated that the cold had dampened new buyer activity. Overall, however, the housing market continued to improve slowly, with home prices and residential rents rising modestly. Real estate brokers noted that the supply of homes for sale remains low, and many homes continue to be purchased with cash because lending standards remain tight. In addition, several contacts indicated that the continued limited availability of new construction financing has kept new home inventories near record lows. Nonresidential construction grew slowly, with one contact noting that industrial building activity had paused in recent weeks. Commercial real estate activity ticked up, as vacancies declined and rents rose. Niche, high-income properties remain a source of strength for the sector, particularly for restaurants and office buildings. ManufacturingManufacturing production growth slowed to a modest pace in January and February, as unusually bad winter weather dampened the demand for manufactured goods and disrupted supply chains. However, manufacturing contacts remained optimistic, generally believing that overall economic conditions remained positive. The auto industry remained a source of strength for the District, even with a weather-related slowdown in sales. The weather also had a significant effect on the demand for steel, though contacts were preparing to meet any pent-up demand that developed during the reporting period. The severe weather conditions also affected the production and transportation of goods. For example, a steel industry contact reported that there were seven days in the last six weeks where his firm could not send shipments, a first in his thirty-five years of experience. Steel service centers reported reduced demand, while specialty metal manufacturers cited mixed but overall modest growth in new orders. Manufacturers of construction materials noted fewer shipments because of the weather, but continued to have a positive near-term outlook for the housing market. Demand for heavy machinery remained soft, as weakness in the mining and agricultural industries overshadowed increasing strength in the construction and energy industries. Banking and FinanceCredit conditions were little changed on balance over the reporting period. Equity market volatility increased and corporate bond spreads widened some. Banking contacts reported slow but steady growth in business loan demand, but greater demand for purchases of equipment and owner-occupied real estate. Activity in the leveraged loan market picked up, with contacts noting increased competition from commercial finance companies and greater demand on the secondary market. Agricultural contacts reported that banks were helping farms restructure costs for the coming season to shore up margins. However, in some cases troubled farmers were forced to search for new lenders when denied credit. Growth in consumer loan demand remained modest, again led by the relative strength of auto lending. Contacts noted moderate downward pressure on pricing and standards across a variety of loan categories. Prices and CostsCost pressures remained mild overall. However, the severe winter weather pushed up prices for energy commodities, creating supply shortages and disruptive price spikes in some areas, especially for propane and natural gas. For instance, a contact reported that a grain elevator withdrew its propane from storage and resold it for home use. Another business contact reported that because homes have priority in natural gas delivery, her company faced a supply shortage and was forced to shift its production schedule. Other producers chose to delay production rather than pay high prices. Most contacts expected energy markets to return to normal once warmer weather arrives. Prices for cement, drywall, lumber, copper, and rare earth metals rose. Prices for steel, scrap, and iron ore were lower even though the winter weather interrupted shipments. Wage pressures edged up, and were stronger for skilled workers. Many contacts indicated that non-wage labor costs increased because of higher healthcare premiums. AgricultureSevere winter weather disrupted the flow of agricultural products between farms and markets during the reporting period. Crops that were sold stayed on farms longer than intended as transportation problems delayed shipments. Contacts also reported shortages of trucks and drivers to deliver inventories from the large harvest last fall. Demand for crops has been better than expected, particularly for corn, pushing inventories lower and prices higher. Soybean prices drifted up as uncertainty regarding the harvest in South America weighed on markets. Concerns about high costs for land rentals were also widespread. Livestock producers reported improving bottom lines driven by higher prices for milk, hogs, and cattle combined with lower feed costs. However, some hog farms reported losses of young pigs because of disease. Dairy producers have seen a boost in demand from exports. Return to top The economy of the Eighth District has continued to grow at a moderate pace since the previous survey. Recent reports of planned activity in manufacturing have been positive, while reports in services have been negative on net. Residential and commercial real estate market conditions have continued to improve. Lending at a sample of District banks was little changed during the fourth quarter of 2013. Wage increases have been moderate, while prices and employment levels have increased modestly. Consumer SpendingContacts reported that retail sales in the past three months increased slightly compared with the same period last year. Two thirds of contacts noted somewhat higher sales, while one third saw no change. Half of the retailers reported that sales levels met their expectations, while the other half reported that sales were below expectations. Three fourths of contacts noted that inventories were at desired levels, and the rest noted that inventories were too low. Three fourths of contacts noted no change in the mix of high- and low-end products, while the rest noted more sales of high-end relative to low-end products. Reports from auto dealers about sales in the past three months were mixed. One in four car dealers surveyed saw increased sales compared with the same period last year; half saw no change, and the rest saw decreased sales. Half of contacts reported an increase in used car sales relative to new car sales; 12 percent reported the opposite, and the rest saw no change. Thirty-eight percent of contacts reported increased sales of low-end vehicles relative to high-end vehicles; 25 percent reported the opposite, and the rest saw no change. Sixty-three percent of contacts noted that inventories were at desired levels, while 37 percent noted that inventories were too high. Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityReports of plans for manufacturing activity have been positive since our previous report. Several manufacturing firms reported plans to add workers or expand operations in the Eighth District, while a smaller number of manufacturers reported plans to reduce employment. Firms in automobile, plastic products, auto parts, appliance, food, alcoholic beverage, and machinery manufacturing plan to hire new employees and expand operations in the Eighth District. In contrast, firms that manufacture television sets, semiconductor devices, metal products, and carbonated beverages reported plans to lay off workers. According to a recent survey, manufacturers saw increased sales over the past three months, compared with a year ago. Several industrial contacts noted disruptions in operations because of cold weather; disruptions included gas or electricity outages, difficulty commuting to work, and delays in logistics. Reports of planned activity in the District's service sector have been negative on net since the previous report. Firms in mortgage, telephone answering, disinfecting and pest control, pharmaceutical benefit management, and social security benefit management services reported plans to lay off workers or reduce employee hours. In contrast, firms in health care, telecommunication, computer-system consulting, legal, fitness and recreation, online shopping, and food distribution services reported new hiring and expansion plans in the District. Real Estate and ConstructionHome sales have continued to increase throughout most of the Eighth District on a year-over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2012, December 2013 year-to-date home sales were up 16 percent in Louisville, 17 percent in Little Rock, 7 percent in Memphis, and 4 percent in St. Louis. December 2013 year-to-date single-family housing permits increased in the largest metro areas of the District, compared with the same period in 2012. Permits increased 8 percent in Louisville, 12 percent in Memphis, and 11 percent in St. Louis. In contrast, permits decreased 9 percent in Little Rock. Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions in the District have continued to improve. A contact in northwest Kentucky reported that office leasing continued to struggle while the demand for industrial space continued to improve. A contact in northeast Arkansas noted modest improvement in commercial real estate. A contact in northwest St. Louis County reported that office leasing in 2013 increased for the fourth consecutive year and expected a strong start in 2014. Commercial and industrial construction improved throughout most of the District. A contact in Louisville noted several on-going commercial construction projects in Hardin County, Kentucky, and in downtown Louisville. Contacts in Memphis continued to report new commercial construction in Jonesboro and Paragould. A contact noted a new office building project in northwest St. Louis County and a new industrial manufacturing plant in Wentzville, Missouri. A contact in Little Rock reported a plan for a mixed-use project that includes commercial space and a plan for an outlet mall in Little Rock. Banking and FinanceA survey of District banks found little change in overall lending activity during the fourth quarter of 2013. During this period, credit standards and creditworthiness of applicants for commercial and industrial loans increased slightly, while demand improved moderately and delinquencies decreased moderately. Credit standards and creditworthiness of applicants for prime residential mortgage loans increased moderately. Demand was much weaker overall, with some respondents reporting substantial weakness, and delinquencies decreased moderately. Credit standards and creditworthiness for auto loans and credit cards remained mostly unchanged, while demand decreased moderately and delinquencies edged down slightly. Credit standards, creditworthiness of applicants, demand, and delinquencies for other consumer loans decreased. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesRed meat production in the District for 2013 was 1.2 percent higher than in 2012. The production increase was driven by the District's largest producers in Illinois, Indiana, and Missouri. Coal production in the District for January 2014 was 6.2 percent lower compared with January 2013. Prices, Wages, and EmploymentA survey of Eighth District businesses indicated that wages grew at a moderate pace, while prices and employment increased modestly over the past three months. Sixty-seven percent of contacts reported that prices during the past three months remained about the same relative to the same period last year, while 21 percent of contacts indicated that prices were somewhat higher. Fifty-seven percent of respondents indicated that wages during the past three months have stayed about the same relative to a year ago, while 33 percent noted somewhat higher wages. Finally, 72 percent of contacts reported that employment levels have remained the same over the past three months, compared with a year ago, while 20 percent reported an increase and 11 percent reported a decrease. Return to top The Ninth District economy experienced moderate growth since the last report. Increased activity was noted in consumer spending, residential and commercial construction, commercial real estate, professional services, manufacturing, and energy and mining. Tourism was mixed, while residential real estate activity decreased and agricultural conditions weakened for farmers. Labor markets tightened since the last report, and wage increases were moderate. Prices generally remained level with a few exceptions noted. Consumer Spending and TourismRetail sales activity increased moderately. A Minnesota-based restaurant and bar chain reported that recent same-store sales were up 2 percent to 5 percent from a year ago. A mall manager in Minnesota noted that apparel retailers reported an increase in resort wear sales and that restaurants and bars were busy. Two furniture retailers were expanding showroom space in North Dakota and Montana. A car dealership in Minnesota noted that mechanics were working overtime to meet demand for repairs in large part due to cold, wintry weather. A Montana auto dealer reported solid sales activity in January. Tourism was mixed, as extremely cold weather was balanced by strong snow depth in several areas of the district. Cold weather slowed the number of visitors to the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. A Minnesota ski resort reported that cold weather slowed ski lift sales on a number of days. However, several ski resorts in Montana reported that lift ticket sales and lodging were up over last year, as the region benefited from good snow conditions. Looking ahead, Minneapolis' convention and tourism bureau anticipates that attendance at events in 2014 will be the largest in more than 10 years. Construction and Real EstateCommercial construction activity continued to grow since the last report. New hotels are planned or under construction in several Minnesota markets. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, a large retail mall and several industrial as well as mixed-use developments were planned. The retail vacancy rate dropped 50 basis points in the fourth quarter from the third quarter of 2013 in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. However, the value of January commercial permits in Sioux Falls, S.D., was down slightly from a year ago. Overall residential construction activity increased. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, the value of January residential permits grew by 28 percent from January 2013. The value of January multifamily residential building permits in Billings, Mont., increased from January 2013, but single-family decreased. The value of January residential building permits in Sioux Falls decreased significantly from a year earlier. Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the last report. A recent report by a Minneapolis-St. Paul area real estate analytics firm noted that absorption of space is solid and that investors expect more activity across all property types. Residential real estate market activity decreased since the last report. In the Sioux Falls area, January home sales were down 13 percent and inventory was down 4 percent, while the median sale price increased 5 percent relative to a year earlier. In La Crosse, Wis., January home sales and the median price decreased from January 2013. Meanwhile, January home sales were down 13 percent from the same period a year ago in the Minneapolis area; the inventory of homes for sale was down 11 percent, while the median sale price rose 12 percent. ServicesActivity at professional business services firms increased since the last report. A February Minneapolis Fed ad hoc survey of lawyers, accountants, engineers, architects, IT consultants and other professional business services firms noted optimism. Most respondents expected more orders and increasing billable hours. A lawyer noted that transactional activity was up and that clients' business increased during the past two years; the lawyer expected this to continue. Recent revenue was up at several Minnesota advertising agencies compared with a year earlier. ManufacturingDistrict manufacturing activity increased moderately since the last report. Purchasing managers responding to a January survey by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) reported that manufacturing activity increased in Minnesota and the Dakotas. A company in the early stages of planning a $1.7 billion nitrogen fertilizer plant in North Dakota exceeded its fundraising goals. South Dakota's state government withdrew $13 million in loan commitments for a shuttered Aberdeen beef slaughter plant that declared bankruptcy and was sold last December. Energy and MiningActivity in the energy sector remained brisk. Mid-February oil and gas exploration in Montana and North Dakota decreased slightly from recent months, primarily due to extreme cold; however, production remains at record levels. Unexpected demand for propane to dry corn at harvest time, along with severe cold, led to a surge in demand for the fuel. A judge's decision opened the doors for approval of a $250 million solar power development in Minnesota. Overall mining activity was stable. District iron ore mines were operating at near capacity. Meanwhile, fourth quarter 2013 palladium and platinum production was up in Montana compared with the same period in 2012. AgricultureConditions continued to soften for district farmers, while livestock and dairy producers remained in better shape. More than half of respondents to the Minneapolis Fed's fourth quarter (January) Survey of Agricultural Credit Conditions said farm incomes decreased in the last three months of 2013, and two-thirds expected incomes to fall in the first quarter of this year. Cattle and hog producers continued to benefit from high prices and falling feed costs, as did dairy producers, according to survey comments. Informal survey results suggest that farmers are reacting to falling corn prices and intend to plant fewer acres of corn and a potentially record high acreage of soybeans this coming spring. January prices received by farmers fell from a year earlier for corn, wheat, soybeans, hogs and chickens; prices increased for cattle, milk, eggs and turkeys. Employment, Wages, and PricesLabor markets tightened slightly since the last report. A software company expansion in North Dakota will result in 150 construction jobs, followed by increased employment of up to 180 new workers over the next few years. A home improvement retailer announced plans to hire about 1,000 workers in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area to fill spring positions. A workforce center in western Minnesota noted strong demand for welders and health care workers, such as certified nursing assistants. In contrast, a Minnesota-based retailer announced plans to lay off 400 to 500 employees, while another Minnesota company will lay off more than 180 employees in its legal publishing division. A printing plant in Minnesota will close, laying off 170 workers. Overall wage increases were moderate. Wages remained at high levels in the oil-drilling areas of North Dakota and Montana, but the pace of increase has moderated recently. Prices were generally level with a few exceptions noted. Minnesota gasoline prices remained level since the last report. Some metals prices were down slightly. Meanwhile, District consumers of residential propane faced prices two to three times higher than a year ago due to strong demand and supply constraints. Return to top The Tenth District economy remained stable in January and February and was expected to improve during the next few months. Consumer spending declined moderately as a decrease in automobile, retail, and restaurant sales outweighed an increase in tourism activity. Manufacturing activity expanded moderately, and expectations for future activity remained positive. Construction and residential real estate activity decreased slightly, while commercial real estate activity strengthened. Contacts anticipated stronger real estate and construction activity in the coming months as the weather improves and demand remains strong. Bankers continued to report steady overall loan demand, improved loan quality, and stable deposit levels. Agricultural growing conditions for winter wheat deteriorated, while livestock and crop prices edged higher. Energy activity remained strong, and capital expenditures were expected to increase along with drilling activity. Prices increased slightly for both finished goods and raw materials, with further gains expected in the next few months. Wages rose modestly in most industries, and contacts continued to report difficulty finding workers for some skilled positions. Consumer SpendingConsumer spending declined moderately in January and February but was expected to increase modestly in the coming months. Contacts noted a variety of reasons for the recent slowdown including typical seasonal patterns, extreme winter weather, regulatory and political uncertainty, and a softening in consumer confidence. Although retail sales fell over the past month, sales remained slightly above year-ago levels. Automobile sales decreased moderately in recent months and fell to levels that were well below one year ago. However, automobile inventories continued to build, and contacts anticipated modest improvement in sales over the next few months. Restaurant sales also dipped sharply in February, but were consistent with year-ago levels and were expected to rise in the next few months. Tourism activity was significantly stronger than one year ago, with hotel occupancy rates and room rates both higher. Increased snowfall improved skiing conditions in the District and led to more ski-related tourism. Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityManufacturing and transportation activity increased moderately since the last survey period, while other business activity was unchanged. Manufacturing activity picked up for both durable goods and nondurable goods, with production, shipments and new orders expanding at a faster pace among durable goods manufacturers. Overall, manufacturing activity and capital expenditures remained above year-ago levels, and expectations for the future were positive. Contacts in professional and high-tech services, healthcare services, and wholesale trade reported roughly stable sales since the last survey period and anticipated activity to pick up in the coming months. Transportation companies reported stronger sales in February, and contacts were increasingly optimistic about future activity. Real Estate and ConstructionConstruction and residential real estate sales decreased slightly, while commercial real estate activity strengthened from the previous survey period. Residential sales declined slightly, while inventories remained low and fell further. Low- and medium-priced homes continued to drive sales, while higher-priced home sales remained sluggish in most of the District. Residential realtors reported additional home price gains, and expected residential real estate activity to improve in the near-term as demand increases due to seasonality. Builders reported that the number of starts was flat during the survey period, but construction activity was expected to strengthen in the coming months, with prices and buyer traffic both expected to increase. Mortgage activity fell slightly compared to the last survey period and compared to a year ago, but was expected to increase in the coming months as a rise in home purchase loans was anticipated to outweigh the decrease in refinancings. Commercial real estate contacts reported a decline in vacancy rates, a slight increase in absorption, and higher sales. Commercial real estate construction softened slightly but was still up over last year and was expected to increase in the coming months. BankingBankers reported steady overall loan demand, improved loan quality, and stable deposit levels in February. Most respondents reported steady demand for commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, consumer installment loans, and agriculture loans. Demand for residential real estate loans declined during the survey period. Bankers reported improved loan quality compared to a year ago, and all bankers expected the outlook for loan quality to either improve or remain the same over the next six months. Credit standards remained unchanged in all major loan categories, and respondents reported stable deposits. AgricultureCrop growing conditions deteriorated, while livestock prices strengthened since the last survey period. Slightly more than half of the winter wheat crop was rated in fair to poor condition as scattered snowfalls provided only marginal soil moisture. Crop prices edged up from recent lows due to an uptick in export demand and concern that South American corn and soybean production would be lower than previously expected. Feeder cattle prices rose further with historically low cow inventories, and strong export demand supported higher fed cattle prices. Hog prices rose amid an intensifying swine virus outbreak that was expected to constrain pork supplies. In addition, production costs for livestock feeders edged down due to lower feed prices. Agricultural bankers indicated that farmland price appreciation moderated from the rapid pace seen the past few years, and most expected values would level off in 2014. EnergyDistrict energy activity remained solid in January and February and was expected to remain steady in the coming months. Oil rigs increased slightly in the District, particularly in Oklahoma and Colorado. Natural gas rigs edged down despite the surge in natural gas spot prices and record-high withdrawals from storage. Although futures prices for March and April natural gas contracts have risen recently, energy contacts expected natural gas prices to decrease slightly in the coming weeks as storage is restocked. Crude oil prices were expected to remain steady. Propane prices increased significantly for many consumers due to already low propane stocks and unusually cold weather. Capital expenditures were projected to increase in the coming months, particularly in drilling for oil and natural gas liquids. Wages and PricesPrices of finished goods increased modestly, while raw material prices rose moderately in January and February. Wages ticked up and were expected to continue to move higher in the months ahead. Retail, automobile, restaurant and manufacturing contacts noted price increases for both inputs and finished products. However, raw material prices were reportedly rising at a faster pace. These contacts anticipated additional price increases in the months ahead. Builders also reported an uptick in the price of construction materials, particularly roofing. Wages rose modestly in most industries, with transportation and automobile contacts reporting larger increases. Retail and restaurant respondents expected wages to increase at a faster pace over the next six months after minimal gains in recent months. Contacts in the professional and technical services, construction, and transportation industries expected the largest wage gains in the coming months. Some contacts continued to report difficulty finding skilled workers including technicians, engineers, construction trade laborers, and experienced supervisors. Return to top The Eleventh District Economy grew at a moderate pace over the past six weeks. Manufacturing activity increased overall, although there were a few reports of slowing demand. Retail and automobile sales were slightly weaker but contacts' outlooks were positive. Demand improved in most nonfinancial services industries with the exception of transportation services, which was negatively impacted by severe national weather. Sales of new single-family homes remained on an upward trend, and office and industrial real estate leasing activity remained strong. Loan demand held relatively steady. Energy activity remained solid, while agricultural conditions worsened. Price increases were noted in several industries, although most were modest. Outlooks were optimistic across most industries. PricesMost responding firms said prices were stable to up slightly over the reporting period. There were a few instances of accelerating prices. Fabricated metals producers noted continued increases in selling prices and expect more in the next six months. Food producers said that selling prices had moved up due to rising input costs, especially for dairy and beef. One airline reported a modest increase in ticket prices. Some transportation firms expected increases in shipping rates in coming months due to higher fuel costs. Retail prices were stable overall and auto selling prices were unchanged. Natural gas prices rose marginally over the course of the last six weeks, peaking at $7.63 in early February and ending the reporting period at $5.35. This was driven by the exceptionally cold winter, which led to a drawdown of inventories to the bottom of its 5-year range. The price of WTI also rose over the last six weeks, trading as high as $100.35 at the end of the period. This price behavior was driven in part by heating oil demand, which has also been bolstered by the severe winter, and debottlenecking at Cushing, OK. Labor MarketEmployment levels held steady or increased slightly at most responding firms. Staffing firms said employment levels were up modestly and expected to hire additional workers. Accounting and legal firms reported a modest increase in employment levels. One transportation services firm expected to increase payrolls significantly this year while another one continued with an incentivized buyout to reduce employment. Fabricated metals and food manufacturing firms reported increased hiring due to stronger demand. A recreational vehicle producer noted employment was up moderately and expected to continue hiring. Labor shortages were reported for engineers, truck drivers, mechanics, machinists and construction workers. There were some reports of upward wage pressure. High-tech respondents noted moderate wage pressure for high-skilled workers including electrical engineers. Primary metals contacts and food producers noted slight increases in wage pressures for skilled and technical workers. Airlines reported upward pressure on wages, and one airline had increased salaries modestly. In addition, a transportation services firm noted wages were up slightly, and accounting contacts reported marginal wage pressure. Single-family housing contacts continued to note rising wage pressures. ManufacturingReports from manufacturers were mostly positive and outlooks were optimistic. Construction-related manufacturers said that demand increased since the last report, despite bad weather locally. Fabricated metals producers reported strong demand, a result of robust commercial and residential construction. Contacts noted demand is well above last year's levels. Demand for primary metals softened seasonally since the last report, although most contacts said demand was somewhat better than this time last year. Energy-related manufacturing contacts and food producers noted steady demand at healthy levels. Paper manufacturers said demand was flat to up and running slightly ahead of expectations. Demand for transportation equipment was mixed, in part due to bad weather in the region, but it was still well above year-ago levels. Contacts in high-tech manufacturing reported a slight improvement in orders since the last survey period. Responding firms said that demand for memory chips remained strong and demand for logic devices remained weak but stable. Inventories were reported as stable and employment levels were flat to slightly up. Most contacts expect stronger demand this year as they expect the world economy to pick up moderately and replacement rates of high tech devices to increase. Refinery contacts noted that utilization rates fell slightly, in part due to weather effects. The production growth of major chemicals was mixed. Refinery and petrochemical margins remained healthy. Retail SalesRetail sales were a little weaker this reporting period due in part to bad weather nationally but year-over-year growth remained positive. According to three national retailers, demand in Texas slightly outperformed the nation since the last report. Contacts' outlooks for the rest of this quarter and the remainder of the year are positive. Automobile sales softened slightly since the previous report. In north Texas, this was attributed to cold weather. Year-over-year demand ranged from down slightly to up slightly. Inventory levels varied by manufacturer, and generally were not a source of concern. Contacts' outlooks for the remainder of the quarter and the year were mostly optimistic. Nonfinancial ServicesStaffing firms said demand was up more than expected, and that they plan to increase hiring. One contact noted requests for IT professionals started rising again after maintaining an already high level over the past several months. Contacts were more optimistic than at the time of the last report. Accounting firms said demand continued to trend upward, although there was some softness in tax services. Outlooks were cautiously positive. Legal firms noted a slight increase in demand over the past six weeks and it was up notably from last year. Transportation service firms noted mixed demand. Railroad cargo volumes fell slightly below year-ago levels, with severe weather nationally largely to blame. Coal, grain and nonmetallic minerals saw good growth, and chemicals and petroleum shipments rose modestly. Weakness was seen in shipments of lumber and wood and motor vehicles. The outlook remained positive with strong growth expected in the first part of 2014. Small parcel shipping decelerated since the last report but was up from a year ago. Retail trade continued to be the largest driver of growth, and the outlook was optimistic. Air cargo volumes were up since the last report but down slightly from a year ago. Respondents in the maritime shipping industry said loaded container volume declined slightly, but that for 2013 as a whole container volumes rose moderately. Airline demand was solid to slightly stronger according to contacts. Severe winter weather across the nation caused some temporary disruptions, but demand rebounded quickly. Demand was in line with or slightly above year ago levels. Outlooks were optimistic. Construction and Real EstateSingle-family home sales remained on an upward trend over the past six weeks, although one contact noted a slight slowdown in the pace of new home sales in recent weeks. Inventories of new and existing homes remained at extremely low levels. One respondent noted the low inventory of developed lots could hamper single-family building activity later in the year. Apartment demand remained solid and construction activity continued at high levels. Rental rate growth was above the historical average in most major metros. One contact was concerned about possible overbuilding in urban areas. Office and industrial leasing activity was strong. Sales activity remained at high levels and contacts expect it to increase this year, noting a more friendly lending environment. Outlooks were positive and commercial development is expected to continue to rise this year. Financial ServicesFinancial sector performance remained relatively level over the past six weeks. Demand improved marginally for commercial real estate, middle-market, mergers and acquisitions, and consumer loans. Some softness was reported in residential real estate lending. Loan pricing remained relatively unchanged at competitive levels, and loan quality continued to strengthen. Deposit volumes increased slightly on net after fluctuations in the beginning of the year; rates remain low and static. Respondents' outlooks are hopeful for a better year, noting less client uncertainty and potentially growing interest in loans. EnergyEleventh District demand for oil field services remained healthy over the past six weeks. Contacts noted that activity in Texas is particularly strong, both inland and offshore, and they were moderately more optimistic for the first half of 2014 than in prior reporting periods. AgricultureAfter gradually easing throughout the fall, district drought conditions worsened slightly in January and early February. Wheat crop and pasture conditions deteriorated somewhat due to lack of sufficient rainfall. Cotton prices have rallied since December, which may lead more farmers to favor cotton over other row crops when making planting decisions this spring. Return to top Economic activity in the Twelfth District expanded at a moderate pace during the reporting period of late December through mid-February. Price increases for most final goods and services were minimal, and wage gains remained quite modest on net. The pace of retail sales stepped down, although demand for business and consumer services rose. District manufacturing activity was mixed. Production activity in agricultural and resource-related industries expanded on balance. Activity in residential and commercial real estate markets continued to expand. Financial institutions reported that loan demand increased overall. Prices and WagesContacts observed minimal price increases for most final goods and services. Fruit and produce prices moved up, and many contacts expect food and water price inflation to pick up in the near term as a consequence of the drought in California. Prices edged up for some construction-related inputs, including wood, insulation, and cement. A higher supply of recycled metals in Asia resulted in lower exports of such metals from the United States, which contributed to downward pressure on U.S. steel input costs and on final prices for steel products. Wage gains remained quite modest on net, although contacts pointed to signs of building upward wage pressures in areas with particularly strong regional economic activity. Wages for some worker types, notably software developers and engineers, continued to increase rapidly. Reports suggested that the rising cost of living in the San Francisco Bay Area may be pushing up wage pressures. Retail Trade and ServicesThe pace of retail sales stepped down. Traditional brick-and-mortar retailers faced fierce competition from online vendors, but recent reports indicated that both in-store and online sales were soft. Retail grocers observed increasing price sensitivity on the part of consumers and noted that even upscale retail grocery establishments experienced pressure on margins. Despite the recognition of some weakness in current conditions, most contacts expect consumer spending to improve or stay the same over the next 12 months. In particular, contacts were optimistic in their outlook for spending on autos and home furnishings. Demand for business and consumer services rose. Demand for cloud computing services remained strong, although contacts noted that many small and medium-sized businesses have continued to invest in their own data centers. Contacts noted that activity in the food service industry continued to improve. Providers of health-care services expect increased demand for services as a result of expanded coverage under the Affordable Care Act. The level of Hawaiian travel and tourism activity in 2013 surpassed past-year records despite a slowdown in the fourth quarter. Contacts also indicated that tourism picked up in Southern California, with occupancy rates in San Diego hotels reaching historic highs. Overall tourism conditions in Las Vegas improved slightly. ManufacturingDistrict manufacturing activity was mixed during the reporting period of late December through mid-February. Contacts noted that year-over-year growth in the electronic components industry resumed after several quarters of decline. Semiconductor sales hit record levels in 2013 and are expected to grow modestly in 2014. The sustained backlog of orders for commercial aircraft supported growth in the commercial aerospace industry, although contacts expect the pace of new orders to slow this year. Defense-related manufacturers reported sluggish overall conditions, and they expect sales, new orders, and capacity utilization to trend downward. Wood and steel product manufacturers noted that extreme weather conditions across the country created problems along their supply chains. Demand for steel used in private nonresidential construction projects continued to improve slowly, although contacts reported low capacity utilization rates at steel mills. Agriculture and Resource-related IndustriesProduction in agricultural and resource-related industries expanded on balance. Demand was stable for most crop and livestock products. Concerns about water costs and availability may cause farmers in the California Central Valley to scale back planting. Contacts expect growers to allocate water to more permanent plantings, such as almond and walnut orchards, before allocating water to annual crops, such as corn. In addition, dairy and meat producers may face higher feed costs due to water shortages. Year-over-year crude oil production increased robustly, although consumer demand for petroleum and gasoline rose more modestly. Demand for electricity and gas by industrial customers grew further. Real Estate and ConstructionActivity in residential and commercial real estate markets continued to expand. Home prices across most of the District climbed further, albeit at a bit slower pace, and contacts indicated that the pace of home sales was below historical averages in many areas. Contacts noted that while mortgage application volume in Idaho increased, completed sales transactions dropped. Most contacts expect homebuilding activity to strengthen this year. Occupancy rates for commercial real estate trended up in some areas, and increasing permit activity and sales of empty lots suggest that commercial construction may pick up further. In other areas, contacts noted that existing available square footage, especially in retail-oriented properties, has stifled new construction. Public infrastructure projects, as well as a large number of high-rise commercial construction projects, have been announced or are under way in Honolulu, Seattle, Los Angeles, and the San Francisco Bay Area. Financial InstitutionsFinancial institutions reported that loan demand increased overall. Lending grew robustly in selected areas, and contacts noted that asset quality improved at most banks. Contacts noted that credit remains cheap and available for large firms but less accessible by smaller businesses. Ample liquidity in the marketplace continued to perpetuate substantial competition among lenders for business from high-quality commercial borrowers. Contacts indicated that some financial institutions relaxed underwriting standards in an effort to win new business or maintain existing business relationships. In the District's Internet and digital media sectors, there were several notable mergers and acquisitions during the reporting period, and the pace of initial public offerings picked up slightly. Private equity activity was mostly stable, and venture capital financing was strong. The volume of venture capital deals in the second half of 2013 reached mid-2007 levels, and the value of deals surged in the fourth quarter of 2013. Click here to refresh for the latest updates » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Scott OlsonTraders on the floor of the Chicago Board of Trade pose for a picture prior to the opening of the new trading floor February 18, 1997.BANGALORE (Reuters) - The dollar will easily outperform other major currencies in the coming year, according to foreign exchange strategists polled by Reuters, driven by demand for U.S. assets prompted by a shift in Federal Reserve policy. After cutting its $85 billion of monthly asset purchases by $10 billion twice since December, the Fed has clearly signaled its intentions of closing its quantitative easing programme this year. That initially led to a sell-off in emerging markets and has driven expectations for the Fed to raise interest rates in the second half of next year. &lt;FED/R&gt; Wednesday's poll of over 60 analysts conducted March 3-5, showed the dollar set to gain against the euro, yen and sterling over the next 12 months. "Real interest rates in the U.S. are going to rise and that is going to certainly decrease the (capital) flow outside of the U.S. into other economies," said Geoffrey Yu, a currency strategist at UBS. "We have seen that trend in emerging markets already and are going to see it in other economies as well." The poll showed the euro holding around $1.36 in a month's time, just shy of Wednesday trading level around $1.37. It is expected to weaken over the next year - to $1.34 in three months, and $1.28 in 12. Similarly, the yen was forecast to hold near 102 per U.S. dollar in a month, and then weaken to 104 in three months and 110 in a year. A fall in the yen to 110 per dollar in a year, as the poll predicts, would take the currency to a low not seen since the depths of the financial crisis in 2008. DIVERGENCE Analysts also attribute the broad dollar rally to the divergence in monetary policies in developed economies. While calls for the Fed tightening its policy have increased, expectations are for the Bank of Japan and the European Central Bank to maintain an easing bias to support their economies. Indeed, with euro zone inflation running well below the ECB's target of just under 2 percent, the central bank is under pressure to print money, something a separate Reuters poll showed a growing minority predicting. &lt;ECB/INT&gt; "They (the ECB) have precious little ammunition left, but at the very least they will try and make as much dovish noise as possible," said Kit Jukes, head of foreign exchange research at Societe Generale, referring to Thursday's ECB rates meeting. Over the past few years leading currency watchers as a group have repeatedly called for the euro to weaken, only to see it rise against the dollar. However, if the ECB does ease in a substantial way by way of outright quantitative easing like its counterparts in other developed economies, that trend could reverse. "There can be some justification for the euro strength like a reduction in risk premium and capital flows, but it probably has reached its peak and we expect it to weaken up ahead," UBS's Yu said. The British pound was forecast at $1.66 in one month, and then to weaken to 1.65 in three and 1.62 in a year. (Polling and analysis by Ishaan Gera and Hari Kishan Editing by Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
An art exhibit and book, both titled "Infinity is the Enemy", by artist t. Rutt, bring together Dadaist-inspired art and high finance to start a conversation about the nature and uses of infinity. The motivation for the exhibit is the Black-Scholes-Merton model, which sits at the foundation of modern finance. The model provides one of the basic methods for estimating the correct price of financial instruments like options, and is used broadly in the financial markets.  t. Rutt questions this foundation. His objection stems from the use of infinite time in the original papers that developed the theory of derivative pricing. In those original papers, the notion of a "perpetual warrant", or an options contract that would never expire and be redeemable at any time from now until infinity, was used as a limiting example. This leads to some counterintuitive results, and t. Rutt believes this use of infinite time is inappropriate and devastating to derivative pricing. On the other end of the time spectrum, t. Rutt also has concerns about the ever-shrinking time intervals and push for speed in high frequency algorithmic trading. He presents this as time approaching 1/8. t. Rutt explores these troubling infinities through art inspired by the twentieth century artist Marcel Duchamp. Inspired by Duchamp's "Fountain" — a urinal signed "R. Mutt" (from which t. Rutt derived his name) — the show's central symbol is a toilet seat, positioned to resemble the infinity symbol, and with a representation of limits of time going to infinity and the reciprocal of infinity. The exhibit includes an entire wall of similar toilet seats wrapped in stained military felt pouches. The pouches are adorned with name tags for various economists, financiers, and thinkers that in some way or another contributed to ideas of infinity or financial engineering.  Names include Robert Merton, George Soros, and Nassim Taleb. t. Rutt/Business InsiderEach of the pouches contains a toilet seat and has a name tagThese toilet seats are part of an interesting experiment in price discovery. The pieces are on sale for $70,000 each, and t. Rutt will immediately buy them back for $1,000. This sets up a market where eventually the true value of the pieces can be determined through a process of price discovery. As an extra twist, the thinkers whose names are attached to the seats can come in to the exhibit at any time and receive their named seat for free. t. Rutt/Business Insider"The Corrected Tablets"One of the main pieces in the exhibit is a collection of marble tablets on which excerpts from the foundational papers on derivatives pricing are printed. t. Rutt added his criticisms of the use of infinite time and the injection of concepts from physics into economics and finance onto the tablets. The added comments point out some of the strange things that happen when the expiration date of certain types of derivative contracts extends out into infinity. The original Black-Scholes, Merton, and Samuelson papers were attempting to find a way to determine the value of a warrant — a contract in which the buyer has the option, after an agreed upon amount of time has passed, to buy some shares of an underlying corporate stock at a price fixed at the time the contract is signed. If the stock price is higher on the expiration date, the contract holder can buy the stock at the lower price and pocket the difference. If the stock price is lower, the holder can just walk away, only losing the initial amount they paid for the contract. The Black-Scholes-Merton model gives a way to find the current value of such a contract in terms of some variables pertaining to the underlying stock. The model, and related models like it developed for other types of derivative contracts, are essential to valuing the enormous quantities of derivatives in the financial system. In the original papers, odd things start to happen when the expiration date goes further and further out. When taken to the ultimate limit of infinity — a contract that never expires — the model predicts that the value of a warrant should equal the value of the underlying stock. This has some strange implications, and these implications are at the heart of t. Rutt's project. These tablets can also be viewed on the exhibit and book's website. In another set of pieces, titled "Bad Physics on Good Physics", the Black-Scholes formulas — the equations that are actually used in modeling derivative prices — are painted on the hoods of Tesla cars adorned with the national flags of countries with active derivative markets. t. Rutt describes the piece as "represent[ing] how Tesla uses good physics to solve a large problem in the physical world and contrasts that with the flawed use of physics by Wall Street executives and the resulting instability that hyper-complexity has created in the global financial system". He has also created a series of vinyl coverings for Tesla cars around the same theme. Other pieces in the exhibit explore aspects of infinity from a spiritual and meditative angle, contrasting personal experiences of the infinite to the insertion of infinite time in finance. To see the exhibit, or for more information about the art and the book, call Mary Mihelic at 917-969-0222, or visit the website at infinityistheenemy.com.  You can see his New York exhibtion by appointment at Brush on 9 E. 19th St. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedBill GrossIt's been a really rough few months for PIMCO, once the most awe-inspiring bond fund around. And now a rival shop has added insult to injury. WSJ's Matt Wirz, Daisy Maxey, and Min Zeng report that the local pension fund in Newport Beach, where PIMCO is based, decided to put $100 million intended for the bond market with a Swiss fund called GAM. According to the report, the pension system does invest with other asset managers, but PIMCO was its largest bond manager. This time, they decided to go with a foreign fund. In January, Co-CEO Mohamed El-Erian announced he would be leaving the company in mid-March, and a scathing WSJ report would later reveal part of the reason why. Bill Gross, the other CEO, clashed with El-Erian over investment ideas and referred to himself as "Secretariat," the undefeated racehorse. The backdrop to all of this is that PIMCO's flagship Total Return Fund saw $41 billion in outflows in 2013, an industry worst. All in all, 2013's bond market sell-off was not kind to PIMCO. From this latest report, it looks like scrappy smaller funds are using the shake-up at PIMCO to win new business on PIMCO's own tuf. Tough times. Check out the full report at the WSJ » FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsYesterday boutique investment bank Jefferies reported a 17% year over year decline in its fixed income trading revenue with net revenues of $280 million. That's down from $336.9 million a year earlier. Jefferies is small compared to the JP Morgan's of the world, but this loss is significant as the bank's earnings tend to foreshadow how the rest of Wall Street will do. Take Q3 2013 for example, when Jefferies reported a year over year routing in fixed income — revenue was down 88%. That same quarter Goldman Sachs took a 44% hit in that sector, and JP Morgan took a loss that quarter (though its fixed-income trading revenue was only down 8%). Jefferies also added this little note about a $15 million hit to its revenue, just for your information: Our holdings in Knight Capital and Harbinger Group Inc. were both marked down in the first quarter by $15 million in aggregate. The impact of the mark down is recorded as part of our estimated net revenues. All of that said, it's possible that everything will be fine, and when JP Morgan kicks off Q1 earnings next month (April 11th) everything will be fine and dandy. But this is definitely something to keep in mind. FREE AppDownload
Bill Gates has been the richest man in the world for 15 out of the last 20 years. Even though he's given an astounding $38 billion to his charitable foundation, he keeps getting richer every year. As of March 2014, Gates is worth $76 billion, according to Forbes' annual list of billionaires. That's $9 billion more than a year ago and $4 billion more than six months ago. His net worth has been helped by an uptick in Microsoft's share price (up by about $10 a share since last March), but Microsoft isn't the source of most of his money, and hasn't been for a while. Microsoft accounts for less than one-fifth of his total net worth, according to Bloomberg's Billionaire Index. Most of his wealth comes from his investment company, Cascade Investment. It owns stakes in Canadian National Railway, Berkshire Hathaway, Deere &amp; Co, Liberty Global, Waste Management and other firms, according to forms filed with the SEC. Over the last 10 years, Gates has sold off a large chunk of his Microsoft stake, reports Computerworld's Gregg Keizer. Specifically, in September 2004, Gates had 1.1 billion shares of Microsoft. As of his last trades in February, he owned 337,991,164 shares, according to Yahoo's Insider Trading site (based on forms filed with the SEC). He still owns more than a 4% stake of Microsoft and is still the company's single largest shareholder, according to Bloomberg. But if Gates continues to sell Microsoft shares at the same rate and doesn't acquire more, by 2015 for the first time in the company's history, that could change. Steve Ballmer could become the company's largest stakeholder. In 2013, Gates sold 43,000,000 shares of Microsoft (although he also acquired a few, 5,554), according to Insider Trading records. Ballmer currently holds 333,252,990 shares now, according to SEC forms, and hasn't sold any in years. That's just 47,38,174 shares fewer than Gates.   FREE AppDownload
    Christian Fox, an instructor at CrossFit South Brooklyn, explains the techniques involved in this strength and conditioning workout that has recently crossed over from the ultimate fighting world into the mainstream. FREE AppDownload
Will Wei, Business Insider Business Insider, the publication you are reading (thank you!), just raised a lot of money, William Launder of The Wall Street Journal reports. Mr. Launder is right! We just raised $12 million. The money came from our awesome existing investors, including Jeff Bezos, IVP, and RRE, as well as Gordon Crovitz, one of our board members and the former publisher of The Wall Street Journal (an excellent publication that we recently surpassed in readership) and others. We are grateful to our investors for having confidence in us. But we are even more grateful to you, our readers, for reading us. Without you, we would still be three guys in a loading dock (our original office). Or worse. The main reason we raised the money is that we want to make Business Insider even more helpful and convenient for you.  So what will that mean, specifically? It will mean: And, of course, we'll also be buying a foosball table to go with our ping-pong table. And maybe a jet. (Kidding). You'll see a lot of the site and service improvements over the course of this year and next. In the meantime, thank you again for reading. FREE AppDownload
It's been a mostly quiet morning so far in U.S. trading, but stocks have just erased previous gains as geopolitical headlines cross news wires. Ukraine Foreign Ministry spokesman Yevhen Perebyinis told Bloomberg News that U.N. envoy Robert Serry's car was stopped by unknown armed men in Simferopol, the capital of Ukraine's Crimea region, where the recent escalation of military conflict between Ukraine and Russia has been centered. Perebyinis said Serry called the Foreign Ministry to say he was being held there. The U.N. Secretary-General Jan Eliasson denied that Serry that Serry had been kidnapped, however, as earlier headlines from Russian news agency Interfax suggested. It's unclear what effect all of this has had on price action. U.S. Treasuries have been rallying since the release of weaker-than-expected ISM non-manufacturing survey data at 10 AM ET. The yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note is trading at 2.69%, one basis point below yesterday's close. The charts below show movements in various markets. Across the top from left to right are the S&amp;P 500 index, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures, and NYMEX crude oil futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Autumn Radtke, 28-year-old CEO of Singapore-based virtual currency exchange First Meta, has died. The official cause of death has yet to be released or determined, though some media outlets are citing unclear sources to suggest that it was a suicide. Here's the (very brief) official statement on her death from the company's blog. The First Meta team is shocked and saddened by the tragic loss of our friend and CEO Autumn Radtke.  Our deepest condolences go out to her family, friends and loved ones.  Autumn was an inspiration to all of us and she will be sorely missed. First Meta deals in virtual assets like Linden dollars, the currency of the famous computer world Second Life, as well as several other less noteworthy currencies. Bitcoin is represented here as well, but First Meta only supports sale of Bitcoin and has no mechanism for users to buy it. This arguably doesn't make it a true Bitcoin exchange, as many have described the company, even going so far as to call Radtke a Bitcoin "victim." Here's a screenshot from the site that shows a list of currencies supported by First Meta. Bitcoin is certainly part of the business, but appears to be only a small part of it. Screenshot CORRECTION: The URL of this story says Radtke's first name is Amanda, not Autumn. We apologize for this error. FREE AppDownload
Any mere millionaire can own a supercar these days. But how many can own a supercar yacht? In what could set a record for both speed and excess, a few supercar owners and companies have started building boats modeled after supercars like Ferraris and Lamborghinis. These aren't just wild concept drawings. These are actual boats that can cost four or five times as much as the supercars that inspired them. "These are guys who just love their cars and want a boat to match," said Tim Gallagher, sales and marketing chief at Marine Technology, which has built multiple supercar-yachts. "It's different." Marine Technology's latest creation is the floating Aventador. Gallagher said that a few years ago, he had a boat built to look like his Mercedes. He liked it so much that when he got a bright yellow Lamborghini Aventador—which retails for more than $400,000—he asked Marine Technology to make him a matching boat. The result is a bright yellow beast in the water that has the same fighter-jet wedge shape and nearly the same speed as the Aventador. The company modeled every detail of the boat—from the taillights and headlights to the steering wheel and air vents—on the Aventador, Gallagher said. Even the dashboard is the same, with the iconic "start" button hidden under a small red lid. MTIUnder the hood, however, the floating Aventador boat makes the driving Aventador look puny. Instead of a 700-horsepower engine, the Aventador boat has two 1350 Mercury, twin turbo engines, creating up to 2,700 horsepower. The boat is "capable" of going 190 mph, Gallagher said. Of course, you probably wouldn't be in the water anymore at that speed. The total cost of the floating Aventador is about $1.3 million. "The engines alone cost more than the car does," he said. Mercedes-Benz has also gotten into the supercar-boat game. While the company was creating a concept car inspired by the Gran Turismo driving simulator, it also teamed up with Cigarette Racing to make a matching boat. Cigarette's 50-foot "Vision GT Concept" has twin 1,650-horsepower Mercury Racing engines and a lightweight body that can help the boat reach top speeds of 140 mph. It's got carbon fiber dash panels with silver-face gauges, Bluetooth, and high-tech navigation and audio. Price tag: $1.5 million. Skip Braver, CEO of Cigarette Racing, said that he's had "strong interest" from several potential buyers. "The interest has been incredible," he said. Ferrari doesn't seem to have gotten into the act in an official way. But photos of a $4 million LaFerrari Boat—inspired by the $1.4 million LaFerrari—have recently been making the rounds on the Web. The boat is powered by two 900-horsepower Volvo engines and has five flat-screen TVs and plush leather interiors. A LaFerrari powered by Volvo? Sure, it's a stretch. But since the LaFerrari is already sold out, perhaps you have a better chance of buying the boat. FREE AppDownload
ReutersChina has for some time now struggled with smog, and now Chinese premier Li Keqiang has "declared war" against pollution. Policymakers want to lower emissions of "PM10 and PM2.5, particulate matters in air smaller than 10 and 2.5 micrometers respectively, which are believed to be hazardous to health and major contributors to smog," according to Xinhua. Coal-fired furnaces will be shut down and high-emission vehicles will be taken off the road.While Chinese policymakers try to cut down on pollution, Ma Yongsheng, CEO of Aviation Industry Corporation of China is testing a parafoil smog-clearing drone, according to Darren Wee at South China Morning Post. The drone can carry 700 kilograms (about 1,500 pounds) of smog cleaning chemicals. Ma says the drones will be tested at ports and airports in March. From Wee: "For several years, China has used aeroplanes and fixed-wing drones to spray chemicals in the air which freeze pollutants, allowing the particles to fall to the ground. "The soft-wing UAV can carry three times more weight than fixed-wing drones and is 90 per cent less expensive to operate. The purchase and maintenance cost of the new drone is 20 to 30 per cent cheaper than other types." Click here to see some photos of the drone via Nandu.com. FREE AppDownload
Paul Kane/Getty ImagesAustralian billionaire Gina RinehartThe U.S. and China are now home to a similar number of billionaires, according to Forbes' latest billionaires list. Russia is also a strong presence in a list that encompasses $6.4 trillion in global wealth. Even if you can't be the richest person in the world, it's still pretty cool to be the richest person in your country. Many billionaires have held the title of richest in their country for a number of years, but as always, there are a number of new titleholders this year. Additional reporting by Max Rosenberg. FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoDeals like Facebook's acquisition of Whatsapp have investors feeling pretty optimistic about 2014's mergers and acquisitions market, and that means there are Wall Street banks about to rake in some serious fees. This is a list of who is in the best position to do that. Bloomberg Markets Magazine is out with its annual ranking of which banks dominate deal flow, and make the most money from their advisory and debt/equity issuing services. What's most interesting about the list isn't which bank has taken the top spot — it's JP Morgan, but you may have already guessed that given its size. Right now, what's really interesting is the jockeying toward the middle of the list. This is where smaller, less regulated banks can get in the game, and where the competition — not just for deals, but also for banker talent —  is very heated. Think about it: These days, if you're a banker at a big Wall Street bank inundated with new compliance regulation, these smaller banks are increasingly attractive places to work. Mid-sized firms like Mizuho and Jefferies made their way into the top 20 in 2013 after hovering around the outskirts in 2012. Rothschild, and Societe Generale were knocked off the list all together. FREE AppDownload
The S&amp;P 500 surged and set a new all-time high on Tuesday. Without looking below the surface of the nominal number of the index, some folks will attempt to compare what we're seeing today to what we saw before the crash of 1929 or 2000 or whenever the stock market last fell after hitting an all-time high. "In many meetings we've had with investors, really starting last fall, the phrase “bubble” or year 1999 has been referenced as relevant," wrote Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker. " The “price to opportunity” and “price to eyeballs” metrics that appear to be justifying recent tech deals and software and internet valuations are fueling this sentiment." Parker looked a little below the surface in a research note this week, and he shared a key difference between the stock market today and the dotcom bubble of the 1990's. "About 40% of all technology stocks have price-to-sales levels above 5x today, levels seen briefly during the early 1970s but otherwise only during the internet bubble buildup and unwind," he noted. Because the high-flying tech stocks of the dotcom bubble had no earnings, investors looked to the price-to-sales ratios. Parker dug even deeper. "Most of the highly priced stocks are not the mega caps that dominated the expensive spectrum during the internet bubble," he wrote. This is not to say there aren't overpriced tech stocks that could crash. Rather, they just don't account for as big a share of the market as they did in the past. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
For many junior bankers slogging through 100-hour workweeks, pounding out spreadsheets till dawn only to dollop 5-Hour Energy in their morning yogurt, a job on the "buy side" is the light at the end of the tunnel.  Hedge funds and private equity firms have long lured Wall Street's best and brightest junior analysts, but poaching season has come early this year, according to a new report from Bloomberg's Zeke Faux. Apollo Global Management began interviewing analysts last month, spurring other shops on the Street to do the same, Faux reports. Faux writes that the "prestige gap has widened" ever since the financial crisis. It makes sense. With bank bonuses down (often placed in "deferred stock" instead of cash) and compliance up, moving to a hedge fund with higher pay and slightly better hours is more attractive than waiting around a bank to get a promotion. Wall Street is definitely taking note of increased attrition, with top banks like Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan easing back hours on junior bankers. Read the full report at Bloomberg » FREE AppDownload
APThe results of the Institute for Supply Management's monthly survey of firms in the American services sector revealed concern about the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. "The Affordable Care Act is creating significant financial uncertainty to health care organizations," said a survey respondent from the health care and social assistance industry. "With little warning, the negative impact on revenue has been unprecedented." ISM's gauge of monthly hiring trends in the American services sector went negative in February for the first time since 2010. Some of the slowdown may be attributable to the ACA. "This would be in line with the slowdown in health care and social assistance payroll growth to just 1,000 per month in January and December from an average of just under 30,000 for the 12 prior months," says Cooper Howes, an economist at Barclays. "In February, ISM noted that this sector reported the third-largest decline in employment among those reporting, suggesting that this trend could continue." FREE AppDownload
@uberfactsRSO Records sends Paul Hewson (a.k.a., "Bono") the bad news...It sucks to hear the word "no." Even when you've gotten rejected thousands of times (as any successful person has), it's still discouraging. When you hear the word "no" — when a proposal of yours gets rejected — it's easy to think that there might be something wrong with the proposal. Or worse, you. So it's helpful to remember that everyone has heard the word "no." Lots of investors passed on Facebook, Google, Twitter, et al, for example. Lots of publishers sniffed at "Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone" (the U.K. title of the original book before one brave U.S. publisher finally bought it). And at least one record company, it seems, rejected the early recordings of an unknown teenage Dublin band called "U2." U2, needless to say, is one of the most successful bands in history. And the record label that said "no?" They're almost certainly toast. So have a look at this U2 rejection letter that @uberfacts just tweeted around every time you get rejected. Use the feedback to improve your proposal or presentation, perhaps. But don't doubt yourself or stop moving forward just because you heard the word "no." A rejection letter Bono received from a record label in 1979. pic.twitter.com/iUL7Nah9t9 FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderDon't panic about reports that climate change could threaten guacamole at Chipotle. Emily Atkin at ThinkProgress.org noted Tuesday that the company's latest annual report discloses that guacamole and salsas could become too expensive for the company to sell if climate change starts to affect certain crops.  But people are misunderstanding the report — and the company assures us that guacamole is not going away anytime soon.  "This is strictly routine 'risk factor' language as part of the annual financial disclosure," a Chipotle spokesman told us in an email.  Chipotle notes climate change as one of the "risks related to operating in the restaurant industry" in the report, which is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Risks like labor costs, food-borne illnesses, and competition from other businesses are also mentioned by Chipotle. Public companies are legally required to disclose these risks in SEC reports.  In other words, this would be like writing a story saying that eating Chipotle could give you food poisoning.  Here's what Chipotle had to say about climate change in the report:   “Increasing weather volatility or other long-term changes in global weather patterns, including any changes associated with global climate change, could have a significant impact on the price or availability of some of our ingredients. In the event of cost increases with respect to one or more of our raw ingredients we may choose to temporarily suspend serving menu items, such as guacamole or one or more of our salsas, rather than paying the increased cost for the ingredients.” The company temporarily suspended selling antibiotic-free steak in some restaurants earlier this year because of a shortage.  FREE AppDownload
ISMTable 1.The results of the Institute for Supply Management's monthly survey of American services-sector firms are out. The report's headline index fell to 51.6 from January's 54.0 reading, missing economists' consensus estimate of 53.5. The closely-watched employment sub-index fell to 47.5 from January's 56.4 reading, indicative of a contraction in services-sector hiring over the past month. A full breakdown of the report's various sub-components is displayed in table 1. Below are selected comments from respondents to the ISM survey: Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration tweeted a fun pop quiz this morning (which I flunked). What animal has the biggest mouth in the world? Hint: This animal can also live more than 200 years. Here's the answer: NOAABowhead whale mom and calf. It's a bowhead whale. Remarkably, the bowhead is not the longest-lived animal on earth. That distinction, NOAA says, belongs to a staggeringly vivacious clam: The ocean quahog.  More facts about the bowhead here &gt; FREE AppDownload
Americans have been spending less and less of their disposal income on food, American Enterprise Institute's Mark Perry points out in a new post. Perry credits "innovation, technological advances, and the ever-greater supply chain and distributional efficiencies that drive America’s farming industry," for helping drive down food prices relative to other goods and services. Using USDA data, Perry presents four charts that help show how food production has gotten more efficient through the years: AEIThe top left chart shows annual corn yields since 1866, and you can see how corn yields have rocketed since the 1930s. On the top right, you can see how wheat yields have increased three-fold since 1950. Soybean yields are on the bottom left, showing a "steady increase," Perry notes. On the bottom right, we see how milk yields have increased through the years. "With a three-fold increase in productivity since 1950 for growing wheat, four-fold productivity increases for growing soybeans and producing milk, and a six-fold productivity increase for corn, it’s not surprising that food affordability in the US is at an all-time high, when measured as a share of all consumer expenditures and as a share of disposable personal income," Perry concludes.  "Food has never been more affordable in America as a direct result of the fact that the productivity of the US farm sector has never been higher – as the four examples above help to illustrate." FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsYou hear it all the time these days – “There is a relentless bid underneath this market just waiting to buy every single dip…” and you can’t really argue with the statement itself. The dips have become shallower and the buyers have rushed in more quickly each time. Sell-offs took months to play out during 2011 – think of the April-October peak-to-trough 21% decline for the S&amp;P. In 2012, these bouts of selling ran their course in just a few weeks, in 2013 a few days and, thus far in 2014, just a few hours. It’s rather extraordinary. I’ve been thinking about the reasons why for a long time now and I believe I’ve got the answer – my unified theory of everything, so to speak. I’ll lay it out below… Morgan Stanley Wealth Management is now the world’s largest retail brokerage and investment advisory firm, having bought Smith Barney from Citi in its entirety. When it reported 4th quarter earnings the other day, we learned that the firm’s wealth management unit took in a massive $51.9 billion in fee-based or fee-only asset flows for the full-year 2013. Further, we were told that 37% of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management’s total client assets are now in fee-based accounts, a record high. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s wealth division had similarly astounding results – Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management saw “$48 billion in flows to long-term assets under management in 2013, up from flows of about $26 billion in 2012.”  This is a huge amount of gathered assets for one year’s haul. But more importantly for our purposes here, the brokerage reported that “44% of its advisers had half or more of their client assets under a fee-based relationship.” Lastly, Wells Fargo Advisors – which is an amalgam of AG Edwards, Wachovia, Prudential and Wells all in one – said that “at the end of 2013 it had $375 billion in managed-account assets, roughly 27% of the unit’s $1.4 trillion in total assets under management. That’s up from $304 billion in managed-account assets. Are you seeing a pattern? Wells Fargo brokerage account AUM is now 27% fee-based, Morgan Stanley’s is 37% and 44% of Merrill’s Thundering Herd has more than half its assets oriented that way. The nation’s largest traditional advisory firms have accelerated their push toward fee-based management and away from transactional brokerage. This has a huge impact on how the money itself is managed and this in turn greatly affects the behavior of the stock market. These wirehouses, along with JPMorgan and UBS have slightly less than half of the wealth management business in America. Registered Investment Advisories (RIAs) have almost another 25% (the fastest growing channel by far) and they are almost completely fee-based – with the exception of some hybrid brokers-and-advisors. That’s 75% of the wealth business in this country being largely driven toward fee-based strategies and accounts. In 2005, fee-based accounts directly managed by financial advisors and brokers totaled $198 billion. As of year-end 2013, that figure had soared to over $1.29 trillion – more than a sextupling in under a decade. It is safe to say that, while some of these fee-based accounts are managed actively (brokers picking stocks, selling options and whatnot), the vast majority are not. Most of this money is being run more passively – in the absence of a transactional commission incentive for the advisor to trade, why else would he? Edge? LOL. No, the vast majority of this snowballing asset base being reported by both wirehouse firms and RIAs is being put to work in a calm and methodical fashion: long-term mutual funds, tax-sensitive separately managed accounts (SMAs) and, of course, index ETFs. Vanguard, State Street and iShares are to this era of investing as Janus, Fidelity and online day-trading were to the 1990's. In fact, Vanguard’s share of all fund assets – now approaching 20% or $2.3 trillion – is the vexillum behind which the entire do-less movement marches. What this means for the very character of the stock market and the way it behaves is very important. It means that, almost no matter what happens, each week advisors of every stripe have money to put to work and they’re increasingly agnostic about the news of the day. They’ve all got the same actuarial tables in front of them and they’re well aware that their clients are living longer than ever – hence, a gently increased proportion of their managed accounts are being allocated toward equities. And so they invariably buy and then buy more. Whereas yesterday’s brokers were principally concerned with keeping money in motion and generating activity each month, today’s brokers – who call themselves wealth managers by the way – are principally concerned with making client retirement accounts stretch out over decades. Stocks are increasingly the answer to this puzzle. Bonds, with their fixed rate of income, by definition cannot get the job done. This means a bias toward buying equities everyday and almost never selling. It means adding to stocks sheepishly on up days and voraciously on the (rarely occurring) down ones. In short, it means a relentless bid as the torrent of assets comes flowing in every day, week and month of the year. My theory also explains several other mysteries. For one, the lighter volume on the NYSE in recent years – trades are only taking place at the margin and about half of it is ETF creation-redemption related. Most of what’s invested in the market doesn’t move an inch. It also explains the depth-plumbing ratings of financial television. People are behaving differently with their assets, both individuals and the professionals who invest for them, and the TV networks haven’t figured out the right programming to cater to them. The community of really active traders that everyone in the financial media is trying to reach has been estimated at just 3 million. I’d take the under. As the behavior of investors and their advisors has changed, it’s had an anthropomorphic effect on the stock market itself. It is the primary reason for the shallowness and shorter duration of corrections in recent years. It is the reason why both bad news and good news seems to be bought, almost as if the two things were entirely interchangeable. It is the reason for the low ratings of shows about trading and for the almost eerie lack of volume on the major exchanges. It’s amazing that almost no one has connected these dots before. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA logo of Tesla Motors on an electric car model is seen outside a showroom in New York(Reuters) - Tesla Motors Inc &lt;TSLA.O&gt; will open more than 30 sales outlets and service centers this year in Europe and will expand its network of battery-charging stations there, the U.S. luxury electric-car maker said Tuesday. The moves support Tesla's aggressive plan to boost overseas sales in 2014. By the end of the year, Tesla said it expects combined sales of the Model S sedan in Europe and Asia will be nearly twice the number of sales in North America. Last year, Tesla sold 22,477 cars, most of them in the United States. It has begun selling the Model S in some European countries, including Germany and Switzerland, and will introduce a right-hand-drive version this spring in the United Kingdom. Tesla also aims to launch the car later this year in China. The young company last month announced plans to build the world's largest battery plant, a $5-billion "gigafactory" in the U.S. Southwest, by 2017 with Panasonic and other partners. The company's shares were up slightly at $255.20 in early trading. (Reporting by Paul Lienert in Detroit; Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
A Chinese solar company just announced that it will miss an CNY89.9 million interest payment on a CNY1 billiion bonds. Currently $1.00 equals 6.13 Chinese Yuan (CNY). This marks the first major default in China's bond market. While this might be bad news for the bondholders, the big picture thinkers see this as an encouraging development for China's developing financial markets. "[W]e think it's a good thing as a normal economy needs defaults to better price bonds and other debt products," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ting Lu. "Let’s not underestimate Chinese onshore investors’ resilience. Defaults of some debt products are not on a similar scale to a collapse of a major financial institution." "We judge the systemic risk to the overall bond and financial markets from this potential default to be small," said Barclays' Jian Chang. Here's more: A default should encourage greater differentiation in the credit market and better priced credit risks. Sentiment in the high-yield bond market could be hurt by a default, but 'risk-free' assets would likely be supported given the currently easer liquidity conditions. We've noted that credit spreads have widened, with risk-free government bond yields falling at a much faster pace than corporate bonds, before 10 February as the liquidity risk premium eased notably. Assuming a default does happen, we think the credit risk premium will likely become more important. As this would also be the first default by a privately-owned company, we think onshore market participants will likely start to distinguish more between corporate and local government investment vehicle debt (eg local governments have more resources and large assets), SMEs and large company debt, and private company and state-owned company debt. Chang included this chart breaking down the Chinese bond market. Barclays FREE AppDownload
ADPADP's February National Employment Report is out. The report estimates 139,000 American workers were hired to private-sector payrolls in February, below economists' consensus forecast of 155,000. ADP's estimate of January payroll gains was revised down to 127,000 from 175,000. Below is ADP's summary of the report: Goods-producing employment rose by 19,000 jobs in February, up from a downwardly-revised figure of 12,000 in January. Nearly all of the growth came from the construction industry which added 14,000 jobs over the month; this followed downwardly revised increases of 17,000 in the prior two months. Manufacturing eked out a small gain in February adding just 1,000 jobs. January’s decline in manufacturing was upwardly revised to a loss of just 7,000 jobs. Service-providing industries added 120,000 jobs in February, up from a downwardly-revised January figure of 116,000. The ADP National Employment Report indicates that professional/business services contributed the most to growth in service-providing industries, adding 33,000 jobs. This was well below the average gains for the industry in 2013. Expansion in trade/transportation/utilities accelerated slightly after a poor showing in January, gaining 31,000 jobs in February. Financial activities employment fell for the second straight month after January’s reading was downwardly revised to an 8,000 job loss. These two months have been the weakest for financial services employment since January and February of 2011. "The U.S. private sector added 139,000 jobs in February, well below the average over the last 12 months,” said Carlos Rodriguez, president and chief executive officer of ADP. Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody’s Analytics, said, "February was another soft month for the job market. Employment was weak across a number of industries. Bad winter weather, especially in mid-month, weighed on payrolls. Job growth is expected to improve with warmer temperatures.” Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
“While the Attorney Generals have opined that COFINA’s revenues are not considered available Commonwealth revenues and thus not available for clawback, the Supreme court has not ruled on constitutionality of segregating COFINA revenues as it does not have the jurisdiction to provide advisory rulings…”   – Vikram Rai, Mikhail Foux, George Friedlander, “US Municipal Strategy Special Focus: A SWOT analysis of Puerto Rico's general obligation (GO) debt.” Citi Research. March 4, 2014. (https://ir.citi.com/cMm2h98Rp9tSvpjHgog8JjkvV9nHKabJxXdgP2acTiVJE%2FwBX2m1wA%3D%3D) We fly to Paris in hours. Our first meeting there is Thursday late morning. Ukraine and the cross border effects on Europe’s banks are a serious issue. Meanwhile PR is in focus again.  The Citi team listed above has issued a superbly done report. Here are Cumberland’s bullets: 1.    It looks as though Puerto Rico will get the new financing done next week. It will be at a high cost with a junk rating.  Governance may be NY law, not PR law, for whatever that means if they default down the road. Size is $3 to $3.5 billion. Rate on it will be 8.5% to 9.5% on the low and 10% to 11% on the high end. We think it comes on the low side. Tax-free, PR GO debt with dispute adjudication under NY law. Our best guess is 9% on the longest piece. Remember, the NY law issue is untested for PR debt issuance. There are many theories, but there are zero precedents. 2.    It buys Puerto Rico about two years’ time to get their house in order. Will they do it? No one knows. Does the present young Governor Padilla want to? Yes, if he can. Will this be a turning point for PR? Maybe. 3.    The new money means cash needs are met for the next two years and no default occurs on most of the present bonds. Be careful here. Most is not all.  Some of them are still at risk, and the research needed to sort this out really means getting into the weeds. Remember, this is still a junk credit so undocumented and un-researched assertions and assumptions may be dangerous to an investor’s health. 4.    Temporary removal of the default threat temporarily helps bond insurers and most existing PR debt. 5.     A MUNI RALLY IS AT HAND. Why? Three reasons.  1.Muni funds hold more than one standard deviation above mean in cash because of the fear of redemptions (source: Ned Davis Research). 2.Detroit is resolving slowly; the losses and haircuts for bondholders are becoming known. 3.PR probably doesn’t default. The long-term muni yield in the highest grade is still higher than the taxable Treasury. This will not last forever.  It may change very soon. 6.    We think that the muni rally from this level can be fierce. We are very bullish on high-grade US-dollar-denominated tax-free bonds. We are long and stay long.  Furthermore, we think the upside yield levels where the highest grade tax-free bond yields more than the taxable treasury is about to reverse.  Finally, the partial hedges on long Munis may show results. 7.    Additionally, and only for those who have the risk tolerance for exposure to junk rated credits, we are also managing a special type of separate account in only PR debt. It is not high-grade. It is currently positioning. We are long junk credit in PR in these special researched accounts. I am heading to Paris. À bientôt. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gleb GaranichBanknotes of Ukrainian hryvnia are seen Kiev May 23, 2012.BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Union is ready to provide 11 billion euros ($15 billion) of financial support to Ukraine over the next couple of years via a series of loans and grants, European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso said on Wednesday. The assistance would be delivered in coordination with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank, and is in part contingent on Ukraine signing a deal with the International Monetary Fund. "The package combined could bring an overall support of at least 11 billion euros over the next couple of years, from the EU budget and EU-based international financial institutions," Barroso told a news conference. The announcement comes a day after the United States offered $1 billion in loan guarantees and said it would send technical experts to Ukraine to advise its central bank and finance ministry on how to tackle economic difficulties. Ukraine is on the verge of bankruptcy because of economic mismanagement, high energy costs and currency turmoil fuelled by a conflict with Russia since the ouster of Moscow-backed President Viktor Yanukovich in February. The West has stepped up efforts in recent days to persuade Moscow to pull its forces from the Ukrainian Crimea peninsula, which they seized after the fall of Yanukovich, and avert the risk of war. The EU also plans to bring forward trade benefits that Ukraine would have received had it signed an association agreement with the EU last year, and will work on providing energy to Ukraine via "reverse flows" of gas from the EU. Kiev's new rulers have said they need $35 billion over the next two years. But its shorter-term requirements are much less and are estimated to be around $4 billion, according to some EU officials. European leaders will hold an emergency summit on Thursday in Brussels to discuss what steps to take next on Russia, having threatened sanctions if Moscow does not reverse course in Ukraine.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregorPeople pass the Bank of England in the City of London.LONDON (AP) — The Bank of England has suspended a member of staff while it conducts an investigation into allegations that the institution condoned or knew about manipulation in the foreign exchange markets. The bank said in a statement Wednesday that their review so far has found no evidence that staff colluded in market manipulation or in sharing confidential client information. Even so, the bank says it has suspended an employee while it investigated. So far, the bank has examined 15,000 emails, 21,000 Bloomberg and Reuters chat room records and 40 hours of telephone recordings. The bank said in a statement: "No decision has been taken on disciplinary action against any member of bank staff." The Financial Conduct Authority launched its investigation last year and said it was examining a number of firms. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA Russian dealer trades during the morning session at the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX) September 17, 1998.Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are talking about right now. Good Morning!   US Futures are unchanged, holding yesterday’s gains, and even the IWM (Russell) is bid higher, following yesterday’s 2.6% surge.   More soothing rhetoric from the Ukraine, coupled with China’s Growth target being unchanged is helping risk sentiment this AM.   Over in Europe, the DAX is retreating small in light volume, as investors weigh better than expected economic data ahead quieting doves into the ECB meeting tomorrow.   The FTSE is getting hit for 60bp, weighed down by HSBC (#s) – and the energy complex is under pressure as China targets pollution control and their PMI posts light.   We have some slight stress in Russia, with their CDS popping towards 9M highs, and their equity market retreating 1% as repercussions for Crimera weigh on investor sentiment.      In Asia, the Nikkei popped 1.2% as property stocks flew higher – despite the miner sentiment Aussie shares closed at a 6Y high – and India managed a slight gain as many are equity optimistic into their election cycle.   Globally Property stocks and Banks are enjoying the biggest tailwinds. The 10YY is flat in the USA, as it is now trapped between the 100 and 200dmas into ADP and Beige Book data today.   The DXY is up small, as the $ is making gains against both Yen and Euro.   Industrial metals are up small, despite China’s light PMI – while gold is off small.   We continue to see pressure in the Crude Complex, with Oil off 50bp as API reports inventory builds into DOE data today.   Nat Gas is off 1%, despite calls for US exports to increase into Europe, to offset Russian influence.     At 8:15 today, we get the ADP employment data – at 10 we get both the Bank of Canada Rate Decision, and US Services ISM – at 10:30 DOE data for the Crude Complex posts, and at 11 we have at decent size POMO operation.   The Fed’s Beige Book gets released at 2 – and we have 2 Fed members speaking later tonight – Fisher and Williams. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe Bank of Japan has been injecting lots of liquidity into the financial system over the past year in an effort to stop deflation and raise the CPI inflation rate to 2% on a sustainable basis. January’s monetary base was up 56% y/y. So far, the BOJ can take credit for boosting the inflation rate to 1.4% during January from -0.9% last March. However, it did edge down over the past two months. The core CPI inflation rate (excluding food &amp; energy) has been positive for the past four months through January, when it was 0.6%. That’s still awfully low, but it beats the 55 consecutive months of negative readings from January 2009 through July 2013. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Don't Blink. (1) Shorter panic attacks. (2) Russian markets were blitzed on Monday. (3) Back on melt-up track? (4) Low inflation good for valuations. Deflation bad for earnings. (5) Yellen’s report says temporary factors depressing inflation. (6) There’s deflation in the Eurozone’s PPI. (7) BOJ pumping lots of liquidity to boost inflation a little bit. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
With the recent string of data, most observers recognize that a dramatic move by the ECB tomorrow, such as QE or a negative deposit rate, is unlikely.  The focus now is on two possible actions:  A small repo rate cut and/or formally decision to cease sterilizing the SMP bond purchases.   We regard the former as token and symbolic.  On the latter, we may have been wrong about, not appreciating that the Bundesbank had apparently softened their opposition.  A note later today will outline our views and market implications.   The service PMI rose to 52.6 from 51.7.  The flash readings for Germany and France improved in the final reading.  Of note, Italy's showing was most impressive rising to 52.9 from 49.4 in January and expectations for 49.8.  It was the first move rise above 50 in four month.  New business was particularly strong, at multi-year highs.  This helps blunt the softer manufacturing PMI earlier this week.   Spain, on the other hand, disappointed with a 53.7 reading compared with 54.9 in January and expectations for a small gain.  The composite PMI rose to 53.3 from 52.9. Employment gained and output prices ticked up to 49.3 from 49.2.      The gradual recovery in the euro area is intact.   The UK service PMI slipped to 58.2 from  58.3.  The market was prepared for a larger pullback. The employment reading rose to new record highs.  The Markit compilers opined that the data is consistent with UK growth of 0.7% here in Q1.  Separately, the BRC reported a 1.4% drop in prices in February after a 1.0% year-over-year drop in January.  It is the largest drop since the BRC time series began in 2006.   Sterling has recorded lower highs this week and lower lows.  To maintain this streak it needs to slip below $1.6640 and that would also require breaking below the uptrend line drawn of the Feb 24 low (~$1.6585).   In larger picture, after rallying strongly in the first half of February, from near $1.6250 to about $1.6825, sterling has been chopping out a consolidative range and that consolidation continues.  If the euro has not responded well to good news, then Sweden has not responded poorly to weak economic news.   Industrial production was expected to have risen by 0.5% in January, but instead fell 0.3%.  Orders data plummeted by 13.9% instead of the 8.9% drop economists expected. There were some mitigating factors.  First, the February PMI services rose to 56.8 from 55.,9.  Second, the revisions in December industrial production to -0.3% from -1.0% the level of output is better than expected.  Third, industrial orders are a volatile series and the 15.4% rise in December was revised to 18.5%.    The krona is holding its own.   The euro has slipped toward SEK8.8450, just ahead of the shelf built over the last three sessions.  A break would target SEK8.80.  We note that the 5-day average is set to cross below the 20-day average, indicating a change in the short-term trend.   Australia reported Q4 13 GDP of 0.8%, just above expectations and Q3 growth of 0.6%.  Of note, net exports added 0.6 percentage points to growth, while investment cut 0.5 percentage points.  This coupled with news that HSBC China Service PMI rose to 51.0 from 50.7 and that at the start of the National People's Congress (parliament) Premier Li Keqiang announced a 7.5% growth target this year, may have encouraged some Aussie buying.  It traded at a new high for the week, but offers in front of $0.9000 proved too much.   The North American session features the Bank of Canada meeting.  Rates are widely expected to remain unchanged at 1.0%.  The central bank has most recently been emphasizing the risks of too low inflation.  A dovish stance continues to be expected.    The US dollar is in the upper half of its recent CAD1.09-CAD1.12 range.  Within in it, support is seen in the CAD1.1020-50 area and resistance CAD1.1130.   We are more inclined to buy US dollar on pullbacks.   The US economic calendar is three potentially market moving items:  The ADP employment estimate, the service ISM and then later the Fed's Beige Book.  The consensus is for a lackluster 155k increase in ADP figures.  In recent months, the ADP estimate has often been above the initial BLS private sector estimate.  Nearly regardless of the report (of Friday's official figures), there is little doubt that the Fed will announce another $10 bln of tapering at the FOMC meeting in a couple weeks.  The service ISM is expected to ease to 53.5 from 54.0.  Recall the index peaked last August just shy of 58.  It finished last year at 53.0.  We are paying just as much attention to how the data is reported relative to expectations than just the absolute data as a weak Q1 is already baked in the cake.  Expectations have been adjusted and the data is more mixed to better than expected than was the case in January and February.    The Beige Book will be most important from this perspective too:  how much have transitory factors weighed on GDP, including, but not exclusively the weather.  Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stephane MaheA model presents a creation by German designer Karl Lagerfeld at Paris Fashion WeekGood morning! Here's what you need to know. The world braces for sanctions on Russia. Tensions between Russia and Ukraine have cooled, but there's talk of sanctions after the Russian incursion into the Ukrainian region of Crimea. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry will meet with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov at a conference in Paris attended by the five permanent members of the U.N. security council. China sets a growth target. The government targeted GDP growth of 7.5% and CPI at 3.5%, in line with expectations. The difficulty is that by setting a such a high goal, China isn't leaving much room to reform the economy, as CNBC's Deirdre Wang Morris pointed out. Growth in the eurozone picks up. The latest services and composite PMI data out of Europe indicates a general drift higher for its economies. At 56.4, German PMI hit a 33-month high and at 53.4, Italian PMI reached a 34-month high. The French economy proved to be the drag, coming in at 47.9 (anything below 50 signals contraction). It's a busy day of economic data, starting with the ADP Employment Report at 8:15 a.m. ET. Economists expect private payrolls increased by 158,000 in February. "Though ADP employment rarely forecasts the BLS jobs number with precision, it is nevertheless statistically superior to any of the other high frequency payroll predictors such as jobless claims or ISM data," wrote Credit Suisse economists. "Aside from what it means for payrolls, we also consider it an important labor market gauge in its own right given its large sample size. Interestingly, ADP has held up well in recent months even as the BLS payroll data have slowed (three month averages:230K ADP vs 168K BLS private)." Then at 10:00 a.m., ISM Non-Manufacturing will be released. Economists are expecting ISM services fell to 53.5 in February from 54.0 in January. "The evidence from February's regional services sector surveys was mixed, however, with the Richmond Fed index edging higher and the Dallas Fed dipping," Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth and Paul Dales wrote clients. "Nonetheless, they both remain at a fairly low level. Otherwise, we suspect that the harsh weather played some role in dampening overall conditions." The Fed will publish its monthly Beige Book at 2:00 p.m. Credit Suisse economists highlight: "The March 5 Beige Book may feature the return of the 'modest-to-moderate' growth language that was absent in January but used in every previous report back to last spring. After painting a more upbeat picture of the US economy in its January Beige Book, the Fed in next week’s report may describe more sluggish activity. Of interest to the market will be the extent to which disruptive weather is cited by the Fed’s business contacts." Global markets take it easy. After an up-and-down week spurred by the situation in Ukraine, markets were calm in overnight trading. Japan's Nikkei climbed 1.20% and Korea's KOSPI grew 0.88%. European markets were slightly lower and U.S. futures were pointing south. Smith &amp; Wesson crushes earnings. The gunmaker announced third quarter net sales of $145.9 million, up 7% from the year-previous quarter. Handgun sales jumped 29.9% year over year. The stock is up 10% in after hours trading.  China has its first major corporate debt default. Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science and Technology Company announced that it cannot pay interests to the tune of 89.8 million yuan ($14.6 million) on its 11 Chaori bond due on March 7.  "Defaults of some debt products are not on a similar scale to a collapse of a major financial institution. As we think corporate bonds and incoming trust loan defaults will not lead to a credit crunch, and we are reasonably confident with our 7.6% GDP growth forecast for this year," according to Bank of America's Ting Lu. The news has, however, caused corporate bonds to fall, and is "a negative for riskier debt products," writes Ting.  Japan eyes Bitcoin regulation. After the spectacular failure and bankruptcy of MtGox — the Tokyo-based Bitcoin exchange — Japanese authorities will clarify their view on the cryptocurrency, the WSJ's Takashi Mochizuki and Mitsuru Obe report. "People familiar with a draft being prepared for a cabinet meeting Friday say the government will reaffirm that Japan doesn't consider bitcoin a currency, the basis for the argument by Japan's banking watchdog, the Financial Services Agency, that bitcoin shouldn't be subject to its oversight," they report. But the draft does reportedly say Bitcoin would be subject to a tax in Japan. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA magnifying glass is held in front of a computer screen in this picture illustration taken in BerlinLONDON (Reuters) - Crashing websites and overwhelming data centers, a new generation of cyber attacks is costing millions and straining the structure of the Internet. While some attackers are diehard activists, criminal gangs or nation states looking for a covert way to hit enemies, others are just teenage hackers looking for kicks. Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks have always been among the most common on the Internet, using hijacked and virus-infected computers to target websites until they can no longer cope with the scale of data requested, but recent weeks have seen a string of particularly serious attacks. On February 10, internet security firm Cloudflare says it protected one of its customers from what might be the largest DDoS documented so far. At its height, the near 400 gigabyte per second (gbps) assault was about 30 percent larger than the largest attack documented in 2013, an attempt to knock down antispam website Spamhaus, which is also protected by Cloudflare. The following day, a DDoS attack on virtual currency Bitcoin briefly took down its ability to process payments. [ID:nL2N0LG1Y8] On February 20, Internet registration firm Namecheap said it was temporarily overwhelmed by a simultaneous attack on 300 of the websites it registers, and bit.ly, which creates shortened addresses for websites like Twitter, says it was also knocked out briefly in February. In a dramatic case of extortion, social networking site Meetup.com said on Monday it was fighting a sustained battle against hackers who brought down the site for several days and were demanding $300 to stop. It would not pay, Meetup CEO Scott Heiferman told Reuters. DDoS attacks were at the heart of attacks blamed on Russian hackers against Estonia in 2007 and Georgia during its brief war with Russia in 2008. It is unclear if they played a role in the current stand-off between Moscow and Ukraine in which communications were disrupted and at least one major government website knocked out for up to 72 hours. A report this month by security firm Prolexic said attacks were up 32 percent in 2013, and a December study by the cyber-security-focused Ponemon Institute showed them now responsible for 18 percent of outages at U.S.-based data centers from just 2 percent in 2010. The average cost of a single outage was $630,000, it said. "It's really a game of cat and mouse," said Jag Bains, chief technology officer of Seattle-based DOSarrest, a firm that helps government and private-sector clients protect their sites. "I'd like to say we are ahead, but I just don't think it's true." As well as growing in volume, he said attacks were becoming much more sophisticated in targeting the most vulnerable parts of websites, making even a small attack much more effective. The aims of attackers include extortion, political activism, providing distraction from data theft and, for "hobbyist" hackers, just testing and showcasing their skills, security experts say. Other victims in recent months have included the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Royal Bank of Scotland and several major U.S. banks, which analysts believe were targeted by Iran in response to sanctions. Iran denies the charge. Many attacks, however, appear to be homegrown. The most popular point of origin for DDoS attacks in the last three months of 2013, Prolexic said, appeared to be the United States, followed by China, Thailand, Britain and South Korea. As well as hijacking computers, Prolexic said attackers are increasingly targeting smartphones, particularly those using Google's Android operating system, which by the third quarter of 2013 accounted for more than 80 percent of new phones. Even wireless printers, experts say, have sometimes been co-opted into attacks, packed together in botnet groups. That, they warn, can put previously unprecedented cyber firepower in the hands of relatively unskilled hackers, who increasingly include teenagers. Last year, British police arrested a 16-year-old as part of their investigations into the attack on Spamhaus, while German police arrested an 18-year-old after a DDoS attack paralyzed the Saxony government website. DDoSarrest says some of the most recent attacks it has dealt with were on U.S. universities and largely blamed on students showing off or protesting against high tuition fees. The sheer volume of attacks means many perpetrators are never traced, and some computer security experts complain law-enforcement authorities remain reluctant to prosecute the youngest offenders. Until recently, DDoS attacks were seen less of a threat than attempts to steal customer data or intellectual property. That, however, is changing fast. Last year's Spamhaus attack was described by some as slowing the entire global Internet, and most experts agree the largest attacks can slow access across entire regions. Cloudflare says there were anecdotal reports of slowness in Europe during the latest attack. Crashing data centers can wreak havoc with other services based there, including phone systems and vital industrial facilities. The Ponemon report showed DDoS attacks are now the third largest cause of outages after power system failure and human error, outstripping traditional causes such as weather events. Even if attacks do not succeed, the cost of mitigating them is rising fast, providing many millions of dollars of business for firms such as Cloudflare and Prolexic, taken over last month by Akamai Technologies for about $370 million. Namecheap, which aims to offer cut-price hosting for websites, said it had already spread its data centers across five countries and three continents to better handle constant attacks but was still overwhelmed by the roughly 100 Gbps incident. Attacks on that scale, Prolexic says, now occur several times a month and are now frequently so complex and fast moving that automated systems can no longer tackle them. Prolexic itself runs a permanently manned operation centre at its headquarters in Florida, allowing it to keep one step ahead and instantly move material between data centers. "It's very hard to know what to do," said Alexander Klimburg, a cyber security expert at the Austrian Institute for International Affairs currently on exchange at Harvard Kennedy School of Government. "The tools to do this can be purchased online incredibly cheaply, while the damage they can do and the cost of mitigating it is exponentially higher." (Editing by Will Waterman) nL6N0LV2WR FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLogos are seen outside a branch of Barclays bank in LondonLONDON (Reuters) - Barclays &lt;BARC.L&gt;, Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt; and three other banks have been accused in a lawsuit of manipulating the London gold fix, a benchmark used throughout the $20 trillion market for the metal, Bloomberg reported. Kevin Maher, a New York resident who says he bought and sold gold and gold futures and options, sued in Manhattan federal court on Tuesday, the report said, alleging the five banks overseeing the century-old benchmark colluded to manipulate it. According to the report, Maher is seeking to represent a class of all investors who, from 2004 to now, held or traded gold and gold derivatives that were priced based on the gold fix or who held or traded COMEX gold futures or options. In a statement, Deutsche said it believed the suit was without merit and that the bank "will vigorously defend against it". Barclays declined to comment. The other banks involved in the fix - ScotiaMocatta, Societe Generale &lt;SOGN.PA&gt; and HSBC &lt;HSBA.L&gt; - could not immediately be reached for comment. Gold fixing happens twice a day in a teleconference between banks. At the start of each fixing, the chairman announces an opening price to the other members, who relay that to their customers and, based on orders received from them, instruct their representatives to declare themselves buyers or sellers at that price. The price is adjusted up and down until demand and supply are matched, at which point the price is declared "fixed". The fixings are used to help determine prices globally. Regulators including Germany's Bafin are looking more closely at how banks set benchmarks such as the gold fix after the Libor rigging scandal exposed widespread interest rate manipulation. Maher is seeking unspecified damages on behalf of the class, Bloomberg said. In January, Deutsche Bank said it was quitting the process after withdrawing from the bulk of its commodities business. South Africa's Standard Bank &lt;SBKJ.J&gt;, now selling a controlling stake in its markets unit to China's ICBC &lt;601398.SS&gt;, is emerging as a frontrunner to buy Deutsche's place in the global gold price-setting process, sources familiar with the matter told Reuters last month. (Reporting by Jan Harvey; Editing by Dale Hudson) FREE AppDownload
Why is the economy so weak? It's simple: Inequality. Income gains for the 95% have been meager for a long time, but up until the crisis, households could take on debt to compensate. Now credit has been harder to come by, and so household buying power is limited. Marie Schofield, chief economist, and Toby Nangle, head of multi asset allocation at Columbia Management, have a great little note up reminding people of the basic force that's holding back the economy. For decades, the top 5% have been accumulating an ever-increasing share of the national income in the U.S.: Columbia Management The remaining 95% were only able to keep their buying power up by taking on more debt. Lately that hasn't been an option. They write: This phenomenon largely fell under the radar in the last three decades, however, as spending inequality was less pronounced and consumption trends were less affected. This dichotomy is largely explained by the powerful expansion in the supply of and access to credit for households across the income spectrum that allowed them to smooth their consumption via increased borrowing, in combination with a steady decline in savings rates over those same years. As a result, lower income households were more easily able to boost their spending until a tipping point was reached during the global financial crisis. Most studies now point to the lack of income growth for the bottom 95% of the income distribution in combination with an unsustainable rise in borrowing as a causal factor that escalated the crisis. Debt levels relative to income escalated during the same period, but more perilously for the bottom 95% (see Exhibit 2). Debt is merely borrowed spending from the future, and becomes particularly onerous if incomes do not rise in concert. A study by Cynamon &amp; Fazzari postulates that in the recession’s aftermath, tighter borrowing standards cut off credit flows to the bottom 95% leaving them with fewer resources to maintain consumption. While household debt dynamics appear to have stabilized and deleveraging is largely complete, income inequality can continue to rise in the U.S. and consumption remain depressed because wealthier households typically save a greater share of income and have a lower propensity to spend per dollar of income. In addition, permanently tighter lending standards have left many households unable to access credit or unwilling to do so. So it is both a demand and a supply story as it relates to credit. But the main point is that income gains have been mediocre for a broad swath of middle income households for some time, and borrowing temporarily masked the demand drag. In combination these factors have been a contributing factor to the slow recovery of U.S. consumption and economic growth. There you go. Mediocre income gains for the 95% and no easy access to credit to compensate for that. Depressingly simple. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe corporate logo of financial firm Morgan Stanley is pictured on a building in San DiegoZURICH (Reuters) - Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt; is weighing the sale of its private bank in Switzerland which manages roughly 10 billion Swiss francs ($11.28 billion) in assets, a source close to the matter told Reuters. The U.S. bank is looking at several options, one of which is an outright sale, the person said on Wednesday. International banks including Standard Chartered &lt;STAN.L&gt; have been offloading Swiss operations for reasons including the need to raise funds or because private banking is no longer core to their operations. Morgan Stanley has made changes to how it has organized its private bank in Asia, for which Switzerland was originally intended as a platform to expand, according to the source. The news was first reported by Swiss finance portal finews.ch on its website on Wednesday. The Swiss business was not part of a deal last March in which Credit Suisse &lt;CSGN.VX&gt; agreed to buy Morgan Stanley's wealth management arm in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, with $13 billion in assets. (Reporting by Katharina Bart; editing by Jason Neely) FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderYesterday we wrote about Flexcoin, the latest Bitcoin site that had to shut down after a massive theft that wiped it clean of every single Bitcoin it held online. The company has now posted an explanation of how it happened: During the investigation into stolen funds we have determined that the extent of the theft was enabled by a flaw within the front-end. The attacker logged into the flexcoin front end from IP address 207.12.89.117 under a newly created username and deposited to address 1DSD3B3uS2wGZjZAwa2dqQ7M9v7Ajw2iLy The coins were then left to sit until they had reached 6 confirmations. The attacker then successfully exploited a flaw in the code which allows transfers between flexcoin users. By sending thousands of simultaneous requests, the attacker was able to "move" coins from one user account to another until the sending account was overdrawn, before balances were updated. This was then repeated through multiple accounts, snowballing the amount, until the attacker withdrew the coins. (Here and Here) Flexcoin has made every attempt to keep our servers as secure as possible, including regular testing. In our ~3 years of existence we have successfully repelled thousands of attacks. But in the end, this was simply not enough. Having this be the demise of our small company, after the endless hours of work we've put in, was never our intent. We've failed our customers, our business, and ultimately the Bitcoin community. Please direct any and all questions to admin(at)flexcoin(dot)com and we will reply to you as soon as possible. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersUS Airways and American Airlines signs are pictured at Philadelphia International AirportWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Sometime soon, maybe in the next month or so, a federal judge is expected to decide whether the creation of the world's biggest passenger airline, as envisioned by two companies and the U.S. Justice Department, was really a good idea. But even if she decides to give the merger a thumbs down, an unlikely outcome that would shake investors and the public, it might be too late for her to do much anyway. The two companies, American Airlines and US Airways, consummated their merger to become American Airlines Group Inc &lt;AAL.O&gt; on December 9, almost three months ago, according to a securities filing at the time. Executives distributed new stock on the NASDAQ exchange, launched a marketing campaign and touted the future benefits of an integrated flight network, all without a final judgment on whether the merger was legal. Records reviewed by Reuters show that corporations in the last three years of mergers and acquisitions never waited for the end of a waiting period created by a 1974 antitrust law known as the Tunney Act. The law said the waiting period should be at least 60 days. Officially known as the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, the law was designed to slow down deals that U.S. antitrust enforcers struck with merging companies. The time is meant to subject the deals to extra scrutiny by the public and a judge, to deter corrupt influence on the legal process. As one of America's guardians of fair competition, the Justice Department's Antitrust Division will sometimes challenge big mergers with a lawsuit. If settled, the cases are subject to the Tunney Act waiting period before they are final. But in 18 antitrust settlements filed in court by the Justice Department since January 2011, the deals on average closed 12 days later, according to filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and public statements from the companies. The companies did so with the consent of the department, which says the practice is legal and that companies would miss out on savings if they held off. None waited for a judge's approval before closing. Never has the Tunney Act stopped a merger from going through, and because of legal precedent and pressure from the Justice Department, it would be hard for a judge to stop one. While the law prohibits a judge from ruling on the legality of a settlement within 60 days, "the legislation doesn't, by itself, prohibit the closing of any transaction," said Joe Sims, a partner at the law firm Jones Day who represents American Airlines. The clock started on the airlines' waiting period on November 12, the day the Justice Department filed court papers to settle its suit against the merger. The clock can run indefinitely. Because of the law, U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly in Washington, D.C., has invited public comment, and the Justice Department is due to file any possible modifications of the settlement on Monday. The judge could reject the settlement, although no antitrust lawyers contacted by Reuters expect that she will. Critics assail the growing irrelevance of the Tunney Act as yet another example of a weakening of U.S. policies launched in the 1970s and meant to check the influence of money and lobbying on government operations. "If the merging parties do this, then we've got a completed merger. What's a judge supposed to do?" said Seth Bloom, a former chief counsel to the U.S. Senate Antitrust Subcommittee. Bloom, now in private practice, said the law's waiting period had become largely toothless. "They're painting new colors on the planes. It's done," he said. At stake for merging companies, from airlines to manufacturers, are millions of dollars in savings they get by integrating their businesses months before a judge hands down a ruling on the legality of the settlement, a ruling that some call a formality anyway. "There would be a big practical issue if there was a different rule," said Sims, who worked at the Justice Department in the 1970s. "It would be, I think, considerably more difficult for the Department of Justice to convince people to enter into consent decrees if they knew the consent decrees were not going to be effective until the end of some indeterminate amount of time." The airlines consummated their deal after a U.S. Bankruptcy Court judge in New York said they did not need to wait for the end of the Tunney Act's waiting period. Little known outside antitrust circles, the Tunney Act was passed amid fears that the Nixon White House tampered with a case against ITT Corp. The company, then one of the largest in the United States, had offered to help finance the 1972 Republican national convention. Although no quid pro quo was proven, Congress created the waiting period to give federal judges time to inspect antitrust settlements for political meddling, and to allow the public to comment. During the waiting period, the law requires companies to disclose information about their lobbying and instructs the Justice Department to consider public comments about a settlement. It also commands that a judge rule on whether a settlement "is in the public interest." Because of the Tunney Act, the airlines were required to disclose details of their lobbying that might not otherwise have come to light. US Airways representative Jim Millstein spoke six times in two months with Deputy Attorney General James Cole, the U.S. Justice Department's No. 2 official, the airlines disclosed. A federal judge ruled last year that nothing in the law explicitly bars companies from closing a deal early, so long as a judge has not entered an injunction to preserve the status quo. To block mergers from closing "could interfere with many time-sensitive deals or prevent the realization of substantial efficiencies," the Justice Department wrote in a 2006 court filing. A spokeswoman declined to comment. Not all judges have gone along with closing deals early. In 1988, a federal judge issued a preliminary injunction to preserve the status quo in a merger settlement until he finished his Tunney Act review. Companies are willing to risk being in limbo because of the widespread belief among antitrust lawyers that no judge will seriously challenge a settlement once the Justice Department and merging companies have hammered one out. In 1995, during the Justice Department's antitrust case against Microsoft Corp&lt;MSFT.O&gt;, an appeals court in Washington, D.C., warned judges against second-guessing the department's expertise and decisions. Judges should not "assume the role of attorney general," which would overstep the constitutional line between judicial and executive functions, the appeals court said. Darren Bush, a University of Houston law professor who has studied the Tunney Act, said: "In the wake of that case law, why on earth would I even bother making the parties wait?" Informed that parties are not waiting, the Tunney Act's architect, former U.S. senator John Tunney, said the practice undercuts the "cooling off" period he intended. "I'm distraught to think that the Justice Department is playing games with that law. I think that that's a big, big mistake," Tunney said in a phone interview. He lost reelection in California in 1976 and went on to practice law. Now 79 and retired in Idaho, he attacked the Justice Department for going along with companies' wish to close early. "I think it's a violation. I think it's a violation of the clear meaning of the law," he said. (Editing by Howard Goller) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuya Shino Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe speaks during a lower house budget committee session at the parliament in Tokyo February 20, 2014. TOKYO (Reuters) - Russia's incursion into Ukraine is setting off alarm bells in Tokyo, where officials worry that any push by Japan's Western allies to impose economic penalties will undermine its drive to improve relations with Moscow. While U.S. President Barack Obama and other G7 leaders of advanced economies talk of sanctions or other punitive responses, Japanese officials say ties with Moscow remain on track. There has been no change in the direction of economic and resource diplomacy between Japan and Russia, Trade Minister Toshimitsu Motegi said on Tuesday. In reality, "they are in a state of shock", one diplomatic source close to the situation said, referring to Japanese officials. "It is a big pain in the back for the Japanese government." Closer ties are being driven by mutual energy interests, as Russia plans to at least double oil and gas flows to Asia in the next 20 years and Japan is forced to import huge volumes of fossil fuel to replace lost energy from its nuclear power industry, shut down after the 2011 Fukushima disaster. "If Western countries come together and agree to take action such as imposing economic sanctions, we may be affected," said a senior executive at a Japanese company involved in the energy sector in Russia. "We don't know what will happen at the moment, but I am afraid the energy sector usually gets a lot of attention." Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has made better ties with Moscow a priority since returning to power 15 months ago and has met Russian President Vladimir Putin five times, despite a territorial dispute dating from World War Two. By contrast, Abe has not met either of the leaders of neighboring South Korea or China. Tokyo is embroiled in disputes over uninhabited islands and wartime history with both countries. Russian forces seized Crimea, an isolated Black Sea peninsula with an ethnic Russian majority, without firing a shot following the ousting of the pro-Moscow Viktor Yanukovich as Ukrainian president last month. All eyes are now on whether Russia makes a military move in predominantly Russian-speaking eastern Ukraine, where pro-Moscow demonstrators have marched and raised Russian flags over public buildings in several cities in the last three days. Following his return to power in December 2012, Abe has travelled extensively, pushing for expanded trade ties and investment for Japan as he attempts to jolt the country's economy out of more than a decade of stagnant growth. Russian ties have been a major focus of that diplomatic effort and Abe's visit to Moscow in April last year was the first by a Japanese prime minister in a decade. He has met Putin more than any other leader, Japan's foreign ministry confirmed. Abe attended the opening ceremony of the Sochi Winter Olympics last month, while Obama, French President Francois Hollande and British Prime Minister David Cameron stayed away. Whilst there, he announced a visit to Japan by Putin in the autumn. Japanese Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida said on Wednesday that there was no change in the diplomatic schedule with Russia but that Japan was closely watching the situation. Abe said Japan's stance would be decided after comprehensively considering relations with the United States, Russia and the international community. Official comments by Japanese government officials have stressed the need to respect territorial integrity, softer language than Tokyo signed up to in a G7 statement on the Crimean situation on Monday. G7 leaders pulled out of talks on a G8 summit in Sochi, according to the statement. Suga on Wednesday reiterated the need to respect Ukrainian sovereignty. "Our nation's position is that we strongly call for a peaceful solution and we expect all parties involved to act carefully, with self-restraint and responsibility," he told a news conference, adding that the G8 summit was in June and he would refrain from commenting on any decision on taking part. Japan has a lot at stake. An agreement on the islands east of Hokkaido seized by Russia with the eviction of 17,000 Japanese would involve a peace treaty, after the two sides failed to formally close the war in 1945, and pave the way for closer energy ties. A dramatic transformation is under way in Russia's energy sector, with oil flows being redirected to Asia via the East Siberia-Pacific Ocean pipeline and Putin pushing for more gas sales to reduce Moscow's reliance on Europe. Japan now consumes a third of global liquefied natural gas (LNG) shipments, and purchased 10 percent of its supplies from Russia's east, which lies on Japan's doorstep. Oil imports from Russia rose almost 45 percent in 2013 and accounted for about 7 percent of supplies to the world's fourth-biggest crude importer. With all the country's nuclear reactors shut down and no timetable for restarts, Tokyo is desperate to diversify and slash costs of energy imports and Japanese companies are involved in projects to export more gas in liquid form. "A worsening relationship between the US and EU with Russia may damage Japan's ongoing improved dialogue with its closest neighbour if economic, trade, or banking sanctions follow," said Tom O'Sullivan, founder of independent energy consultancy Mathyos Japan. "This could impact Japan's gas and oil imports from Russia as well as investments in upstream energy assets at a time when Japan's energy security is still threatened due to the continued closure of all of its nuclear power plants." (Additional reporting by Kaori Kaneko, Yuka Obayashi, James Topham and Osamu Tsukimori; Editing by Alex Richardson) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBernanke talks during Global Financial Markets Forum in Abu DhabiBy Jonathan Spicer and Mirna Sleiman NEW YORK/ABU DHABI (Reuters) - Ben Bernanke earned more in 40 minutes on Tuesday than he made all of last year as head of the U.S. Federal Reserve. Bernanke was paid at least $250,000 for his first public speaking engagement, in Abu Dhabi, since stepping down in January, according to sources familiar with the matter. That compares to his 2013 paycheck of $199,700, and the appearance was only the first of three around the world this week. Bernanke's public post-Fed debut was a departure from the private audiences that his predecessor Alan Greenspan addressed shortly after he handed over the central bank's reins in 2006. In his remarks, Bernanke recounted the Fed's response to the 2007-2009 financial crisis, an issue he is exploring for a book he plans to shop around to publishers. In hitting the speaking circuit, Bernanke is following a well-trod path of top public servants cashing in on the demand for the insights they can offer. In the case of a one-time Fed chairman, those insights could potentially be market-moving. And given that his successor, Janet Yellen, has vowed to stay the course he set, investors could view him as a weather vane for the world's most powerful central bank. "He will obviously be enjoying the fruits of the free market," said Jan Baran, a partner and head of the election law and government ethics group at Washington law firm Wiley Rein LLP. "He will personally experience supply and demand." Lawyers and agents say Bernanke, 60, should be able to command around $250,000 per speech for a while to come. The paycheck "sounds reasonable to me," said one speaking-circuit agent who did not want to be named. Bernanke could have a "very long shelf life," he added. While the fee launches him into the upper echelons of sought-after speakers, it leaves him well short of former President Bill Clinton - the gold standard of Americans turning charisma into cash - who has, by some estimates, earned two or even three times that much for some appearances in recent years. "He's free to offer his own views either historical or forward-looking," said Baran, when asked about the ethics of Bernanke cashing in on his eight years as Fed chairman. "Nothing sounds illegal or unethical and in fact it sounds fairly routine." As Bernanke joked on Tuesday: "I can say whatever I want." Not always, as his predecessor learned. Greenspan drew criticism for giving high-paying investors a potential leg up on their competitors with closed-door remarks about interest rates shortly after he left office, and for comments in March 2007 on the probability of a U.S. recession that roiled financial markets even as Bernanke was reassuring investors about the outlook. SOFT-BALL QUESTIONS At the conference sponsored by the National Bank of Abu Dhabi &lt;NBAD.AD&gt;, attendees paid $2,000 each to listen to Bernanke and other speakers, including former U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers. Greenspan garnered a similar fee in the United Arab Emirates capital in 2008. Bernanke, who is now a distinguished fellow at the Washington-based Brookings Institution think-tank, did not discuss monetary policy, and only brushed on prospects for the U.S. economy. Instead, he choose to elaborate on his experience as chairman, acknowledging the Fed could have done more to battle the financial crisis. Questions from the audience were relatively soft, leading to a discussion about family and baseball. On Wednesday, Bernanke speaks at a Johannesburg forum hosted by the financial firm Discovery Limited, and on Friday he will discuss the U.S. energy boom at a conference hosted by Siemens and IHS in Houston. Through a Brookings spokeswoman, Bernanke declined to comment on his speaking engagements. Greenspan took to the speaking circuit one week after departing office in January 2006 with an appearance at a private dinner hosted by Lehman Brothers. That brought in a reported $250,000, while a private telechat with investors in Japan that same day brought in about $120,000. Greenspan's take on that first day is equivalent to $433,000 today after adjusting for inflation. For his planned memoir, Bernanke is being represented by Robert Barnett, the Washington-based attorney who also handled Greenspan, according to a source familiar with the situation. Bernanke plans to meet publishers soon to discuss the book. While it is unclear how large of a cash advance Bernanke is seeking, Greenspan clinched $8 million. Former Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, who is also publishing a book, made $400,000 from three speeches to financial firms, according to the Financial Times. After handing the reins to Greenspan in 1987, former chairman Paul Volcker also hit the speaking circuit after learning, he later recounted, that he could make a year's salary - about $80,000 for the Fed chief at the time - in a speech or two. (Additional reporting by Ann Saphir in San Francisco and Martin Dokoupil and Stanley Carvalho in Abu Dhabi, editing by Tim Ahmann and Ross Colvin) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work at Bloomberg terminals on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, May 13, 2013.The next three days are going to be busy for the economy. Today we get two big datapoints. From Calculated Risk: • At 8:15 AM, the ADP Employment Report for February. This report is for private payrolls only (no government). The consensus is for 158,000 payroll jobs added in January, down from 175,000 in January.• At 10:00 AM, the ISM non-Manufacturing Index for February. The consensus is for a reading of 53.6, down from 54.0 in January. Note: Above 50 indicates expansion, below 50 contraction. Of course, the ADP is a preview for this Friday's jobs report, which is the mother of all economic data reports. Can't wait. FREE AppDownload
The data in Europe continues to be spotty. Sometimes it looks like garbage. Sometimes it looks okay. Today it looks kind of decent. From Markit, the latest services and composite PMI data indicates a general drift higher for Eurozone economies. Markit FREE AppDownload
Evan Forester/flickrFinally markets are taking a breather. Monday saw huge selling around the world. Tuesday saw huge buying around the world. Today: Nothing much of anything. Markets are basically flat anywhere you look. No major development in Russia or Ukraine is moving anything. In terms of economic news, there are two pieces that people will talk about today. One is China's setting of a 7.5% GDP target. The other is a strong set of European services PMIs today, which should bring a little bit of hope about the European economy. Other than, there's going to be a lot of data in the US coming up. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoJapanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe (R) reviews Japan Self-Defence Forces' (SDF) troops during the annual SDF ceremony at Asaka Base in Asaka, near Tokyo October 27, 2013.Here's a striking example of how strained the relationship is between South Korea and Japan: The latest survey from Asan Institute for Policy found that among South Koreans, North Korean dictator Kim Jong-Un scored higher in favorability ratings than Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. It's a first for the Seoul-based policy institute, but it shows just how bad many of Abe's actions have been perceived outside of Japan. The Diplomat reports: Both China and South Korea in particular have grown noticeably cold towards Japan – not entirely without reason, as Abe has given them plenty of reason for concern. Abe’s decision to visit Yasukuni Shrine in December 2013 added to concerns that he was out to revise Japan’s post-war pacifist stance. In fairness, neither leader scored very high. As The Wall Street Journal reports, Kim Jong-Un scored 1.3 on the ten-point scale, while Abe scored 1.1. But it is rather amazing the dictator could score higher, considering North Korea's near-constant provocations of war, harsh treatment of its own citizens, and searing rhetoric towards the South Korean neighbor it refers to as a "puppet regime." FREE AppDownload
