Note from dshort: This commentary has been revised to include March Real Retail Sales (adjusted with yesterday's CPI report) and today's release of March Industrial Production. Official recession calls are the responsibility of the NBER Business Cycle Dating Committee, which is understandably vague about the specific indicators on which they base their decisions. This committee statement is about as close as they get to identifying their method. There is, however, a general belief that there are four big indicators that the committee weighs heavily in their cycle identification process. They are:  With yesterday's release of CPI data for March, we can now calculate Real Retail Sales. As the adjacent chart shows, this indicator has recovered from its December-January slump and has now hit a record high. The real series was up 0.94% in March and 2.21% year-over-year. As we can see in the YoY chart in the appendix below, the downward trend since early 2011 hit a trough (so far) in January, but the increases in February and March are perhaps signaling a trend reversal. Time will tell.  The latest Industrial Production data includes the Fed's extensive annual revisions published at the end of last month. The March month-over-month increase of 0.7% beat the Investing.com forecast of 0.5%, and the February MoM was revised upward from 0.6% to a whopping 1.2%. The Fed report explains: "The rise in February was higher than previously reported primarily because of stronger gains for durable goods manufacturing and for mining. For the first quarter as a whole, industrial production moved up at an annual rate of 4.4 percent, just slightly slower than in the fourth quarter of 2013." The chart and table below illustrate the performance of the Big Four with an overlay of a simple average of the four since the end of the Great Recession. The data points show the cumulative percent change from a zero starting point for June 2009. We now have three of the four indicator updates for the 57th month following the recession. With one data point left for March, the Big Four Average (gray line below) is showing the two strongest advances of the past twelve months. The overall picture of the US economy had been one of a ploddingly slow recovery from the Great Recession, and the data for December and January months documented a sharp contraction contraction. The recovery over the past two months appears to support the general view that severe winter weather was responsible for the contraction, and that we shouldn't read the slippage as the beginnings of a business cycle decline. At this point it looks like the Winter slump has been reversed.   The next update of the Big Four will be the March Personal Income less Transfer Payments, which will be available on May 1st. The charts above don't show us the individual behavior of the Big Four leading up to the 2007 recession. To achieve that goal, I've plotted the same data using a "percent off high" technique. In other words, I show successive new highs as zero and the cumulative percent declines of months that aren't new highs. The advantage of this approach is that it helps us visualize declines more clearly and to compare the depth of declines for each indicator and across time (e.g., the short 2001 recession versus the Great Recession). Here is my own four-pack showing the indicators with this technique. Now let's examine the behavior of these indicators across time. The first chart below graphs the period from 2000 to the present, thereby showing us the behavior of the four indicators before and after the two most recent recessions. Rather than having four separate charts, I've created an overlay to help us evaluate the relative behavior of the indicators at the cycle peaks and troughs. (See my note below on recession boundaries).     The chart above is an excellent starting point for evaluating the relevance of the four indicators in the context of two very different recessions. In both cases, the bounce in Industrial Production matches the NBER trough while Employment and Personal Incomes lagged in their respective reversals. As for the start of these two 21st century recessions, the indicator declines are less uniform in their behavior. We can see, however, that Employment and Personal Income were laggards in the declines. Now let's look at the 1972-1985 period, which included three recessions -- the savage 16-month Oil Embargo recession of 1973-1975 and the double dip of 1980 and 1981-1982 (6-months and 16-months, respectively).     And finally, for sharp-eyed readers who can don't mind squinting at a lot of data, here's a cluttered chart from 1959 to the present. That is the earliest date for which all four indicators are available. The main lesson of this chart is the diverse patterns and volatility across time for these indicators. For example, retail sales and industrial production are far more volatile than employment and income.     History tells us the brief periods of contraction are not uncommon, as we can see in this big picture since 1959, the same chart as the one above, but showing the average of the four rather than the individual indicators.     The chart clearly illustrates the savagery of the last recession. It was much deeper than the closest contender in this timeframe, the 1973-1975 Oil Embargo recession. While we've yet to set new highs, the trend has collectively been upward, although we have that strange anomaly caused by the late 2012 tax-planning strategy that impacted the Personal Income. Here is a close-up of the average since 2000.         Each of the four major indicators discussed in this article are illustrated below in three different data manipulations: The US Industrial Production Index (INDPRO) is the oldest of the four indicators, stretching back to 1919. The log scale of the first chart is particularly useful in showing the correlation between this indicator and early 20th century recessions.             This data series is computed as by taking Personal Income (PI) less Personal Current Transfer Receipts (PCTR) and deflated using the Personal Consumption Expenditure Price Index (PCEPI). I've chained the data to the latest price index value. The "Tax Planning Strategies" annotation refers to shifting income into the current year to avoid a real or expected tax increase.             For a visual sense of the relative size of Personal Income and Transfer Receipts (Social Security, etc.), here is stacked area chart of nominal values. Many people assume that Transfer Receipts (Payments) are a larger source of income than they really are. There are many ways to plot employment. The one referenced by the Federal Reserve researchers as one of the NBER indicators is Total Nonfarm Employees (PAYEMS).             This indicator is a splicing of the discontinued retail sales series (RETAIL, discontinued in April 2001) with the Retail and Food Services Sales (RSAFS) and deflated by the seasonally adjusted Consumer Price Index (CPIAUCSL). I used a splice point of January 1995 because that date was mentioned in the FRED notes. My experiments with other splice techniques (e.g., 1992, 2001 or using an average of the overlapping years) didn't make a meaningful difference in the behavior of the indicator in proximity to recessions. I've chained the data to the latest CPI value.              Note: I represent recessions as the peak month through the month preceding the trough to highlight the recessions in the charts above. For example, the NBER dates the last cycle peak as December 2007, the trough as June 2009 and the duration as 18 months. The "Peak through the Period preceding the Trough" series is the one FRED uses in its monthly charts, as explained in the FRED FAQs illustrated in this Industrial Production chart. FREE AppDownload
SAUSALITO, Calif. — These days, Twitter cofounder Biz Stone is focused on his new startup, Jelly Industries. Jelly describes itself on its website as “a loose network of nerves that act as a ‘brain,’ similar to the way we envision loosely distributed networks of people coordinating via Jelly to help each other.” Stone, 40, founded the startup last year with partner Ben Finkel. Since leaving the day-to-day operations of Twitter a few years ago, Stone has invested in, and sits on the board of, a host of companies, including Square, Nest Labs, Xanga, and Blogger, which Google now owns. He is married, has a 2-year-old son, Jacob, and derives immense satisfaction using his estimated $200 million wealth to donate to charities and foundations in order to help others. He lives in Marin County. Stone, quiet though affable, rarely does press these days. I caught up with him at VentureBeat’s Mobile Summit, where he talked about today’s mobile landscape, how the smartphone is embedded into our DNA, what it’s like being tremendously wealthy, and how he doesn’t really miss the day-to-day at Twitter’s San Francisco headquarters. He also actively blogs on his website, Bizstone.com. VentureBeat: How much has changed in the mobile space since you founded Twitter almost a decade ago? Biz Stone: Everything since I founded Twitter eight years ago. There was no iPhone. Smartphones were the Palm, with a stylus and everything. That was the smartphone. Nobody had those. A few of us did.  So everything changed. It’s amazing to think only so long ago, 2007, when the first iPhone came out. Now, everything is mobile. Or a tablet, which is basically the same. I lump those two together. The world is a completely different place. The mobile phone is now the most intimate witness to our lives. It’s the thing that where, when we’re three-quarters of our way to work, and we’re still driving, we’re trying to get to our mobile phones. Not our wallets, but the mobile phone. VentureBeat: The mobile phone is basically our lives. Stone: You have to have it. And as a result, it’s become this extension of us that we can’t live without. And so now, when I think of consumer systems to build, I think mobile-first. And actually, we were mobile first at Twitter. But that was only because we were trying to hack SMS to do something that it wasn’t meant to do. We thought that was fun. Like, let’s take this thing and use it for another. And so Twitter was mobile-first, and it was a stroke of luck. Because then, the iPhone came out a year after we started working on Twitter. The timing was beautiful. VentureBeat: Do you still miss the early days of Twitter, when it was a day-to-day thing for you? Stone: I don’t miss the day-to-day at Twitter because I’m so engaged with Jelly. I do go over to Twitter quite often, and I meet with Dick [Twitter CEO Dick Costolo], and I meet with Jack [Twitter cofounder and chairman Jack Dorsey].  I do have a bunch of ideas I’d like to have them implement. And I love to bend Dick’s ear. But I don’t miss it, and I have complete faith in the current executive bench there and the team we built to take this company all the way. I feel good about it. Sometimes, I miss it. But in general, no. Also, I’m so into Jelly. VentueBeat: You still own a considerable equity stake in Twitter, right? Stone: A lot of equity for an individual person. Too much, really, for one person. I mean, it’s worth a lot of money. VentureBeat: What’s it like being as wealthy as you are? Stone: Well, I have lots of theories on money. My theory on mega-wealth is that it amplifies who you are. So if you’re a jerk, you become a bigger jerk. If you’re a nice person, you become a philanthropist; you become very helpful. I consider myself a nice person, and my wife and I have a foundation. We give a lot away, and we try to help people. It’s also extremely freeing. It frees you from all the anxieties of whether or not you’re going to be able to pay bills or take care of your ailing parents or friends. So it’s a true gift, and we believe in giving back. FREE AppDownload
Global Financial DataIf you were to ask most people which country suffered the worst inflation in history, they would answer Germany, since Germany’s hyperinflation after World War I is probably the most famous.  By 1923 when Germany finally put an end to its hyperinflation, it took 1 trillion old Marks to get 1 new Rentenmark.  As devastating as the German inflation was, there were three hyperinflations that made the German case look amateurish: Hungary in 1946, Yugoslavia in 1992-1993 and Zimbabwe from 2004 to 2009. Of these three, Hungary’s was the worst of them all. Hungary was no stranger to hyperinflation.  The Austro-Hungarian Empire was on the losing side of World War I and was broken up after the war. The new nation of Hungary lacked the proper government structures, so it turned to printing money to fill the hole in its budget.  Before World War I, there were 5 Kronen to the US Dollar, but by 1924 there were 70,000 Kronen to the US Dollar. So Hungary replaced the Kronen with Pengö at the rate of 12,500 Pengö to the Kronen in 1926. Hungary was spared much of World War II’s destruction until 1944 when it became a battleground between Russia and Germany, and half of Hungary’s industrial capacity was destroyed and 90% was damaged.  Transportation was difficult because most of the rail lines and locomotives had been destroyed. What remained had either been taken by the Nazis back to Germany or seized as reparations by the Russians. Prices were already rising in Hungary after the war because production capacity fell due to the destruction.  With no tax base to rely upon, the Hungarian government decided to stimulate the economy by printing money. It loaned money to banks at low rates who then loaned the money to companies. The government hired workers directly, they provided loans to consumers, and they gave money to people.  The government literally flooded the country with money to get the economy going again. Money may not have grown on trees, but it certainly flowed off the printing presses. To see how quickly the money supply rose, consider the fact that the currency in circulation stood at 25 billion Pengö in July 1945, rose to 1.646 trillion by January 1946, to 65 quadrillion (million billion) Pengö by May 1946 and to 47 septillion (trillion trillion) Pengö by July 1946. How bad was the inflation? Something that cost 379 Pengö in September 1945, cost 72,330 Pengö by January 1945, 453,886 Pengö by February, 1,872,910 by March, 35,790,276 Pengö by April, 11.267 billion Pengö by May 31, 862 billion Pengö by June 15, 954 trillion Pengö by June 30, 3 billion billion Pengö by July 7, 11 trillion billion Pengö by July 15 and 1 trillion trillion Pengö by July 22, 1946. Obviously, the inflation was devastating to the mathematically challenged. At the height of the inflation, prices were rising at the rate of 150,000% PER DAY. By then, the government had stopped collecting taxes altogether because even a single day’s delay in collecting taxes wiped out the value of the money the government collected. Before the war, in March 1941, there were 5 Pengö to the US Dollar, by June 1944, there were 33 Pengö to the USD and in August 1945 when the real hyperinflation began, there were already 1320 Pengö to the USD.  Then, the Pengö collapsed.  There were 100,000 Pengö to the USD by November 1945, 1.75 million by March 1946, 59 billion by April 1946, 42 quadrillion by May 1946 and 460 trillion trillion by July 1946. Of course, Hungary had taken some failed measures to reduce the inflation. In December 1945, the government imposed a 75% capital levy by making people turn in 400 Pengö and receive 100 Pengö back with a stamp on the banknotes to indicate they were legal tender.  But they didn’t stop printing money.  The hyperinflation made it even more difficult for the government to collect taxes, so they introduced the Adopengö which supposedly was indexed to inflation, but even the indexed Adopengö succumbed to the inflation.  By July 1946 there were 2 million trillion Adopengö to the Pengö. So how did people cope with this onslaught of money?  How did the government that printed the money handle so many zeroes?  The solution was simple: change the name of the currency.  The Pengö was replaced by the Milpengö (1,000,000 Pengö) which in turn was replaced by the Bilpengö (1,000,000,000,000 Pengö) which was replaced by the inflation-indexed Adopengö. Global Financial Data The banknotes would have the same picture on them, but be a different color.  The Milliard Pengö was lavender, the Milliard Milpengö was blue and the Milliard Bilpengö was green, but except for the color, the notes looked alike.  Someone who lived through the hyperinflation said they gave up on looking at the denominations and when someone bought something the cashier would say that their bread cost them two blues and a green.  The Milliard Bilpengö, pictured here, is the highest denomination note ever printed since it was equal to a Billion Trillion Pengö. Unfortunately, at the end of the inflation, it was only worth about twelve cents USD. The Forint replaced the Pengö on August 1, 1946 at the rate of 400,000 Quadrillion Pengö to the Forint; however, the stabilization worked, and prices remained relatively stable in Hungary into the 1960s. As for all the old Pengö, they were thrown away because they were worthless. Who paid the price of the inflation?  First off, workers did.  Real wages fell by over 80% as a result of the inflation, and though the workers had jobs, they were pushed into poverty by the hyperinflation.  Creditors were wiped out. But production did recover, and by August 1946, the Pengö was replaced by the Forint which Hungary still uses today. So did the inflation achieve the goal of stimulating production?  The hyperinflation did raise Hungary’s industrial capacity, got the railroads moving again, and got much of the capital stock replaced. However, workers lost 80% of their wages and creditors were wiped out. Politically, however, Hungary’s fate was sealed by the Communists, who eventually seized power and turned the Republic of Hungary into the People’s Republic of Hungary in 1949 with a new constitution modelled on that of the Soviet Union.  This article originally appeared at Global Financial Data.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
When Box filed its long-awaited paperwork to become a public company, it caused a lot of talk about the financial health of the company, and the long-term viability of its business model. At issue was how much money Box is spending compared to its revenue, particularly on sales and marketing. People began wondering: is founder and CEO Aaron Levie a quack or a modern-day genius? Let me be clear: he’s a genius, and he’s not the only one. I’ve known Levie for six years, ever since Box became an early customer of my company, Zuora, and his company’s revenues were in the low single digits. I’ve watched with great pleasure as Levie, co-founder Dylan Smith and the team have grown Box into the force that it is today. He is the latest in a line of true entrepreneurs, laser-focused on making his vision of collaboration a reality. With over 34,000 paying companies across the globe including Bechtel, Eli Lilly, and Gap, it’s obvious that companies see the value of Box and trust it to power their businesses. But it’s crazy to me that 10 years after the IPO of Salesforce.com as the first public software-as-a-service (SaaS) company, Wall Street still doesn’t understand the subscription business model. The software industry has been on an inevitable path to subscriptions since 1999, when Salesforce was founded. Fast forward to today with Workday, Adobe, Box, Zendesk and others. These companies have proven that a subscription model with recurring revenue is a different kind of business. It’s complex. Yet, when managed well, it's a healthy and financially attractive model that has disrupted some of the most established industries across the globe. Even giant software vendors like SAP are now offering major products via subscription. And I assure you this is just the beginning. Why then, is there such controversy about Box? Forbes writer Kurt Marko recently questioned whether Box is a “viable standalone business,” pointing to that fact that operating expenses outweigh revenue and calling it “the beginning of the end.” Erik Sherman with CBS News claimed that Box “badly needs the money” and that “an IPO is necessary to bring in the capital needed for long-term viability.” It’s become apparent to me that there is a fundamental lack of understanding about the subscription business model, a term I call the “Subscription Economy.” In order to understand the true genius of Box, let’s look at the four big differences between the subscription model and a traditional software business. 1. Subscription businesses care about a different revenue metric: ARR The first thing to know is that for a subscription business, revenue is not revenue. It’s the difference between a one-time payment and recurring payments. Just think about it — let’s say you have two friends: Jack says he’ll give you $10 just this once, and Jill says she’ll give you $5 a year for each of the next 10 years. There is a big difference between the two — you know that Jill’s deal is a better deal.   That’s why smart subscription businesses look at something called ARR, which stands for Annual Recurring Revenue, and consists of only the subscription revenue from customers for an ongoing service. To get at ARR, subscription businesses take the value of their subscription contracts, normalize it to an annual amount, and add it all up.  For a subscription business, more so than cash or revenue, ARR is the true indicator of your company’s health. But here’s the thing: accounting rules today don’t recognize ARR. In fact, accounting systems do not differentiate between a dollar that recurs and a dollar that does not. Accounting systems today are built on the double entry standard created 500 years ago by Luca Pacioli to help Venetian merchants track the sale of spices. And in that system, a dollar is a dollar is a dollar. Fortunately, there’s a simple way to approximate ARR from a standard income statement — just take the quarterly revenue, strip out non-recurring revenue such as setup fees or consulting fees, and multiply it by four. That will give you a close estimate as to what the ARR was as the start of that quarter.  (The sophisticated reader here will note that this doesn’t tell you what ARR is at the end of the quarter, and it doesn’t include revenue contributed from in-quarter bookings … but we’ll leave that for another time). In Workday’s most recent filings, for example, the company reported $141 million in quarterly revenue, of which $110.7 million was subscription revenue. By taking the subscription revenue and multiplying it by four, you can see that Workday likely started out that quarter with about $443 million in ARR. We’ve performed the same calculations for Workday (ticker symbol WDAY) ServiceNow (NOW), NetSuite (N) and Salesforce.com (CRM), below. Now how about Box? Unfortunately, Box doesn’t actually break down how much of its revenue comes from subscription versus that which comes from professional services. We do know that professional services is less than 10% of the total revenue, otherwise it would need to present that separately from subscription revenue. We’ll make an educated guess that Box’s consulting revenue is in-line with Salesforce.com’s and plug in 5%. Based on that, we see that Box started its most recent quarter at $148 million ARR, double what they were at one year ago.  That’s pretty good growth. (**) Our guess 2. Well what do you know, it turns out cloud storage is not that expensive One common refrain I’ve heard from people is that Box’s costs must be high, since they are storing all those files and have to purchase so many disks. And they must be losing money because they give so much of storage per user. A look at Box’s gross margins shows a different tale.   But first, let’s do a quick Accounting 101 for the non-CPAs out there. In a SaaS company, there are really just three sources of costs: people, data center, and marketing. In the income statement, the part of Box’s S-1 filing causing the most comments, these costs are allocated into four key buckets: Take a look at what Box says goes into its costs of revenue: Our cost of revenue consists primarily of costs related to providing our cloud-based services to our paying customers, including employee compensation and related expenses for data center operations, customer support and professional services personnel, payments to outside infrastructure service providers, depreciation of servers and equipment, security services and other tools, as well as amortization of acquired technology. Now, most folks will take these cost buckets and map that to revenue to get a margin. Revenue minus costs of revenue, for example, is your gross margin.  We’re going to do something different and compare these costs to ARR. Why ARR?  Think about it — the great thing about ARR is that it’s a forward-looking metric — ARR very closely approximates what you expect to make this upcoming quarter, compared to revenue which tells you what you already made last quarter. If you are Levie and Smith, and you know what your ARR is at the start of the quarter, you can make some smart decisions on how you want to spend that money. Comparing expenses to ARR better approximates how the executives in the company actually think and run their businesses. To do this accurately, you have to take out the cost of goods sold that are tied to the professional services, and you have to take out the stock option expenses that are reported in the filings. That’s why we call this a Gross Recurring Margin, vs. just a Gross Margin. Here are the numbers we calculated: As you can see, Box’s gross margins are in line with others in the SaaS industry.  It actually doesn’t cost that much to offer storage in the cloud. 3. Recurring Revenue Margin: The Real Story At the heart of financial accounting is the concept of matching.  When $1 is shown on the income statement, it shows the amount of costs of goods sold, sales and marketing, R&amp;D and G&amp;A (general and administrative) that went into making that one dollar. Unfortunately, the whole concept of matching starts to break down for subscription business models. That's because ARR represents revenue acquired in previous periods, which are simply now renewing.  Sure, you need to service the customer, so cost of goods and G&amp;A is to service the customer and does match to the ARR.   How about R&amp;D?  Well, the traditional view says the products you are selling today are already done, and you are investing in research to create innovations that drive future sales. But here’s the thing -- the customers of SaaS companies did not sign up for a static service that never gets better. If you know something about SaaS companies, they are obsessed about keeping their customers happy, to keep them buying the service, and they invest in R&amp;D against that goal. At Salesforce, we started naming releases with the seasons, for example the “Winter 2013 release,” to convey the constant rate we expected to add enhancements to the products. That’s why I like to think of R&amp;D as being matched to ARR. Sales and marketing is where it gets interesting. If your ARR represents today’s revenue that you expect to recur, then your spend on sales &amp; marketing is going towards growing ARR, to acquiring future revenue that is not yet in ARR. In other words, today’s sales and marketing expenses are matched to future revenue.   (In accounting lingo, sales and marketing acts more like a “capital expenditure”, or capex for short. In the old manufacturing world, you invested in a big factory to build a bunch of widgets, and you spread the cost of that factory out over time as you made and sold those widgets over time. That would be depreciation of course. In the subscription economy, you invest in sales &amp; marketing to acquire customers, and you recognize revenue from those customers over their lifetime, which often can be 3, 5, 10 years or more. However, accounting rules today do not let you spread or depreciate sales and marketing costs over time.) That’s why we like to look at something we call Recurring Revenue Margin, which is your ARR minus your cost of sales, research and development, and G&amp;A, but before the spend on sales and marketing.   * Quarterly numbers annualized When you look at Box’s business from a recurring revenue margin viewpoint, you see they are running a profitable business. If Box stopped all sales and marketing today, it wouldn’t grow any more, but it would have an intrinsic 20% margin business. Now, Box isn’t as profitable as Salesforce or Netsuite, yet, but when you look at Box’s recurring revenue margin over the last four quarters (below), the trend isn’t bad.   You can see that Box and Workday are spending in research &amp; development.  Why is R&amp;D spending so high?  I would speculate that this is Levie betting on the future -- Levie likely believes he has a big market that is growing fast, and he needs to invest in R&amp;D with more features to outpace Dropbox or Microsoft's SharePoint product. 4. The Genius of Going for Growth So what have we established so far?  Subscription businesses really care about recurring revenue, which is measured by ARR.  On an ARR basis, Box is a fast-growing SaaS companies today. On a gross margin basis, it doesn’t cost Box too much to offer storage in the cloud, and on a recurring revenue margin basis, Box is building an inherently profitable business. The last thing to look at is where all the controversy lies. On his blog, Tomasz Tunguz notes that: Box spends about 137% of their revenue on sales and marketing. This sales and marketing expense figure is 3x the average of 42% of revenue found across all other publicly traded SaaS companies at this point in their lifecycle. The next closest comparable is Cornerstone-on-Demand which spent 86% of revenue dollars for sales and marketing. Of the remaining 18 companies in the data set, no other firm exceeded 62%. Let’s take that again. Box is spending more money on sales and marketing than it has revenues, 3 times more than its peer group, and over 50% more than the #2 spendthrift on the list.  I see the Box billboard every day when I drive down Highway 101. So what is Levie getting for all that money?  Let’s take a look. In the quarter ending Oct. 31, 2013, Box spent $46 million in sales and marketing to grow ARR by $20 million, net of churn. That means he spent over $2 to acquire $1 of growth.  Compared to other public SaaS companies, that’s on the high side, although if Box expects that $1 to recur for the next 5 or 10 years, that’s still a pretty good deal. Has Levie built a house of cards, one that requires more and more money to fuel, but that ultimately will fall apart when the music stops?   I don’t think so. I see a person who, by the age of 28, has convinced some pretty big names in the investment community to give him over $400 million dollars to go after a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. That’s pretty amazing in and of itself. But that’s not all. Levie then built a business with strong fundamentals that is intrinsically profitable, if looked at in the right way. Finally, by recognizing that he’s in a land grab in a fast growing market with multiple players, Levie is showing he has the courage to bet big and spend big to acquire as many customers as he can. What if one day Levie decides that he’s won, that he sees the market for cloud collaboration slowing, and he’s the clear market share leader? At that point, if he cuts R&amp;D back down to 15%, and sales and marketing down to 15%, he’ll have a 25% margin business.  If he’s a $1 billion company at that point, that means he can throw off $250 million in cash. If he can grow that into a $10 billion company, he’s throwing off $2.5 billion in cash. That’s a great business. And that’s the genius of Aaron Levie. Tien Tzuo is the founder and CEO of Zuora, a cloud service founded in 2007 that provides accounting and billing services for other cloud computing companies. Before Zuora, Tzuo spent 9 years at Salesforce.com where he was employee No. 11 and its former Chief Strategy Officer. This article originally appeared at Zuora.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rooney ChenGDP growth in China decelerated to 7.4% in Q1, the slowest pace of growth since Q3 2012. While this was better than economists' expectations, it was below the government's 7.5% growth target for the whole year. Efforts to curb its massive debt load, reign in the shadow banking system  and rebalance the economy have weighed on economic growth. Policymakers are expected to have a growth floor of 7%. China's Labor Ministry says 7.5% growth generates 10 million jobs and that growth below 7% could cause high unemployment. Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ting Lu expects policymakers to announce a "mini-stimulus—some small-scale growth supportive measures focusing on fiscal spending in social housing, urban infrastructure and central &amp; western region infrastructure." While stimulus may help prevent a hard-landing scenario, everyone can at least agree that China is indeed slowing. What follows are eight charts that all confirm the slowdown. Chinese Q1 GDP growth was up 7.4% year over year, beating estimates, and 1.4% quarter over quarter, or 5.7% annualized. "We believe that GDP growth has been slightly overestimated in Q1, albeit the downward trend in the economy is clear," said Xindong Chen at BNP Paribas. BarclaysChinese exports tumbled 6.6% in March, compared with an 18.1% decline the previous month. This missed expectations for a 4.8% rise. Meanwhile, imports fell 11.3% missing expectations for a 3.9% rise, and down from a 10.1% rise in February. Exports saw YoY contractions for two straight months for the first time since late 2009, but this was largely attributed to the "base effect since last year’s figures were flattered by capital flows," said Societe Generale's Wei Yao. As for imports, "the decline in imports of energy products and G3-sourced imports does give rise to concerns about potential weakness in China's domestic demand," according to UBS' Wang Tao. UBS Industrial production was up 8.8% on the year, this was up from 8.6% in the Jan-Feb period but lower than expectations for a 9% rise. On the face of it, it looks like industrial production saw a rebound, but the number isn't that impressive. "Last year, IP growth slowed by a full percentage point from 9.9% yoy in January-February to 8.9% in March. Hence, the 0.2ppt uptick in the latest report was hardly reassuring," writes Societe Generale's Wei Yao.  BNP Paribas Producer prices fell for the 25th straight month, down 2.3% in March. This compares to a 2% fall in February and missed expectations for a 2.2% fall. This is not expected to bode well for industrial production. March IP was up 8.8% in March, above 8.6% from the Jan-Feb period, but below expectations. Tom Orlik via Twitter Year-to-date fixed asset investment (FAI) was up 17.6%, but decelerated from 17.9% in the Jan-Feb period. The property component of FAI has been the major drag, decelerating to 16.8% from the 19.3% seen previously. BNP Paribas Property sales fell 7.5% year over year in March, while housing starts contracted 21.9%. "The quarterly yoy growth rate of housing sales plummeted from +13.7% in Q4 to -4.7% in Q1, and that of new starts from +33.1% to -25.2%!" writes SocGen's Wei Yao. "The housing sector now poses the biggest downside risk to the Chinese economy," writes Yao. Societe GeneraleCredit growth is considered a leading indicator for GDP growth. M2, a broad measure of money supply, climbed 12% on the year in March, a record low. "China’s credit slowdown seems to be increasingly market-driven now, due to rising risk aversion among lenders. Such a slowdown is more difficult for the central bank to arrest," wrote Societe Generale's Wei Yao. Societe GeneraleHSBC China manufacturing PMI contracted further falling to 48 in March, from 48.5 the previous month. Meanwhile, official PMI climbed modestly to 50.3, from 50.2 in February. While some experts prefer to watch the official number because of its larger sample, others trust the HSBC series more. "The final reading of the HSBC China Manufacturing PMI in March confirmed the weakness of domestic demand conditions," HSBC economist Hongbin Qu said. Barclays From all the data we've seen recently, the one glimmer of hope came from retail sales, which were up 12.2% year over year in March, from 11.8%. Real retail sales, however, were unchanged at 10.8%, "but, considering a negative base effect, this result offered some relief," said Yao. Investors continue to worry about a hard landing and China's Minsky moment. But economists point out that Chinese premiere Li Keqiang, while dismissing hopes for a massive stimulus, has said that Beijing will act preemptively to stabilize growth. FREE AppDownload
Markets rally. US industrial production increased by 0.7% in March, beating expectations of a 0.5% rise. The signal that the American economy is recovering well bouyed stocks and the Dow and the S&amp;P500 finished up 1%, while the NASDAQ, which has been lagging for the past week, was up 1.3%. China questions. The better-than-expected Chinese GDP result of 7.4% helped lift markets yesterday. The Nikkei soared an extraordinary 3%, but the underlying data point to a continuing slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy. Westpac’s China watcher Phat Dragon pointed to the “extremely weak” nominal GDP growth rate of 7.9% compared to 9.6% a year ago. In Australia today just before the rise for the Easter break, we get the quarterly NAB business survey, always a closely-watched leading indicator, and car sales data is out at 11.30am AEST. Weird week. It has been a volatile week for the Australian market with the ASX following the US sell-off in momentum stocks but recovering in recent day. CMC Markets Chief Strategist Michael McCarthy writes on Business Insider that we might just need to get used to this as the progress of the global recovery remains uncertain. “Sentiment and prices are likely to fluctuate significantly; meaning both bulls and bears can highlight reports and price moves that support their view. As investors in the middle switch from one camp to the other, sentiment swings could be more extreme. As sentiment swings, so should markets. The natural conclusion is that volatility will continue to increase,” he says. More here. Google misses. The tech giant booked revenue of $15.4 billion for Q1, for $15.45 billion, and EPS of $US6.27 versus analysts estimates of $US6.44. The growth in its paid clicks – 30% in good quarters – is slowing down as users migrate to mobile, where ads are cheaper. The stock fell 5% in after-hours trade. Ferry tragedy. A South Korean school may have lost 260 students when a passenger ferry capsized and sank yesterday en route to the resort island of Jeju. There’s a heartbreaking account of a girl calling her grandmother in terror from the ship which is believed to have struck rocks in poor visibility. Almost 300 people from the 462 on board are missing. Deals market remains strong. Stocks may be volatile but early data from the Intralinks deals monitor, which gauges M&amp;A activity in the Asia-Pacific, points to a 10% quarter-on-quarter rise in early-stage mergers and acquisition in the region, and 18% up for the year. The survey of 1,000 M&amp;A professionals finds three-quarters expect M&amp;A activity to increase over the coming six month. Record VC round. Email marketing company Campaign Monitor has raised $250 million in the largest VC investment ever in an Australian company. Customers of the Sydney-based startup, founded by Dave Greiner and Ben Richardson, include Apple and Facebook. New Premier for NSW. Barry O’Farrell will resign as leader of the Liberal Party today, after it was revealed he wrote a thank-you note for a bottle of wine that he had denied ever receiving in a hearing before a corruption inquiry. (The biggest problem was that the note emerged after his insistence that he never received the bottle; the executive who gave it to him, while securing a meeting soon afterwards, didn’t get the contract he was seeking.) O’Farrell’s Treasurer, Mike Baird, is expected to replace him after reportedly striking a deal this morning with the other potential challenger, Gladys Berijiklian. One wildcard option being floated is that the party could refuse to accept O’Farrell’s resignation, or that he would stand again for the leadership. There are many MPs who don’t want to see him go – his Planning Minister Brad Hazzard said this morning that he had urged O’Farrell not to resign. But it’s a marginal scenario. One other point: the 1959 Grange O’Farrell got would have been close to undrinkable anyway, according to wine expert James Halliday. (“He got dudded, didn’t he?”, Halliday said.) Triguboff offer. One of the big themes in the recent gains in Australian property, especially in the hot Melbourne and Sydney, has been the effect of increasing demand from Chinese investors. This is writ large in news this morning that Harry Triguboff, who owns the Australian apartment empire Meriton, has received an offer for half the company for $3 billion from Chinese buyers. Royal visit. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are off to the Blue Mountains today after landing in Sydney yesterday, where the visited the Opera House and got the obligatory photos with the Harbour Bridge in the background. Sure, everyone talks about the Duchess’s fashion selections every time she steps out; but where does he get those terrific suits? This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVMike MayoNEW YORK (Reuters) - Citigroup Inc &lt;C.N&gt;, which aspires "to become the world's digital bank", will not webcast its annual meeting next week in St. Louis. Of the top six U.S. banks, only Citigroup and Wells Fargo &amp; Co &lt;WFC.N&gt; do not allow investors to listen to live audio from their annual meetings. Analyst Mike Mayo told Reuters on Wednesday that Citigroup's practice is "ludicrous." He said the bank needs to explain what it has learned since March, when the Federal Reserve rejected Citigroup's plan to boost dividends and buy back more shares, and investors should not have to fly to St. Louis to hear it. On Citigroup's conference call with investors on Monday, Mayo asked CEO Mike Corbat if the annual meeting would be webcast. Corbat said it would not be and provided no further comment. A Citigroup spokesman declined to comment. JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt;, Bank of American Corp &lt;BAC.N&gt;, Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;GS.N&gt;, and Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt; make their meetings available through the Internet or telephone lines. Analysts say Wells Fargo, which does not provide a webcast, has less to explain to investors than the others because it is less complex and does not have a big investment banking business. To be sure, Citigroup allows journalists to come to its shareholder meetings and report potentially stock-moving information, such as at its 2012 meeting in Dallas when the company disclosed that a majority of stockholders had voted against the company's executive pay practices. Corbat, in his annual letter to shareholders in March, repeated his earlier pledge that the company will take advantage of digital connections between cities around the world. He said Citigroup has an "ambitious digital agenda for our consumer and institutional businesses." (Reporting by David Henry; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Ray StubblebineFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Jack Schwager Explains How To Be A Great Trader (CFA Institute)  Jack Schwager, author of The Little Book of Market Wizards: Lessons from the Greatest Traders, told CFA Institute that that to him a trader is anyone that makes decisions. "To me, decision on when to go in, out, reverse positions, that's a trader," as opposed to a long-term trader. And he has some advice on how to be a good trader. "[Jim] Rogers could never make money using technical analysis and [Martin] Schwartz could not make money using fundamental analysis. Yet, they both do terrifically well." "The very first thing to get across to people is you've got to figure out what is the right method. It's not just fundamental versus technical. Either are you short-term, or you're long-term. Do you want to trade stocks? Do you want to trade futures? Do you want to trade currencies? On and on with the variations. …It's a discovery process, an evolutionary process. Nobody can tell you that." He also says the approach traders pick has to have an "edge" and "work" and that it has to take into account risk management.  Why Advisors Should Consider Long-Short Mutual Funds (The Wall Street Journal)  Advisors looking to help clients preserve the money they made in the stellar 2013 U.S. stock market run, and to keep them in the market while lowering risk should look at long-short equity mutual funds, writes Jack Rivkin is chief investment officer of Altegris in a new WSJ column. These funds allow advisors "emphasize risk management over market timing," he writes. "In a long-short strategy, fund managers hold attractive investments, which they anticipate will increase in value. At the same time the managers short overvalued stocks by borrowing and immediately selling shares which they anticipate they'll be able to buy back later at a lower price. When the price of the stock drops, the manager buys and then sells the borrowed shares back to their broker. The gain is in difference between what the manager made off the initial sale of the stock and lower price it was bought back for." Hedge Funds Are Having Their Most Miserable Start To The Year Since 2008 (Business Insider)  Hedge funds have gained 1.23% year-to-date, their worst start to the year since 2008, according to a new report from Preqin. Hedge funds were up 3.76% in Q1 2013 and 6.07% in Q1 2012. Returns in January and March of this year were in the red, at -0.25% and -0.26% respectively. February's benchmark performance of 1.76% kept hedge funds in positive territory. Event-driven and long/short strategies were the most successful, returning 4.37% and 4.32% respectively. FINRA To Consider Making Broker Checks Mandatory (Reuters)  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) is considering making background checks on brokers mandatory, according to Sarah Lynch at Reuters. FINRA's BrokerCheck service which allows investors to look at a broker's background has come under the scanner as some argue that it's not as transparent as state regulators are about employees that have had legal woes. FINRA has said that its board would meet no April 24 to consider "requiring firms to adopt written procedures that are reasonably designed to verify the accuracy and completeness of the information" provided on BrokerCheck, according to an announcement made on Wednesday. We Are Currently In The Weakest Earnings Cycle In 55 Years (Business Insider) The pace of earnings growth has been poor the current earnings cycle which began in Q2 2007. "This has been the weakest earnings cycle in 55 years," wrote LPL Financial's Jeff Kleintop. "Every earnings cycle over the past 55 years has generated about a 7% annualized earnings per share (EPS) growth rate, when measured from peak to peak or from trough to trough." While the current earnings cycle is still ongoing with a 2.8% annualized growth rate from the prior cycle peak through Q1 2014.  Kleintop attributes this to two key factors. First, the trough in earnings was much deeper because of the recession. Second, the momentum of the earnings recovery has been much weaker. ""The pent-up demand should boost second quarter results," he said. "We are already seeing it in rebounding shipping traffic and new orders." LPL Financial FREE AppDownload
Online dating app Zoosk filed its S1 to go public today. It's trying to raise $100 million. Zoosk is one of the most popular social networking apps in Apple's App Store. It's also one of the top grossing. The app is free, but gets money from subscription fees and other online payments within the apps. The revenue numbers are pretty impressive and seem to be growing nicely year over year. It generated over $178 million in 2013, up from $109 million in 2013. But it did have a net loss of $2.6 million in 2013. Zoosk says it has 25 million members, which includes 650,000 paying subscribers. Here's a breakdown of the company's financials from the S1. Click for a larger view: Zoosk FREE AppDownload
LinkedInAccording to his LinkedIn page, Kyle White is an investment analyst at RBC Capital Markets in Charlotte, N.C. However, until July 2011, he was a sergeant in the U.S. Army. On Tuesday, the White House announced President Barack Obama will award White with the Medal of Honor for "conspicuous gallantry" for his actions during combat operations in Afghanistan on November 9, 2007 when, according to a comrade, he helped save multiple wounded soldiers while being attacked on three sides. The military blog "From Cow Pastures To Kosovo" published an interview with Kain Schilling, another soldier who was with White on that fateful day in 2007. Schilling shared the incredible tale of why White is receiving the military's highest honor. According to Schilling, White, who was an Army Specialist at the time, was among a group of soldiers who were attending a meeting with "local elders of the village of Aranus in Nuristan Province of eastern Afghanistan." At the meeting, Schilling said the soldiers were about 4 kilometers through mountainous terrain away from the nearest American outpost. The meeting ran late and when they began to leave, Schilling said the soldiers noticed there was an unusually high number of "fighting age males" in the village.  After the meeting, Schilling said he, White, and three other soldiers began making their way back to the American outpost.  "We were about half way back to Outpost Bella when all hell broke loose," Schilling recounted. "I remember hearing a couple of cracks and instantly knowing what was happening but I couldn’t tell where it was coming from. The enemy launched a 3 pronged attack. From my knowledge they attacked from above, in front and across the valley." Schilling said the American soldiers were on a narrow trail with steep cliffs on both sides. Along with gunfire, Schilling said the group was hit with blasts from rocket-propelled grenade launchers. According to Schilling, one of these blasts left White knocked out and with shrapnel in his face.  "After regaining consciousness we both made it behind cover and tried to orient ourselves and find out where all the incoming fire is coming from," said Schilling.  Once they found cover, Schilling said he and White realized both of their radios had been shot. This meant they had no way of communicating with the outpost and were breathing smoke from their radio batteries that left a "burning sensation" in their lungs. Schilling said he realized his arm was wounded and he sought protection behind "the smallest tree on earth." Though the bullets were still flying, Schilling said White "ran through some of the most intense fire I had seen to come and help me." "He reached my position and applied a tourniquet to my arm," said Schilling. "White applied first aid while the tiny tree we were using as cover was being shredded by incoming rounds." Schilling said another soldier in their group, Sergeant Bocks, was also wounded. Bocks was about "10 meters" away from the tree, but Schilling said White still tried to reach him. "As SPC White was still trying to get SGT Bocks, the rounds were impacting around his feet.  I could see the impacts when those rounds would hit the shiny shale rock.  Each impact would make terrifying sparks to say the least," Schilling recounted.  White was unable to save Bocks. However, Schilling said White was able to get a working radio from him. According to Schilling, White continued to tend to the wounded while calling in reinforcements and medical help on the radio. "Kyle saved my life and many others as well as putting himself in harms way for myself and Bocks multiple times," said Schilling. "Six Americans were Killed in Action that day.   Out of all of the Americans alive I think all but one was wounded." Read Schilling's entire story here. White could not immediately be reached for comment on this story. On LinkedIn, White has received three endorsements for "Afghanistan" and two for "team leadership."  FREE AppDownload
Why talk about something so basic? Is there really a need to teach men something most of us have been doing since we were 5? Well, yes, actually. Just look around. How many men do you see sporting a billowy, unkempt-looking shirt? Or what about that guy giving a presentation who unconsciously re-tucked his shirt three times during a 5-minute talk? Most men probably have no system for tucking in their shirts. Just because you do something doesn’t mean you are doing it correctly. The goal of this article is to expose you to a few tactics that might eliminate the nuisance of an un-tucked or wrongly tucked shirt. So let’s get started! When should you tuck in your shirt? It’s a question that’s often debated. Here are a few guidelines: Shirts that are made with a flat bottom hem are meant to be worn untucked. But if the shirt has visible “tails” — that is to say, the hem varies in length, rather than being even all the way around — it should always be tucked in. Wearing a shirt with tails untucked is not a forbidden look. But it is a juvenile one. With nothing else on the upper body, it makes you look like a teen rebel at a grown-up wedding. Under a jacket or with a suit, being untucked makes you look like you’re trying too hard to be stylishly rumpled. There are men who will insist on the artfully un-tucked shirt. More power to them. But for my money, tucking in a shirt with tails will always give you a sharper and more mature look. If your shirt doesn’t have visible tails, there’s more leeway on whether you should leave it tucked or untucked: Need more? Check out what Andy over at Primer has to say about tucking in your shirt and looking good (for you anti-tuckers!). I’ve also covered when to tuck and when not to tuck in video format. Finally, Beth over at Dappered gives us a woman’s opinion. When it’s time to tuck in your shirt, do it the right way. The Art of Manliness A good tuck should make the front of your body smooth and flat. If your waist tapers below your rib cage, that should be visible. There should be no wrinkling and no “muffin-topping” — where the shirt blouses out over the trouser waist and makes a ring around your midsection. You should also have a clean “gig line” — a military term for the imaginary line straight down the front of your body, from the point of your chin to your crotch. A well-tucked shirt should sit so that the shirt placket (the rectangle of fabric where the front buttons are located) lines up precisely with the fly of your trousers. The belt buckle and trouser button should be centered neatly in that same line. A clean gig line divides your body cleanly, emphasizing evenness of proportion. It also tells people that you pay attention to detail — or it might be more accurate to say that a sloppy gig line tells people you don’t. Either way, you want it crisp and vertical. Finally, keep in mind that a good shirt fit in the first place will always make tucking the shirt in easier. The less excess fabric you’re dealing with around the waist, the less your tuck has to secure. A well-fitted shirt is also sure to be long enough for an effective tuck, while a short shirt will always be in danger of escaping no matter how well you tuck it. This is where most men start and finish their shirt-tucking education — shirttails inside the trousers but above the underpants, shoved straight down all the way around the waist. It’s the no-thought way to do it, and it’s the most common as a result. The Art of Manliness Here’s the easiest way to do this one, and you’ve probably done it a million times unless your father taught you a different method from a young age: put your underwear on, then put your shirt on and button it up, and then finally pull your pants on, buttoning them closed over the shirttails. Your shirt ends up pinned beneath your trousers with no effort on your part. It just got there by virtue of the order you did things. And as long as your trousers aren’t too loose, the shirt will probably stay there. Just because it’s easy doesn’t mean this is a bad tuck. If you don’t want to think too hard, this is the way to go. But be cautioned: it works well with a fitted shirt, and terribly with anything else. If your shirt doesn’t have a close, well-tailored fit, you need a little more technique to deal with the excess fabric. This is how the armed forces are taught to tuck in their uniform shirts. It creates a pair of folded pleats, which are then pinned flat by the trouser waist for a crisp, stiff tuck. Different services in different countries have variations on this, but the basic principle is the same: you stand straight in your shirt, and if there’s any loose fabric hanging on either side of you, you fold it into a sharp, diagonal crease, sort of like making the nose on a paper airplane. Then you tuck the creases in at the hips, belting your trousers on above them. Below are the step-by-step instructions. Don’t be discouraged if this one takes you a few tries to get right! It really starts to shine once you’ve practiced it enough for the movements to become routine. The Art of Manliness The military tuck can take practice getting the folds straight and flat, and it works best in stiff, smooth fabrics that can hold the crease well. Use it any time you’ve got excess fabric around the waist and sides of the shirt. 3. The Underwear Tuck No, I’m not talking about tucking your dress shirt into your underwear. The Art of Manliness Although this method is effective, it can backfire when your puppy dog boxers creep up past your waistline. No, the underwear tuck refers to the need to properly tuck your undershirt into your underwear in order to ensure the dress shirt is between your underwear and trousers (vs. your undershirt and dress shirt sitting between your underwear and trousers). Believe it or not this small difference has a large impact on how your shirt stays tucked in throughout the day. Your ideal tuck, if you’re an undershirt wearer, should go in this order, from the body outward: undershirt, waistband of your underwear, regular shirt, waistband of the trousers, and finally your belt. Oh, and if this doesn’t work well enough, you should look into purchasing a pair of underwear with grip technology that is designed to hold your dress shirt in place. My friend Mike over at RibbedTee just designed the Stuck Boxer Briefs, and makes them right here in the USA! A method with some extra help: small garters tug the bottom of the shirt taut beneath the trousers. The phrase “shirt stays” is sometimes used to refer to collar stays (the flat tabs inside the points of some dress shirt collars), but it also refers to a specialized sort of garter. These are used by several militaries around the world, and are also popular among sharp dressers. The Art of Manliness Then you put your trousers on and get used to the feeling of elastic bands running vertically up your legs. It takes a few minutes to get used to, but I personally don’t notice it and rather enjoy the compliments a tidy look brings! Recently there’s been a wave of alternative products that serve the same basic function with different mechanisms. There are high-friction belts worn under the trousers to cinch a shirt into place, underpants with clips that grip the hem of the shirt directly, and even little magnetized catches worn under the trousers to hold the shirt in place. If you’re willing to add another item to your morning dressing routine, these can work well. Find the one you like and stick with it! Watch a whole video on shirt stays to learn even more! In addition to simply not tucking in a shirt that is made to be tucked in, there are a couple of bad ways to tuck: The Half-Tuck Tucked in at the back, but with one of the two shirttails in front (usually the left one — the one with the button, not the one with the buttonhole) popped out and waving in front of the trousers. It’s supposed to be a sexy, just-rolled-out-of-bed look, or something. Unless you’re Brad Pitt, you just look like you did a bad job tucking back in after going to the bathroom. It’s a step up from a piece of toilet paper stuck to your heel, but it’s not a big step. The Once-Tucked Once you’ve made the decision to tuck in your shirt, commit to it. Untucking a shirt that you’ve been wearing half the day in your pants results in the bottom section being wrinkled and rumpled — giving you a disheveled look. This is especially important if you’re going to wear a dress shirt untucked; when you decide to bend some of the rules, it’s easier to pull off if you’ve at least pressed the shirt from top to bottom. Brett will show you how it’s done. The Tuck with No Belt Obviously, when you tuck in your shirt, the top of your pants (and therefore any belt loops and buttons) will show. If your pants have belt loops, wear a belt. If you don’t like wearing a belt, consider removing the loops. Most of my own trousers utilize side straps versus belt loops, so just know your preference and buy the type of trouser that suits you best. Watch a video recap:     This article originally appeared at Art of Manliness.  Copyright 2014. Follow Art of Manliness on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoNew York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman at a news conference Monday, Oct. 28, 2013, at City Hall in Philadelphia.New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman has subpoenaed a number of high-frequency trading firms for information about their "special relationships" with exchanges and dark pools, Bloomberg reported. Dark pools are private exchanges in which investors can trade stocks anonymously. The HFT firms that Schneiderman is targeting are Tower Capital Research, Chopper Trading, and Jump Trading. Last month Schneiderman declared war on HFT firms, saying that some of their practices were "fundamentally unfair — and potentially illegal — situations that give elite groups of traders early access to market-moving information at the expense of the rest of the market." What the attorney general could be looking for is "trade through violations," which allows high-frequency trading firms to know the best price of a security before it's even processed by the exchange. There is a regulation that requires stock exchanges to execute all trades at the National Best Bid and Offer, or NBBO. The NBBO is the national price for any stock. Exchanges do this by aggregating bids and offers all over the market and finding the most precise price based on that demand. HFT critics believe some exchanges may be allowing HFT firms to get a jump on the aggregation process, technically allowing them to trade the NBBO before it's the NBBO. You follow?  What regulators don't want is for there to be two prices in the market, one for HFTs and one for everyone else. We'll let you know more when Schneiderman makes his announcement. Knowing him, he will make it loud. FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderGoogle co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin.Google just reported its first-quarter results for 2014, with revenue of $15.4 billion and earnings per share of $6.27. Google missed on both its top and bottom lines, which is likely what quickly drove the stock down immediately about 6%. Google had previously closed up 3.75% at the closing bell. During the first quarter, Google's cost-per-click, the average price it charges advertisers, declined about 9%. Paid-click growth increased, but by only 26%. Historically, it's been up about 30% in good quarters.  In other words, the growth in aggregate paid clicks on Google search ads is slowing. Analysts noticed that, and began asking about revenue "deceleration" on today's conference call. That's a dread word at Google, which first discussed the previously unthinkable notion that Google might not continue growing at breakneck pace forever in November 2012. Analysts were concerned about the bottom line too. Google CFO Patrick Pichette and Nikesh Arora, Google's chief business officer, got a bunch of questions about why Google's margins were smaller than usual. Basically, there were a bunch of one-off costs in the quarter, the pair said. Nest — the trendy thermostat company — was an unusually large acquisition, and there were some legal costs too. Here are the key stats: Here is how the revenues look in a chart: GoogleHighlights from the conference call: Google's CFO, Patrick Pichette, and Nikesh Arora, Google's chief business officer, led the call. Pichette started with the numbers. Consolidated revenue grew 19% year over year. Minus currency fluctuations, Google sales would have been up 21%. TAC was 23% of total ad revenue. Pichette blamed extra costs such as acquisitions hurting the bottom line. Starting in the second quarter, Google will begin disclosing paid clicks and CPC growth by property.  Pichette talked about Google Play: More than 65 countries can now watch movies through Google Play. Arora also said that Google now has 49,829 full-time employees as of March, up from 47,756 in December.  Highlights from the Q&amp;A section:  Expenses and the Nest deal: Expenses in the quarter involved a lot of legal expenses and mergers and acquisitions. Pichette hinted that Google's $3.2 billion acquisition of Nest affected expenses. Pichette said Nest was "a pretty large transaction" for Google.  Mobile advertising:  Analysts asked about deceleration, and Pichette pointed to mobile advertising, which is a growing part of Google's business, but one where prices are cheaper. Mobile pricing needs to be better than desktop pricing, Pichette says. The good news, Pichette says, is that a lot of people are spending time on mobile. Advertisers are starting to see value in providing a great experience on mobile devices. With all the advertisers coming on board, Google is showing that advertising on mobile results in transactions.  Google's headcount growth: On why Google's headcount grew so much this quarter: the acquisition of Nest, DeepMind, and other companies had quite an effect on the number of employees.  Google Preferred for YouTube: Google Preferred, which the company will further detail in about a month, is Google's way of trying to create a premium concentration of content that brands can advertise against to ensure brand safety on YouTube.  Enhanced campaigns:  In response to a question about the effect of enhanced campaigns, Arora says it's working. Enhanced Campaigns is a system that lets advertisers launch campaigns for both desktop and mobile.  More on costs and expenses:  Analysts kept asking about costs and expenses, and Pichetti said Google was very comfortable with its cost structure. Its total costs and expenses totaled $11.3 billion, up from $9.2 billion the year earlier. The reason Google's costs are all over the place is that the buying and divestiture of Motorola Mobility, acquisitions, and "moonshot" projects such as Wi-Fi balloons and driverless cars.  Revenue from YouTube and DoubleClick: Google doesn't disclose specific revenues for DoubleClick or YouTube, but Pichette insisted that Google was very pleased with YouTube.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressU.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen (C) watches a welding student as she tours City Colleges of Chicago, College to Careers Program in Advanced Manufacturing, at Daley College in Chicago, March 31, 2014. Strong industrial production numbers reminded us that the U.S. economy remains in pretty good shape. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
APMotorists visit a South Carolina Department of Motor Vehicles office in Columbia, S.C., on Feb. 27, 2014. Today, we got more charts from the EIA that the "peak car" phenomenon is very real, which should give the auto industry prospects for rapid growth. The one exception to the trend, meanwhile, should have the entire country concerned. Here's what we know about peak car so far: as The Atlantic's Jordan Weissman observes, Now log fewer miles on the road, are less likely to obtain driver's license, and are already buying fewer vehicles.  So let's start with the new bad news for automakers. The EIA says vehicle miles traveled per licensed driver peaked in 2007, at 12,900 miles per year. By 2012 it had decreased to 12,500 miles. While the measure once tracked economic activity, the agency says, it has since decoupled in response to a host of social, demographic, environmental, and technological factors.  The numbers keep going up. But they now go up much more slowly. The EIA's new reference case says that the compound annual growth rate of VMTs (Vehicle Miles Traveled) among licensed drivers from 2012 to 2040 will be 0.9%. That is well below the 1.7% rate from 1995 to 2005, and only slightly higher than 0.7% average annual growth rate from 2005 through 2012. Check it out: EIA That's the bad news for automakers. It turns out there's worse news for the rest of us: The EIA says vehicle use by drivers 65 and older will have climbed 12% between 2012 and 2040: EIA That is greater than any other age cohort. Compare this with rates for other age groups over the same period: Why does this matter? Drivers aged 65 and older experience the third-highest traffic fatality rates among age groups, after teens and 20-somethings, although the rates among the latter two groups have declined precipitously, while the decline among the elderly has held at a relatively steady rate: NHTSA According to The Hartford, The rate of risk for adults over age 75 is nearly equal to the risk of younger drivers age 16 to 24. By 2025, individuals aged 65 and older will represent about a quarter of the adult population, up from just one-sixth in 2012. With the caveat that this group has increased its use of public transit by 40% between 2001 to 2009, the EIA says "more members of the older population are obtaining their licenses than in the past."  Buckle up. FREE AppDownload
At work and at home, we want to know honesty when we see it. Here are some scientifically proven ways to know what you're looking at.
Companies are in the process of announcing their first quarter earnings. It's worth noting that since the beginning of the current earnings cycle (Q2 2007), the pace of earnings growth has been pretty poor. "This has been the weakest earnings cycle in 55 years," noted LPL Financial's Jeff Kleintop. "Every earnings cycle over the past 55 years has generated about a 7% annualized earnings per share (EPS) growth rate, when measured from peak to peak or from trough to trough. The best multi-year earnings cycle measured from prior peak to the next peak was an annualized 9.1% and the worst 5.6%, with most clustered tightly around the average of 7.3% [Figure 1]. This is notable given the differing levels of inflation, interest rates, and economic growth that companies had to adapt to in each cycle. "However, the current cycle — while not yet over — has been much weaker than the average, generating only a 2.8% annualized growth rate from the prior cycle peak in the second quarter of 2007 through the first quarter of 2014." Kleintop highlights two reasons for the pace of the current cycle: "Earnings growth needs to improve to support valuations and drive the U.S. stock market higher," said Kleintop. While the earnings growth rate in Q1 is expected to be anemic at just 1% due to the harsh winter weather, Kleintop is more optimistic about the near future. "The pent-up demand should boost second quarter results," he said. We are already seeing it in rebounding shipping traffic and new orders. Most notably, the widely followed Institute for Supply Management (ISM) Purchasing Managers’ Index has a solid track record forecasting earnings growth in coming quarters [Figure 2]. While the ISM slid in the first quarter—largely tied to the impact of the extreme weather—this indicator points to a 5–10% earnings per share growth rate on a year-over-year basis in the coming quarters as the economy thaws from the first quarter deep freeze." LPL Financial FREE AppDownload
U.S. stocks are rallying for the third straight day, and the S&amp;P 500 index is now only about 2% below the all-time high it reached on April 4. The charts below show movements in various markets. Across the top, from left to right, are S&amp;P 500 futures, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, five-year U.S. Treasury note futures, and December 2015 eurodollar futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Hannibal Hanschke This morning, students at Aston University in Birmingham, England, claimed they'd narrowed down the identity of Satoshi Nakamoto, the pseudonymous creator of Bitcoin, to a writer named Nick Szabo. Forty forensic linguistics majors looked at similarities in language used by Satoshi in his original Bitcoin spec paper and that used by 13 people "regularly referred to as suspects." Matches with Szabo were the strongest.  Dr. Jack Grieve, a lecturer in forensic linguistics at Aston, said: "The number of linguistic similarities between Szabo’s writing and the Bitcoin paper is uncanny, none of the other possible authors were anywhere near as good of a match. We are pretty confident that out of the primary suspects Nick Szabo is the main author of the paper, though we can’t rule out the possibility that others contributed." This is the latest instance in which the hunt for Satoshi has landed on Szabo. In December, an anonymous blogger created a WordPress site with the explicit purpose of publishing his linguistic match findings between Szabo and Satoshi. The blogger doubled-down on his claim a month ago, saying his latest research "confirms that Nick Szabo’s writing matches the Bitcoin whitepaper, not only in the expressions it uses, but also on hard-to-fabricate style metrics." For a while Hilary Sargent, now with the Boston Globe, was tracking possible Satoshi candidates on her ChartGirl blog. Szabo had figured on the top of her list because, among other things, he'd written about a theoretical technology called "Bit Gold," which bears an uncanny similarity to Bitcoin. Unenumerated Szabo's personal website contains papers on a galaxy of different topics, including ones key to Bitcoin's technology. Here's a sample of his writing on "Formalizing and Securing Relationships on Public Networks": All public key operation can be performed inside an unreadable hardware board or smart card on a machine with a very narrow serial-line connection (ie, it carries only a simple single-use protocol with well-verified security) to a dedicated firewall. This is economical for high traffic servers, but may be less practical for individual users. Besides better security, it has the added advantage that hardware speeds up the public key computations.  And here's a cut from the Bitcoin spec paper: As an additional firewall, a new key pair should be used for each transaction to keep them from being linked to a common owner. Some linking is still unavoidable with multi-input transactions, which necessarily reveal that their inputs were owned by the same owner. The risk is that if the owner of a key is revealed, linking could reveal other transactions that belonged to the same owner. Szabo might be hiding in plain sight. Gavin Andresen, one of Bitcoin's core developers, told Business Insider in an email that he had attended the Princeton Bitcoin conference with Szabo in March. Business Insider has tried calling and emailing several phone numbers and addresses associated with Szabo over the past few months to no avail. In November 2011, Wired's Benjamin Wallace said Szabo had denied it, though it was unclear where and how this occurred. Szabo's most explicit disavowal came in a May 2011 blog post in which he wrote the following on the advent of Bitcoin and what made it special:  Myself, Wei Dai, and Hal Finney were the only people I know of who liked the idea (or in Dai's case his related idea) enough to pursue it to any significant extent until Nakamoto (assuming Nakamoto is not really Finney or Dai). Only Finney (RPOW) and Nakamoto were motivated enough to actually implement such a scheme.  Finney, who was the first person to ever receive Bitcoins from Satoshi, explicitly denied being Satoshi. Correspondence between Dai and Satoshi has been catalogued, and Dai has twice stated he does not believe Szabo is Satoshi.  One person who did not feature on that list is Dorian Nakamoto, the elderly California man fingered in a Newsweek magazine cover story as Satoshi. In March, that Nakamoto submitted a letter reiterating his claims in an AP interview that he was not Satoshi. Newsweek has not formally retracted the story, but it did append the letter to the story's web version. In an exclusive comment emailed to Business Insider, Dorian Nakamoto's lawyer, Ethan Kirschner, hammered the publication for using weak evidence and bringing unwanted attention to his client: Even a cursory review of the record shows that Satoshi was incredibly careful about preserving his anonymity. I don't believe Newsweek actually thought they got the right guy. It was drive-by journalism in an effort to relaunch their print edition with a splash. As interest in Bitcoin grows, Satoshi's anonymity is increasingly impacting others. Dorian Nakamoto isn't the first person to be falsely accused of inventing Bitcoin, though he may be the first private person to have the details of his life, including his health history and unemployment, in a national newsmagazine. Hal Finney, an early Bitcoiner and another subject of press speculation, was apparently the victim of an extortion attempt."   The Bitcoin community remains almost violently opposed to any outside effort to out Satoshi. He is often referred to simply as "the creator." Leah McGrath Goodman, who reported the Newsweek story, received threats on reddit. At the same time, Kirschner said Satoshi has so far enjoyed the resources to protect himself. But it seems like the pressure for Satoshi to out himself will not go away. FREE AppDownload
As the saying goes, do what you love and love what you do ... and make bank while doing it. For our second annual list of the 50 Best Employers in America, Business Insider used data gathered and crunched by PayScale to evaluate companies on pay and happiness. And for the second year in a row, Celgene Corporation topped the list. Companies in the 2012 Fortune 500 were ranked using PayScale's salary and survey database. Final scores were determined by multiplying the companies' performance on six criteria: high job satisfaction, low job stress, high work-schedule flexibility, high job meaning, experienced median pay, and salary delta (that is, how the median pay compares to other companies in the same industry). Since we think that pay is one of the most important factors, we double-weighted pay in our calculations. Read the full methodology here. Did your employer make the list? Mike Nudelman/Business Insider This ranking of Fortune 500 companies was created by Business Insider using data gathered and crunched by PayScale. Read the full methodology here. Also find out how your salary stacks up at PayScale.com. FREE AppDownload
We're hiring a Senior Technology Editor for a new project at Business Insider. In this role, you'd hire, manage, and edit a team of reporters. Part of your time would be spent reporting and writing yourself. Much of your time would be spent teaching your reporters how to figure out what's important, develop sources, gather information, analyze information, write accurately, quickly, cleanly, and succinctly, and produce awesome graphics (visual storytelling). And you'll need to edit your team's work and make sure it's great. The role is full-time and based in our New York City offices. No requests for off-site or part-time work will be considered. If you are interested in learning more about this new role, please apply here. Thank you in advance. FREE AppDownload
FuzipopThe scene at a Fuzipop event.New York has a new club for under-aged partiers, but you have to be younger than 12 to get in. CNN Money ran a story today about a new company called Fuzipop that puts together dance parties for children at major nightclubs around Manhattan. Held once a month for children ages 6-12 and their parents, the three-hour dance parties typically cost $20 for a parent and child to get in, and $60 for a family of four. A 9-year-old child DJs the events (it's not clear whether he or she was trained at Brooklyn's baby DJ school), and professional dancers help keep kids entertained. The kids get down with glow sticks and guzzle juice boxes — seriously. A CNN Money reporter recently attended one such party at the West Village’s Pink Elephant on a Sunday afternoon, where just 12 hours earlier, the crowd was a lot less wholesome. The scene she described sounds plain awful:  Inside, parents lined up the full cash bar as their kids leaped around the dance floor shouting out the words to "What Does the Fox Say." The tables usually reserved for VIPs ordering pricey bottle service were littered with champagne glasses and juice boxes. The bartender, who's used to serving a liquored-up, over-21 crowd on Saturday nights, was surprised by how much the parents were imbibing. The most popular drink that afternoon was vodka. Here's a video of the party, if you're having a hard time picturing it:  Fuzipop says on its website that its goal is to “inspire the next generation of DJs, music producers, artists, dancers and music business moguls. Growing up in New York City is a unique one-of-a-kind experience and city kids deserve an event of the same stature.” The idea behind the events may be to get children into music, but we have a feeling these parties are more for their parents. One mother at the April Fuzipop event told CNN Money that Fuzipop lets parents "live vicariously through our kids, and we can all blow off steam together."  That seems more like it.   FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBeige.The Federal Reserve has just released its April Beige Book, a collection of anecdotes on economic conditions from business contacts across each of the 12 Fed districts. According to the Beige Book, economic growth increased in most U.S. regions and consumer spending rose as the harsh winter weather conditions receded. The word "weather" is indeed mentioned 103 times. "While the 'less severe' winter weather appeared to have bolstered manufacturing sector activity, housing activity remained fairly subdued with some Districts reporting continued weakness in home sales and construction activity," says Millan Mulraine, deputy head of U.S. research and strategy at TD Securities. "The overall tone of this report was somewhat encouraging, underscoring some improvement in activity relative to the last edition, though the pick-up appears to have been somewhat more subdued, and not particularly widespread across Districts or sectors of the economy." Below is the full text of the release: Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest economic activity increased in most regions of the country since the previous report. The expansion was characterized as modest or moderate by the Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts. Chicago reported that economic growth had picked up, and New York and Philadelphia indicated that business activity had rebounded from weather-related slowdowns earlier in the year. The Cleveland and St. Louis Districts both reported a decline in economic activity. Consumer spending increased in most Districts, as weather conditions improved and foot traffic returned. Auto sales were up in the New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts, but they were little changed from a year earlier in Kansas City and Cleveland. In addition, assessments of tourism were generally positive, particularly for the Districts of Philadelphia, Richmond, and Minneapolis, where ski resorts had record seasons. Summer bookings were also solid in several Districts. Activity was mixed at non-financial services firms, with the Boston, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts reporting increased demand. In the Boston District, for example, advertising and consulting were strong. The Richmond District indicated that revenues at non-retail services firms were flat, and St. Louis said firms' planned activity declined on net. The transportation sector generally strengthened in recent weeks, with higher port volumes and increased trucking. Even in districts where transportation was soft, the outlook was optimistic. Manufacturing improved in most Districts. Several Districts reported that the impact of winter weather was less severe than earlier this year. Chicago and Minneapolis saw moderate growth, while manufacturing grew at a steady pace in New York, Atlanta, St. Louis, and Dallas. San Francisco noted that manufacturing appeared to gain some momentum. Other Districts noted mild growth, except Richmond, where manufacturing activity was mixed. Demand for food production declined in the Boston, Richmond, and Dallas Districts; however the drop was primarily weather related. Steel production picked up in several districts. Reports on residential housing markets varied. However, across most Districts, home prices rose modestly and inventory levels remained low. Residential construction increased in several Districts; only Cleveland, St. Louis, and Minneapolis reported a decrease. Commercial construction also strengthened, with the exception of Cleveland, which reported a mild decline. Commercial leasing activity generally advanced at a modest pace. Industrial markets showed signs of tightening in downstate New York and northern New Jersey. Loan demand strengthened since the previous Beige Book. Credit quality improved in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, and Kansas City Districts. New York and Dallas reported especially strong increases. New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Richmond cited the inclement weather as a factor reducing home sales and therefore mortgage borrowing. Commercial loan volumes grew in each of the Districts reporting on banking except St. Louis, where lending declined marginally. Agricultural reports were mixed, as weather disruptions delayed crop plantings and shipments of commodities. A pig virus adversely affected hog farming in the Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts. Prices of beef and pork rose. In the energy industry, oil and natural gas production increased, while coal output continued to decline. Labor market conditions were mixed but generally positive. The New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts reported difficulty finding skilled workers. In most Districts, wage pressures were contained or minimal. The New York District reported scattered wage pressures and Cleveland reported that wage pressures were contained. However, there were several reports of upward wage pressures in the Dallas District. Prices were generally stable or slightly higher. The New York District described price pressures as subdued in manufacturing and steady in the service sector. In Philadelphia, manufacturing prices paid and received edged up; in Richmond, prices of raw materials and finished goods rose more slowly since the previous Beige Book. Some districts reported higher prices for construction inputs and livestock. In Cleveland, concrete, drywall, and hardwood prices rose, while in the Kansas City District, drywall and roofing prices increased and were expected to rise further. Consumer Spending and TourismConsumer spending increased since the previous report in a majority of Districts. Retailers reported improvement from generally weak sales at the beginning of the year that were most likely the result of winter storms. Retail sales in New York rebounded strongly from weather-depressed levels, while cold weather continued to hold down consumer spending in Cleveland. St. Louis contacts reported a number of store openings and plans for future openings. Some categories of spending benefited from the long winter, such as cold weather apparel, appliances, and snow removal equipment. Finally, Boston noted increasing online sales, and some San Francisco firms have adjusted product offerings accordingly. Retail inventories were mixed in Boston and at or near desired levels in New York. Cleveland inventories were described as being in good shape. Inventories expanded in the Chicago District, and increased moderately in Kansas City. Sales of cars and light trucks picked up in recent weeks as the weather improved and consumer traffic returned to dealerships. Auto sales were strong in the New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, and San Francisco Districts; sales growth was moderate in Chicago. Automobile sales strengthened slightly in the Dallas District and grew modestly in Atlanta, but were flat in Kansas City. In the Cleveland District, dealers reported that winter weather continued to push down transactions. Tourism was generally positive in the Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts. Tourism in the San Francisco District was higher than in the previous report but below year-ago levels. In New York, reports were mixed. Attendance at Broadway theaters picked up, in part because more shows were running. However, some contacts suggested that cold weather had decreased travel. In the Philadelphia, Richmond, and Minneapolis Districts, ski resorts reported an outstanding season. Atlanta reported positive tourist activity and Kansas City noted that activity picked up. Some districts were already experiencing heavy summer bookings. Nonfinancial ServicesReports on non-financial services were mixed. In the Boston District, advertising and consulting were strong, especially for healthcare consulting; firms had a positive outlook for the remainder of the year. Philadelphia's businesses were also optimistic; growth there was moderate. Activity increased in the Minneapolis District and Kansas City reported improved sales in professional, technical, and healthcare services. The Richmond District reported generally flat revenues at non-retail services firms. Chicago's nonfinancial services firms increased business spending. St. Louis reported that firms' planned activity declined on net. Reports in the Dallas and San Francisco Districts were mixed, with San Francisco noting healthy demand in the technology industry. Transportation generally strengthened in recent weeks. In the Richmond District, container volume through ports continued to grow briskly despite winter weather disruptions. Trucking increased as firms worked to catch up with weather-delayed shipments. Atlanta ports cited increased shipments of bulk agricultural commodities and record container volumes. In addition, intermodal traffic rose modestly. Transportation firms in the Kansas City District saw slower growth in March but expected moderate growth over the next six months. Dallas transportation services firms reported mixed demand, as container and intermodal cargo decreased. Airline demand there was soft, but above year-ago levels. In the Minneapolis District, freight rail backlogs delayed agricultural shipments. Costs of freight rose while volumes declined in the Cleveland District, and operators were unable to pass through increases in diesel prices. ManufacturingConditions in the manufacturing sector improved since the previous Beige Book. The Chicago and Minneapolis Districts reported moderate growth, with a pickup in new orders and production. The San Francisco District stated that manufacturing activity appeared to gain some momentum. Manufacturing in the Boston, New York, Atlanta, St. Louis, and Dallas Districts grew at a steady pace, while Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Kansas City reported mild growth. Richmond reported mixed conditions in manufacturing. The Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts noted that lingering winter weather hampered business activity, but the impact was less severe than earlier this year. The auto, aerospace, and energy-related industries remained a source of strength for the Chicago District. Energy-related manufacturing was also particularly strong in Dallas. The sustained backlog of orders for commercial aircraft supported growth in the commercial aerospace industry in the San Francisco District. The Chicago District indicated that steel production recovered from a weather-related slowdown and capacity utilization returned to its expected levels. Additionally, specialty metals manufacturers reported an increase in new orders and order backlogs. In contrast, food manufacturers in Boston, Richmond, and Dallas reported a decline in demand that was largely weather related, but indicated that production was unchanged overall. Steel shipments grew slightly in Cleveland, with contacts anticipating slow growth in the months ahead. The demand for steel production inputs improved from both domestic and foreign sources in the San Francisco District. Firms expected continued moderate growth in manufacturing, with some increased optimism. Real Estate and ConstructionReports on residential housing markets varied. Home sales in Kansas City strengthened since the last survey period due in part to seasonal factors and improved weather conditions. Moreover, in the Dallas District single-family home sales remained healthy, with some contacts reporting a seasonal pickup in demand over the past six weeks. Residential real estate improved in Richmond, with further strengthening in Northern Virginia. New York housing markets continued to be mixed, while severe winter weather hampered sales activity. Chicago reported that home sales and new listings declined, though brokers attributed this primarily to cold weather and were optimistic that activity would improve in coming months. Atlanta brokers reported homes sales were mixed and contacts attributed areas of softness to higher home prices, limited inventory, and higher mortgage rates. The pace of home sales varied across the San Francisco District. Some contacts in California noted an uptick, while contacts from Washington observed a more sluggish pace. Home sales declined across most of the largest metro areas of the St. Louis District, and Minneapolis residential real estate market activity decreased since the previous report. In most Districts, inventory levels remained limited and residential home prices rose modestly. Residential construction grew at a moderate pace in the Boston and San Francisco Districts, while New York, Philadelphia, and Atlanta reported modest growth. In the Chicago District, a decline in single-family construction was accompanied by growing demand for new apartment projects as residential rents continued to increase. Richmond single-family home construction grew slowly. In the Kansas City District, builders reported moderate growth in the number of housing starts and expected an increase in buyer traffic and prices in the coming months. In contrast, residential construction declined in Cleveland, St. Louis, and Minneapolis. Multifamily construction remained strong in the New York, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts. The Minneapolis District reported that overall residential construction activity decreased and that the value of residential permits fell in March. Commercial construction activity strengthened since the previous survey period for the Kansas City and Dallas Districts. The Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts reported modest to moderate expansion in commercial construction. Philadelphia noted mild growth, while Cleveland reported a slight decline in commercial construction. Commercial leasing activity generally grew at a mild to moderate pace. Office and industrial activity remained robust in the Dallas District, with one contact noting particularly strong demand for office space in the Dallas metropolitan area. Leasing activity improved for retail and industrial space in the Richmond District. Commercial real estate contacts continued to report a decline in vacancy rates, a slight increase in absorption, and higher sales in Kansas City. The Boston, New York, and Chicago Districts reported modest commercial leasing in recent weeks. Industrial markets were generally steady across upstate New York but showed signs of tightening in downstate New York and northern New Jersey. Banking and Financial ServicesOn the whole, loan demand strengthened since the previous Beige Book. Of the Districts that reported on banking, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, and Kansas City noted slight increases in loan volume, while Cleveland and Chicago indicated modest growth. The New York and San Francisco Districts had moderate gains. The Dallas District noted that consumer loans continued to grow moderately. St. Louis was the only district to report a decrease in loan volumes. With respect to credit quality, slight improvements were noted in Philadelphia and Cleveland, and modest advancements were made in Richmond and Kansas City. The New York and Dallas Districts reported especially strong increases. San Francisco indicated no net change in credit quality but noted that credit standards had tightened and that small business lending was primarily reserved for better-quality borrowers. Credit standards were reported to be loosening in the Atlanta District. New York, Cleveland, Richmond, and Kansas City indicated that standards were unchanged. The majority of Districts described mixed or declining residential mortgage borrowing; only Dallas and San Francisco reported slight growth. New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Richmond cited the inclement weather as a factor reducing home sales and therefore mortgage borrowing. However, the Philadelphia District also added that bankers reported growing consumer confidence. Commercial loan volumes grew in each of the Districts reporting on banking except St. Louis, where lending declined marginally. Overall commercial mortgage lending grew in the New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts. Cleveland and Chicago saw increased lending for equipment purchases. Kansas City reported greater demand for agriculture loans. Deposits were up in the Cleveland, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts but little changed in New York. Delinquency rates declined in New York and Cleveland. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesAgricultural conditions varied across Districts in recent weeks. In the Chicago District, conditions improved. Kansas City and Dallas reported mild growth in the sector, while San Francisco reported stable demand for agricultural products. However, agricultural conditions weakened in the Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, and Minneapolis Districts. Adverse weather affected several districts. Winter wheat suffered as a result of dry conditions in the Kansas City District, and drought conditions continued to worsen in Dallas. In contrast, wet field conditions delayed planting in the Richmond and Atlanta Districts. Additionally, Chicago noted that the slow arrival of spring-like weather delayed fieldwork, although in some areas crops perform well after late planting. Minneapolis and San Francisco reported that winter weather disrupted transportation of some crops. In most Districts, crop prices increased in recent weeks but were below year-ago levels. Higher soybean prices shifted planting intentions away from corn. Dairy demand boomed in Dallas, especially for export, and prices for dairy products moved to record highs. Hog operations in a few Districts were battling a virus, and pork prices continued to rise. Beef prices reached record highs. Activity in the energy industry increased modestly since the last report, with moderate growth reported by the Richmond, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts. San Francisco reported a mild increase. In Kansas City, the number of active oil and natural gas drilling rigs edged up, and expectations for the coming months were positive. San Francisco reported that crude oil production increased robustly. Demand for oilfield services was very healthy in the Dallas District, particularly in West Texas. Crude oil prices generally increased. Natural gas production was stable at a high level. Minneapolis reported strong growth in natural gas and increased exploration in North Dakota. Prices of natural gas and natural gas liquids stabilized. Coal production declined at a slower rate in Cleveland and St. Louis due in part to higher demand from domestic electric utilities. The Richmond District reported steady coal production as inventories were replenished from this winter's drawdown. Cleveland and St. Louis indicated a mild decline in coal production. The Minneapolis District reported that mining was stable, with production at ore mines roughly level with a year earlier. Employment, Wages, and PricesRecent reports on labor market conditions were mixed but generally positive. For example, the New York, Chicago, and Minneapolis Districts saw modest to moderate growth in employment. Dallas noted that transportation and manufacturing firms added jobs. Boston, however, indicated that few firms outside of advertising and consulting were hiring. Both Philadelphia and Atlanta said that firms planned to make capital expenditures to boost efficiency before they would hire. Employers in the New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts reported difficulty finding skilled workers. More specifically: New York, Richmond, and Chicago mentioned the IT field, Atlanta noted a need for truckers, Kansas City cited labor shortages for skilled positions, and Dallas reported that a food manufacturer found skilled labor in short supply. In most Districts, wage pressures were generally portrayed as contained or minimal. For example, New York reported only scattered wage pressures and Philadelphia added that very few contacts are seeing wage pressures. In Cleveland, wage pressures were contained, Minneapolis reported that wage increases were moderate. However, Dallas cited several reports of upward wage pressures, and San Francisco added that wage gains remained quite modest overall but noted increases for certain occupations and in certain areas. Prices were mostly steady, with scattered reports of increases. The New York District described price pressures as subdued in manufacturing and steady in the service sector. In Philadelphia manufacturing prices paid and received edged up, and in Richmond, prices of raw materials and finished goods rose more slowly since the previous Beige Book. Retail prices were steady in Boston while food prices moved up modestly in the Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco Districts. Boston reported that costs and prices increased between zero and four percent. Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts all said that prices of metals, brick, and cement rose modestly. Chicago noted that prices for corn, soybeans, dairy, hogs, and cattle increased. Kansas City also saw higher livestock prices. Prices of various categories of construction materials rose in some districts; in Cleveland, concrete, drywall, and hardwood prices all trended higher. The Kansas City District indicated that drywall and roofing prices rose and were expected to rise further. In San Francisco, wood and insulation prices edged up. Changes in natural gas prices varied: Minnesota reported increases while Dallas reported decreases as the winter weather subsided. The Cleveland District reported that spot prices for steam coal rose slightly, while the metallurgical coal price growth was flat. Return to top RetailFirst District retailers contacted for this round were just completing Q1 or Q4 reports, depending on their fiscal year calendar. Year-over-year comparable-store sales ranged from being down 4 percent to being up slightly more than 10 percent. All of the respondents say that their retail sales were affected, to some degree, by the severe winter weather. One retailer benefited from much higher demand for winter-related items, while the others saw sales suffer because snowstorms kept consumers from shopping. Apparel, furniture, and appliances sold well, as did paint for interior home improvement projects. Inventories are mixed, in part because bad weather cut some stores' sales. For retailers with both brick-and-mortar stores and online sales channels, Internet sales continue to account for an increasing share of total sales. Contacts continue to report that prices are steady overall, but some expect to see very modest price increases later in the year; one, for example, cites higher prices for a range of apparel inputs as well as higher foreign labor costs. The consensus is that consumer sentiment is continuing to improve. Manufacturing and Related ServicesOf the nine manufacturing firms contacted in this round, seven report higher sales than the same period a year earlier. The two citing declines were a frozen fish company and a manufacturer of pressure sensitive films. Two others, a manufacturer of industrial motors and brakes and a manufacturer of scientific equipment, report very slight sales increases compared with a year ago. Contacts at four firms say the weather adversely affected their sales in the first quarter but they find it difficult to estimate how much of the reduction is likely to be recovered in coming months. A manufacturer of parts for the auto industry said that slow sales in the auto industry have not yet affected build schedules, so inventories of finished cars are piling up. If auto sales don't "bounce back" in the spring, the contact believes that summer shutdowns in the industry will be longer than usual. A firm that makes water treatment devices reports that demand in residential real estate is strong. Globally, respondents indicate that sales in Europe are growing more rapidly, but from a very low base, while sales in Asia are strong. Contacts report that commodity and other input prices are generally stable. Two firms say they raised prices on January 1 and customers largely accepted the increases. Inventory levels are largely unchanged. Five contacts report no change in employment and two report small increases. A biotechnology company plans to hire 1,000 workers this year and completed about 20 percent of that in the first quarter. A manufacturer of frozen fish closed a plant in Canada and moved production to New England, with no change in overall firm employment. Two-thirds of contacts report higher capital expenditures planned for 2014 versus 2013. For two contacts, a manufacturer of parts for jet engines and a maker of industrial motors and brakes, the increases are large relative to their typical levels of investment and represent substantial increases capacity. None of our manufacturing contacts has a negative outlook, but four said that they expect sales to be flat or to grow very slowly in 2014. Selected Business ServicesConsulting and advertising contacts report a strong first quarter, consistent with an accelerating economy. Healthcare consulting contacts indicate that very strong demand is ongoing, as providers continue to adjust to the changes imposed by the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Economic consulting remains a strong growth industry, although the conclusion of litigation related to mortgage-back securities and the financial sector may restrain growth slightly in the near future. Strategy consultants report strong demand growth, driven by high levels of private equity activity and increased demand for corporate work, as clients have become more comfortable with the economic outlook and begin to release pent-up demand for consulting work. Advertising and marketing contacts also report strong growth, ranging from 5 percent to 20 percent year-over-year, and cite factors including growing confidence in the economic outlook and an increased willingness among large corporations to spend in order to position themselves within their markets. By contrast, a government contractor cites continued contraction, but has observed increasing interest in new projects since the passage of the recent budget deal. Contacts report small increases in costs and prices, ranging from zero to 4 percent. Some consultants cite minimal pressure to keep prices low, while others say that competition has forced them to keep prices flat. Employment growth is in the zero to 5 percent range, although most firms at zero either increased their workforce in the recent past or expect to do so soon if their current growth continues. All contacts are optimistic about the coming year and expect economic growth either to continue or to accelerate. Contacts cite various ongoing risks, but generally were only minimally concerned. Commercial Real EstateCommercial real estate contacts in Boston report that brisk demand for and tight supply of office space in portions of the city, including the Seaport District and Back Bay, have pushed asking rents up in those locations in recent months. While these localized rent increases are contributing to increases in average office asking rents in greater Boston, contacts note that rents remain flat in portions of the Financial District and in a number of suburban locations, and that rising maintenance costs mean that net rents are growing more slowly than asking rents. Speculative office construction remains limited, although respondents say that the pipeline of planned office construction for greater Boston is growing. Contacts continue to express concerns that prices being paid by investors for commercial properties in Boston, along with lending terms for commercial mortgages, embody highly optimistic assumptions concerning future rent growth on the properties. Demand for Boston properties has been particularly strong among foreign investors and domestic pension funds. A few contacts, located in Boston as well as elsewhere in the region, also expressed concern that current construction levels of high-end apartments are excessive in relation to potential demand for such units. At the same time, these contacts indicate that recently delivered luxury apartment units appear to be fetching rents in line with developers' projections. In Hartford, sluggish leasing activity is attributed to the long, harsh winter, although fundamentals and business sentiment are described as stable. Also in Hartford, a new apartment construction project recently broke ground downtown, and investment sales interest remains healthy. Leasing deals proceeded slowly in greater Providence in the first quarter, leading to decreased confidence by one contact there, who nonetheless cites some positive developments in the Rhode Island economy that should contribute to job creation in coming months. Rents in Providence are described as flat on average, with some modest upward pressure in the class A office sector and diminishing concessions in suburban locations. Leasing activity reportedly increased in Portland in recent weeks, up from the already healthy pace seen at the beginning of the year. In addition to strong leasing demand, which pertained especially to the class A office sector and the retail sector, Portland's investment sales and development and construction inquiries grew in number. Growing demand for new construction reflects current, very low vacancy rates for downtown retail and class A office space in Portland. A regional lender faces ongoing competitive pressure to lower credit spreads for commercial mortgages, and continues to see a healthy pipeline of loan demand for most property types, with the exception of class B office space. Contacts in both Hartford and Providence expect more slow improvement in fundamentals. The outlook for Portland's commercial real estate market is bullish in light of its recent growth and planned business expansions, while contacts expect that mixed performance will persist across different locations in the Boston metropolitan area. Residential Real EstateRealtors in the First District express caution but optimism about the mixed sales results that continued in the region in February. Year-over-year sales of single family homes decreased in Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and Connecticut, and increased in Maine and Vermont. (Contacts in New Hampshire were unavailable for comment in this round.) In the condominium market, sales increased relative to last year in Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Vermont, while decreasing in Rhode Island; condo sales information is not reported in Maine. The consensus across the First District is that the decline in sales will be short lived; respondents say it was partially driven by the tough winter, as well as uncertainty about new federal flood insurance rules. Signs of spring weather and new legislation limiting flood insurance premium increases are lessening these concerns. In Massachusetts, however, inventory shortages are said to be the key reason for the decline in sales. One Massachusetts contact stated "there is just not enough supply to meet demand." As a result, Massachusetts contacts say multiple bids are common and the median sales price for single family homes has increased compared to the year-earlier median in 17 consecutive months. Median sales prices also increased year-over-year in Connecticut and Maine, but declined in Vermont and Rhode Island. Residential real estate contacts say they expect sales to pick up seasonally this spring, but foresee no significant market shifts. Return to top Consumer SpendingGeneral merchandise retailers report that sales rebounded strongly in March, running at or close to plan and generally on par with or up a bit from comparable 2013 levels. Weather was still seen as a factor restraining sales in March--particularly for spring merchandise--but to a lesser extent than in January and February. Contacts at major malls in upstate New York report that sales rebounded in March, following a disappointing performance in the first two months of the year, and were up modestly from a year earlier. Similarly, two major retail chains report that same-store sales, which had been disappointingly weak in the first two months of the year, bounced back in March and were on or close to plan. Inventories are generally at or near desired levels. Prices are characterized as steady overall, though one contact reports ongoing heavy discounting. Auto dealers in upstate New York report that new vehicle sales rebounded since the last report. Buffalo-area dealers report that new vehicle sales were robust in both February and March, with double-digit percentage gains over comparable 2013 levels. Good lease deals, as well as lease turn-ins helped drive this recent strength. Rochester-area dealers also report a pickup in sales of new vehicles in recent weeks, though less pronounced, with sales up moderately from 2013 levels. Dealers in both these areas also note some pickup in used car sales and note that wholesale and retail credit conditions, more generally, remain in good shape. Tourism activity has been mixed since the last report. Both revenues and attendance at Broadway theaters picked up in March and were up nearly 15 percent from a year earlier--in part because there are more shows running now. The average ticket price has leveled off. In contrast, New York City hotels report some softening in demand: both occupancy rates and room rates slipped below comparable 2013 levels in March, resulting in a roughly 8 percent decline in revenue per room; still, it should be noted that the number of hotel rooms city-wide is up 5 1/2 percent. Contacts surmise that unseasonably cold weather into March may still be adversely affecting travel. Finally, consumer confidence was little changed in March: Siena College's survey of New York State residents indicates a small decline in confidence, mainly among upstate residents; the Conference Board's survey also shows a small decrease in confidence among New York State residents but a small increase among residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) overall. Construction and Real EstateThe District's housing markets continue to be mixed, with severe winter weather weighing on sales in parts of the District. In particular, contacts in the Buffalo-Niagara region indicate that a combination of harsh weather and low inventory has hampered sales activity, though home prices have held steady. This pattern appears to be mirrored in other parts of upstate New York. In northern New Jersey, while weather appears to be less of a factor, a backlog of foreclosed properties continues to weigh on prices, according to one industry contact. Still, there are some signs of a pickup in the market, and builders appear to be increasingly optimistic, especially about the multi-family rental market. New York City's co-op and condo market has shown further strength in the first quarter: a leading residential appraiser notes that prices continue to rise modestly in Manhattan and substantially in Brooklyn and Queens, buoyed by a low inventory of homes on the market. In Manhattan, a shift in the sales mix towards larger apartments and new development has reportedly boosted dollar sales volume and exaggerated the price rise. Manhattan's rental market remains on a plateau, whereas rents continue to rise briskly in Brooklyn. In Brooklyn, most new development is rental housing, while in Manhattan, it is predominantly condos. Commercial real estate markets were generally stable to somewhat stronger through the end of the first quarter. In New York City, office availability rates were little changed, as brisk leasing activity allowed several newly available spaces to be absorbed; however, asking rents continued to rise and were up roughly 8 percent from a year earlier. Office availability rates were down modestly in the Long Island and Westchester/Fairfield markets; they were little changed in northern New Jersey but up modestly across upstate New York. Outside of New York City, asking rents for office space were little changed. Industrial markets were generally steady across upstate New York but showed signs of tightening in downstate New York and northern New Jersey. Other Business ActivityThe labor market has shown increasing signs of strength. A large and growing proportion of business contacts across the District plans to expand their workforces in the months ahead--particularly in the service sector. Moreover, two major New York City employment agencies report that labor demand has strengthened across the board, in particular with increased hiring from the financial sector. One contact notes that there are only scattered wage pressures but anticipates a broader pickup in wages soon. Another agency, however, has observed a growing number of unemployed job-seekers from the health care sector. Nevertheless, graduating college students in the New York City area are reported to be finding jobs quickly, and skilled workers are increasingly difficult to find--particularly in the IT field. In upstate New York, some auto dealers mention a shortage of skilled technicians. Manufacturing firms in the District report that overall activity continued to expand modestly in March, while service-sector firms indicate a more pronounced pickup, following a weather-related slump in early 2014. Price pressures in the manufacturing sector have picked up somewhat but remain generally subdued, while in the service sector they remain steady but fairly widespread. Financial DevelopmentsSmall to medium sized banks across the District report increased demand for commercial mortgages and commercial &amp; industrial loans, but lower demand for residential mortgages; consumer loan demand remains little changed. Bankers report that credit standards are unchanged across all loan categories. Respondents indicate a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for commercial mortgages and especially commercial &amp; industrial loans, but report no change in other categories. Deposit rates are reported to be little changed. Finally, bankers report increasingly widespread improvement in delinquency rates across all loan categories. Return to top Since most sectors seem to be resuming their trends from before the recent winter disruptions, most contacts are as optimistic as before, if not more so. Overall, contacts anticipated moderate growth over the next six months and continued to express confidence in the underlying economy. In regard to hiring and capital expenditure plans, firms are beginning to increase capital expenditures to boost efficiency, but they continue to approach new hiring with caution. ManufacturingThird District manufacturers reported that levels of activity rebounded with a slight overall increase during the current Beige Book period, following the previous decline that had been attributed to frequent, severe weather disruptions. New orders and shipments grew slightly this period after falling slightly last period. The share of all firms reporting increases in general activity rebounded from about one-fourth to one-third, while the share reporting decreases fell from about one-third to one-fourth. The makers of food products, lumber and wood products, chemicals, primary metals, and electronic equipment have reported gains, rebounding from the flat or lower activity they reported during the last Beige Book period. They join the makers of paper products, fabricated metals, and industrial machinery that have reported gains for both periods. A mixed report came from the makers of instruments during this period. Firms that reported stronger growth attributed much of the demand to growth in the auto- and housing-related sectors. Some increased demand is reported to stem from the desire of some big-box retailers to have access to a broader domestic supply chain. Optimism that business conditions will improve over the next six months remained high and continued to be widespread across sectors. About half of all firms continued to anticipate increases in activity; however, slightly more firms than before (now, about one-sixth) reported expectations of lower activity. About one-third of all firms reported that they anticipate higher levels of employment and capital expenditures in six months--up from one-fourth in February. Nearly half of all firms anticipate that overall capital expenditures for 2014 will be higher than they were in 2013. While most firms reported that their capital expenditures focus on technology to increase their plant productivity with few new hires, a few firms reported plans to increase both their plant and staff size. RetailThird District retailers reported a healthy rebound from the prior Beige Book period when sales slipped below plan and below the prior year. Retailers reported that sales grew at a moderate pace over the period and finished about even with last year. Stronger sales were observed despite ongoing poor weather that continued to limit sales potential and prompted continued heavy promotions to move inventory. Contacts also explained that year-over-year comparisons would be positive if one adjusted for the early Easter activity that was included in 2013 sales. Moreover, contacts described traffic returning to stores, reporting that the last Saturday of March was "tremendous," despite rain and snow, and restaurants were packed. Retail development managers described strong optimism for new deals over the remainder of 2014 and into next year. Contacts mentioned rising rents for lease renewals, higher capital expenditure plans for new stores, and greater attendance and enthusiasm at deal-making conferences.  Auto sales rebounded robustly during this Beige Book period compared with the prior period when winter weather took a significant toll on sales. Dealers reported that sales grew at a strong pace, especially during several good weekends in March; the last week of March was "about as good as it gets." According to one large dealership, its sales force closed on 30 to 40 vehicles per salesperson in March. Auto dealers remain bullish for 2014. In addition to expecting to capture more sales lost to winter weather, dealers cite increased credit availability, demand for leasing, and the still-high average age of cars as factors for their optimism. FinanceThird District financial firms have reported slight increases in total loan volume since the last Beige Book. Commercial and industrial loan volume grew modestly, and commercial real estate loans grew slightly. Other real estate loans, such as home equity lines and mortgages, changed little. Volumes of credit card lending and other consumer credit loans fell throughout the Beige Book period (until the last week); however, those declines are typical of the seasonal trend following the winter holiday credit run-up. Overall, banking contacts described increasing consumer confidence, stronger middle market lending, but continued reluctance by small businesses to extend themselves with hiring or new investments. There were some exceptions, however: Some small businesses in healthier markets began to hire, while other markets with continuing high foreclosure rates struggled to grow at all. In healthier markets, housing prices have firmed, appraisals have strengthened, and credit quality has improved. Overall, most bankers remained optimistic for growth through the remainder of the year; however, markets were divided between those who believed the economy had turned a corner and others who continued to see a slow bleed of population and business in their local market. Real Estate and ConstructionThird District homebuilders continued to report weather-related disruptions to new home sales; however, customer traffic and construction activity grew enough to resume more normal levels. One builder reported a "decent" number of contract signings in March but stated that contract closings for the entire first quarter were well below last year and even further below plan for this year for them as well as for other area builders. Most builders, large and small, expect to see a strong spring sales season in part due to growing pent-up demand from winter as well as the slowly improving economy. Some builders are using their own cash to build more speculative homes, anticipating that potential buyers will make faster decisions on a finished property than on a build-to-suit home. According to residential real estate brokers, sales activity grew somewhat from the prior Beige Book period; however, March contract numbers were still not good. Sales of existing homes were down (year over year) in most of the Third District's larger metropolitan areas in February. Pending sales and new listings were also reported as declining at a modest pace, except along the Jersey Shore where listings were up slightly but only when compared with the quiet market that prevailed after Hurricane Sandy. Throughout the Third District, brokers expect to recapture some portion of the "lost" sales over the next three months; however, some potential buyers from the first quarter of 2014 may defer a decision until 2015. Nonresidential real estate contacts indicated slight increases--representing a resumption of nearly normal activity following disruptions from the more severe weather of the prior period. Ongoing commercial construction resumed a low level of activity but is expected to ramp up this summer, as several major projects are expected to break ground. Leasing activity also rebounded slightly with the greatest activity (and lowest vacancy rates) for offices in the Philadelphia central business district and the Lehigh Valley. Despite the ongoing slow job growth of firms that fill office space, most contacts remain optimistic for stronger growth as the year progresses. ServicesActivity among Third District service-sector firms accelerated to a moderate pace of growth since the last Beige Book. Ski resorts and other winter tourist destinations reported a stellar season and one of the longest ski seasons for many resorts. Some mountain resorts have been able to extend the ski season almost up to the opening of their golf season. Contacts along the shore destinations provided mixed reports regarding tourist traffic over the slow winter season. Responses were more uniformly positive regarding early bookings for the summer season. A few contacts from both mountain and shore resorts reported that many summer weekends are already sold out. Other service-sector firms reported mostly moderate growth rates, with almost half reporting increased sales and over 40 percent reporting increased orders. Staffing firms that lost billable hours during weather-related business closings reported modest growth--resuming their previous trend. One central Pennsylvania firm reported seeing a lot of hiring activity across all sectors of the economy and deemed that growth to be sustainable. Overall, the vast majority of service-sector contacts are optimistic that the growth trend will continue over the next six months. Prices and WagesOverall, Third District contacts reported no change to the steady, slight pace of price level increases, similar to other recent Beige Books periods. Manufacturing firms reported that prices paid and prices received tended to rise slightly, about the same as last period. Auto dealers reported little change in pricing, general retailers reported ongoing promotions, and most builders reported holding prices steady, if they were not offering specials. Many contacts continued to report tight, or narrowing, margins. Generally, real estate contacts continued to report rising prices for lower-priced homes, while higher-priced homes are aligned to local market conditions. Several contacts reported that appraisals are starting to support local sales offers. Very few contacts are seeing wage pressures, although labor market tightening was observed in some smaller central Pennsylvania markets. Return to top Hiring was sluggish across industry sectors. Reports by staffing-firm representatives on the number of job openings and placements were mixed, with job vacancies found primarily in manufacturing and healthcare. Wage pressures are contained. Input and finished goods prices saw little change, apart from increases in metals, building materials, and diesel fuel. ManufacturingReports from District factories indicated that production levels held steady or they started to pick up as supply chain disruptions seen earlier in the year dissipated. Compared to a year ago, demand was generally consistent or somewhat higher. Many of our contacts expect production will rise relative to current levels in the upcoming months, with the strongest demand coming from the oil and gas sector and the motor vehicle industry. However, some concern was expressed about a weakening in Chinese and western European markets and its effect on new orders. Steel shipments grew slightly during the past six weeks. Contacts expressed disappointment with the overall level of market activity during the first quarter. Some believe that the severe winter weather may be partially responsible for the slow start to the year. Steel shipments are expected to grow, but at a slow pace: estimates of year-over-year growth rates ranged from 2 to 5 percent. District auto production increased modestly during February on both a month-over-month and year-over-over basis. One motor vehicle OEM reported that recent weather-related supply disruptions might negatively impact his production schedule until early summer. Finished goods inventories have increased slightly, primarily due to an expected rise in demand or weather-related cutbacks in new orders. Several contacts noted that their capacity utilization rates rose during the past six weeks but are still within a normal range. Capital expenditures were in line with budgeted amounts for the fiscal year. Current budgets are higher than those of a year ago, with outlays being used for equipment upgrades, product development, and maintenance. Raw material price growth was mainly flat, although several reports indicated rising prices for metals. However, passing through price increases to customers was difficult. The number of manufacturers who are hiring skilled production workers and engineers has declined since our last report. Wage pressures are contained. Real Estate and ConstructionThe number of new and existing single-family homes sold during February was little changed compared to the previous month. On a year-over-year basis, the number of units sold showed a modest decline. In contrast, single-family housing starts across the District fell sharply between January and February and compared to a year ago. Single and multifamily permits also declined during February. Although the drop-off in activity was attributed primarily to the cold weather, there is some concern about the housing market stabilizing after a year of fairly robust growth. New-home contracts were in the move-up price-point categories. Builders raised prices slightly on new homes after the beginning of the year to offset material and labor cost increases. Most of our contacts anticipate that the housing market will grow at a slow but steady pace in 2014. Activity in nonresidential construction held steady during the past six weeks, with demand coming from a broad range of industry sectors. Reports indicated that the severe winter weather slowed fieldwork. While inquiries continued at a steady pace and backlogs were characterized as reasonably good, builders expressed frustration with financing issues or customers who keep pushing back contract signings. Some builders believe the latter is due to a lack of confidence in the underlying strength of the economy. One contact observed that unless clients have a compelling need, they will not move on new construction. Nonetheless, builders remain cautiously optimistic and expect modest to moderate growth this year. Prices for concrete, drywall, and hardwood are trending higher. General contractors are satisfied with current staffing levels and plan to hire only for replacement or if business activity expands. Subcontractors are still confronting a tight supply of skilled labor; their ability to perform in a robust market and rising wage rates are a concern among many general contractors. Reports of rising costs related to healthcare are widespread. Consumer SpendingRetailers reported that the cold weather played a role in holding down consumer spending during February and into early March. A few of our contacts observed that as weather conditions began to improve later in March, so did their sales. In general, same-store revenues were down slightly from a year ago. Cold-weather gear and small personal items were in highest demand. One contact reported a softening in purchases of consumables. Retailers are optimistic about consumer spending in the second quarter due to pent-up demand, the Easter holidays coming in late April, and warmer weather. Most projections were for single-digit increases in revenues. Vendor and shelf prices held steady. Several retailers noted that they are running more promotions than normal, though inventories were described as being in good shape. Hiring will be restricted to staffing new stores, and even here, it will be limited. The number of new motor vehicles sold in February fell sharply compared to January figures. The decline was attributed to the persistently cold weather. However, unit volume was unchanged from a year earlier as light-truck sales continued to trend higher and auto sales moved down. New-vehicle inventories remain slightly elevated, which was credited to the extreme weather. Used-vehicle purchases during February were ahead of those in January and a year ago. The outlook by dealers for the spring selling season is positive, with several noting a rise in incentives at this time of year to help boost sales. Leasing continues to grow in popularity as an alternative to purchasing a vehicle. Dealers are anticipating an uptick in payrolls, some of which is seasonal. BankingDemand for business credit began to pick up after a slow start earlier in the year. Requests were strongest for commercial real estate development, including multifamily housing, equipment financing, and mergers and acquisitions. Pricing of business loans remains competitive. Consumer credit demand stayed on a slow upward trend. Requests were primarily for auto loans and home equity products. We heard a few reports about declining credit card balances. Comments on residential mortgage activity were mixed; bankers seeing an increase said that most applications were for purchase transactions. Our contacts reported no changes to loan-application standards. Delinquency rates were stable or trended lower. Core deposits (consumer and business) grew slightly since our last report. Banking payrolls held steady, with little change expected in the upcoming months. EnergyFirst-quarter coal production across the District fell below year-ago levels. However, the rate of decline is shrinking, due in part to higher demand from domestic electric utilities. Going forward, little change in output is projected. Spot prices for steam coal rose slightly, while metallurgical-coal price growth was flat. Natural gas production was stable at a high level. However, the number of unconventional wells drilled has fallen off. We heard a couple of reports indicating that conventional drilling companies are experiencing historic lows in activity due to low natural gas prices. Apart from diesel fuel, equipment, material, and labor costs were stable. Hiring was for replacement only. Freight TransportationFreight executives reported that their bottom lines fell sharply through the first two months of 2014 due to the severe winter weather—volumes declined while costs rose. After adjusting for weather-related costs, carriers were still close to their projected growth targets. As weather conditions improved, volume began to pick up. However, one contact noted that some business that was lost to the weather is unlikely to be regained. Diesel fuel prices moved higher in January and February. Operators have been unable to pass through the entire increase via surcharges. Year-to-date capital expenditures were in line with budgeted amounts. Monies are allocated more for equipment replacement than for capacity expansion. We heard reports about some carriers experiencing difficulty meeting demand due to the impact brought about by the hours-of-service regulations. The end result could be higher rates, which would help enable carriers to purchase additional equipment. Hiring is mainly for replacement.   Return to top ManufacturingManufacturing reports were mixed in recent weeks. Winter weather continued to affect some regions and manufacturers reported that they were trying to make up lost production. A food manufacturer stated that the weather delayed shipments and also reduced some Mardi Gras orders, but production was unchanged overall. A producer of industrial equipment components reported a slowdown because capital goods orders had fallen. In contrast, a fixtures manufacturer remarked that his firm has been "busting at the seams" and he planned to expand. Another producer said he was keeping inventory low. Several manufacturers reported an increase in supplier delivery times. Manufacturers expected a pickup in orders during the weeks ahead. Prices of raw materials and finished goods rose at a slower pace, according to our survey. PortsPort officials reported that container volume continued to grow briskly, despite winter storm disruptions. Import growth exceeded export growth, with particular strength in housing-related durable goods, auto parts, and some seasonal products. Exports of grain and soybeans were especially robust and significant increases in exports of construction and building equipment destined for Europe moved through the Port of Virginia. Coal shipments declined. A South Carolina port official reported that a recently announced local automotive expansion will increase exports. Auto exports from the Port of Baltimore softened somewhat. RetailReports on retail revenues varied in recent weeks, but generally pointed to moderate gains. A large auto dealer outside the Washington, D.C. beltway reported that business had increased dramatically, necessitating additional inventory purchases. He attributed the strength to improved consumer attitudes about the economy. A discount retailer in the Tidewater area of Virginia reported that average transaction amounts had increased, but the drawn out winter weather had reduced foot traffic, resulting in overall sales contraction. The manager of a discount store in Baltimore stated that sales revenues were unchanged despite recent price increases. However, an executive at a chain of hardware stores in central Virginia saw somewhat faster sales growth. Retail prices rose at a slower pace since our last report. ServicesRevenues remained generally flat in the service sector. A financial services executive remarked that clients were feeling more confident, but there has been no real change in their investment activity. A North Carolina hospital executive reported that demand for services was only slightly higher in recent weeks, and a CPA reported business was at typical seasonal levels. According to an executive at a national freight trucking firm, shipments have increased markedly in recent weeks, partly due to "catching up." Harsh winter weather kept many trucks from delivering goods and pre-loaded trucks could not leave warehouses because no one was present to release the freight. Service sector prices edged up more quickly. Travel and tourism reports were generally positive. A Virginia hotel representative reported that government groups have started booking conferences again after nearly a year of decline. In Washington, D.C., tourist traffic for the Cherry Blossom Festival started in March and was described as robust, even though cold weather pushed the peak bloom time to the second week of April. An executive at a Virginia resort reported that his facility had the longest ski season in their history this winter with higher than typical occupancy. However, spring break bookings have shortened as schools make up winter class cancellations, and summer vacations are being booked for a week later than normal this year. A hotel manager in western North Carolina said bookings were "decent and growing." Most hoteliers reported that although they expect strong bookings this summer, they have not increased rates. FinanceRecent trends continued as consumer borrowing remained depressed while commercial lending strengthened. Residential mortgage and refinance demand was sluggish, according to several bankers. A lender commented that the slower pace has led to bankers becoming more aggressive on rates to get business. New auto lending also weakened slightly in recent weeks. In contrast, demand for commercial real estate and new business lending remained robust. Credit quality of applicants has improved recently, while credit standards were unchanged. Real EstateResidential real estate improved, with some reports of strength. District home sales rose mildly and sale prices edged up. In some instances weather continued to slow buyer traffic, although Realtors reported a pickup as spring started. A Northern Virginia broker reported that activity remained strong and homes in his region were "getting snatched up" at or above asking price with multiple offers. Inventory was generally limited, although some contacts reported that new construction had boosted inventories a little. North Carolina Realtors reported conservative growth in single family residential building and a South Carolina contact stated that builders are starting to construct more pre-sold custom homes. A Maryland contractor stated that a townhome community located near the Washington, D.C. beltway was quickly selling units at a high price, while projects in other locations were slower to move. Commercial construction contacts reported strong retail demand and softness in office and industrial building. A contact in South Carolina said free-standing retail was "hot," and an increase in retail construction was also noted in Virginia Beach. Construction of multifamily housing remained strong. Commercial leasing activity intensified for retail and industrial space, while demand for office space softened. Vacancy rates were unchanged on net, however. Rental rates varied across submarket, with some increases in the retail segment. A South Carolina Realtor reported that the industrial market was "incredibly active" with an increase in manufacturing inquiries and that the state's commercial retail market had ramped up. Broker reports on supply of Class A office space varied. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesPersistent cold temperatures and wet field conditions delayed planting of row crops and in some locations, limited days out in the fields. There were reports of slower small grain growth and some freeze damage to fruit trees. An agribusiness located in South Carolina reported that winter weather pushed back some of their harvesting timelines, although demand levels remained solid. Beef prices remained high and pork prices increased due to a virus currently being found in pigs. A contact reported that the spreading virus decreased the number of pigs available to farmers and reduced the number maturing to hogs. The natural gas sector remained robust. A contact in West Virginia reported an increase in manufacturers seeking natural gas. Coal production declined at a slower rate in recent weeks. The severe winter increased coal demand and diminished stock piles at power generating plants, bringing levels below the five year average. Coal production is expected to be steady as inventories are replenished. Labor MarketsReports on labor markets were mixed. Skilled manufacturing workers and specialized information technology workers were in high demand. However, a contact at a financial services firm commented that his office was "skittish" about hiring. Firms reported that finding manufacturing employees with the requisite skills remained challenging. An employment contact said entry level laborers were "easily sourced." Temporary employment was generally unchanged, although some manufacturing contacts increased hiring to make up for weather-related lost production. According to our most recent surveys, manufacturing employment remained flat, the average workweek increased, and manufacturing wages grew at a slower rate. In the service sector, hiring declined slightly and average wages rose modestly.  Return to top Retailers cited a slight pickup in activity after experiencing sluggish sales at the beginning of the year. Hospitality contacts in areas negatively impacted by the adverse winter weather saw improvements in activity. Home sales were mixed but prices continued to appreciate from a year ago, according to residential homebuilders and brokers. Commercial real estate activity improved with construction growing at a modest pace from last year. Manufacturers reported continued improvements in new orders and production. Bankers noted an increase in loan demand. Hiring remained restrained for all sectors except construction. Prices increased slightly but most firms continued to report having little pricing power. Consumer Spending and TourismDistrict merchants reported an uptick in activity from mid-February through March following sluggish sales in January, which were widely attributed to the severe winter weather. Valentine's Day provided a boost to activity with some contacts reporting double-digit, year-over-year, sales growth. Retailers continued to express concerns regarding the potential impact from increased healthcare premiums on consumer discretionary income. Light motor vehicle sales grew modestly over the time period. Overall, District hospitality contacts reported positive activity after experiencing a decline in January as a result of the adverse weather conditions. However, negative impacts on the number of travelers to the District due to international political issues, especially on Latin America visitors, were a concern among many tourism contacts. The outlook for the next six months remains optimistic with most expecting an increase in business and leisure travel compared with a year ago. Real Estate and ConstructionDistrict brokers' reports were slightly less positive than in previous reports. Brokers reported home sales were mixed. In areas where sales growth had slowed, brokers largely attributed the softness to higher home prices, limited inventory, and higher mortgage rates. Inventory levels continued to fall on a year-over-year basis and the majority of contacts reported that home prices remained ahead of the year earlier level. The sales outlook among brokers was somewhat weaker since our last report, although most contacts indicated that they expect the recent softness to be temporary. Reports from District builders were slightly less positive than earlier reports. Fewer contacts indicated that recent activity was in line with their plan for the period. However, the majority of builders reported that construction activity and new home sales were ahead of the year earlier level. Most reports indicated that the level of unsold inventory had fallen from a year ago. The majority of contacts continued to report modest home price appreciation. The outlook among builders for sales and construction activity remains positive. District brokers noted that demand for commercial real estate continued to improve. Absorption picked up, although contacts indicated that the rate of improvement still varied by metropolitan area, submarket, and property type. Construction activity continued to increase at a modest pace from last year. Most contacts reported that their current backlog was ahead of year earlier levels. Commercial contractors indicated that apartment construction remains fairly strong; however, some shared concerns that construction activity may be getting overheated in a few markets. Contacts reported that construction activity across other property types increased modestly. The outlook among District commercial real estate contacts remained positive with continued improvement expected over the course of the year. Manufacturing and TransportationManufacturers reported increased activity across the region from mid-February through March. Significant improvements were cited in production and new orders. Weather conditions hampered activity, but the impact was not as severe as earlier this year. Finished inventory levels rose while purchasing agents reported longer wait times for supply deliveries and higher commodity prices. Nearly half of purchasing managers polled expect production levels to be higher over the next three to six months. District transportation contacts widely reported an expansion of activity since the last report. Port contacts were especially upbeat, citing a rise in energy exports, increased shipments of bulk agricultural commodities, and record container volumes. Significant capital expenditures for port property expansion, infrastructure, and tenant activity were noted. District trucking contacts reported strong freight volumes, along with notable increases in tonnage following a significant decline in January due to the weather. Railroads continued to cite modest gains in intermodal traffic, led by container volume. Total rail carloads remained flat as significant increases in shipments of grain, petroleum, and metallic ore were offset by double-digit declines in the movement of farm products, phosphate rock, and coke. Banking and FinanceSince the last report, some banking contacts indicated a loosening of credit as a result of increased competition. Community bankers reported improved loan demand with aggressive loan terms and pricing driven by competition from larger banks and other community banks. Commercial loans were primarily fueled by poaching transactions from other banks rather than new business formation though District bankers noted a healthy pipeline for new loans related to commercial real estate. Credit line usage fell at some banks and small business clients remained hesitant about new borrowing. Banking contacts indicated their cost of doing business was going up as compliance costs increased. Employment and PricesDistrict payroll growth remained constrained from mid-February through March. Firms continued to show a preference for implementing technology to increase output as opposed to adding staff. However, hiring increased in the construction sector across most of the District. Trucking companies continued to note difficulty finding drivers. Some employers continued to show hesitance in hiring on a large scale due to concerns surrounding healthcare reform. Contacts continued to indicate little wage pressure outside of some high-skilled positions. With regard to the Affordable Care Act, most large companies expressed little concern about the law; however, some small and service-oriented businesses noted that health benefits costs had risen significantly and more eligible employees elected coverage. Non-labor input costs increased very slowly, with a few noted exceptions, including rising costs for developed land, construction materials, and food. Unit costs are expected to increase 1.8 percent over the next year, according to the Atlanta Fed's survey of business inflation expectations. Profit margins remained tight across most industries, as contacts continued to report very little pricing power. Natural Resources and AgricultureContacts reported that harsh winter weather exposed limitations in U.S. natural gas distribution infrastructure. Demand was high and there was ample supply, yet transportation and distribution of gas was limited by the weather. In order to meet demand, power plants that typically operate with natural gas were forced to revert to coal. Over the fall and winter, utility companies in the region experienced growth in their residential customer base and attributed this to household formation and migration. The outlook among energy contacts remains optimistic for the year. While sufficient rainfall left only small pockets of dry conditions in the District, some growers reported delaying spring planting due to too much precipitation. Florida's citrus growers continued to seek ways to mitigate the effects of citrus greening and contacts were hopeful that new research funding included in the recently approved Farm Bill would help find a solution to this problem. Return to top Consumer SpendingGrowth in consumer spending increased slightly in March, but remained modest. Sales of winter-related items, such as clothing and snow removal equipment, were stronger than normal, while other sales categories picked up as the weather improved. Retail contacts noted that the colder weather had likely created some pent-up demand as customers delayed purchases of spring- and summer-related items. Light vehicle sales increased since the last reporting period, spurred by new products, increased incentives, and higher showroom traffic levels as the weather improved. Dealers also reported higher activity levels in their service and parts departments because of winter-related maintenance. However, some retailers expected that higher utility bills during the winter months would negatively affect household spending. Business SpendingGrowth in business spending increased to a moderate pace in March. Inventories remained at comfortable levels for most manufacturers. Retailers expanded their inventories despite some weather-related delivery delays. Growth in capital spending picked up. Several contacts reported new spending on equipment and information technology, along with investment in structures. The pace of hiring increased, and while hiring plans decreased slightly, they remained positive. A staffing firm noted a slight increase in demand for their industrial services, but a continuing decrease in demand for their professional services. A number of manufacturers and some retailers reported capacity expansions along with attendant hiring or plans to hire. Demand remained strong for skilled workers, with positions often difficult to fill in engineering, information technology, accounting, and other technical occupations. Contacts cited an increasing willingness on the part of firms to train workers, where shortages exist, through in-house training, tuition reimbursement, or partnerships with local high schools and community colleges. Construction and Real EstateGrowth in construction and real estate activity was modest in March. Although conditions have improved since the last reporting period, contacts reported that adverse weather continued to restrain growth. A decline in single-family construction was offset by growing demand for new apartment projects as residential rents continued to increase. Home sales and new listings declined, though brokers attributed this primarily to cold weather and were optimistic that activity would improve during the coming months. Several contacts cited high unemployment and restrictive lending standards as barriers to more robust growth. Demand for nonresidential construction grew at a moderate pace, with several contacts noting that industrial building activity had picked up substantially. In addition, contacts expected an increase in public construction resulting from the impact of harsh winter weather on infrastructure. Commercial real estate activity continued to expand, as vacancies ticked down and rents rose. Growth was concentrated in central business districts with high-end office space. ManufacturingGrowth in manufacturing production increased from a mild to moderate pace in March, with contacts from a number of industries reporting increased activity. The auto, aerospace, and energy industries remained a source of strength for the District. Auto and steel production recovered from the weather-related slowdown, with overtime hours increasing to make up for earlier lost production. In addition, a steel industry contact noted that capacity utilization had returned to its expected level. Specialty metals manufacturers shared in the overall improvement of conditions, with many contacts reporting an increase in new orders and order backlogs. Manufacturers of consumer goods and construction materials also indicated increased demand. In contrast, demand for heavy machinery grew at a slow and steady pace, buoyed by the construction, transportation, and energy sectors, but weighed down by weakness in mining. A number of exporters reported that growth in demand from China was slower than expected, although growth picked up in Europe and Japan. Banking and FinanceCredit conditions were again little changed on balance over the reporting period. Corporate financing costs for a number of District firms decreased slightly, as bond spreads narrowed. Banking contacts reported moderate growth in business loan demand, mostly driven by purchases of equipment. The leveraged loan market remained active with steady deal flow. Contacts noted continued competitive pressure on structure and pricing for commercial and industrial loans. Growth in consumer loan demand was modest, with a slight uptick in demand for home equity lines of credit and continued strong growth in auto lending. Prices and CostsCost pressures remained mild. While energy and transportation costs continue to be elevated, prices were lower than during the previous reporting period. Prices for nickel, aluminum, steel, and cement rose, and fell for copper and scrap steel. Retailers reported little change in prices, with the exception of some rising prices for foodstuffs. Wage pressures were slightly lower overall but mixed across industries. Overall, non-wage pressures moderated even while contacts continued to report concern about higher healthcare premiums. AgricultureThe slow arrival of spring-like weather delayed fieldwork. However, concerns about a delayed start to planting were muted, especially in Illinois and Indiana where 2013 crops performed well after being planted late. The mood among farmers improved as crop prices increased enough from winter lows that breakeven outcomes now seem possible. Hence, there has been more forward contracting of crops than a year ago to manage risk. Higher soybean prices still support a shift in planting intentions toward soybeans and away from corn, but not as much as earlier this year. Fertilizer costs decreased from a year ago, and seed costs were flat. The livestock sector moved further into the black, as milk, hog, and cattle prices increased. Given lower numbers of hogs and cattle available to market, animals were fed longer in order to gain additional weight. Although hog operations were still battling a virus that killed many piglets, there were signs that the worst had past. Return to top Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityReports of plans for manufacturing activity have been positive since our previous report. Several manufacturing firms reported plans to add workers, expand operations, or open new facilities in the District, and a smaller number of manufacturers reported plans to reduce employment. Firms in food, steel ferroalloy, roofing material, thermal, furniture, biomedical testing products, alcoholic beverage, medical equipment, industrial inorganic chemicals, and aircraft manufacturing plan to hire new employees and expand operations in the District. In contrast, firms that manufacture carbonated beverages and pharmaceuticals reported plans to close down facilities and lay off workers in the District. Reports of planned activity in the District's service sector have been negative on net since the previous report. Firms in food, health care, and casino gaming services plan to lay off a large number of employees. In contrast, firms in online shopping, restaurant, telecommunication, marketing, accounting, logistics, insurance, and mortgage services reported plans for new hiring and expansion in District. Reports from retail contacts were generally positive. Contacts reported a number of store openings and planned openings in the St. Louis and Louisville areas. Business contacts in the Eighth District noted that price and wage growth pressures have been generally modest in recent weeks. Contacts in Louisville noted that challenges in retaining and attracting workers have resulted in some wage growth. Real Estate and ConstructionSales of new and existing homes declined across most of the largest metro areas of the District. Compared with the same period in 2013, January 2014 total home sales were down 12 percent in Louisville, 5 percent in Memphis, and 30 percent in St. Louis. In contrast, total home sales were up 7 percent in Little Rock. Similarly, February 2014 year-to-date single-family housing permits decreased in the largest metro areas of the District compared with the same period in 2013. Permits decreased 26 percent in Louisville, 23 percent in Little Rock, and 10 percent in St. Louis. In contrast, permits increased 14 percent in Memphis. Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have been mixed throughout most of the District. A contact in Evansville, Indiana, reported a languishing commercial real estate market. Contacts noted slow growth in the commercial real estate market in northeast Mississippi and no growth in the industrial market in Shelby County, Mississippi. Contacts in St. Louis reported increased demand for industrial space, while office leasing and sales slowed in the first quarter of 2014. On the other hand, commercial and industrial construction activity improved throughout most of the District. A contact in Louisville reported new commercial construction plans in west Louisville. A contact in Memphis reported a new office building construction in the east Memphis business corridor and several new industrial projects in DeSoto and Fayette counties in Mississippi. A contact in Little Rock reported a new industrial construction project. Contacts in St. Louis reported an ongoing construction plan at the Gateway Commerce Center and several industrial construction plans in St. Charles and north St. Louis County. Banking and FinanceTotal loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks decreased 1.3 percent from mid-December to mid-March. Real estate lending, accounting for 72.9 percent of total loans, decreased 1.3 percent. Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 15.7 percent of total loans, decreased 0.2 percent. Loans to individuals, accounting for 5 percent of total loans, decreased 0.9 percent. All other loans, accounting for 6.3 percent of total loans, decreased 4.7 percent. During this period, total deposits at these banks increased 0.5 percent. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesDistrict farmers are expected to plant 1 million fewer acres of corn in 2014 (a decline of 4 percent) relative to 2013. In contrast, District farmers are expected to plant 570,000 and 511,000 more acres of soybeans and rice this year than in the previous year (an increase of 2 percent and 37.6 percent), respectively. Year-to-date coal production in the District for February 2014 was 5.4 percent lower compared with the same period in 2013. Coal production for February 2014 was 4.6 percent lower than in February 2013. Return to top Consumer Spending and TourismOverall consumer spending was level since the last report. Recent traffic was down from a year ago at a Minneapolis area mall largely due to unusually cold and snowy weather, while sales were up slightly. Sales at a Montana mall were up 5 percent in February compared with a year ago, while March sales slowed somewhat. A Minnesota-based food producer reported that recent sales were down slightly from a year ago, while a Minnesota-based clothing retailer noted that same-store sales were down slightly. Meanwhile, a car dealer in Minnesota noted strong sales during the past few weeks. Late winter tourism activity was up somewhat. In northwestern Wisconsin, recent lodging levels were strong, while advance bookings for summer vacations were filling up. Several Montana ski resorts were able to extend their seasons due to the deep snow. According to a survey, 57 percent of Montana tourism business owners expect increases in visit numbers during 2014, while only 4 percent expect decreases. A travel agency in Minnesota noted that spring break travel bookings were about the same as last year. Construction and Real EstateCommercial construction activity continued to grow since the last report. The value of March commercial permits in Sioux Falls, S.D., increased 18 percent from a year ago. A large university is proposing a $190 million athletic complex. Overall residential construction activity decreased. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, the value of March residential permits decreased slightly from March 2013, while the value of March residential building permits in Billings, Mont., decreased. Residential building permits in Sioux Falls dropped significantly in value in March from a year earlier. Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the last report. Several cities in Minnesota noted increased interest in office, retail and hotel projects by developers. Residential real estate market activity decreased since the last report. In the Sioux Falls area, February home sales were down 2 percent and inventory was down 5 percent, while the median sale price increased 3 percent relative to a year earlier. In Eau Claire, Wis., March home sales declined and the median price increased from March 2013. Meanwhile, February home sales in Minnesota were down 11 percent from the same period a year ago; the inventory of homes for sale was down 1 percent, while the median sale price rose 9 percent. ServicesContacts from a wide variety of professional business services firms noted increased activity since the last report. An architecture firm reported that business recently hit record levels due to increased apartment construction. An engineering firm said growth was spreading across the District. A law firm noted growth in a broad mix of specialties. An accounting firm reported that while activity was slower in the beginning of the year, it picked up recently. ManufacturingDistrict manufacturing activity increased since the last report. A March survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) indicated that manufacturing activity increased in Minnesota and the Dakotas. In Minnesota, a medical device parts supplier was expanding its production facilities and a producer of recycling machinery was expanding its production and shipping facilities to meet strong international demand. Several unmanned aerial vehicle makers have recently expanded in eastern North Dakota due to the location of a test facility there. Energy and MiningActivity in the energy sector continued to increase at a brisk pace. Late-March oil and gas exploration increased in North Dakota and decreased slightly in Montana from the last report, while production remained at record levels. A North Dakota grain elevator recently finished a conversion that will allow the facility to load and ship sand used for hydraulic fracturing. Mining activity was stable. Production at district iron ore mines in early 2014 was roughly level from a year earlier. In Montana, regulators recently approved the expansion of a gold mine, while two other proposed operations were in the exploration stages. AgricultureDistrict agricultural conditions were mixed, with livestock and dairy producers performing well, while crop producers were in worse shape. March prices received by farmers fell from a year earlier for corn, wheat, soybeans and chickens; prices increased for cattle, hogs, milk, eggs and turkeys. While crop prices increased slightly in March from the previous month, they remain significantly below the strong levels of recent years. A freight rail backlog led to significant shipping delays reported by dry bean producers and will also likely delay getting the winter wheat harvest to market. District farmers overall intend to plant fewer acres of corn and significantly more acres of soybeans and wheat in 2014 compared with last year. Employment, Wages, and PricesLabor markets continued to show signs of tightening. A survey of business leaders in eastern North Dakota showed that difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified employees was rated the top factor expected to adversely affect business in 2014. In Minnesota, a call center was in the process of adding 230 new jobs, a printing and packaging company plans to hire 200 new workers and a communications company plans to add 140 new jobs. A manufacturer with locations in the Dakotas recently announced that it intends to hire as many as 200 skilled laborers in the next five years. An employment services firm in Minnesota noted an increase in the rate of workers in temporary positions becoming permanent hires. A number of communities in North Dakota indicated difficulty finding enough health care workers to fill open positions. In contrast, a bank laid off about 200 employees in Minnesota due to declines in mortgage financing demand, a telemarketing operation closure affected about 100 workers and a technology company in Wisconsin was cutting nearly 80 jobs. Wage increases were moderate. According to a recent survey of businesses in the St. Cloud, Minn., area, 49 percent of respondents expect to increase compensation over the next six months, while 50 percent expect no change, results similar to last year's survey. However, in the energy-producing areas of North Dakota, the U.S. Postal Service and its union recently agreed to pay increases of up to 20 percent for rural carriers. Overall price increases were modest. Minnesota gasoline prices were slightly higher at the end of March compared with the end of February. Changes in metals prices were mixed since the last report. However, residential propane and natural gas prices posted substantial increases from a year ago in some areas, due to extreme cold weather. Return to top Consumer SpendingConsumer spending increased moderately from the previous period, and contacts were more optimistic as weather conditions improved. Retail sales increased from the previous survey and were up considerably from a year ago. Several retailers noted stronger sales of discounted items and warm-weather products. Expectations for future sales also rose, and store inventories increased moderately. Auto sales were flat in March and similar to year-ago levels. However, expectations for future sales were notably better and contacts said light, mid-sized vehicles sold particularly well. Auto inventories rose but at a slower pace than in previous surveys. Restaurant sales increased, especially for value and take-out items, but activity remained similar to year-ago levels. Contacts expected restaurant sales to rise further in coming months. Tourist activity improved in March, and several hotels noted increased occupancy rates. Tourism contacts expected future activity to rise further. Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityDistrict manufacturing activity grew at a slightly faster pace in March, with some contacts attributing improved activity to better weather conditions. Production increased at all types of plants, particularly among machinery and plastics manufacturers. Shipments and new orders also rose, while employment was flat. Expectations for future factory activity were mostly stable and generally solid overall, although capital spending plans eased somewhat. Contacts in professional and high-tech services, healthcare services, and wholesale trade reported generally higher sales than the previous survey period. Wholesale trade firms noted an increase in capital spending plans and a positive outlook for future sales, while expectations for professional and high-tech activity were not quite as strong. Transportation firms reported slower growth in March, but contacts expected moderate growth over the next six months. One contact mentioned capacity concerns due to equipment and driver shortages. Real Estate and ConstructionCommercial and residential real estate sales strengthened, and construction increased moderately from the previous survey period. Residential realtors reported stronger sales since the last survey period due in part to seasonal factors and improved weather conditions. Home sales were flat compared to a year ago, with low- and medium-priced homes continuing to sell well, while higher-priced home sales remained weak in most of the District. Residential home inventories fell further, putting upward pressure on prices. Inventories were expected to stabilize, and prices were expected to continue to rise in the near term. Construction supply and builder contacts reported stronger activity since the previous survey period and compared to last year. Builders reported moderate growth in the number of starts, and construction activity was expected to increase in the coming months, with prices and buyer traffic both expected to increase modestly. Mortgage activity was flat since the previous survey but was expected to increase in the coming months with a rise in home purchases. Commercial real estate contacts continued to report a decline in vacancy rates, a slight increase in absorption, and higher sales. Commercial construction activity strengthened since the last survey period and was higher than a year ago. Commercial real estate contacts expected both construction and prices to increase further in the coming months. BankingBankers reported a slight increase in overall loan demand, improved loan quality and increased deposits levels in April. Respondents reported a minor increase in demand for commercial real estate loans. Most respondents reported steady demand for commercial and industrial loans, consumer installment loans and agriculture loans. Demand for residential real estate loans was mixed during the survey period but improved compared to the prior survey. Bankers reported stable or improving loan quality compared to a year ago, and all bankers expected the outlook for loan quality to either improve or remain the same over the next six months. Credit standards remained largely unchanged in all major loan categories, and respondents reported an increase in deposits. EnergyEnergy activity expanded in March. Contacts reported solid drilling and business activity, and expectations for the coming months were positive. The number of active oil and natural gas rigs in the District edged up in March. Natural gas and natural gas liquids prices stabilized after rising in recent survey periods but contacts expected them to stay above average in the coming months. Crude oil spot and futures prices increased slightly since February and are expected to remain stable heading forward. High spot prices, especially for oil, continued to drive plans for strong capital expenditures in 2014. Hiring in the industry grew at a strong pace, but several contacts noted a sustained shortage of skilled labor. AgricultureCrop growing conditions remained dry in March, while livestock prices increased further since the last survey period. The winter wheat crop was in need of moisture and rated in mostly fair to poor condition. Spring fieldwork began, and District farmers followed national trends by intending to plant slightly more soybeans and less corn. With crop prices still lower than a year ago, farm operating loan demand rose this year as farmers financed a larger portion of crop input costs. However, global supply concerns supported strong exports, and crop prices rose to a six-month high during the reporting period. Low cow inventories kept feeder cattle prices elevated, and strong export demand supported higher fed cattle prices. In addition, hog prices surged as the on-going swine virus cut inventories further. Wages and PricesPrices rose in most industries, and wage pressures increased slightly in some industries, particularly for skilled positions. Retail prices edged up, with further increases anticipated. Prices of manufacturing materials increased modestly compared to the previous period, although slightly fewer firms planned on raising selling prices. Transportation firms reported higher input and selling prices, and restaurants noted a considerable rise in food costs and menu prices. Construction materials prices moved slightly higher, particularly for drywall and roofing, and were expected to increase further. Many contacts continued to cite concerns about future costs for health care and the potential for minimum wage reform. Wage pressures increased slightly in some industries, especially manufacturing. Many contacts noted difficulties finding qualified labor, particularly for truck drivers, machinists, high-tech, and other types of skilled workers. Return to top PricesFirms said prices were stable to up slightly over the reporting period. Manufacturers noted higher selling prices for steel, scrap metal, brick and cement. A few contacts reported rising food prices, particularly for dairy, meat and fresh fruit. Transportation services firms said an increase in fuel costs over the last six weeks led to higher shipping rates, and airlines noted slightly higher ticket prices. Retail prices were stable overall and automobile selling prices were unchanged, although automobile contacts said there were some additional manufacturer incentives and rebates available for consumers. Crude oil prices rose in early March to a high not seen since last September, but ended the month at a level similar to the beginning of the reporting period, around $100 per barrel. Natural gas prices trended downward over the last six weeks, shedding much of the winter weather-related gains from earlier in the year. Labor MarketEmployment held steady or increased slightly at most responding firms. Transportation, food and construction-related manufacturers reported continued hiring. Retail employment was flat over the reporting period but contacts noted stronger year-over-year headcount increases in Texas stores than elsewhere in the United States. Energy contacts said the labor market for drilling and oilfield services remained very tight, and one firm noted that they would be doing more work if there was sufficient labor. A food manufacturer found skilled labor to be in short supply, and housing sector contacts continued to report shortages of construction workers. There were several reports of upward wage pressures. Construction-related manufacturers said they had to pay truck drivers more, and an oilfield services firm noted definite wage increases. Upward wage pressure continued to be reported in petroleum refining, both in construction-type jobs and factory personnel. Two other manufacturers said they intend to give small raises in the near future. ManufacturingReports from manufacturers were mostly positive, with more reports of demand increases than in the last report, although some firms noted flat or weaker demand. Construction-related manufacturers said demand had generally increased over the last six weeks, although a few contacts said winter weather, especially on the East Coast, was still having a lingering effect on business, although less so than during the prior reporting period. A lumber contact noted that demand was almost as strong as it was in 2006. Fabricated metals manufacturers reported a broad-based increase in demand, with particular strength in highway construction and energy-related projects. Outlooks for the second quarter were mostly positive. Respondents in high tech manufacturing reported that overall demand continued to grow at a moderate pace, with a few respondents noticing a slight but broad-based pickup in orders growth. Demand for logic devices was strong while demand for memory devices continued to be weak. Firms' outlooks were for continued moderate growth, with some increased optimism that growth would pick up slightly. Transportation equipment manufacturers said demand held steady at high levels, and they expect business this year to exceed that of 2013. Food manufacturers reported a decline in demand that was largely weather related, but said demand was still above year-ago levels. Petroleum refinery utilization rates fell slightly over the reporting period, largely because of the start of the spring maintenance season and to a lesser extent due to the temporary closure of the Houston Ship Channel because of an oil spill. Margins for refineries and petrochemical manufacturers remained healthy. Retail SalesRetail sales were stronger this reporting period, and demand was up from a year ago. Demand in Texas continued to outperform the nation, according to two national retailers. Automobile sales strengthened slightly since the previous report, as the weather improved and the spring selling season began. Demand was up slightly year over year. Inventories were mostly at desired levels to a little high; contacts attributed higher inventories to the loss of selling days earlier in the year because of the weather. Retail and automobile contacts' outlooks for the upcoming quarter and the rest of the year were positive. Nonfinancial ServicesNonfinancial services firms reported varying changes in demand from six weeks ago but were all optimistic in their outlooks for the months ahead. Staffing firms said demand was steady at high levels, with multiple contacts noting business was up more than 10 percent from last year. One firm cautioned that demand was shifting toward temporary placements rather than direct hires. Growth in the accounting sector slowed slightly over the reporting period due to seasonal factors, as the corporate tax return deadline passed in mid-March, but activity remained robust and above year-ago levels. Demand for legal services picked up, with particular strength in real estate business. Litigation ticked up in Austin but slowed elsewhere in Texas. Transportation services firms noted mixed demand. Railroad, small parcel and air cargo volumes increased slightly while container and intermodal cargo volumes decreased. A small parcel firm noted strength in retail trade, and a railroad firm noted increased volumes of crushed stone (largely used for road construction) but weakness in motor vehicle and drilling sand volumes. Airline demand was slightly soft, partly due to numerous storms in the past six weeks causing cancelled business trips. Demand was stronger than a year ago and passenger revenue per seat mile is expected to be up in April and May across the industry. Construction and Real EstateThe district housing sector remained strong over the reporting period. Single-family home sales volumes remained healthy, with some contacts reporting a seasonal pickup in demand over the past six weeks. Home prices continued to trend upward and inventories remained low. A contact in Dallas noted that low inventory levels were bidding up prices above asking prices in high-demand areas. Contacts expect demand for single-family homes to stay strong this year. Apartment demand remained solid. Construction activity continued at a brisk pace, especially in Austin. Rental rate growth accelerated in Dallas and Houston from already solid levels and was holding strong in Austin, according to contacts. The outlook for the multi-family market remained positive. Office and industrial leasing remained robust, with one contact noting particularly strong demand for office space in Dallas. Rents continued to trend upward and occupancy levels remained high for office space. Contacts in Houston reported high levels of office development. Overall, the outlook remained generally positive and respondents expect demand to stay strong this year. Financial ServicesGrowth in loan demand softened slightly in the last six weeks. Demand for commercial and residential real estate loans was weaker than expected, although it improved somewhat. Consumer loans continued to grow moderately, and lending to mid-sized firms continued to tick upward. Loan quality remained high. Deposit volumes were healthy and grew moderately. Contacts noted continuing frustration with regulatory burden, but outlooks remained optimistic. EnergyDemand for oilfield services was very healthy in the Eleventh District over the last six weeks, particularly in West Texas. Much of the increase in U.S. drilling over the reporting period came from Texas. March demand exceeded expectations and led to improved second-quarter outlooks. AgricultureDistrict drought conditions continued to worsen in March, particularly in the Texas panhandle which is where much of the state's cotton is grown. Winter wheat crop conditions deteriorated somewhat. Agricultural commodity prices rose over the reporting period, with across-the-board increases in crop prices and particularly strong gains in livestock prices. Beef prices rose to record highs in March in light of strong exports and stable domestic demand coupled with tight cattle supplies. Dairy demand boomed, especially exports, and prices for dairy products moved to record highs. According to respondents, the rise in prices has allowed all segments of the livestock industry to be profitable, an occurrence not all too common. Return to top Prices and WagesPrice inflation remained subdued for most final goods and services. Contacts observed modest increases in dairy and protein prices. Reduced availability of water as a consequence of the drought in California is expected to put upward pressure on the prices of some fruits and vegetables in coming months. Prices edged up for some construction-related inputs, including wood and insulation. Reports indicated that wheat and coffee prices dropped. Final prices for steel products also fell. Wage gains remained quite modest overall, but some contacts noted increases for certain occupations and in certain areas. Contacts observed rapid gains in compensation for software developers and engineers. As the cost of living climbed in major metropolitan areas, especially the San Francisco Bay Area, contacts reported stronger wage pressures for entry-level positions. The prospect of rising minimum wages triggered concerns about possible future labor cost increases for contacts in agricultural and construction businesses. Retail Trade and ServicesRetail sales improved a bit relative to the previous reporting period. Retailers continued to observe increasing online sales and declining traffic at malls. Retail grocers noted that the growth of e-commerce and the entry of new firms into the industry have made the environment extremely competitive, and, as a result, some firms have shifted their product offerings in an effort to preserve gross margins. For example, one contact noted that traditional brick-and-mortar stores reduced inventories of baby products, which consumers tend to buy online. Reports from auto dealerships in the 12th District highlighted strong sales in the early part of the year, and contacts expect auto sales to remain strong over the next couple of years. Most contacts project consumer spending overall will improve or stay the same over the next 12 months. Demand for business and consumer services was mixed. Reports indicated healthy overall conditions in the technology industry, with particularly strong demand for services related to network security, data analytics, and cloud-based infrastructure. Food service industry contacts noted that monthly same-store sales and transaction counts declined, especially at family and casual dining establishments. Providers of health-care services highlighted historically weak demand for semi-elective dermatological and allergy-related procedures. Contacts noted that the level of Hawaiian travel and tourism activity remained high in early 2014, although it was lower compared with the same period a year earlier. ManufacturingDistrict manufacturing activity appeared to gain some momentum during the reporting period of mid-February through early April. The electronic components industry expanded at a pace consistent with its historical average. The sustained backlog of orders for commercial aircraft supported growth in the commercial aerospace industry. Launches of innovative products buoyed growth in the pharmaceutical industry. Defense-related manufacturers pointed to a recent pickup in new orders as a source of optimism. A utilities provider noted that year-over-year gas and electricity use expanded for various manufacturing customers, including food processers, metal producers, and wood product fabricators. Contacts noted that demand for steel production inputs improved from both domestic and foreign sources, particularly from Southeast Asia. Capacity utilization rates at U.S. steel mills held steady at low levels. Agriculture and Resource-related IndustriesDemand for most agricultural and resource-related goods was largely stable, but the supply was somewhat constrained as several weather-related factors held back production. Demand was stable or up for assorted crop and livestock products and particularly robust for dairy items. However, storms in parts of the District disrupted transportation of winter vegetables. Contacts' concerns about water costs and availability mounted, and limited water for irrigation contributed to decreased yields of annual crops, including tomatoes, greens, and onions, in California's Central Valley. Water shortages led some farmers to reduce cattle herd sizes as well. Pork production fell as some hogs in the District contracted a fatal virus. Year-over-year growth of crude oil production increased robustly, outpacing year-over-year growth in demand for petroleum and gasoline. Real Estate and ConstructionActivity in residential and commercial real estate markets advanced further. Most contacts expect demand for residential real estate during the first half of 2014 to strengthen relative to the second half of 2013. Home prices across the District continued to move up. The pace of home sales varied across geographic areas; some contacts in California noted an uptick, while contacts from Washington observed a more sluggish pace. Construction of both single and multifamily units improved across the District, and almost all contacts expect housing starts to improve over the next 12 months. However, contacts in Utah, Washington, California, and Hawaii anticipated potential shortages of construction labor. Robust leasing activity in large urban areas drove up rental rates for both residential and commercial properties. Vacancy rates for commercial and industrial space were either stable or down in many areas. Contacts from Oregon noted that public-sector construction activity was somewhat slow, but in other areas such as the San Francisco Bay Area, Southern California, Honolulu, and Seattle, public infrastructure projects and a number of high-rise commercial construction projects have been announced or are under way. Financial InstitutionsLoan demand increased overall. Consumers exhibited solid demand for home and auto loans. Some contacts observed an uptick in loan demand from small businesses and increased loan growth at community banks. However, contacts noted that the availability of credit for small businesses largely remained limited to higher-quality borrowers. Lenders, flush with liquidity, continued to compete vigorously on rates and terms for such borrowers. Contacts noted that some financial institutions also relaxed underwriting standards in an effort to win new business or maintain existing business relationships. The pace of initial public offerings in the District's Internet and digital media sectors continued to pick up. Reports indicated that private equity and venture capital financing activity was strong in late 2013 and has appeared to hold steady in early 2014.   FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Susan WalshRepublican activist Shaun McCutcheon of Hoover, Ala. walks past the Capitol as he leaves the Supreme Court in Washington, Tuesday, Oct. 8, 2013, after the court's hearing on campaign financeThe wealthiest 10% of Americans and organized groups that speak for big business have far more influence over the U.S. government than average citizens, a new study by Princeton and Northwestern Universities finds. While not exactly surprising, the peer-reviewed study has backed up a theory that some Americans had already assumed to be the case, especially in light of a recent Supreme Court ruling that opened the door for wealthy Americans to give much more money to politicians. To come to their conclusion, the researchers sifted through 1,800 policies enacted between 1981 and 2002. They compared the policy results with the expressed preferences of average Americans (at the 50th percentile of income), economic elites (90th percentile), and large special interest groups.  The researchers graphed their results to show how a group’s policy preference relates to the probability of policy changes. In the following charts, the x-axis shows the percentage of the group that favors a particular policy, while the left-hand axis shows the probability that policy will be adopted. The black line shows you the correlation between the two.  Here’s what it looks like for people the study referred to as "economic elites": Princeton University Here's what it looks like for the average citizen: Princeton University As you can see, the probability of a policy adoption barely changes whether a tiny minority or a large majority of average citizens favors a particular policy. Meanwhile a policy with low support from the rich is adopted about 18% of the time, while a policy with high support is adopted 45% of the time, according to the study. A similar trend is visible for interest groups that represent business. Here, the researchers compared policy outcomes when all 24 major interest groups surveyed disagreed with a policy compared to when they all agreed with it. Princeton University FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVJanet YellenFederal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen is speaking to the Economic Club of New York. Overall, her tone remains dovish, implying that monetary policy will continue to stay easy for some time. But Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth flagged one tweak in her language. "In light of the improvement evident in the employment, production and sales data for March, she is now willing to concede that 'a significant part' of the earlier softness in the incoming data was weather-related," said Ashworth. "Last month's FOMC statement only went as far as claiming that the weather was 'in part' to blame." Catching those one-word changes is the epitome of Fedspeak parsemanship. Here's the context from Yellen's March FOMC statement: Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in January indicates that growth in economic activity slowed during the winter months, in part reflecting adverse weather conditions. Labor market indicators were mixed but on balance showed further improvement. The unemployment rate, however, remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment continued to advance, while the recovery in the housing sector remained slow. Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth, although the extent of restraint is diminishing. Inflation has been running below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable... And here's what she said today: ...The FOMC's current outlook for continued, moderate growth is little changed from last fall. In recent months, some indicators have been notably weak, requiring us to judge whether the data are signaling a material change in the outlook. The unusually harsh winter weather in much of the nation has complicated this judgment, but my FOMC colleagues and I generally believe that a significant part of the recent softness was weather related. The continued improvement in labor market conditions has been important in this judgment. The unemployment rate, at 6.7 percent, has fallen three-tenths of 1 percentage point since late last year. Broader measures of unemployment that include workers marginally attached to the labor force and those working part time for economic reasons have fallen a bit more than the headline unemployment rate, and labor force participation, which had been falling, has ticked up this year... The implication is that if you can blame more of the deceleration on weather, then the underlying economy is actually stronger. And if the Fed thinks the economy is strong, then it is more likely to tighten sooner than later. "She was also willing to concede that some of the broader measures of labour market slack that she follows 'have fallen a bit more than the headline unemployment rate,'" added Ashworth. "Nevertheless she is sticking to her guns, claiming again that "other data suggest that there may be more slack in labour markets than indicated by the unemployment rate.'" Follow our complete coverage of Yellen's speech at BusinessInsider.com. FREE AppDownload
IBM is in the middle of a huge transformation and will issue a progress report — its quarterly results — after the market closes on Wednesday. It will go into that call with analysts with a piece of good news: A new, $500 million cloud computing contract. That's nice news compared to some of the challenges IBM has had in the past few months.  IBM sold one of its computer server businesses to Lenovo and said it is investigating other divestitures. It began shedding employees from its global workforce, too, as it did last year. IBM hasn't said how many jobs it is cutting, but did say it plans to spend $1 billion on 2014's cuts, "plus or minus $100 million," (the same as it spent in 2013), and confirmed that layoffs took place in the first quarter. One analyst estimated that IBM would shed "at least 13,000 heads" worldwide. At the end of 2012 it employed 434,246 people. CEO Ginni Rometty stepped up IBM's efforts in cloud computing. She vowed to spend over $3 billion to add more cloud services, including creating a cloud based on IBM's natural speech supercomputer, Watson. All told, IBM has spent $7 billion since 2007 beefing up its cloud, it says. That's because enterprises are undergoing a major shift from buying all their tech to renting cloud services, and IBM has felt that shift — and it wants to dominate in this area. Its 2013 was soft, with revenue of $99.8 billion, down about 5%, so Rometty and her top execs chose not to take their 2013 cash bonuses. Against that as a backdrop, it announced the new contract, a huge six-year $500 million deal with insurance company The Hartford to install what's known as a "private cloud." That's when a company remakes its own data center to be faster and more efficient than using third-party cloud tech. It differs from typical cloud-computing contracts, in which companies rent software and computers within someone else's data center and access them over a network connection. This is an especially nice feather for IBM given its public battle to win a $600 million private cloud deal with the CIA against Amazon last year. Ultimately, the CIA chose Amazon. It will also help IBM convince investors that it's on the right track when expectations are modest for IBM's results. Analysts expect revenue to dip about 2% from the same period a year earlier, to $22.9 billion. They expect earnings per share to drop 15% to $2.54, thanks to the anticipated charges from job cuts. FREE AppDownload
One such classic warning sign is the slope of the yield curve. Historically, steeper yield curves (i.e., wider 10-year to 2-year spread) have been reliable forecasters of stronger overall nominal economic growth and stronger profits growth. Bigger yield differentials encourage banks to lend and investors to take more risk. Inverted yield curves, however, have historically been good predictors of recessions. An inverted yield curve signals the central bank may have tightened monetary policy too much, and it may be wiser to hoard funds than to lend them. The economy tends to slow after the yield curve inverts, and the probability of a recession significantly increases. US yield curves remain extraordinarily steep. Currently the slope of the 10 year to 2 year yield curve is around 230 basis points, which is about 11/2 standard deviations* above its normal steepness (roughly 95 basis points based on data from January 1979 through March 2014). This suggests there is ample liquidity in the economy, and bank lending has indeed begun to accelerate. The US curve is not as steep as it was, but it remains very steep by historical standards (see Chart 1). Richard Bernstein Advisors Emerging market yield curves tell a very different and disconcerting story. There is plenty of liquidity presently in the global financial markets, and there are not many flat or inverted yield curves around the world. However, with the exception of Japan and Switzerland, the emerging markets are home to all the world’s flat or inverted yield curves (see Chart 2). Richard Bernstein Advisors Thus, the liquidity backdrop in many emerging markets still appears to be deteriorating rather than improving as many investors suggest. Earnings growth in these markets is not strong enough to offset increasingly poor liquidity. Emerging market earnings growth continues to disappoint. As we’ve highlighted many times, emerging market companies continue to lead the world in negative earnings surprises (See Chart 3). It is hard for us to imagine that emerging market stocks will outperform when liquidity conditions are tightening and earnings continue to disappoint. Richard Bernstein Advisors More than four years ago we began to think the US was entering one of the biggest bull markets in our careers, but investors should be very wary of emerging markets. Nothing in our indicators suggests a change in that position. If liquidity was abundant and earnings growth was healthy, we’d readily invest in the emerging markets. Unfortunately, those characteristics are in the US and other developed markets and definitively not in emerging markets. This article originally appeared at Richard Bernstein Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVUnited States Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen speaks at the Economic Club of New York, April 16, 2014. Janet Yellen just gave her first speech on monetary policy today since assuming office as chairwoman of the Federal Reserve in an event at the Economic Club of New York. Treasury yields have edged higher on her comments. Below is the full text of her speech: Monetary Policy and the Economic Recovery Nearly five years into the expansion that began after the financial crisis and the Great Recession, the recovery has come a long way. More than 8 million jobs have been added to nonfarm payrolls since 2009, almost the same number lost as a result of the recession. Led by a resurgent auto industry, manufacturing output has also nearly returned to its pre-recession peak. While the housing market still has far to go, it seems to have turned a corner. It is a sign of how far the economy has come that a return to full employment is, for the first time since the crisis, in the medium-term outlooks of many forecasters. It is a reminder of how far we have to go, however, that this long-awaited outcome is projected to be more than two years away. Today I will discuss how my colleagues on the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) and I view the state of the economy and how this view is likely to shape our efforts to promote a return to maximum employment in a context of price stability. I will start with the FOMC's outlook, which foresees a gradual return over the next two to three years of economic conditions consistent with its mandate. While monetary policy discussions naturally begin with a baseline outlook, the path of the economy is uncertain, and effective policy must respond to significant unexpected twists and turns the economy may take. My primary focus today will be on how the FOMC's monetary policy framework has evolved to best support the recovery through those twists and turns, and what this framework is likely to imply as the recovery progresses. The Current Economic Outlook The FOMC's current outlook for continued, moderate growth is little changed from last fall. In recent months, some indicators have been notably weak, requiring us to judge whether the data are signaling a material change in the outlook. The unusually harsh winter weather in much of the nation has complicated this judgment, but my FOMC colleagues and I generally believe that a significant part of the recent softness was weather related. The continued improvement in labor market conditions has been important in this judgment. The unemployment rate, at 6.7 percent, has fallen three-tenths of 1 percentage point since late last year. Broader measures of unemployment that include workers marginally attached to the labor force and those working part time for economic reasons have fallen a bit more than the headline unemployment rate, and labor force participation, which had been falling, has ticked up this year. Inflation, as measured by the price index for personal consumption expenditures, has slowed from an annual rate of about 2-1/2 percent in early 2012 to less than 1 percent in February of this year.1 This rate is well below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run objective. Many advanced economies are observing a similar softness in inflation. To some extent, the low rate of inflation seems due to influences that are likely to be temporary, including a deceleration in consumer energy prices and outright declines in core import prices in recent quarters. Longer-run inflation expectations have remained remarkably steady, however. We anticipate that, as the effects of transitory factors subside and as labor market gains continue, inflation will gradually move back toward 2 percent. In sum, the central tendency of FOMC participant projections for the unemployment rate at the end of 2016 is 5.2 to 5.6 percent, and for inflation the central tendency is 1.7 to 2 percent.2 If this forecast was to become reality, the economy would be approaching what my colleagues and I view as maximum employment and price stability for the first time in nearly a decade. I find this baseline outlook quite plausible. Of course, if the economy obediently followed our forecasts, the job of central bankers would be a lot easier and their speeches would be a lot shorter. Alas, the economy is often not so compliant, so I will ask your indulgence for a few more minutes. Three Big Questions for the FOMC Because the course of the economy is uncertain, monetary policymakers need to carefully watch for signs that it is diverging from the baseline outlook and then respond in a systematic way. Let me turn first to monitoring and discuss three questions I believe are likely to loom large in the FOMC's ongoing assessment of where we are on the path back to maximum employment and price stability. Is there still significant slack in the labor market? The first question concerns the extent of slack in the labor market. One of the FOMC's objectives is to promote a return to maximum employment, but exactly what conditions are consistent with maximum employment can be difficult to assess. Thus far in the recovery and to this day, there is little question that the economy has remained far from maximum employment, so measurement difficulties were not our focus. But as the attainment of our maximum employment goal draws nearer, it will be necessary for the FOMC to form a more nuanced judgment about when the recovery of the labor market will be materially complete. As the FOMC's statement on longer-term goals and policy strategy emphasizes, these judgments are inherently uncertain and must be based on a wide range of indicators.3  I will refer to the shortfall in employment relative to its mandate-consistent level as labor market slack, and there are a number of different indicators of this slack. Probably the best single indicator is the unemployment rate. At 6.7 percent, it is now slightly more than 1 percentage point above the 5.2 to 5.6 percent central tendency of the Committee's projections for the longer-run normal unemployment rate. This shortfall remains significant, and in our baseline outlook, it will take more than two years to close.4  Other data suggest that there may be more slack in labor markets than indicated by the unemployment rate. For example, the share of the workforce that is working part time but would prefer to work full time remains quite high by historical standards. Similarly, while the share of workers in the labor force who are unemployed and have been looking for work for more than six months has fallen from its peak in 2010, it remains as high as any time prior to the Great Recession.5 There is ongoing debate about why long-term unemployment remains so high and the degree to which it might decline in a more robust economy. As I argued more fully in a recent speech, I believe that long-term unemployment might fall appreciably if economic conditions were stronger.6  The low level of labor force participation may also signal additional slack that is not reflected in the headline unemployment rate. Participation would be expected to fall because of the aging of the population, but the decline steepened in the recovery. Although economists differ over what share of those currently outside the labor market might join or rejoin the labor force in a stronger economy, my own view is that some portion of the decline in participation likely represents labor market slack.7  Lastly, economists also look to wage pressures to signal a tightening labor market. At present, wage gains continue to proceed at a historically slow pace in this recovery, with few signs of a broad-based acceleration. As the extent of slack we see today diminishes, however, the FOMC will need to monitor these and other labor market indicators closely to judge how much slack remains and, therefore, how accommodative monetary policy should be. Is inflation moving back toward 2 percent? A second question that is likely to figure heavily in our assessment of the recovery is whether inflation is moving back toward the FOMC's 2 percent longer-run objective, as envisioned in our baseline outlook. As the most recent FOMC statement emphasizes, inflation persistently below 2 percent could pose risks to economic performance. The FOMC strives to avoid inflation slipping too far below its 2 percent objective because, at very low inflation rates, adverse economic developments could more easily push the economy into deflation. The limited historical experience with deflation shows that, once it starts, deflation can become entrenched and associated with prolonged periods of very weak economic performance.8  A persistent bout of very low inflation carries other risks as well. With the federal funds rate currently near its lower limit, lower inflation translates into a higher real value for the federal funds rate, limiting the capacity of monetary policy to support the economy.9 Further, with longer-term inflation expectations anchored near 2 percent in recent years, persistent inflation well below this expected value increases the real burden of debt for households and firms, which may put a drag on economic activity. I will mention two considerations that will be important in assessing whether inflation is likely to move back to 2 percent as the economy recovers. First, we anticipate that, as labor market slack diminishes, it will exert less of a drag on inflation. However, during the recovery, very high levels of slack have seemingly not generated strong downward pressure on inflation. We must therefore watch carefully to see whether diminishing slack is helping return inflation to our objective.10 Second, our baseline projection rests on the view that inflation expectations will remain well anchored near 2 percent and provide a natural pull back to that level. But the strength of that pull in the unprecedented conditions we continue to face is something we must continue to assess. Finally, the FOMC is well aware that inflation could also threaten to rise substantially above 2 percent. At present, I rate the chances of this happening as significantly below the chances of inflation persisting below 2 percent, but we must always be prepared to respond to such unexpected outcomes, which leads us to my third question. What factors may push the recovery off track? Myriad factors continuously buffet the economy, so the Committee must always be asking, "What factors may be pushing the recovery off track?" For example, over the nearly 5 years of the recovery, the economy has been affected by greater-than-expected fiscal drag in the United States and by spillovers from the sovereign debt and banking problems of some euro-area countries. Further, our baseline outlook has changed as we have learned about the degree of structural damage to the economy wrought by the crisis and the subsequent pace of healing. Let me offer an example of how these issues shape policy. Four years ago, in April 2010, the outlook appeared fairly bright. The emergency lending programs that the Federal Reserve implemented at the height of the crisis had been largely wound down, and the Fed was soon to complete its first large-scale asset purchase program. Private-sector forecasters polled in the April 2010 Blue Chip survey were predicting that the unemployment rate would fall steadily to 8.6 percent in the final quarter of 2011.11  This forecast proved quite accurate--the unemployment rate averaged 8.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2011. But this was not the whole story. In April 2010, Blue Chip forecasters not only expected falling unemployment, they also expected the FOMC to soon begin raising the federal funds rate. Indeed, they expected the federal funds rate to reach 1.3 percent by the second quarter of 2011.12 By July 2010, however, with growth disappointing and the FOMC expressing concerns about softening in both growth and inflation, the Blue Chip forecast of the federal funds rate in mid-2011 had fallen to 0.8 percent, and by October the forecasters expected that the rate would remain in the range of 0 to 25 basis points throughout 2011, as turned out to be the case.13 Not only did expectations of policy tightening recede, the FOMC also initiated a new $600 billion asset purchase program in November 2010. Thus, while the reductions in the unemployment rate through 2011 were roughly as forecast in early 2010, this improvement only came about with the FOMC providing a considerably higher level of accommodation than originally anticipated. This experience was essentially repeated the following year. In April 2011, Blue Chip forecasters expected the unemployment rate to fall to 7.9 percent by the fourth quarter of 2012, with the FOMC expected to have already raised the federal funds rate to near 1 percent by mid-2012.14  As it turned out, the unemployment rate forecast was once more remarkably accurate, but again this was associated with considerably more accommodation than anticipated. In response to signs of slowing economic activity, in August 2011 the FOMC for the first time expressed its forward guidance in terms of the calendar, stating that conditions would likely warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least through mid-2013. The following month, the Committee added to accommodation by adopting a new balance sheet policy known as the maturity extension program. 15  Thus, in both 2011 and 2012, the unemployment rate actually declined by about as much as had been forecast the previous year, but only after unexpected weakness prompted additional accommodative steps by the Federal Reserve. In both cases, I believe that the FOMC's decision to respond to signs of weakness with significant additional accommodation played an important role in helping to keep the projected labor market recovery on track.16 These episodes illustrate what I described earlier as a vital aspect of effective monetary policymaking: monitor the economy for signs that events are unfolding in a materially different manner than expected and adjust policy in response in a systematic manner. Now I will turn from the task of monitoring to the policy response. Policy Challenges in an Unprecedented Recovery Fundamental to modern thinking on central banking is the idea that monetary policy is more effective when the public better understands and anticipates how the central bank will respond to evolving economic conditions. Specifically, it is important for the central bank to make clear how it will adjust its policy stance in response to unforeseen economic developments in a manner that reduces or blunts potentially harmful consequences. If the public understands and expects policymakers to behave in this systematically stabilizing manner, it will tend to respond less to such developments. Monetary policy will thus have an "automatic stabilizer" effect that operates through private-sector expectations. It is important to note that tying the response of policy to the economy necessarily makes the future course of the federal funds rate uncertain. But by responding to changing circumstances, policy can be most effective at reducing uncertainty about the course of inflation and employment. Recall how this worked during the couple of decades before the crisis--a period sometimes known as the Great Moderation. The FOMC's main policy tool, the federal funds rate, was well above zero, leaving ample scope to respond to the modest shocks that buffeted the economy during that period. Many studies confirmed that the appropriate response of policy to those shocks could be described with a fair degree of accuracy by a simple rule linking the federal funds rate to the shortfall or excess of employment and inflation relative to their desired values.17 The famous Taylor rule provides one such formula.18  The idea that monetary policy should react in a systematic manner in order to blunt the effects of shocks has remained central in the FOMC's policymaking during this recovery. However, the application of this idea has been more challenging. With the federal funds rate pinned near zero, the FOMC has been forced to rely on two less familiar policy tools--the first one being forward guidance regarding the future setting of the federal funds rate and the second being large-scale asset purchases. There are no time-tested guidelines for how these tools should be adjusted in response to changes in the outlook. As the episodes recounted earlier illustrate, the FOMC has continued to try to adjust its policy tools in a systematic manner in response to new information about the economy. But because both the tools and the economic conditions have been unfamiliar, it has also been critical that the FOMC communicate how it expects to deploy its tools in response to material changes in the outlook. Let me review some important elements in the evolution of the FOMC's communication framework. When the FOMC initially began using its unconventional tools, policy communication was relatively simple. In December 2008, for example, the FOMC said it expected that conditions would warrant keeping the federal funds rate near zero for "some time." This period before the "liftoff" in the federal funds rate was described in increasingly specific, and (as it turned out) longer, periods over time--"some time" became "an extended period," which was later changed to "mid-2013," then "late 2014," then "mid-2015."19 This fixed, calendar-based guidance had the virtue of simplicity, but it lacked the automatic stabilizer property of communication that would signal how and why the stance of policy and forward guidance might change as developments unfolded, and as we learned about the extent of the need for accommodation. More recently, the Federal Reserve, and I might add, other central banks around the world, have sought to incorporate this automatic stabilizer feature in their communications.20 In December 2012, the Committee reformulated its forward guidance, stating that it anticipated that the federal funds rate would remain near zero at least as long as the unemployment rate remained above 6-1/2 percent, inflation over the period between one and two years ahead was projected to be no more than half a percentage point above the Committee's objective, and longer-term inflation expectations continued to be well anchored. This guidance emphasized to the public that it could count on a near-zero federal funds rate at least until substantial progress in the recovery had been achieved, however long that might take. When these thresholds were announced, the unemployment rate was reported to be 7.7 percent, and the Committee projected that the 6-1/2 percent threshold would not be reached for another 2-1/2 years--in mid-2015. The Committee emphasized that these numerical criteria were not triggers for raising the federal funds rate, and Chairman Bernanke stated that, ultimately, any decision to begin removing accommodation would be based on a wide range of indicators.21  Our communications about asset purchases have undergone a similar transformation. The initial asset purchase programs had fixed time and quantity limits, although those limits came with a proviso that they might be adjusted. In the fall of 2012, the FOMC launched its current purchase program, this time explicitly tying the course of the program to evolving economic conditions. When the program began, the rate of purchases was $85 billion per month, and the Committee indicated that purchases would continue, providing that inflation remained well behaved, until there was a substantial improvement in the outlook for the labor market.22  Based on the cumulative progress toward maximum employment since the initiation of the program and the improvement in the outlook for the labor market, the FOMC began reducing the pace of asset purchases last December, stating that "[i]f incoming information broadly supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-term objective, the Committee will likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings."23Purchases are currently proceeding at a pace of $55 billion per month. Consistent with my theme today, however, the FOMC statement underscores that purchases are not on a preset course--the FOMC stands ready to adjust the pace of purchases as warranted should the outlook change materially. Recent Changes to the Forward Guidance At our most recent meeting in March, the FOMC reformulated its forward guidance for the federal funds rate. While one of the main motivations for this change was that the unemployment rate might soon cross the 6-1/2 percent threshold, the new formulation is also well suited to help the FOMC explain policy adjustments that may arise in response to changes in the outlook. I should note that the change in the forward guidance did not indicate a change in the Committee's policy intentions, but instead was made to clarify the Committee's thinking about policy as the economy continues to recover. The new guidance provides a general description of the framework that the FOMC will apply in making decisions about the timing of liftoff. Specifically, in determining how long to maintain the current target range of 0 to 25 basis points for the federal funds rate, "the Committee will assess progress, both realized and expected, toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation."24 In other words, the larger the shortfall of employment or inflation from their respective objectives, and the slower the projected progress toward those objectives, the longer the current target range for the federal funds rate is likely to be maintained. This approach underscores the continuing commitment of the FOMC to maintain the appropriate degree of accommodation to support the recovery. The new guidance also reaffirms the FOMC's view that decisions about liftoff should not be based on any one indicator, but that it will take into account a wide range of information on the labor market, inflation, and financial developments. Along with this general framework, the FOMC provided an assessment of what that framework implies for the likely path of policy under the baseline outlook. At present, the Committee anticipates that economic and financial conditions will likely warrant maintaining the current range "for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored."25  Finally, the Committee began explaining more fully how policy may operate in the period after liftoff, indicating its expectation that economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping short-term interest rates below levels the Committee views as likely to prove normal in the longer run. FOMC participants have cited different reasons for this view, but many of the reasons involve persistent effects of the financial crisis and the possibility that the productive capacity of the economy will grow more slowly, at least for a time, than it did, on average, before the crisis. The expectation that the achievement of our economic objectives will likely require low real interest rates for some time is again not confined to the United States but is shared broadly across many advanced economies.26 Of course, this guidance is a forecast and will evolve as we gain further evidence about how the economy is operating in the wake of the crisis and ensuing recession. Conclusion In summary, the policy framework I have described reflects the FOMC's commitment to systematically respond to unforeseen economic developments in order to promote a return to maximum employment in a context of price stability. It is very welcome news that a return to these conditions has finally appeared in the medium-term outlook of many forecasters. But it will be much better news when this objective is reached. My colleagues on the FOMC and I will stay focused on doing the Federal Reserve's part to promote this goal. 1. These inflation rates are based on 12-month changes. Return to text 2. These figures are based on the Summary of Economic Projections (SEP) submitted in conjunction with the March 2014 FOMC meeting. The SEP is an addendum to the FOMC minutes and is available at Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (2014), "Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee, March 18-19, 2014," press release, April 9. Return to text 3. See the FOMC's Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy (PDF),  as amended effective January 28, 2014, which is available on the Board's website at .Return to text 4. See the SEP in Board of Governors, "Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee, March 18-19, 2014," in note 2. Return to text 5. The share in CPS employment of persons working part time for economic reasons rose from 3 percent prior to the recession to 6.5 percent in November 2009, and it has since then declined only to 5 percent. The share in the labor force of those unemployed for more than 26 weeks rose from less than 1 percent prior to the recession to 4.5 percent, and it has since declined to just below 2.5 percent; the previous peak for this series was 2.5 percent in 1983. The records for long-term unemployed begin in 1948. Return to text 6. See Janet L. Yellen (2014), "What the Federal Reserve Is Doing to Promote a Stronger Job Market," speech delivered at the 2014 National Interagency Community Reinvestment Conference, Chicago, March 31. Return to text 7. For the view that most of the recent decline in labor force participation reflects retirement, see Shigeru Fujita (2014), "On the Causes of Declines in the Labor Force Participation Rate," (PDF)  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, special report, Research Rap,February 6. The view that a larger share of the recent decline reflects cyclical factors is expressed by Christopher J. Erceg and Andrew T. Levin (2013), "Labor Force Participation and Monetary Policy in the Wake of the Great Recession," paper presented at "Fulfilling the Full Employment Mandate--Monetary Policy and the Labor Market,"  57th Economic Conference of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, April 12. Return to text 8. See Ben S. Bernanke (2002), "Deflation: Making Sure ‘It' Doesn't Happen Here," speech delivered at the National Economists Club, Washington, November 21. Return to text 9. If firms' and households' spending decisions depended only on longer-term interest rates, temporarily higher short-term real interest rates due to low inflation at a time that nominal interest rates are constrained by the zero lower bound would have little economic effects, provided that these higher short-term real interest rates would be expected to be compensated by lower short-term real interest rates later on. However, to the extent that these spending decisions depend in part on shorter-term real interest rates, low inflation can induce meaningful economic costs. Return to text 10. The uncertainty surrounding the empirical relationship between slack and inflation is discussed in James H. Stock and Mark W. Watson (2009), "Phillips Curve Inflation Forecasts,"  in Jeff Fuhrer, Yolanda K. Kodrzycki, Jane Sneddon Little, and Giovanni P. Olivei, eds., Understanding Inflation and the Implications for Monetary Policy: A Phillips Curve Retrospective  (Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press). Moreover, with the share of long-term unemployed in total unemployment unusually elevated in recent years, there is an ongoing discussion about whether short- and long-term unemployment have differential effects on inflation. See Robert J. Gordon (2013), "The Phillips Curve Is Alive and Well: Inflation and the NAIRU during the Slow Recovery,"  NBER Working Paper Series 19390 (Cambridge, Mass.: National Bureau of Economic Research, August); and Mark W. Watson (forthcoming), "Inflation Persistence, the NAIRU, and the Great Recession,"American Economic Review. Return to text 11. See Aspen Publishers (2010), Blue Chip Economic Indicators, vol. 35, no. 4 (April 10). These forecasts were similar to the central tendency of FOMC participants' projections for the unemployment rate at the end of 2011 submitted in conjunction with the April 2010 FOMC meeting, which ranged from 8.1 to 8.5 percent. See Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (2010), "Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee, April 27-28, 2010," press release, May 19. Return to text 12. See Aspen Publishers (2010), Blue Chip Financial Forecasts, vol. 29, no. 4 (April 1).Return to text 13. See, respectively, Aspen Publishers (2010), Blue Chip Financial Forecasts, vol. 29, no. 7 (July 1); and Aspen Publishers (2010), vol. 29, no. 10 (October 1). In the statement following its August 10, 2010, meeting, the FOMC noted that "the pace of recovery in output and employment has slowed in recent months." See Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (2010), "FOMC Statement," press release, August 10. See also the discussion in the minutes of that meeting: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (2010), "Minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee, August 10, 2010," press release, August 31. Return to text 14. See, respectively, Aspen Publishers (2011), Blue Chip Economic Indicators, vol. 36, no. 4 (April 10); and Aspen Publishers (2011), Blue Chip Financial Forecasts, vol. 30, no. 4 (April 1). Return to text 15. For the FOMC's calendar-based forward guidance as communicated in its August 2011 statement, see Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (2011), "FOMC Statement," press release, August 9. For the description of the FOMC's maturity extension program that appeared in its September 2011 statement, see Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (2011), "Federal Reserve Issues FOMC Statement," press release, September 21. Return to text 16. There are a range of estimates on the effectiveness of these policies. A review is provided in Ben S. Bernanke (2012), "Monetary Policy since the Onset of the Crisis," speech delivered at "The Changing Policy Landscape," a symposium sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, held in Jackson Hole, Wyo., August 30-September 1. Return to text 17. See the discussion in John B. Taylor and John C. Williams (2010), "Simple and Robust Rules for Monetary Policy,"  in Benjamin M. Friedman and Michael Woodford, eds.,Handbook of Monetary Economics, vol. 3 (San Diego: North-Holland), pp. 829-59. Return to text 18. See John B. Taylor (1993), "Discretion versus Policy Rules in Practice,"  Carnegie-Rochester Conference Series on Public Policy, vol. 39 (December), pp. 195-214. Return to text 19. The references to "some time," "an extended period," "mid-2013," "late 2014," and "mid-2015" appeared in the FOMC statements of, respectively, December 2008, March 2009, August 2011, January 2012, and September 2012. See Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (2008), "FOMC Statement and Board Approval of Discount Rate Requests of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco," press release, December 16; Board of Governors (2009), "FOMC Statement," press release, March 18, Board of Governors (2011), "FOMC Statement," press release, August 9; Board of Governors (2012), "Federal Reserve Issues FOMC Statement," press release, January 25; and Board of Governors (2012), "Federal Reserve Issues FOMC Statement," press release, September 13. Return to text 20. The Bank of England introduced threshold-based forward guidance in August 2013 and adopted more-qualitative forward guidance in February 2014; see Bank of England, "Forward Guidance,"  webpage. The European Central Bank recently linked its forward guidance more explicitly to its assessment of economic slack, as discussed in President Mario Draghi's press conference on March 6, 2014; see Mario Draghi (2014), "Introductory Statement to the Press Conference (with Q&amp;A),"   European Central Bank, Frankfurt, March 6. Return to text 21. See Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (2012), "Transcript of Chairman Bernanke's Press Conference, December 12, 2012 (PDF),". Return to text 22. See Board of Governors, "Federal Reserve Issues FOMC Statement," September 13, 2012, in note 19. Return to text 23. See Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (2013), "Federal Reserve Issues FOMC Statement," press release, December 18. Return to text 24. See Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (2014), "Federal Reserve Issues FOMC Statement," press release, March 19. Return to text 25. See Board of Governors, "Federal Reserve Issues FOMC Statement," March 19, 2014, in note 24. Return to text 26. See the discussion in International Monetary Fund (2014), "Perspectives on Global Real Interest Rates (PDF),"  chap. 3 in World Economic Outlook: Recovery Strengthens, Remains Uneven (Washington: IMF, April). Return to text FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Steve MarcusWall Street has often been referred to as a casino, but one bank actually owns a Las Vegas casino. Deutsche Bank's portfolio includes the $3.9 billion Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas, which the bank finished building after the developer defaulted on their loans in 2008. Deutsche Bank is now trying to sell the casino for more than $2 billion, Bloomberg News reports citing unnamed sources familiar. The bank has has four potential bidders interested, the report said. The Cosmopolitan has been a money losing venture for the German bank over the last six years. However, the casino has seen an improvement in business recently.  Now we're going to take a tour of the resort. (A big thank you to Corey Deshon shared some his photos with us.) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEmployees pack boxes of the SodaStream product at the factory in the West Bank Jewish settlement of Maale Adumim(Reuters) - At-home soda maker Sodastream International is in early talks to sell a stake of up to 16 percent to a strategic entity, Israeli financial news daily Calcalist reported on its website. U.S. shares of Sodastream rose as much as 12 percent to $42.25 on Wednesday after the website identified PepsiCo Inc, Dr Pepper Snapple Group or Starbucks Co as the potential investors in the Israel-based company. The website did not cite any sources for its information. The price being discussed values Sodastream at about $1.1 billion, Calcalist said. The valuation reflects a share price of $52, compared with Sodastream's closing price of $37.64 on the Nasdaq on Tuesday. More than a third of the company's shares are held by short-sellers. The Hebrew language website said there were still differences between the parties over the type of deal that would be carried out. (http://r.reuters.com/zuw58v) Sodastream spokesman Yonah Lloyd said the company would not comment on market rumors. PepsiCo, Dr Pepper and Starbucks also declined to comment. The potential investor is interested in receiving an option to increase its stake in the future and eventually gain control of the company, Calcalist said. Coca-Cola Co bought a 10 percent stake in Keurig Green Mountain Inc in February to jointly develop a new cold drink machine, putting pressure on Sodastream to bolster its position through a partnership or merger with a leading drinks players. In June last year, Calcalist reported that PepsiCo had made an offer through Goldman Sachs to buy Sodastream for $2 billion. PepsiCo said the report was untrue. Sodastream's shares, which have fallen more than 20 percent in the past 12 months, were up 8 percent at $40.72 in morning trading on Wednesday. (Reporting by Tova Cohen in Tel Aviv, Siddharth Cavale and Mridhula Ragahavan in Bangalore; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
Matt Boesler posted an interesting chart today showing a leading relationship between house price appreciation &amp; owners' equivalent rent (OER). Expounding on this idea and data set results in some interesting conclusions about the likely trajectory of core inflation in the U.S. Housing, technically shelter, is the largest component of the core consumer price index (CPI), with a 42% weight in the basket. Shelter is decomposed into primary residence rent and owners' equivalent rent (to have a smooth proxy for housing prices). OER and housing prices have seen material divergences since the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller 20-city index began being published in 2000. However, a closer look shows a strong lead-lag relationship between the year-over-year percentage changes in OER versus Case-Shiller, with some data fitting leading to 21 months as a useful time lead. Linear and polynomial (3-degree) regressions with this time lead are presented below. Macro Beat/Naufal Sanaullah Using this regression analysis to model % YoY OER, and linearly standardizing the modeled OER (to account for much wider range of % YoY rates in housing prices versus rents), a rough but useful projection of future OER, and consequently housing price inflation, is in the pipeline based on the leading indicator of housing price growth. With this, we constructed a projection for housing's net contribution to core CPI % YoY, which is presented below. Macro Beat/Naufal Sanaullah Based on current housing prices, the model suggests that housing alone will provide 100-140 gross basis points to core CPI YoY growth rates by H2 2015, or 50-70% of the way to target inflation. This includes an approximately 40bps increase in net bps contribution to core CPI YoY, in the next 21 months, implying that even if non-shelter core inflation rates stagnate at their current 0.46% YoY rates — all the way through 2015 — core inflation will still return to Fed target. If non-shelter core inflation rates can simply reverse solely their 2013 deceleration, over the course of the next 21 months, the implied core inflation rate would be just under 3%, and 1yr fwd inflation expectations (the FOMC FG criterion relevant to rate policy) would likely have breached the FOMC's 2.5% symmetrical target ceiling. These scenarios serve to illustrate how impactful the extra 40bps net housing contribution to CPI can be. Macro Beat/Naufal Sanaullah Looking beyond housing, there are good reasons to believe that non-shelter inflation is poised to accelerate materially and be the driving force behind overall inflation acceleration: Vince Foster had a terrific piece over the weekend analyzing the recent behavior of long-term yields. Although I share his concerns about long-term NGDP potential growth rates for the US (absent immigration boom, public infrastructure investment, etc), especially regarding the question of not being able to escape ZIRP again in next recession, I think that US core inflation is set up for cyclical acceleration. I expect to write soon about some of Vince's arguments, as well as some of the near-term risks I see in the global economy. FREE AppDownload

APPeter Rive, left, with cousin and SolarCity chair Elon Musk and CEO and brother Lyndon RiveFor the past few months, SolarCity has been warning that utilities must adapt to growing demand for renewable storage, or risk getting left behind.  "There will be some amount of strife for existing utilities, particularly ones heavy into fossil rules," Musk said at a panel earlier this year. "There will be bit of a hardship for them. But we have no choice. We have to decide if we're going to have clean, sustainable energy or not and if we decide want good future...and the only good future is one with [clean] energy." Goldman Sachs' clean tech analyst Brian Lee has interpreted these kinds of comments this as a signal that SolarCity is aiming for "grid defection" — whereby customers would create self-sufficient energy systems on their property. This morning, SolarCity sought to bury the hatchet with utilities. In a new note this morning, SolarCity co-founder and CTO Peter Rive, cousin of company chair Elon Musk, said utilities have an important place in SolarCity's rollout of storage systems. While there is tension between utilities and companies like SolarCity, we work with them every day to connect our solar power systems, and there's potential for much greater synergy," he writes. "In fact, batteries should power that synergy. One of the more polarizing ideas going around is that battery storage will lead to mass defections from the grid. Needing only their solar and their batteries, the story goes, Americans will simply cut the cord. While this is technically feasible, SolarCity has no interest in this scenario.  In an exclusive interview with BI, Rive clarified his stance. "There's this misconception that the reason why SolarCity is developing this technology is to remove customers from the grid," he said. "The truth is quite far from that. The reason we've developing storage is that clean solar, with reasonably priced storage, can lower the overall price of energy, especially when it's in the hands of grid operators." Rive said utilities remain best suited to regulating load and generation capability on their grids, and that SolarCity's technologies can serve as "tools" to help lower costs and smooth out demand imbalances. "The key overarching point is that the benefits of solar inverters and storage is massive, especially in the hands of grid operators," he said. SolarCity's statement comes as the California Public Utilities Commission clarified how utilities should price the cost of connecting SolarCity's units to their grids. SolarCity had recently hammered California's three major energy service providers for seemingly dragging their feet and overcharging on installation.  "As far as we can tell, utilities are generally in agreement" with the ruling Rive said. "A lot has happened in the past week or so." He did not comment on how soon utilities will begin speeding up their connections.  In the blog post, Rive announced he's created a Grid Engineering Solutions department designed to "to help solve the challenges preventing the shift from the grid that we currently have, to the grid that we need." The grid is not going anywhere.  FREE AppDownload
Randy Moore/Shutterstock.comHedge funds are having their worst start to the year since 2008, gaining only 1.23% year-to-date, says a new report by research firm Preqin. You'll recall 2008. It was when Wall Street thought the world would end. Now it's safe to say that the Apocalypse is no longer nigh, but that isn't to say this year has been a treat — especially compared with the stock market's 30% climb in 2013. In January, emerging markets were dragging the world down. Now it seems like the tech and biotech sectors have investors seeing red everywhere. According to Preqin's calculations, hedge funds are up 1.23% so far this year (compared to the S&amp;P 500's 1.30%). In 2012 they ended Q1 up 6.07% and in 2013 they ended it up 3.76%. "January and March returns were both in the red, with only February’s benchmark performance of 1.76% keeping performance for hedge funds in positive territory for the quarter," Preqin writes. January returned an average of -0.25% and March an average of -0.26%. Event-driven and long/short strategies have proved most successful for investors, returning 4.37% and 4.32% respectively. Of course, strategy can't save you if you're in the wrong sector. Take long/short fund Coatue Management, for example. The fund's "Tiger Cub" founder Philippe Laffont announced that he would return $2 billion of its flagship fund's $7 billion AUM to investors after a "gut wrenching" month of March. Coatue invests in companies like Apple, Google, Facebook, LinkedIn, Netflix, Pandora and Yelp — tech stocks. And if you've been paying attention to that sector, you know it's been getting completely crushed. Be careful out there. FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesGoogle employees have the highest median pay in America: $127,000.Money can't buy happiness, but it can certainly try. Business Insider recently teamed up with PayScale to find the 50 Best Employers in America based on median pay, job meaning, job stress, and a number of other factors. But in life some factors carry more weight than others, so we double-weighted median pay to highlight employers that pay their employees well.  Companies chosen for this list were selected from the complete 2012 Fortune 500 list, not just our list of the 50 Best Employers. Read the full methodology here. Find out how much the best employers in America shell out: Mike Nudelman and Melia Robinson/Business Insider This ranking of Fortune 500 companies was created by Business Insider using data gathered and crunched by PayScale. Read the full methodology here. Also find out how your salary stacks up at PayScale.com. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Ana MartinezMuch fuss was made yesterday when my colleague Nick Giambruno released a report outlining the incredible tax benefits to be had, by Americans no less (the only people in the world to be taxed back home even when we leave), in Puerto Rico. As you may have seen, that report was based in large part on my personal experience relocating to the island, a process I started in earnest last October. And, yes, I am here, writing you at this moment from beautiful Palmas Del Mar—if you ask me, the most beautiful piece of coastland on the island, but only just being rediscovered after a long hiatus from the spotlight. What can I say, I love a comeback story, especially when it looks like this… Yes, my decision to move to Puerto Rico was influenced by the tax incentives. But they were only one contributing factor. Why I chose to land in Puerto Rico is much more nuanced than that. It all boils down to one thing: Opportunity. Everyone likes to save on taxes. That’s a given. But if I’ve learned one thing in my short business life thus far: it’s that it’s always better to make $4 than to save $2. No disparagement intended to Ben Franklin, but a penny saved is not a penny earned. Not if, in the time and effort saving it took, you could’ve created two or four or eight more pennies for yourself. I’m here in Puerto Rico because I believe it will provide me with the opportunity to make many more pennies. Here’s why. Unlike many other low-tax jurisdictions, Puerto Rico is in the unique position of having been a US territory for a century now. That means all sorts of things, from familiar legal systems to easy travel. But one of the most surprising implications is that US companies and even certain US government agencies have a presence down here. My town is a few miles down the road from the world’s fourth-busiest Walmart. There is a Costco here. Closer, in fact, than the one we had in Vermont. There’s also a Cartier—I’m not much of a jewelry buyer, but you get my point. Many if not most of the conveniences of the US are to be had here. And the same goes for far more than shopping. The highways across the island are much like in the US, including, unfortunately, the traffic into and out of the big city. But I’ll take that any day over the frightening, windy back roads that litter Jamaica, Grenada, St. Kitts, the Caymans, and many of the other places considered before settling on this place. And gas here is just a tiny fraction more expensive than back in the States. Of course, roads rarely matter for me since I work from home, where my simple Internet connection is at least 10 times faster than the one in the office in Vermont—courtesy of Liberty cable. My cell phone, on AT&amp;T, works much better here too. What’s not the same here (they have the FBI, DEA, etc.) is at least comfortingly familiar (courts, MPH speed limits, and AutoExpreso, i.e., EZPass). But most importantly, it’s fully developed. There’s no grass hut customs office, no lack of a UPS store—the entire infrastructure needed to run a business well is here. We tend to lose power often, yes. A few times each month for a few hours at a time. And electricity rates are about twice as high as in the States, though we use so much less of it here without any need for heat and barely any for AC. Still, the power bill can be a drag. But not everything can be perfect, even when the weather is: 86 and sunny. All year. ‘Nuff said. Though my belly says differently, I like to exercise. I spent the last decade of my life split between some of the rainiest and snowiest locations in the US. And I hate gyms. Since coming here, I’ve lost 14 pounds and counting, just from getting outside to swim, walk, golf, and play tennis—activities that have been closed (to me) most of the year, and that apparently constitute enough caloric burn to make up for my awful, airport-heavy diet. I have more energy, I feel better. Many people are looking for that same lifestyle. Which, ironically, makes it far easier to recruit talent to the island than to many mainland destinations. I’ve already convinced a handful of people to make the move, and I’m not even actively hiring down here just yet—I’m waiting for some red tape to clear. If you’re thinking of starting or expanding a business, think carefully about whether it will be easier to recruit people to the tax-free (state tax-free only, mind you) zone in Albany, NY, to the expensive and tiny island of St. John, or to a country bigger than Rhode Island or Delaware with year-round sunshine. But it’s not like I need to recruit that many people here. There are already plenty here. The other day, during one of those intermittent power outages, I took the opportunity to swing up to Sam’s Club and pick up a few things—all commercial sites, and most high-end homes, have generators to cope. $400 worth of crap I didn’t really need later, I was waiting in line at the checkout, as the obligatory pile of cash was counted out at the register in front of me (almost no one here uses bank accounts or credit cards, and it’s part of their well-known fiscal troubles…). While waiting, I told my wife about my struggle finding qualified PHP developers. These are jobs that pay $40-50/hour, i.e., $60K to $100K/year, and way up from there. Yet it takes us months to hire for them. The woman behind me in line must have overheard our conversation, because she started asking me if I worked for Palmas and were we hiring—she’d applied a dozen times already. She, like many others here, was looking for work. The official unemployment rate is 15%. According to the CIA World Factbook, it’s 26%. The median household income is also a relatively low $18,000/year. That’s double most places in the Caribbean, but still quite low compared to the States. Looked at societally, that’s bad. For a business operator, though, it has distinct advantages. Yes, with high unemployment comes crime. But the reputation this island has garnered in the States is undeserved. The crime rate in San Juan is about the same as in Baltimore, Detroit, Cleveland, or Atlanta. Any large city has crime-ridden areas. But like those cities, San Juan has wonderful neighborhoods too. And it’s surrounded by some beautiful suburbs. Go into the country, like I did, and it’s calm and quiet and borderline idyllic. Our community is triple gated (community, development, building), which garners comments from friends and family who visit. But it doesn’t need to be. It reminds me of the much more unsightly seven-foot walls with razor wire and broken-glass tops in Spain’s posher areas, which are 90% to convey status. Once you understand the small cultural differences, not moving here because of crime is like not moving to Missouri because of St. Louis, to Florida because of Miami, or to Tennessee because of Memphis. When you do go to hire, employment laws are close to the same here as in the States. They have Social Security, Medicare, and worker’s comp. Workers from the mainland can come here without a visa (and vice versa). It’s familiar, yet there is a big labor surplus holding down wages. I’ve been thinking about starting a call center down here—just searching for the right person to run it (I’ve got a job I love and don’t need another one)—as it’s an ideally suited location: One of these days—hopefully soon—I’ll find that call center operator who will work for sweat equity to get things off the ground, or the bootstrap customer to pay them. But the labor is there. And not just labor for lower-skilled work, either. The island has a very large skilled labor population, too, thanks to that high college degree rate. There are hundreds of law offices, accountants, engineers, and other professional firms. Investment banks, construction companies, you name it. The colleges here are strong in math and business. And virtually any service provider or knowledge worker you’d look for in any other major metropolitan area can be found here. I’ve even got investment bankers knocking on the door. Then there are the other entrepreneurs. One of the things that attracted me most to Puerto Rico wasn’t the tax incentives themselves, but the idea of living near and collaborating with so many like-minded people. And that’s proven as good or better than I hoped. Between everyday social activities and organized mixers like the meetings of the “Act 20/22 Society,” there has been a non-stop barrage of new people to meet, all of whom are as entrepreneurial as I am. Business ideas floated around dinner, hiring tips over golf, late-night real estate investment discussions, dozens of emails to share investment ideas—all just this week. The one thing that really stuck with me when I read Rich Dad, Poor Dad many years ago was the part that if you don’t hang around with the kind of people who talk about money and how to make money, then you’ll never learn how or find opportunities to make more of it. In life, I have always looked for those kinds of communities, and every place I’ve lived I’ve found small pockets of like-minded people. But here, it’s like I just struck pay dirt. The same factors that make hiring in Puerto Rico easy make starting a business simple here too. I fully intend to learn Spanish—it’s good for me, and good for the kids too. But I cannot be expected to do so in a matter of months, and certainly not as a prerequisite to doing business. Thankfully, that’s not been an issue at all. All federal laws and forms are available in English, for one. Just about everyone you deal with in the business and government world speaks enough English to help you, and the majority, especially the younger population, speak it very well. Unlike farther-flung Spanish-speaking countries like Belize and Panama, running into someone at the local government office who cannot speak enough English to help you rarely happens here, except far outside of the cities. When it does, there are lawyers and accountants everywhere to help. LLCs, partnerships, corporations, and all that other stuff is effectively the same here as in the US. Payroll services can be had from US companies like ADP or from local ones. Same with insurance for your business, cars, health, and more. Banks are a little slower than in the US, but offer the same services like ACH, wires, credit lines, online access, etc. It’s familiar, simple, and not overly burdened with red tape—you can even set up a corporation online in a few minutes. Sure, there are some tough parts about starting a business here. For one, they’ve yet to come to terms with virtual work, and the idea is at direct odds with one of their most stubborn bureaucracies: the town office permit folks. On the US mainland, at least anywhere I have lived, you do not need any special permit to use your home as an office, only as a retail business. Want to found an Internet startup from your garage? No problem. Want to sell antiques from your front lawn? Problem. In Puerto Rico, the model is backwards. To set up an office, you must register it with the town. The towns inspect your office to make sure it is real. They contact your neighbors to make sure they are OK with it. And they come back regularly to do it again and again. That struck me as odd at first. But the more I considered it, it’s not much different than in the States: to own a business in Vermont, I needed half a dozen forms from half a dozen offices and paid a fee for each one. I didn’t have to pay a fee to get a sales and use tax permit in Puerto Rico, though. They don’t want to get in the way of my ability to pay taxes, as so many US agencies seem to want to. Instead, they are focusing on a different set of problems. Ones unique to a largely urban island with high unemployment. Like trying to stop the streets from looking like a Turkish bazaar as they do elsewhere around the Caribbean—something they’ve managed very well here. The quirks are just different from the quirks many of us grew up with, because the circumstances are different. But it’s the big things that matter—things like tax policy, access to smart people, services, technology, and more. And there, Puerto Rico scores very highly. I work hard for my money. I work hard to find great investments that translate into profits. And I work hard to run my businesses. And the more of each I get to keep, the more I earn next year by investing it further. Hopefully, growing up, someone taught you about the magic of compounding interest (I got it from my dad, who more than once said, “Hey, read this article on mutual funds in Esquire.”) Well, one of the things almost none of those lessons include is the effect of taxes. When you pay taxes on your investment income, it decreases dramatically over time. The longer you can defer taxes, the better for your pocket book. If you can reduce them or remove them entirely, the benefits are huge. For instance, say you invest $100,000 in a 5% CD that compounds yearly. If you pay 35% tax on the interest each year, and reinvest the rest, then at the end of 20 years you’ve earned $89,583 in interest. Not bad for an incredibly conservative investment. However, take those taxes on interest down to 0%, which Puerto Rico’s new tax incentives provide, and you earned $165,329, or 85% more income. That’s a pretty big tax penalty the US imposes, and that many more years you have to work before you can retire. If you live in California, where the combined tax rate for some is now in excess of 50%, the effect is even more dramatic. You would have only earned $63,861, losing out on over $100,000 in earnings. That’s enormous! Yes, you could earn $165K inside an IRA thanks to tax deferral. But then try withdrawing it. At 39.6%, federal taxes chip it right down to $99,858. Get stung by that California 50% and you’re even worse off again. Now, here’s the real kicker. In order to invest that $100K back home, you already had to pay taxes on it —they don’t let you put nearly that much in an IRA or 401(k) each year. Before you paid those payroll taxes, it was probably $165,000 (assuming the same 39.6% in federal taxes). If instead you earned that income in Puerto Rico at a net effective tax rate of 15%—which can be easily achieved with Act 20 benefits for your business and a 4% tax on earnings—then you would have $147,283 to invest to begin with. After 20 years at 5%, you’d have saved $243,500 for your retirement—that’s nearly three times what you would have earned in the United States, getting taxed again and again and again. Or about 2.5x what your IRA or 401(k) would have netted you. It’s not about how much money you have to invest. It’s how much you have to reinvest. And a big part of that is how much you have left over after taxes. Here in Puerto Rico, you could have much more left over, and many more opportunities to invest. To me, this is the new land of opportunity. There is a critical combination here of an underutilized but well-educated workforce, a culture that is obviously changing for the better, and a tax regime that is committed to letting entrepreneurs reinvest more of our money back into our businesses. Add those three together, and there would be something good going on down here. But there’s another factor: The Internet. With the ability to do many jobs from the convenience of anywhere, thanks to Skype, GoToMeeting, Gmail, Dropbox, and thousands of other tools that finally make the home office a reality, the opportunity is enormous. Computer programming. Asset management. Graphic design. Public relations. Marketing and advertising. Research and development. Information processing. Customer service. The number of service-based businesses that can operate from here is amazing—far more potential than the manufacturing sector ever brought. Puerto Rico is off to a slightly slower start than its predecessors in India, Singapore, Hong Kong, and even around Latin America in recognizing the value wooing the service economy can bring to its people. However, it is on the right course now and has some tail winds to help it catch up—advantages that no other nation on earth can provide to the world’s largest market of investors and entrepreneurs, Americans. It’s hard for me to sum up all the things I like about Puerto Rico in a few pages—and there’s no way the editors here will let me go longer, lest I bore you to death. But if you made it this far, then I encourage you to go one step farther. Consider joining me and your like-minded investors and entrepreneurs in Puerto Rico. Join me and the 200 or so other pioneers here in the new land of opportunity. Read my firsthand account of how, right here. And feel free to ask me any questions you’d like—in the comments below, or via email. How I Intend To Survive The Meltdown Of America Invest In What's Really Important The Future Of Countries   This article originally appeared at Casey Research.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Every month, the New York Fed conducts two surveys: the Empire State Manufacturing Survey and its services-sector counterpart, the Business Leaders Survey. And each April it asks respondents of both surveys questions related to the difficulty of finding potential hires with certain skills. This year's pair of April surveys confirmed that, as in previous years, employers are having trouble finding people with advanced computer and interpersonal skills, punctuality, and reliability. Further, businesses in both the manufacturing and services sectors report that it is becoming increasingly difficult to retain skilled workers. Below are the two key tables from the survey. The first shows that 36% of businesses in the manufacturing sector that responded to the survey are having moderate difficulty finding workers who are punctual and reliable, while 11% report great difficulty in finding workers with those traits. In the services sector, it's not as bad — 22% of respondents report moderate difficulty finding punctual, reliable workers, whereas only 3% report great difficulty. New York Fed FREE AppDownload
Tesla Motors When most people think of green cars, two companies immediately come to mind -- Tesla Motors (NASDAQ: TSLA  ) and Toyota (NYSE: TM  ). Tesla's sleek electric vehicles fueled the stock's meteoric 340% rally over the past 12 months, while Toyota's Prius remains the best-selling hybrid vehicle on the market. However, Tesla and Toyota are also the top names to watch in a critical new battle over the future of green vehicles -- electric-powered vs. hydrogen-powered cars. In the past, Tesla CEO Elon Musk has dismissed the idea of hydrogen power for vehicles. During a speech in Munich last October, Musk stated there was "no way" for hydrogen cells to be a "workable technology," and that it was "suitable for the upper stage of rockets, but not for cars." When Musk -- also the CEO of SpaceX -- talks about rockets, people listen. Yet major automakers like Toyota, Honda (NYSE: HMC  ) , and Hyundai have recently invested heavily in hydrogen fuel cell vehicles (FCVs) instead of electric ones. Last November, Toyota showcased its stunning concept FCV at the Toyota Motor Show in Tokyo and again at CES 2014 in Las Vegas in January. Two other FCVs -- Hyundai's Tucson SUV and Honda's FCX Clarity sedan -- are also scheduled to arrive soon. Regardless of which technology represents the future, the battle for the future of green vehicles will start in Tesla's home state of California. California now requires at least 15% of all new vehicles sold in the state to produce zero emissions by 2025. So who's right -- Tesla or some of the biggest automakers in the world? Let's take a closer look at three key problems facing the adoption of both electric and hydrogen vehicles today. The biggest hurdle in making green vehicles mainstream is the price. The average purchase price for light vehicles in America is currently a little less than $30,000, according to Cars.com. A new Toyota Prius currently costs $24,000 to $30,000. The cheapest Tesla vehicle, the Model S, costs $85,000. A cheaper vehicle, codenamed BlueStar, could cost $40,000 when it arrives in 2016 or 2017. Customers can claim a maximum tax credit of $7,500 for each electric vehicle purchased. President Obama recently proposed boosting that limit to $10,000. Toyota expects its hydrogen-powered FCV-R to cost a little less than $100,000 when it arrives in 2015. Although that's still a hefty price tag, it represents a huge discount from earlier fuel cell prototypes, which reportedly cost nearly $1 million to develop. Hydrogen-powered vehicles are eligible for federal tax credits up to $4,000 as "qualified light-duty fuel cell vehicles," but that limit could be lifted to the same level as electric cars as more hydrogen cars reach the market. The second main question on consumers' minds is the distance that these vehicles can travel on a single charge. The lack of a national infrastructure for electric charging and hydrogen fueling stations makes these vehicles impractical for long road trips outside certain regions. There are currently 121,000 gas stations across America. Electric charging stations are quickly catching up with over 22,000 locations, a number that's growing rapidly because it's simple to set up these stations on top of existing power grids. One of the broadest efforts was NRG Energy's (NYSE: NRG  ) eVgo, a $39 per month unlimited electric charging service, which was established via partnerships with gas stations, restaurants, and convenience stores. Each electric charging station is estimated to cost between $100,000 and $250,000 to install. Hydrogen fuel cells, however, are a different story. Since there's no pre-existing hydrogen cell infrastructure for most commercial or residential buildings, charging stations have to be built from the ground up at a whopping cost of approximately $2 million each. That's why there are only 55 hydrogen fueling stations in the U.S. -- most of them in Southern California -- even though the technology has been around since the dawn of the millennium. Infrastructure growth seems to definitely favor electric vehicles at the moment, but what about fueling costs compared to regular gasoline and hybrid vehicles? Electric charging services like eVgo charge monthly subscriptions for unlimited charging, so they might be the cheapest option if the owner travels a lot during the month. But to get a better idea of where hydrogen cars stand, let's compare the cost efficiency of three vehicles -- an average, gas-powered 25 MPG vehicle, Toyota's Prius, and the hydrogen-powered Honda FCX Clarity, which can travel 67 miles per kilogram of hydrogen. Let's assume that water -- a radical new process -- was used to create the hydrogen at a discounted cost of $1.00 to $1.80 per kilogram. The Motley Fool Based on those numbers, it's easy to see why companies continue backing hydrogen as an alternative fuel source. More importantly, it shows that a $39 per month fee for unlimited electric charging might not be worth it after all -- by comparison, $39 in hydrogen could possibly fuel the Clarity for 1,400 to 1,500 miles. However, the cost of hydrogen production still varies widely -- using natural gas to produce hydrogen, for example, costs $3 to $4 per kilogram, nullifying the Clarity's advantage. Regardless of the cost, hydrogen cars have one key advantage -- the fact that they can be refueled in three minutes, compared to an hour for Tesla's vehicles. In conclusion, I've only touched the tip of the iceberg in regards to green vehicles, but those three key problems -- cost, infrastructure, and fuel efficiency -- will remain the epicenter of the electric vs. hydrogen debate for years to come. What's your take, dear readers? Will hydrogen cars triumph over electric cars, or will neither one ever gain traction across the American auto market? Share your thoughts in the comments section below! The one sure way to get wealthy is to invest in a groundbreaking company that goes on to dominate a multibillion-dollar industry. Our analysts have found multi-bagger stocks time and again. And now they think they've done it again with three stock picks that they believe could generate the same type of phenomenal returns. They've revealed these picks in a new free report that you can download instantly by clicking here now. Leo Sun has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends Tesla Motors. The Motley Fool owns shares of Tesla Motors. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Federal ReserveThe March industrial-production activity report is out, and the numbers reflect a strengthening economy. Production climbed 0.7% during the month, beating expectations for a 0.5% gain. February's growth figure was revised up to 1.2% from an earlier estimate of 0.6%. "It is now evident that the negative effects of inclement weather were largely contained in January, when manufacturing output fell 0.9%, particularly within vehicles (-5.9%)," said Barclays' Peter Newland. Consumer goods, business equipment, construction, and materials all saw growth. The capacity-utilization rate jumped to 79.2% from 78.4% a month ago. This is much tighter than the 78.7% expected. "You talk about the output gap, unused resources out there?" wrote Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey. "There is none looking at capacity utilization. The gap is closing. Capacity utilization rising a lot the last two months to 79.2% nearly back to the 80.5% average in 2007 before the recession." Economists have argued that a rising capacity-utilization rate will eventually lead to more hiring and growth investments. "[T]here is a slight lag but a decent 65% historical correlation," said Gluskin Sheff economist David Rosenberg of capacity utilization and capital expenditures. "History also shows that once 77% is breached in terms of CAPU rates in an up-cycle, capital spending in real terms in the ensuing years averages out to be 0% growth — enough to add an increment 60 basis points to headline GDP trends." Rupkey believes all of this is consequential to the Federal Reserve, which is currently scaling back monetary stimulus. "The economy is stronger than you think and getting stronger," said Rupkey. "The Fed’s exit plans will need to hurry-up if the economy keeps putting numbers like these up on their dashboard." Here's a table breaking down the market and industry groups in the Fed's industrial production report: Federal Reserve FREE AppDownload
Danny MoloshokWe came across a fascinating thread on popular finance message board Wall Street Oasis debating buying a diamond engagement ring. The truly analytical nature of the participants in the forum approached the investment in a ring the same way they approach hedging a portfolio. The way they see it, it's a necessity, but it's not necessarily the best use of their money given what happens to rings after they are purchased. They depreciate in value, and they're not very liquid.  There are more than 150 responses on the thread. We've included some of our favorites below: CorpFinanceGuy: If you plan on not getting your wife a diamond ring, all I can say is, good luck. NickW1: I won't. I agree that the rarity of diamonds is misconceived; the big diamond companies control the supply that arrives at market, creating artificial scarcity. The reason why they're so expensive is mainly because these companies stockpile a bunch of diamonds and then sell them in low supply relative to the total amount of diamonds they have stockpiled. TheBigBambino: I bought a very expensive designer ring (Ex. Graff / De Beers / Harry Winston) and it was perfect. Then 1 months later my fiance lost it. I had it appraised for 30% above cost and had it insured so boom - got all my money back and some. Ended up realizing there is little reason for going designer when doing the second ring and decided to get a custom one made with Jewish jeweler in NYC that was much higher quality (prob 25% more) for the same price due to no brand premium. If anyone has Q's feel free to PM. I'd be happy to let you know the trade offs of each experience as well as the diamond specs I'd make sure to get. After 4 months negotiating with gemologists I've finally started to understand how the freaking market prices everything. Best of luck to you boys. Remember - it's girl that's a much more important decision than the ring. ishouldbstudying: You can't go wrong with a Neil Lane ring fit with a cubic zirconia (I think the Bachelor did a great job of making this designer appeal to every single women). It would only be 3-5k and in 5-10 years, assuming you're not making PE shop money now, you can upgrade to a real diamond. TNA:...I would buy a ruby ring. I would give $30K in cash. I'd buy a gold bar for the woman. I am simply not going to waste money on something with zero value. Frankly, any woman who couldn't think rationally about it wouldn't be someone I would want to be with. I mean what's next? You'll need a massive home because her friends have one. Or is a BMQ a sign of love now? Guys should do whatever they want, but don't make it out to be anything other than you giving into an obvious marketing campaign or not having the sack to say no to a woman. Also kind of funny how simple gold bands were the standard for hundreds of years, but now marriage is so badass, especially with the 50% divorce rate, that it demands a massive rock. Side note, no one is talking about a $5K ring. I mean if I ever did get married (bad mistake #1) I would happily buy a $5K ring. I would buy a $10k ring. Because who f------g cares. But we are talking about $20-30K rings here. 2-3 carats. Sorry, but I am not wasting a 3 series worth of cash for something with zero asset value. JrTrader: As much as really expensive art or wine is also ridiculous, the rarity and uniqueness certainly plays a factor. Art/wine appreciates gradually over time too because of that unlike diamonds. When you buy a bottle of vintage wine you know it might be the last bottle of it's type in the world. Labanker: Diamonds and gems are desirable because they are deemed to be prestigious. Fortunately this is changing. Those on the bleeding edge of elitism in certain areas are starting to eschew diamonds due to their association with conflicts, child exploitation, slave labor, etc. I could see a scenario not too far down the road where diamonds go the way of the fur coat -- once a coveted luxury item, but now unconscionable to actually purchase and wear. Trade4size: Surprised the 3 month salary rule wasnt brought up more. Assuming ring is 3 months salary and you have 10% savings rate of which is all dedicated to the ring fund. It would take 2.5 years to save up enough. That is just insanity. All right now, fellas, the reality is that you're probably not going to get away with this. So here are a few pointers for finding the right ring:   1. Find out more about her style. Presumably, you've been a relationship long enough where you have an inkling as to what kind of rings she wants.  2. No one said you have to buy her a gigantic Kim Kardashian-size diamond. You can still find a decent-size ring.  3. You don't necessarily have to purchase a designer ring either. You can go to an independent jeweler. Also, family-heirloom rings work, too, and they're special.  4. If the budget is a major concern, or you have ethical issues with diamond mining, you can always purchase a lab-made diamond. They have the same composition as real diamonds. Also, sapphires (or other gems) can make nice engagement rings, especially since that's what Kate Middleton got from Prince William.  Best of luck. FREE AppDownload
Let's Get Physical, Olivia Newton JohnIn the dark days of 2008 and 2o09 after the credit bubble burst, it seemed like the United States was drowning in debt defaults and delinquencies and might not come back for air. Data coming out of Wall Street banks now, however, tells us that isn't the case. So far, JP Morgan, Citigroup and Bank of America have reported their first quarter earnings. Across the board, whether the banks have posted gains or losses, one thing remains consistent — the credit quality of the American consumer is improving. We are paying down our debts. At Bank of America, nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties are down are to $17.3 billion from $22.8 billion at the same time last year. Net charge offs — or loans that the bank thinks that it's unlikely to collect — are down to $1.4 billion from $2.5 billion at the same time in 2013. At Citigroup, this chart below says it all. After the financial crisis the bank created an entity called Citi Holdings — it's full of all the disgusting securities, loans, and other financial garbage that the bank wants to unload or restructure. Here's how Citi Holdings' North American mortgage delinquencies are doing: Citi And it's not just mortgages at Citi. Credit costs at the bank have lowered to $840 million from $1.04 billion in Q4 2013. According to the bank those costs are being driven down by an improvement by healthier credit cards. The bank also had to use less of its cash reserves to offset losses in this quarter than it did in Q1 2013 — $269 million as opposed to $370 million. Over at JP Morgan (and all over Wall Street) mortgage production volume is down dramatically — 68% year over year. At the same time, though, mortgage production losses are down a whopping $485 million from this time last year to $58 million, showing that Americans are getting better at being able to pay their bills. Simple as that. In fact, JP Morgan reported in its Q1 2014 earnings release that delinquencies are down across a bunch of sectors. JP Morgan What's really cool about all of this is that it's all happening while consumer credit is expanding. Numbers from the Federal Reserve in December and January have consistently blown past analyst expectations. The latest numbers (from February but released this month) show an expansion of $16.48 billion, when analysts expected $14.0 billion. So the Federal Reserve is saying Americans are taking out loans, and Wall Street banks are saying that Americans are paying them back. This is the way it should people, people. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsCrucifixion of ChristIt's a four-day work-week for traders as Wall Street shuts down in observance of Good Friday. Some people attribute the annual closure to a black Friday crash, which there is no record of. Oddly, the markets actually stayed open for three Good Fridays, and no knows why. UBS's Art Cashin wrote about the Good Friday mystery today: Seasonal Questions Pop Up Again - This, as you may have noticed, is a four day week.  That’s because U.S. equity markets are going to be closed for Good Friday.  Every year, the Good Friday close produces lots of erroneous theories about why we close. So, once again, we offer the explanation we wrote a few years back: The Myth Of The Crash That Caused The Stock Market To Close On Good Friday – In the nearly five decades that I’ve been in Wall Street, each Easter season sees the re-blooming of an old – and erroneous – myth. That myth contends that the NYSE opened on a Good Friday and the terrible Black Friday crash occurred.  Thus, chastened and shaken, the Governors vowed never to open on a Good Friday again.  It never happened. Thanks to the nice folks in the NYSE archives we were able to establish a few facts.  Records clearly show the NYSE closed on Good Friday as far back as 1864.  Before 1864 records on the subject are a bit harder to find but there is high likelihood that the Exchange closed on Good Friday all the way back to 1793.  (It was founded on May 17th, 1792 so Good Friday would have already passed that year.) There was a famous and terrible Black Friday crash in Wall Street but it was primarily in the gold market.  It came about when the “corner” on gold that Jay Gould and Jim Fisk had constructed (with some help from President Grant’s brother-in-law), collapsed.  That occurred on September 24th, 1869, a little late in the year for Good Friday.  You will also note from the search of the records that the NYSE was closing on Good Friday at least five years earlier and probably, much, much longer. Lastly, for some unexplained reason, the NYSE stayed open on three Good Fridays.  On April 8, 1898, the Dow closed down a half point.  That’s hardly a crash.  On the other two, April 13th, 1906 (a Friday the 13th) and March 29th, 1907, the Dow actually rose. I hope that puts the myth to bed. If you know why markets stayed open on those three days, let us know. FREE AppDownload
Housing starts missed. The Census said March starts climbed just 2.8%, or to a a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 946,000, compared with a consensus expectation for a jump to 7%, or 970,000, from a reading of 1.9% prior, or 907,000.  Building permits also fell 2.4% more than expected, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 990,000. Analysts expected a decline of just 0.4%, to 1,010,000 after a 7.7% surge to 1,018,000 in February. Full release » Reaction so far has been mixed. Here's fixed income portfolio manager David Schawel: Awfully disappointing permits number Even with slowdown in starts overall, multi-unit still 30% of all starts, up from ~20% during most of 1990's and 2000's. FRED FREE AppDownload
APThe U.S. government does not represent the interests of the majority of the country's citizens, but is instead ruled by those of the rich and powerful, a new study from Princeton and Northwestern universities has concluded. The report, "Testing Theories of American Politics: Elites, Interest Groups, and Average Citizens" (PDF), used extensive policy data collected between 1981 and 2002 to empirically determine the state of the U.S. political system. After sifting through nearly 1,800 U.S. policies enacted in that period and comparing them to the expressed preferences of average Americans (50th percentile of income), affluent Americans (90th percentile), and large special interests groups, researchers concluded that the U.S. is dominated by its economic elite. The peer-reviewed study, which will be taught at these universities in September, says: "The central point that emerges from our research is that economic elites and organized groups representing business interests have substantial independent impacts on US government policy, while mass-based interest groups and average citizens have little or no independent influence." Researchers concluded that U.S. government policies rarely align with the preferences of the majority of Americans, but do favour special interests and lobbying organizations: "When a majority of citizens disagrees with economic elites and/or with organized interests, they generally lose. Moreover, because of the strong status quo bias built into the US political system, even when fairly large majorities of Americans favour policy change, they generally do not get it." The positions of powerful interest groups are "not substantially correlated with the preferences of average citizens," but the politics of average Americans and affluent Americans sometimes does overlap. This is merely a coincidence, the report says, with the interests of the average American being served almost exclusively when it also serves those of the richest 10%. The theory of "biased pluralism" that the Princeton and Northwestern researchers believe the U.S. system fits holds that policy outcomes "tend to tilt towards the wishes of corporations and business and professional associations." The study comes after McCutcheon v. Federal Election Commission, a controversial piece of legislation passed in the Supreme Court that abolished campaign-contribution limits, and record low approval ratings for the U.S. Congress. FREE AppDownload
OER is an imputed measure of the rent homeowners would have to be charged to rent the homes they own. I kid you not, though I’m sure you knew that already. Presumably, it is based on actual tenant rent. Nevertheless, the recent leap in the OER inflation rate obviously can’t be explained by a similar jump in tenant rent inflation. This oddity is one reason why the Fed prefers to use the personal consumption expenditures deflator (PCED) as a better measure of consumer price inflation. Both rent components are in the PCED too. However, the overall weight of rent of shelter is only 15% of the PCED, with tenant rent at 4% and OER at 11%. It’s not obvious to me why the Fed’s commitment to boost inflation is a good thing, especially if inflation is led by higher food prices and rents. I doubt that will stimulate economic activity by causing consumers to buy food and rent apartments before their prices go higher. On the contrary, the rising costs of these essentials reduce the purchasing power of consumers. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: The Inflation Mandate. (1) Choppy market. (2) Yellen is remarkable. (3) Beware of what you wish for. (4) Food and rent lead inflation higher. (5) The oddity of paying rent on your owned home. (6) Fed’s inflation mandate is questionable. (7) Microeconomic models explain low inflation better than macro ones. (8) Easy money can be deflationary. (9) Mario Draghi is still talking about doing whatever it takes. (10) Focus on market-weight-rated S&amp;P 500 Consumer Staples. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA car is reflected in a Suzuki car at a Suzuki Motor showroom in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese small-car maker Suzuki Motor Corp said on Wednesday it will introduce an affordable, simplified gas-electric hybrid technology in its cars, joining rivals in the race for fuel efficiency. Japan's fourth-biggest car maker, which has largely focused on internal combustion engines, said it needs to boost fuel efficiency to survive in a competitive industry. "The customers' expectations for fuel efficiency are growing not only in Japan and Europe but also in emerging markets. Even a small-car maker like Suzuki will need to further improve fuel efficiency," Executive Vice President Osamu Honda told reporters at a technology briefing. Suzuki has already introduced a regenerative braking system in which the car's kinetic energy is converted to electrical energy during braking. That electricity is sent to a lithium-ion battery and used to power equipment such as the air conditioner, but not for acceleration. The new system uses the energy to help the car accelerate, it said. The technology is already used among car makers including Nissan Motor Co and Volkswagen. Suzuki's system differs from the more sophisticated gas-electric hybrid technology used in Toyota Motor Corp's Prius in that it cannot run on electric power alone, though because it is more simple it is also cheaper. The new system will be introduced on a compact car that will be sold in Japan, followed by Europe, Managing Officer Masato Kasai said. He declined to say when the cars will go on sale. In the future, Suzuki hopes to develop a more sophisticated hybrid system, Executive Vice President Honda said. This is not the first time Suzuki has introduced a gas-electric hybrid system. In 2003, the carmaker started selling the Twin hybrid but sales did not take off and it has since stopped manufacturing hybrids. (Reporting by Yoko Kubota; Editing by Stephen Coates) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders watch their screens on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, September 19, 2008. U.S. stocks soared on Friday, led by a surge in financial shares, as a series of sweeping steps to contain fallout from the credit crisis eased investor worries. Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz has a summary of what traders are talking about right now: Good Morning!  Tuesday another rally day – as 13 of the last 15 Tuesdays are in the green now, helping the Russell get back upside 200dma - US Futures are jumping higher again this AM – Earnings providing some fuel today, with KO, INTC, CSX and YHOO all higher.   Dovish commentary from Japan, coupled with EU Inflation printing near 5Y lows – has the “QE” trade on globally.    In Europe, the DAX is up 1% in average volume, led by a 1.5% run in the EU banks as regulatory hurdles pass.   Most focus was on China, where their GDP beats expectations, but comes in at a 2Y+ low.  Aussie was able to shrug off the slowdown, and Miners moved higher as BHP Billiton beats and is planning to boost iron ore production - Thanks to dovish chatter from their Finance Minister - Japan leapt 3% from near a 6M low.   Focus today will be on earnings, we have ABT, BAC, USB before the open today – AXP, COF, GOOGL, IBM after the close.  Keep an eye on the Momentum Sectors, specifically Biotech – as we have a big First Trust ETF rebalance tomorrow (FBT), and we could see meaningful covers starting as we approach earnings for the IBB members as 16 names, comprising 45% of the IBB’s weight, report earnings next week. The 10YY is higher, but remains under yesterday’s peaks, as focus shifts toward Yellen’s speech today at 12:15 and the Beige Book at 2pm.   The Yen has broken down sharply against the $, but despite the inflation print, € has a nice bid against the Greenback.   Overall, the DXY is weaker, providing a tailwind for commodities – despite the China slowdown, we are seeing a rally in Copper, Silver and Gold – While the Energy Complex is popping despite API data showing a big build – DOE today at 10:30 expected to show a inventory pop of 1.5million barrels.  Softs continue to rally, led by a 2% pop in Soybeans, one of the better performing Agriculture commodities YTD.    Aside from the aforementioned, some catalysts scheduled today includes Housing Starts, Building Permits and Industrial Production for March at 8:30, The Bank of Canada Rate Decision at 10, A Small POMO at 11, Fed's Lockhart Gives Closing Remarks on Financial Markets at 11:30, and Fed's Fisher Speaks on the Economy at 1:25. FREE AppDownload
Only 41% of Americans report that they've asked for a raise. Get the salary bump you've earned by taking the time to prepare and following these steps. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
Thomson ReutersRussian President Putin speaks with Economy Minister Ulyukayev during their meeting in Novo-OgaryovoMOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia is looking at the possibility of filing a lawsuit against the United States in the World Trade Organisation over sanctions hitting Russian banks, Economy Minister Alexei Ulyukayev said on Wednesday, according to Russian news agencies. St Petersburg-based Bank Rossiya was sanctioned alongside its chairman and largest shareholder Yuri Kovalchuk in March as part of punitive measures by Washington over Russia's annexation of Crimea. Russian bank SMP was also indirectly affected as co-owners Boris Rotenberg and his older brother Arkady fell under U.S. sanctions. SMP chief executive Dmitry Kalantyrsky has said that an estimated 9 billion rubles ($249 million) had been withdrawn after the sanctions were imposed. "The WTO gives us some additional possibilities," Ulyukayev was quoted by Interfax as saying on Wednesday. "We at the WTO council in Geneva talked about the possibility of filing lawsuits against the U.S. over the sanctions against Russian banks and we hope to use the mechanism of the WTO to keep our partners in check regarding this issue." In an April 9 bulletin on its website detailing a meeting regarding the council for trade in goods, the WTO said that Russia had expressed concern about a recent Executive Order signed by U.S. President Barack Obama regarding "listed persons of Russian Federation whose bank accounts were blocked". Russia was "closely monitoring the effect of this measure on Russian operators and on the potential violation of WTO Agreements" and "urged other members not to be drawn to political motivations when it comes to trade," the WTO statement said. The U.S. State Department said on Tuesday it anticipates more Ukraine-related sanctions on Russia but suggested no action was likely before a diplomatic meeting in Geneva this week. ($1 = 36.1340 Russian Rubles) (Reporting by Megan Davies; Additional reporting by Tom Miles in Geneva; Editing by Giles Elgood) FREE AppDownload
GoogleGoogle's Project Ara modular smartphone could be available by January 2015 for as little as $50. Google’s ambitious modular smartphone concept, an attempt to disrupt the market dominated by Apple and Samsung, could be available in January 2015 for as little as $50. Paul Eremenko, Google’s Project Ara head, told attendees of its developer conference that the modular device is scheduled to go on sale in January next year and will be essentially just a frame, screen, Wi-Fi connection and processor – ready for users to customize with different plug-in modules, colors and accessories. "It's called the Grey Phone because it's meant to be drab grey to get people to customize it," said Eremenko. Project Ara is Google’s attempt to make a mobile device where the major components, including the camera, speakers, GPS and other common features of modern smartphones, can be swapped out for new ones, mixing and matching modules to customise the phone to do what the user needs it to do. At the developer conference, the Ara team fleshed out their vision and a timeframe for development for the modular device, attempting to attract developers for both hardware and software to jump on-board the project. The core frame of the Grey phone will be built to last around five to six years, according to Eremenko, allowing users to upgrade their phones steadily, buying cheap individual components like a better camera, improved Bluetooth or new 4G radio from an app store-like shop. But the basic framework and modular nature of Ara could be used to build any number of devices, far beyond a simple smartphone and wouldn’t require a mobile phone radio or Wi-Fi module, for instance. "'What is a phone' can be challenged when you can pick and choose pieces on our platform," explained David Fishman, an Ara team manager. "It would still be able to run an operating system and do what you'd want to do without a connection." "If it can be other things, we encourage that," said Eremenko but added that Google intends Ara to be "ultimately a great smartphone first and foremost" allowing "developers to explore different branches" of technology. "We want to be as helpful but as hands-off as possible for the development of the ecosystem," Eremenko concluded, meaning that the more advanced technical features of modules will be left up to third-party hardware developers to create once the central frame of the Grey Phone is ready. Project Ara came as a result of Google’s purchase of Motorola and its Advanced Technology and Projects group, which was retained while other parts of Motorola’s business was sold off to Lenovo and others. The ambitious project could revolutionize the way smartphones are built and sold, providing a more renewable framework that would do away with the constant need to buy a completely new phone, and instead upgrade it through individual modules. • Motorola’s UK head quits after getting just 30 minutes notice on the company’s sale to Lenovo from Google This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Steve Kovach/Business InsiderSHANGHAI (Reuters) - BTC China, one of the country's leading digital currency exchanges, has installed China's first bitcoin ATM and launched an online app allowing individuals to buy and sell bitcoins using mobile phones, skirting local banking regulations seen as increasingly hostile to so-called crypto-currencies. Rising interest from mainland Chinese speculators was credited for driving up global bitcoin prices last year to above $1,000 on some exchanges. But a subsequent crackdown by the People's Bank of China (PBOC) has seen the digital currency sag, changing hands below $530 on Wednesday, according to exchange-tracker CoinDesk. That, in combination with scandals involving hacking, theft, and fraud, have put pressure on digital currency markets around the world. Tokyo-based bitcoin exchange Mt. Gox has given up plans to rebuild under bankruptcy protection and asked a local court to allow it to be liquidated, The Wall Street Journal reported. Unlike conventional money, bitcoin and other crypto-currencies are generated by computers and are not backed by any central bank or government, or by physical assets. They can be exchanged through nearly any file transfer mechanism for goods, services or cash - but the latter has proved a problem. Many regulatory agencies around the world are concerned that digital currencies can be easily used for money laundering or the illegal purchase of weapons and narcotics, and have moved to control or prohibit their use in ordinary commerce. In December, the PBOC banned financial institutions from trading in bitcoin, saying the government would act to prevent money laundering risks from the digital currency. It did not ban trading by individuals. Last week, two bitcoin exchanges said their trading accounts at certain domestic banks would be closed down by the lenders. Bitcoin China CEO Bobby Lee said by telephone that his exchange is still in operation and has yet to receive any notice from the bank that his accounts are being closed. "News reports said it would be shut down by April 15. It's April 16 and nothing has happened," he said. While trading volumes on his exchange are down 80-90 percent from their peak, transaction levels were still healthy, said Lee, on par with levels last September prior to bitcoin's spike. CAFE ATM The new ATM-like services from BTC China do not involve the banking system at all. The physical ATM, located in a cafe at a mall in Shanghai's Zhangjiang technology park area, allows people to buy bitcoin directly from the exchange for yuan inserted into the machine. Users cannot withdraw cash. The machine was lightly used during a visit by Reuters, with just one client appearing to use it, but cafe manager Cheng Mengyao said she had seen a steady stream of customers use the machine for small transactions since it was installed. The web app essentially allows transactions on a direct peer-to-peer basis, as opposed to selling them on an open exchange. This also avoids using the banking network or a public online exchange, but means transactions are between individuals and liquidity is limited to how much cash they have. (Reporting by Shanghai Newsroom; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Marko DjuricaAn Ukrainian soldier aims his rifle at pro-Russia protesters gathered in front of a Ukrainian airbase in Kramatorsk, in eastern Ukraine April 15, 2014. Ukrainian armed forces on Tuesday launched a "special operation" against militiamen in the country's Russian speaking east, authorities said, recapturing a military airfield from pro-Moscow separatists. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. China slowing. Chinese GDP growth slowed to 7.4% year over year in the first quarter of 2014 from 7.7%, but bested consensus estimates for a slowdown to a 7.3% rate. Fixed asset investment growth unexpectedly slowed to 17.6% year over year in March from 17.9%. Industrial production also missed estimates, rising only 8.8% year over year in March. Retail sales, however, rose faster than expected, accelerating to a 12.2% year over year growth rate in March from 11.8%. "Q1 was weak; Q2 will likely be weaker," say Lan Shen, Li Wei, and Stephen Green, economists at Standard Chartered. "Stimulus measures so far have been insufficient to stop the short-term slide." Euro zone prices. The euro zone consumer price index was up 0.5% from a year earlier in March, matching February's pace of price increases. Excluding food and energy prices, however, the index was up only 0.7% year over year. Economists expected this "core" index to be up 0.8% from a year earlier, matching February's pace as well. U.K. employment. The quarter-on-quarter change in U.K. employment unexpectedly surged to 239,000 in February from 105,000 the month before. Economists expected a decrease to 90,000. The unemployment rate tumbled to 6.9% in March from 7.2% in February. "Pressure on the Bank of England to tighten monetary policy will undoubtedly grow on the back of these numbers, although I expect we will hear from the move dovish members of the MPC that it is a broad range of measures being taken into consideration, not just the unemployment rate," says Neil Jones, head of European hedge fund sales at Mizuho. "Sterling understandably trading up to near its highs of the year and post-crisis." Yellen speaks again. Janet Yellen will give her first speech on monetary policy as chairwoman of the Federal Reserve today to the Economic Club of New York at 12:15 PM ET. "Additionally the Q&amp;A could be more direct coming from economists and market participants than just reporters," says Richard Cochinos, a currency strategist at Citi. "Her last speech, 'What the Federal Reserve Is Doing to Promote a Stronger Job Market,' sets the baseline of continued easy policy from the Fed. The risk (and likely direction in my view) is this is either discounted or completely ignored by the bond market. Given the U.S. economy has shown clear signs of improvement in both labor and activity from the last Fed meeting, the risks remain that the Q&amp;A discussion focuses on the improvements in the U.S. economy and participants questions push Yellen more towards the center." Markets in rally mode. U.S. stock futures are rallying following yesterday's sell-off, and Treasury note futures are lower as yields edge higher. The U.S. dollar is up against the Japanese yen, indicative of a more supportive backdrop for risk sentiment. European equity indices are in the green across the board, with Italy's FTSE MIB leading the way higher, currently up 2%. The Japanese Nikkei 225 jumped 3% overnight, and the Hong Kong Hang Seng advanced 0.1%. "Clearly we’re looking for the pain trade amidst blah data and the occasional elbowing of external data, like the hint of weaker China GDP and the Ukrainian headlines," says David Ader, head of government bond strategy at CRT Capital. "The lack of a pain trade lower has some evidence, like the JPMorgan survey yesterday, which showed a deep pullback in [U.S. Treasury] longs — although price action through yesterday and last week’s auctions argue against that. As for the shorts, deeper in JPM, we’re not really sure where they are. After last week’s [FOMC] minutes and high volume gains, logic suggests covering took place. All of this leaves the market with a more neutral position, relatively speaking." Earnings. Bank of America this morning reported adjusted earnings per share of $0.35 in the quarter ended March 31, above the $0.28 consensus estimate. Revenues for the quarter were $22.8 billion, sightly above the $22.1 billion consensus estimate. Shares are lower in pre-market trading. After the closing bell on Tuesday, Intel and Yahoo! both reported earnings of $0.38 per share, above consensus estimates of $0.37 for each. Both stocks are getting a lift in pre-market trading. Mortgage apps. According to the Mortgage Bankers Association, mortgage applications rose 4.3% in the week ended April 11 after declining 1.6% the week before. Housing starts. Monthly U.S. housing starts and building permits data are due out at 8:30 AM ET. Economists predict starts rose to 975,000 units at a seasonally adjusted annualized rate in March from 907,000 in February. Permits are expected to have remained unchanged at 1 million units annualized. Industrial production. The Federal Reserve will release monthly U.S. industrial production data at 9:15 AM. Economists predict total output expanded 0.5% from the previous month in March after rising 0.6% in February. Manufacturing production is expected to have risen 0.6%, down from February's 0.8% pace of growth. Beige Book. At 2 PM, the Federal Reserve will release its latest Beige Book, a collection of anecdotes on economic conditions from business contacts in each of the 12 Fed districts. The word "weather" appeared 119 times in the last Beige Book, released in early March. Market participants will be interested to see what effect the warmer weather in the past month or so has had on business confidence. *** Below is a submission to our quarterly "Most Important Charts In The World" presentation from Peter Hooper, chief economist at Deutsche Bank. If you haven't seen the other 123 charts yet, click here to check them out » Business Insider/Matthew Boesler FREE AppDownload
ANNMtGox has asked to liquidate its holdings after a Japanese court dismissed its plan for reorganization, the Wall Street Journal's Takashi Mochizuki and Katy Stech report. In February, the exchange, once the world's largest, claimed that 850,000 Bitcoins had gone missing. In a new note posted on its website, Gox said that after a month-and-a-half investigation into the disappearance of the funds, Japanese authorities had determined that plans for "civil rehabilitation" under Japanese bankruptcy statutes "appear difficult," though did provide more details. Citing sources close to the situation, Mochizuki and Stech report Gox has in effect given up hope of restarting operations in a Chapter 11-style reboot. Any creditors will now recoup less of their investment, the pair write, though they add that Gox retains some hope of a last-minute fire sale. Last week, the Journal reported that a group led by Brock Pierce, a former child actor, had expressed interest in bailing out the exchange. Read the full report here »  FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoBank of America beat Wall Street Q1 2014 earnings estimates with earnings per share of $0.35 and revenue of $22.8 billion. However, the bank also reported a net revenue loss of $276 million ($0.05 per diluted share) and took a $6 billion litigation expense hit (before tax) which will cost shareholders $0.40 per share after tax. In other words, this is a pretty noisy report here. Analysts expected earnings per share of $0.30 and revenue of $22.1 billion according to data compiled by Bloomberg Businessweek. "The cost of resolving more of our mortgage issues hurt our earnings this quarter,” said Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan. “But the earnings power of our business and customer strategy generated solid results and we continued to return excess capital to our shareholders." Last quarter the company beat earnings estimates despite a dismal mortgage market. That miserable market continues, and has impacted the earnings we've already seen this quarter — JPM and Citi — but both banks still pulled it out for a beat. Bank of America took a 66% hit to its mortgage business from this time last year, but couldn't beat estimates like its peers thanks to this $6 billion litigation expense. Core operating expenses have continued their downward trend thanks to the bank's 'New BAC' cost cutting program. Non-litigation interest expenses are down 6% from this time last year. The bank's wealth management business, which the bank made it a point to expand, also continued to grow its net income to $729 million from $721 million last year. Another thing to note here is that Bank of America's sales and trading in equities remained relatively flat. In fixed income, the bank suffered a 15% decline from th iss time last year. Right now, however, that might as well be a beat considering that JPM and Citi both got killed in those sectors. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley report their earnings on Thursday morning. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMascots dressed as characters from the mobile video game "Candy Crush Saga" pose outside the New York Stock ExchangeSHANGHAI (Reuters) - Chinese tech giant Tencent Holdings Ltd will launch a Chinese version of King Digital Entertainment Plc's explosively popular "Candy Crush Saga" game in China, as the UK-based mobile games maker looks to woo new users to support flagging sales in the United States and Europe. The web-based game, which involves lining up colorful candies, will roll out through Tencent's Mobile QQ and Weixin platforms. Weixin, or WeChat, had 225 million active users in January, according to Beijing-based consultancy iResearch. "Tencent has the largest mobile social network in China," King Digital Chief Executive Riccardo Zacconi said in a statement, adding that he hoped the tie-up would make Candy Crush "as popular in China as in the rest of the world". Candy Crush, which brought in about $493 million in the last three months of 2013 alone, has topped sales charts around the world and was one of the most downloaded apps in 2013, according to King Digital's IPO registration filing this year. The tie-up will also help Tencent, China's biggest listed Internet company, attract users to its wide array of online and mobile offerings, ranging from social media platforms to online finance. Tencent is locked in a fierce battle for online supremacy in China with IPO-bound rival Alibaba Group Holding. Tencent has also been making forays into the online game market, snapping up a stake of 28 percent in South Korean mobile gaming firm CJ Games for $500 million in March. Candy Crush, a free game that makes money by selling virtual items to gamers, has suffered a fall from grace. Its gross bookings have started to dwindle, significant because it accounts for close to 80 percent of King Digital's total. Shares in King Digital fell as much as 16 percent when they debuted in late March, underscoring investor concern about the company's reliance on the game and wider skepticism over a notoriously fickle and volatile market. The New York listing was the largest U.S. tech initial public offering since gaming company Zynga Inc went public in 2011. But with around 93 million daily average users last year, the game could help lure China's more than 500 million mobile internet users to Tencent's platforms. Tencent is more than one-third owned by South African publishers Naspers Ltd. The collaboration "will combine King's enjoyable mobile gaming experience and Tencent's strong game publishing and operation capabilities in China," Tencent Senior Vice President Steven Ma said in the statement. "We are looking forward to bringing great moments of fun to Chinese users soon." (Reporting by Adam Jourdan; Editing by Clarence Fernandez) FREE AppDownload
THE STORY OF THE MARKET: As this chart from Dan Greenhaus at BTIG nicely demonstrates, the big story of the market this year is how smaller, speculative companies have born the brunt of the selling.  FREE AppDownload
APWASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Barack Obama will announce an initiative on Wednesday to devote $600 million to address a central challenge of today's economy: How to train workers for skills they need for jobs that are open but hard to fill. American companies will need 522,000 software developers and computer programmers over the next 10 years as well as nearly 110,000 pharmacists, 224,000 electricians and 941,000 customer service representatives, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. To try to fill the void, Obama will announce during a visit to Oakdale, Pennsylvania, a plan to use $500 million in existing Labor Department funds to pay for a competition. The goal of the competition is to spur employers and community colleges to work together and develop training programs that are designed to get workers prepared for specific jobs that already exist. Another $100 million will be drawn from a Labor Department fund to support programs aimed at training apprentices in new fields with fast-growing occupations such as information technology, healthcare and advanced manufacturing. Employers need people trained as welders, machinists, dental hygienists and even electrical power line installers, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said. Administration officials who briefed reporters about the initiative said the aim is to address the needs of a fast-changing economy. "The pace of change - technology, globalization - has changed the nature of work and the speed at which necessary skills change," said a senior Obama administration official. Obama, joined by Vice President Joe Biden, is to announce the initiative at an event at Community College of Allegheny County on the outskirts of Pittsburgh. The plan is part of an effort launched in Obama's State of the Union speech in January to act with his own presidential authority in the absence of a consensus from a divided Congress. While the economy has rebounded since bottoming out early in Obama's first term, many Americans remain unemployed or underemployed, and Obama has made it a priority of his second term to help the middle class and reduce income inequality. (Reporting by Steve Holland; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersStructure showing the Euro currency sign is seen in front of the ECB headquarters in FrankfurtLONDON (Reuters) - Shares in some of Europe's least profitable and most indebted companies are set to outperform in the coming months if the European Central Bank starts buying corporate bonds to fight the threat of deflation. The ECB has opened the door to the purchase of asset-backed securities such as secured corporate debt to revive economic activity in the euro zone, a move expected to give fresh impetus to a 20 percent rally in European shares since June. Buying corporate debt would lower borrowing costs where they are still elevated, such as in southern Europe, bringing relief to companies struggling with high debt piles and meager profits, such as Italian and Spanish banks and French car maker Peugeot "The companies that tend to benefit from QE are those with very low levels of profits and high financial leverage because, ultimately, QE stimulates growth," Francesco Curto, a strategist at Deutsche Bank, said. He recommended screening for companies which trade at a low price compared with the book value of their assets - a sign the market is betting on a structural fall in their profits - and which also have high debt, anemic margins and exposure to Europe's own economy. Of the 17 companies on the STOXX Europe 600 index which trade below book value, have more net debt than equity and convert less than 15 percent of their sales into pre-tax profit, eight are Italian banks and three are Spanish lenders, Thomson Reuters StarMine data showed. They include Italy's largest and third-largest lenders, UniCredit &lt;CRDI.MI&gt; and Monte Paschi &lt;BMPS.MI&gt;, and Spain's Banco Popular &lt;POP.MC&gt;. Others are struggling non-financial companies with net debt two or three times the size of their equity, such as Italy's Telecom Italia &lt;TLIT.MI&gt; and France's Peugeot. To see a StarMine screen of companies with these characteristics, please click. Small-cap companies were also likely beneficiaries given their higher reliance on bank loans compared with their blue-chip counterparts. The purchase of corporate bonds by the ECB "would be quite bullish for the domestic cyclicals and probably for small caps as well because they should benefit from a better funding environment," said Emmanuel Cau, European equity strategist at JP Morgan. Among the shares which JP Morgan recommends snapping up to gain exposure to economic recovery in the euro zone are motorway group Atlantia &lt;ATL.MI&gt;, budget airline Ryanair &lt;RYA.L&gt;, Spanish lender Caixabank &lt;CABK.MC&gt;, and media groups Mediaset &lt;MS.MI&gt; and Atresmedia &lt;A3M.MC&gt; - which generate almost all of their revenues in western Europe. While domestic shares were expected to lead a QE-fuelled rally in European shares, exporters were highlighted as longer-term beneficiaries if the euro weakens against the dollar. "What we'll look at is likely to be long-term positions in ... indices and companies that get a lot of their revenue in dollars or outside the euro zone," Arran Lamont, equity trading strategist at Citi, said. With nearly a quarter of its sales coming from North America, Germany's DAX &lt;.GDAXI&gt; is the euro zone index with the highest exposure to a stronger dollar. The index has underperformed a 25 percent rise in euro zone blue chips in the past nine months. But "if the euro were to fall, which is something the ECB would like to achieve as well, that could also help the DAX and global exporters," JP Morgan's Cau said. (Additional Reporting by Vikram Subhedar; Editing by Ruth Pitchford) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man uses his mobile phone in front of a giant advertisement promoting Samsung Electronics' new Galaxy S5 smartphone, at an art hall in central SeoulSEOUL (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd's new Galaxy S5 smartphone should outsell its predecessor and defy predictions that the South Korean titan's latest model will struggle in a tough market for high-end handsets, a top executive said. The world's biggest smartphone maker has slashed prices of the S5, which rolled out globally on Friday, offered a gift pack worth $600, and more than doubled the number of initial launching countries to 125 in a bid to sustain growth in the mobile business, which generates 70 percent of its total profit. A smooth launch is crucial for Samsung, which reported its second straight quarter of profit decline earlier this month as margins in the key smartphone business come under growing pressure from cheaper Chinese rivals. "(The S5) is selling faster than the S4 so far, though it's difficult to share specific numbers as we're still at early stages," Yoon Han-kil, senior vice president of Samsung's product strategy team, told Reuters in an interview. "S5 sales should be much better than the S4." Though Samsung did not offer any sales target for the S5, the company sold more than 10 million S4s in the first month of the phone's launch. Yoon said the S5 should do significantly better than this. Initial sales are important to gauge the longer-term chances of success for a product which represents a shift in approach by Samsung. Until now, Samsung phones have been known for hardware innovations like the S4's full high-definition screen, while their software was seen as gimmicky compared to the more useful applications on rival Apple Inc devices. With the S5, however, Samsung has offered few if any hardware revelations. Instead, its focus has been on key enhancements such as water-resistance, a better camera and "ultra power-savings mode" which automatically turns off unnecessary apps when the battery runs low. "With the S4, we thought smartphones shouldn't just focus on hardware. They also had to come with a lot of software and services, and that line of thinking did lead us to cram many services into the device," Yoon said. "We still feel the same way but this time around, we decided not to put in so many things and only include what the user really needs, so I cut out a lot of services and software," the senior vice president said. For example, he said the S5 was shipped to carriers with 40 apps installed as opposed to more than 50 in the previous models. Yoon said Samsung was working to introduce at least two smartphones running on its own Tizen operating system, a major step in the market leader's bid to break out of the Android universe. Samsung wants to build its own ecosystem around Tizen to reduce its heavy reliance on Google Inc's Android, which powers majority of the South Korean firm's mobile devices. It also wants to open its own stream of revenue from sales of third-party apps and services on its devices, challenging the mobile software duopoly of Android and Apple's iOS. But expectations for the platform have sharply weakened after a series of delays in product launches. A global patent cross-licensing agreement between Samsung and Google in January further dampened prospects for a Tizen phone, as the deal was seen by some as locking Samsung deeper into Android. Yoon said that although Android "still needs to be our main business", Tizen or Windows would be used for markets that Android could not address. "We had tried to launch (Tizen) with DoCoMo and Orange ... but couldn't because of poor market conditions. We have changed our strategy and will release the phones in a few countries where we can do well," he said, adding that he thought Tizen would have to account for up to 15 percent of Samsung's total smartphone shipments to become a successful platform. Samsung's first Tizen phone, which will launch around the end of the second quarter, would be a high-end model and the second would mainly be aimed at the middle of the market to drive volume growth. The renewed Tizen campaign comes as Google steps up its own efforts to push Android in wearables, underscoring the high stakes in the next promised frontier in computing. The two tech giants are close allies and fierce competitors in the emerging wearable market. Samsung dropped Android and switched to Tizen for the second version of its Gear smartwatch which went on sale last week, and the company wants its Gear smartwatches eventually to become compatible with all Android-based smartphones built by other companies, which will put Tizen directly up against Android. Even so, Samsung plans to introduce Android-based smartwatch later this year, Yoon said. Slowing growth in the high-end smartphone market has been a source of consternation for manufacturers like Samsung and Apple amid intensifying competition from Chinese upstarts like Huawei Technologies Co Ltd and Lenovo Group. "The slowing high-end market is indeed a concern for most manufacturers," Yoon said. "But we're trying out a lot of new things like wearables, convergence with home devices and cars. I think there'll be synergies here some day and it'll eventually help us increase premium product sales longer term." In the meantime, Samsung is hoping multiple variations of its flagship products will hit as big an audience as possible, while Apple sticks to the premium segment. Apple is said to be preparing two devices with larger screens, at least one of which is expected to launch in the latter half of the year. Yoon said Samsung was also planning to launch a new version of the Galaxy Note with a "new form factor" in the second half, without elaborating. "Our ultimate goal is to make products that consumers really aspire to have. This is how we are trying to find a breakthrough in the stagnant premium market," he said. (Editing by Stephen Coates) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailySAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Alibaba Group Holding Ltd's revenue growth accelerated in the last quarter of 2013, a timely lift for the Chinese Internet company as it prepares to file a prospectus next week for its highly anticipated initial public offering. Alibaba is expected to file prospectus for the share sale as early as Monday, sources said, as it prepares for the largest U.S. IPO since Facebook Inc's 2012 coming-out party. Alibaba had no comment on the prospectus filing, a spokeswoman said. The company which powers four-fifths of all Chinese online consumer shopping recorded a 66 percent surge in sales to $3.06 billion in 2013's final three months compared with a year earlier. The numbers - the latest available for Alibaba - were released on Tuesday alongside first-quarter 2014 earnings for 24 percent shareholder Yahoo Inc. The listing is the most highly anticipated of what's expected to be a record year for U.S. tech debuts, spurred on by social media company Twitter Inc's successful 2013 IPO. Alibaba's resurgence after several quarters of slowing growth helped lift shares of Japan's SoftBank Corp and Yahoo, which own 37 percent and 24 percent of the Chinese company and highly sensitive to the Chinese firm's growth prospects and valuation. SoftBank's shares surged as much as 9.1 percent and traded 7.9 percent higher in mid-afternoon trading in Tokyo. Yahoo's stock gained more than 9 percent after hours, despite reporting anemic quarterly revenue and display advertising growth in its own business. Executives with the U.S. company told analysts on a conference call they would not comment further on Alibaba's numbers, given that the Chinese company has entered a pre-IPO quiet period. Alibaba is planning to award about one-third of the fees for its IPO in the form of incentive bonuses to coax better performance from underwriters, Bloomberg reported on Wednesday. The company plans to pay at least 1.1 percent of the total IPO proceeds in fees, making the fee pool at an estimated $200 million, the report added. Alibaba's fourth-quarter sales growth came after it posted its slowest rate of growth in three quarters during the July-to-September period. For the October-December quarter it recorded a doubling in net income to $1.36 billion. Alibaba, founded 15 years ago by outspoken English schoolteacher Jack Ma, has cornered the Chinese Internet consumer market and expanded into everything from online auctions to messaging and payments. An IPO could arm the company as it tries also to dominate the nascent mobile shopping and social media arenas. Market participants expect it to raise as much as $16 billion this year. Tencent Holdings Ltd has the upper hand in mobile services in China, including in areas like messaging and games, the most important battleground for the country's Internet companies. In addition, Alibaba's strategy of building a global e-commerce empire with its own financial services is attracting close scrutiny from China's regulators and resistance from the country's banks. (Reporting by Edwin Chan; Additional reporting by Fiona Lau of IFR and Prakash Chakravarti of IFR/LPC in HONG KONG; Editing by James Dalgleish, Jonathan Oatis and Kenneth Maxwell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA screen displays a news conference by Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen as a trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange March 19, 2014.  Heads up! It's a big day for economics in the US. Via Calculated Risk, here's all the stuff that's on the docket: • At 7:00 AM ET, the Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA) will release the results for the mortgage purchase applications index.• At 8:30 AM, Housing Starts for March. Total housing starts were at 907 thousand (SAAR) in February. Single family starts were at 583 thousand SAAR in February. The consensus is for total housing starts to increase to 965 thousand (SAAR) in March.• At 9:15 AM, The Fed will release Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization for March. The consensus is for a 0.5% increase in Industrial Production, and for Capacity Utilization to increase to 78.8%.• At 12:25 PM, Speech by Fed Chair Janet Yellen, Monetary Policy and the Economic Recovery, At the Economic Club of New York, New York, New York• At 2:00 PM, the Federal Reserve Beige Book, an informal review by the Federal Reserve Banks of current economic conditions in their Districts. The Yellen speech will be particularly interesting to watch, as will housing starts, given a little bit of softness in other housing data lately. FREE AppDownload
Rising tension in Ukraine has been good for oil. Crude futures are up to nearly $105/barrel today, and they've been surging for days. Here's a look just since the beginning of the month. FinViz FREE AppDownload
The UK economy continues to look hot. According to official statistics, in the first quarter of the year, the unemployment rate fell to 6.9% from 7.1%.  This 6.9% level is actually below the 7% threshold that the Bank of England had previously set as a key target. Wages are also rising, with pay 1.7% higher than a year earlier. With British inflation having recently fallen to 1.6%, British workers are finally catching up with the cost of living. The strong number is causing the pound to surge. Here's the pound vs. the dollar via FinViz: FinViz FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMark Karpeles, chief executive of Mt. Gox, attends a news conference at the Tokyo District Court in Tokyo(Reuters) - Defunct bitcoin exchange Mt. Gox has given up plans to rebuild under bankruptcy protection and has asked a Tokyo court to allow it to be liquidated, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the situation. These people cited the complexity of the procedure and the lack of realistic rehabilitation plans for the Tokyo-based exchange as reasons for the move, the newspaper said. (http://r.reuters.com/nus58v) Mt. Gox, once the world's biggest bitcoin exchange, filed for bankruptcy protection in Japan last month, saying it may have lost some 850,000 bitcoins - worth around $454 million at today's rates - due to hacking into its computer system. It has since said it found 200,000 of those bitcoins. Mt. Gox's lawyers declined to comment on the matter. Mt. Gox CEO Mark Karpeles won't travel to the United States to answer questions about the bitcoin exchange's U.S. bankruptcy case, Mt. Gox lawyers told a federal judge this week. (Reporting by Supriya Kurane in Bangalore and William Mallard in Tokyo; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersArmed men drive an armoured personnel carrier with a Russian flag seen on the top in SlavianskSLAVIANSK, Ukraine (Reuters) - Six armored troop carriers entered the eastern Ukrainian town of Slaviansk on Wednesday carrying the Russian national flag and the banner of pro-Russian separatists, a Reuters eyewitness said. Several armed men, who wore different types of battle fatigues and appeared to be pro-Russia activists, sat atop each of the vehicles. The vehicles stopped outside the town's city hall which has for several days been occupied by separatists. The second vehicle carried the emblem of the Donetsk People's Republic which a group of separatists proclaimed last week and which the Kiev authorities see as a first step to seeking to break from Ukraine and join with Russia. The men on top of the troop carriers, some of whom were masked, were armed with Kalashnikov rifles, grenade launchers, knives and pistols. The convoy came in from the direction of Kramatorsk, 15 kilometers (six miles) to the south, where Ukrainian airborne troops on Tuesday secured control over a military airfield. The armed men waved to people as they drove into the town where separatists occupy several buildings including the police headquarters and the offices of the state security service. Some people waved back and shouted "Well done lads !" People also chanted "Russia" Russia!" There was no sign of Ukrainian troops in the city despite an announcement by Kiev authorities on Tuesday that a military-backed "anti-terrorist" operation was being extended to Slaviansk after the military action in Kramatorsk. The origin of the troop carriers was not immediately clear. (Reporting by Thomas Grove; Writing By Richard Balmforth; Editing by Christian Lowe) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Marcelo Del PozoHot air balloons fly over sunflowers during the II World Air Games (WAG) in Seville June 27, 2001. The WAG 2001 gathered more than 5000 athletes and officials from more than 80 countries to compete in southern of Spain. Good morning! Everything's in the green today, just about. The two big bullish events since yesterday's US close: Strong earnings from Yahoo that sent the stock soaring, and a modest, but relief-bringing GDP beat that gave a boost to much of Asia. Japan had an absolutely blistering night, as the Nikkei rallied 3%. Chinese and Hong Kong stocks ended with modest gains. UK stocks are up 0.5% and Germany is up 0.7%. US futures are pointing to a higher open. Today is an active day in the US with a Yellen speech on the economy, as well as the Fed Beige Book, Housing Starts, and Industrial Production. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiA man looks at an electronic board displaying a news photo of Bank of Japan (BOJ) Governor Haruhiko Kuroda in Tokyo.TOKYO (Reuters) - Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda on Wednesday affirmed the central bank's upbeat view of the economy, even as global financial markets wobble, stressing that growth will pick up around mid-year as the sting of a sales tax hike fades. Price rises will broaden as the economy continues to improve gradually, Kuroda added, reiterating his view that Japan is making headway towards the central bank's price goal of 2 percent inflation in about a year's time. "It's true (the tankan survey published earlier this month) showed a wide range of companies, especially among auto makers and retailers, holding a more cautious view about the economic outlook," Kuroda told a parliamentary session. "But the level (of confidence) remains high and corporate capital spending plans for fiscal 2014/15 is solid. Companies' positive stance is maintained," he said. The comments came a day after Kuroda met with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to discuss the economy, which drew some market speculation the BOJ may come under pressure to expand stimulus as a rebound in the yen and sliding Japanese share prices cloud the outlook for the world's third-largest economy. Kuroda attempted to quash this speculation, telling reporters after the meeting that the premier did not ask him to take further measures to end deflation. He also appeared unfazed by the recent fall in stock prices, telling parliament on Wednesday that while he was watching market developments carefully, he did not see any speculative moves that were hurting the economy in a significant way. Kuroda's bullish views on prices have wiped out expectations of an imminent expansion of stimulus. The latest Reuters poll showed a growing consensus building in the market that the BOJ will probably not ease until July, with no respondent predicting action at the next rate review on April 30. HARDLY COMPLACENT BOJ officials have repeatedly expressed confidence that this month's increase in the national sales tax will not derail the economy or prevent inflation from hitting the central bank's 2 percent target. But many economists and traders say the BOJ will have to ease policy again this year as consumer price gains are likely to stall. The BOJ has had trouble bridging this gap in perception about future policy moves. In contrast to the BOJ's optimism, the government is set to revise its assessment of the economy because of the effect of the tax hike when it publishes a monthly report due soon, the Nikkei business daily reported. Kuroda stressed that the economy will weaken in April-June due to the tax hike's impact but will return to growth above its potential, seen as around 0.5 percent, thereafter as job and income conditions improve. Despite the upbeat language, the BOJ is hardly complacent and mindful of the impact market moves have on business and household sentiment -- key to success of its stimulus program. Exports have failed to bounce back despite the competitive advantage Japanese goods have enjoyed from a weak yen, casting doubt on whether they will recover in time to take up the slack from the slump in consumption after the tax hike. Kuroda therefore stressed that Japan was only half-way towards meeting the BOJ price target - a view he has recently started to emphasize - possibly to keep alive market expectations that the central bank is ready to act if the economy falters. "For now, what's important is to do our best toward meeting our 2 percent price target at the earliest date possible," Kuroda said. The BOJ next meets for a policy review on April 30, when it will also release new long-term economic and price projections set to show Japan will record sustained inflation of around 2 percent for at least two years from mid-2015. Japan's core consumer prices rose 1.3 percent in February from a year earlier, increasing for the ninth straight month, as the weak yen increased import costs. Analysts are less optimistic than the BOJ on the price outlook, with the Reuters poll showing they predict inflation to peak around May and stagnate around to 1 percent for the next two years. The poll also showed analysts expect Japan's economy to contract 0.9 percent this quarter due to the tax hike but rebound 0.5 percent in July-September. (Reporting by Leika Kihara; Editing by Dominic Lau and Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
