REUTERS/Aly Song A customer looks at screens showing lottery information at a lottery ticket store in Shanghai, December 29, 2013. Spurred by rising disposable income, a strong appetite for gambling and more sophisticated games, China's lottery market has boomed with customers splurging some $23 billion in 2012, compared to $37 billion by punters in the world's biggest lottery market in the United States. With 20 percent growth rates projected for the next three years, China is expected to overtake the United States and leap into the top spot by 2015. Picture taken December 29, 2013. The Chinese purchasing manager's index for the service sector fell to 50.9 in December from 52.5 in November, the lowest level since August 2011.  China's composite PMI, which measures business activity in both the services and manufacturing sector, fell to 51.2 in December, from 52.3 in November. Anything above 50 signals expansion. Services did see its strongest expansion of workforce numbers since June, but new order growth was the weakest in six months. Still, we recently saw Chinese PMI improve for the fifth-straight month, and HSBC Chief Economist Hongbin Qu put a relatively sunny spin on the latest data. “Despite the moderation of the headline China Services PMI index, which reflected slower new business growth, labour market conditions improved for the fourth month in a  row," said Hongbin Qu, Chief Economist, China &amp; Co-Head of Asian Economic Research at HSBC. "We expect the steady expansion of manufacturing sectors to lend support to service sector growth. Moreover, the implementation of reforms such as lowering the entry barriers for private business in service sectors and the expanded VAT reforms should help to revitalise service sectors in the year ahead.” Here's the chart for the Composite PMI measurement: Markit FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoToday is Japan's first day of trading in 2014, and it's down about 1.5%. This is part of a theme which is that of a rough start for Asian markets in the limited trading we've seen so far this year. From Mike O'Rourke of JonesTrading: First, there is the weakness in equities, most notably Asia. In a couple of trading days, Korea and Hong Kong lost 3.5%, meanwhile Thailand is down 6.6%. Most of the major European markets are down in the range of 2%-2.5%. US equities continue their outperformance but their ascent has halted. Treasury Yields are continuing to rise, but the notable exception is peripheral Europe where yields are approaching multi-month (if not multi-year) lows. The equity markets in these countries began to exhibit signs of life in the second half of last year, now the bond markets are joining the party. If this trend continues, the next phase will be for the flight to quality bid to fade from German bonds. Although German yields have risen with global rates, there is still significantly more normalization necessary for investors to fully regain confidence. FREE AppDownload
"In order to change forecast-based guidance, all the FOMC has to do is alter the 'dots' that indicate where interest rates are projected to be in the future. Of course, this may overstate the ease with which this can be done in a coordinated manner. Individual FOMC participants submit their forecasts at the beginning of the meeting, making it hard for the Chairperson to use his or her leadership leverage to move the distribution of the dots. Even if moving the dots were to have a meaningful effect on financial conditions, it is hard to see how Yellen could adeptly use this tool to guide market expectations."—Michael Feroli, chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase Bank FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Dominick ReuterA flight information board displaying delays and cancellations at Logan International Airport during a winter nor'easter snow storm in Boston, Massachusetts, January 2, 2014.The winter holidays are finally over, and we're kicking off 2014's first uninterrupted week of trading. In the U.S., we'll get new stats on the labor market, consumer credit, and the massive services sector. Yes it's cold, and the weather is likely to impact the comparability of some of the December data. "The coldness contrasted with unusual mildness in December 2012 and December 2011," noted High Frequency Economics' Jim O'Sullivan. "Extreme cold and a major storm likely hampered construction, as well as activity in the leisure and accommodation industries," said Citi's Peter D'Antonio. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary Stocks remain near all-time highs, and strategists generally expect modest gains for the year. However, Goldman Sachs' Stuart Kaiser thinks some stocks (40 of them to be specific) should do better than others. "Lower valuation stocks have outperformed peers by an average of 420 bp in 1Q during the past 35 years vs. just 170 bp in all other quarters," said Kaiser. "Buying laggards has also performed well early in the calendar year, which is notable given the strategy’s extremely poor long-term cumulative returns." Goldman's house view is that the S&amp;P 500 tops out at 1,900 this year. FREE AppDownload
Kirby Lee-USA TODAY SportsThe weekend is over and markets are mostly moving lower. Japan is off 0.9%. Australia is down 0.1%. With the exception of the Down, U.S. futures were off. Gold is down 0.3%. Bitcoin is at $1,015. We've got another big week of econ data, starting with factory orders Monday. Click here to read our preview of the week in markets » FREE AppDownload
ZyngaOnline gaming company Zynga announced it has begun testing accepting payments in Bitcoin for seven of its games. The announcement has caused Bitcoin prices to surge back to $1,000 on the Mt. Gox exchange.   Zynga made the announcement exclusively on reddit. Bitpay, one of the largest Bitcoin payment processing firms, will handle the transactions.  Here's the full text: We wanted to share with the r/bitcoin community that Zynga Inc. (NASDAQ: ZNGA) is now conducting a Bitcoin test with BitPay (https://bitpay.com/), a leading Bitcoin service provider, in select Zynga.com web games. In response to Bitcoin’s rise in popularity around the world, Zynga, with help from BitPay, is testing expanded payment options for players to make in-game purchases using Bitcoin. The Bitcoin test is only available to Zynga.com players playing FarmVille 2, CastleVille, ChefVille, CoasterVille, Hidden Chronicles, Hidden Shadows and CityVille. The games can be accessed at http://zynga.com. Zynga is always working to improve our customer experience by incorporating player feedback into our games. We look forward to hearing from our players about the Bitcoin test so we can continue in our efforts to provide the best possible gaming experience. Check out the test and let us know your thoughts. Thank you! Zynga TechCrunch was the first to report the news. This is the first time since mid-December Bitcoin climbed back to $1,000 on Mt. Gox. It's worth noting that in that time, Mt. Gox lost its claim to most-trafficked USD-traded Bitcoin exchange. There is now a virtual tie between Slovenia-based Bitstamp and BTC-e, which is said to be based in Russia. Despite new severe restrictions in China, Bitcoin has benefitted from several recent high-profile endorsements. In addition to the Zynga announcement, Fortress Investment Group announced it was starting a Bitcoin fund, and a U.S. Congressman is looking to accept Bitcoin in his Senate race. And financial services firm Wedbush recently identified publicly traded companies that stand to gain from the rise of Bitcoin.  Here's the price chart. It's since come down a bit, to $987 (first reported by Coindesk). Bitcoincharts FREE AppDownload
Feng Li / Getty BEIJING (Reuters) - Zig-zagging left and right through a maze of dark, narrow corridors in a high-rise's basement, 35-year-old kitchen worker Hu has joined the many thousands of Chinese fleeing fast-rising property prices by heading down - down underground. Hu lives here beneath an affluent downtown apartment building, in a windowless, 4 square-meter (43 square-foot) apartment with his wife. For 400 yuan ($65.85) a month in rent, there's no air-conditioning, the only suggestion of heat is a pipe snaking through to deliver gas to the apartments above and the bathroom is a fetid, shared toilet down the hall. "I can't afford to rent a house," said Hu as he showed off his meager appointments. Living in basement apartments isn't illegal in China, but like anywhere else it is nothing to brag about and Hu, who guts fish for 2,500 yuan a month at a popular Sichuanese hotpot restaurant on the street above, declined to provide his given name. "If I weren't trying to save money, I wouldn't live here," he said. Locals have dubbed Hu and his fellow subterranean denizens the "rat race" - casualties and simultaneously emblems of a housing market beyond the government's control. Despite efforts to discourage property speculation and develop affordable housing, a steady stream of job-seekers from the countryside and a lack of attractive investment alternatives have kept prices soaring. Residential property prices rose 10 percent in November from the same month of 2012, according to data released last week, and have been setting new records every year since 2009. Prices in Beijing are rising even faster - 16 percent a year - with rents climbing 12 percent a year. LOVELY SEWER, CLOSE TO MANHOLES That's pushing more and more newly arrived urbanites underground. Of the estimated 7.7 million migrants living in Beijing, nearly a fifth live either at their workplace or underground, according to state news agency Xinhua. Beijing's housing authority refuted this statistic, saying in an email to Reuters that a government survey last year found only about 280,000 migrants living in basements and that only a small percentage of Beijing's basements were being used as dwellings. Last month, authorities sealed Beijing's manhole covers after local media discovered a group of people living in the sewers below, with one, a 52-year-old car washer, reported by the local media to have been living there for at least a decade. The sewer dwellers were relocated and those not from Beijing sent back home. Surging residential prices are both boon and bane to the government. China's booming property sector accounts for roughly 15 percent of GDP and heavily indebted local governments rely on land sales - selling land earns them roughly three times what they collect from taxes. But rising prices are putting home ownership farther out of reach for most Chinese, worsening the gap between rich and poor and breeding social discontent. "Some people can buy several homes, some people can't even buy one," said Mao Yushi, co-founder and honorary president at the Unirule Institute of Economics, an independent think tank in Beijing. "There will be an impact on society." The government has responded by restricting home purchases and boosting the supply of low-cost public housing. In Beijing, the total floor space of public housing rose 20 percent in the first 11 months of 2013 from the year before. But with the promise of employment and education beckoning in big cities like Beijing and Shanghai, the problem appears likely to only get worse. Beijing saw another 316,000 migrants arrive in 2012, lifting its population to 19.6 million. IF YOU HAVE TO ASK, YOU CAN'T AFFORD IT That has made housing in Beijing more expensive relative to average incomes than in many developed countries. The median price for residential property in Beijing is over $4,500 a square meter, according to property developer Soufun, with rents running at $9.50 per square meter - in a nation where the average annual income is just over $6,000. That makes Beijing homes almost three times as expensive for Chinese as buying a home in New York City is for Americans, according to Reuters calculations based on data from the World Bank and San Francisco-based property website Trulia. Renting a 1,000 square-foot apartment in China's capital would cost almost double the average citizen's monthly income. Not surprisingly, public opinion polls routinely rank rising home prices as one of the biggest sources of anxiety among Chinese adults. A 2012 survey by the Hong Kong media website Phoenix found that couples in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen spend on average 42 percent of their combined monthly income on mortgages. Chinese have invented the term "housing slave" to describe those struggling to make hefty monthly mortgages payments. But with Beijing home prices having risen six-fold in the past decade, according to Soufun, even cheap public housing can be beyond the reach of many, forcing them to seek less attractive alternatives. In a basement below a block of apartments in downtown Beijing, residents walk stooped to avoid pipes hanging from the ceilings. "This is better than other basements in the area," said one 26-year-old resident. The typical basement or workplace apartment is less than 5 square meters, according to Xinhua, less than a tenth the size of the typical Beijing apartment. Fires sometimes break out in basements when people cook - at least three were reported in Beijing last year. Apartments are so small that Hu said he and his wife have trouble sleeping together in their tiny bed. He has resorted to spending most nights in another basement apartment provided by his restaurant. His wife yearns for a larger home above ground and in the meantime makes do by decorating the room with plastic bells and flowers that Hu says she finds in the street. Their dream of owning a home remains distant and Hu says basement living has hurt their relationship. "It's too difficult to have a house right now," said Hu. "Every basement has people living in it. See for yourself. There are so many of us out there." (Reporting by Aileen Wang and Koh Gui Qing; Additional reporting by Beijing Newsroom and Shao Xiaoyi; Editing by Wayne Arnold) FREE AppDownload
BLS, JPMorgan Chase Bank NA Economic ResearchChart 1.The slowing rate of inflation in the United States has been used by the Federal Reserve as justification for continued extraordinary monetary stimulus. However, this disinflation may largely be driven more global phenomena outside of the Fed's control. Chart 1 shows that disinflation has largely been concentrated in the prices of goods and not the prices of services. In a note to clients, Michael Feroli, chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase Bank explains what this tells us about slowing inflation in the United States: A little deeper look into the data suggests that the decline in inflation is not broad-based. Core services inflation, (a large majority of the core price measure) has moderated only fractionally over the past year. And increases in hourly labor cost have been stable. The Employment Cost Index, the most comprehensive measure of total labor cost per hour, has been running close to its current 1.9%oya pace for the past three years. These price and cost measures have followed examples of behavior in other countries facing persistently slack conditions, and become sticky at inflation below 2%.  The slowing in core inflation over the past year has been concentrated in goods prices. And it appears that soft global growth accounts for a lot of the slowing. Global real GDP growth slowed to an estimated 2.3% in 2013, below trend and the weakest growth since 2009. And the resulting softening of commodity prices and strengthening of the dollar resulted in a sharp deceleration of overall import prices and the price of imported consumer goods. Domestic producer prices and core producer prices have also slowed. Feroli believes a reversal of these trends will push inflation higher in 2014. "The forecast looks for a bit stronger growth in the global economy and in the U.S. that, if realized, would tend to lift commodity prices and weaken the value of the dollar," he says. "While the upturn in growth and the associated swings in commodity prices and the value of the dollar are expected to be relatively modest, they should act to lift import prices and domestic goods prices generally." FREE AppDownload
With the "polar vortex" bringing frigid temperatures across the country, going outside isn't just uncomfortable — it can be downright dangerous. The temperature will drop to -25 F in Fargo, N.D., -31 F in International Falls, Minn., and -15 F in Indianapolis and Chicago, according to the Associated Press. Straight temperatures aren't all that matter. Brave adventurers (or those forced to leave their homes) should really consider wind chill — the temperature it "feels like" outside based on the rate of heat loss from exposed skin, according to the National Weather Service. In colder temperatures, you shiver to produce heat in your muscles. You'll also need to pee more. Exposure to cold reduces blood flow to the skin's surface which also decreased the overall volume that your body can hold. Your body responds by ditching liquid, according to an infographic from the Toronto Sun. Fingers, toes, ear lobes, or the tip of the nose are the areas most susceptible to frostbite. Your body works hard to keep internal organs and your head warm, and sometimes extremities get left behind. Usually, when parts of your body get too cold, they turn red and hurt. Symptoms of frostbite, however, include a loss of feeling and lack of color. Anyone showing signs of hypothermia or frost bite should seek medical attention immediately. The chart below shows how long you can be exposed to certain temperatures before it will result in frost bite. For example, a temperature of 0°F and a wind speed of 15 mph creates a wind chill temperature of -19°F. Under these conditions frost bite can occur in just 30 minutes. In some areas of the Northern Plains and Upper Midwest, wind chill reached below negative 60 degrees, according to the NWS, when exposed skin can freeze in just freeze in 10 minutes. You can, however, survive a winter scenario like this. Check out these tips — like wearing mittens instead of gloves. National Weather Service Extremely cold temperature can also cause hypothermia, when the body's temperature dips below 95 degrees Fahrenheit. Warning signs include uncontrollable shivering, memory loss, disorientation, incoherence, slurred speech, drowsiness, and obvious exhaustion, according to the NWS. Surprisingly, hypothermia can occur at any temperature lower than normal body temperature. Factors like body fat, age, alcohol consumption, and especially wetness can affect how long hypothermia takes to strike. If you fall into water, the situation becomes drastically more dangerous. For example, in water 32.5 degrees Fahrenheit or colder, you might not survive more than 15-to-45 minutes. You'll undergo shock within the first two minutes and some functional disability before 30 minutes, according to the United States Coast Guard. Check out this chart from the Personal Floatation Device Manufacturers Association: Personal Floatation Device Manufacturer's Association FREE AppDownload
Author and philosophical finance whiz Nassim Taleb began 2014 with a bold challenge to his fellow economic thinkers. "I would love to debate a prominent economist LIVE in front of an audience… Nobody has accepted so far," he wrote on his Facebook page a few days ago. So who is up for the challenge? "I think any economist who debated Taleb would want to use this," The Week's John Aziz quipped on Twitter, pointing to this 2010 interview where Taleb argues shorting treasuries is a "no brainer" due to the U.S. deficit and the risk of inflation. "So long as you see the picture of Larry Summers going to Davos, you have to stay short U.S. Treasuries for another year. It means they (the Obama administration) don’t know what’s going on,” Taleb told MoneyNews' Dan Weil in 2010. Taleb went off on Aziz and others, arguing that his actual profit and loss ("PL") wasn't indicative of his 2010 statement, which would have presumably lost money. @azizonomics THis is very idiotic: you would want to see my PL from this. @azizonomics Bullshit vendors/journalists don't realize that PL is not a frequency thing. @stephen_knapp @azizonomics fucking idiot my prediction did not fail @CounterHedge @azizonomics What John Aziz seems clueless about is nonlinear + cherry picking (1000 trades a year). @Noahpinion UNlike bullshit vendors like Noah Smith, by #skininthegame I did OK on the trades. PL is not words .@azizonomics @CounterHedge John I did 700,000 trades in career, was "wrong" on between 650,000 and 695,000. Wish I did more. Kapish? FREE AppDownload
Before you head out to work on Monday, please check out this wind chill map. (via Jim Cantore) National Weather Service FREE AppDownload
2013 was a banner year for Bitcoin but it ended on a sour note as the price plunged and governments (including China's) cracked down on its usage. But it's back on a tear, touching 1000 again. Here's a long-term chart from ClarkMoody which shows the big spike earlier in 2013, the plunge, and the comeback. ClarkMoody FREE AppDownload
@NicolasJohnson A building at 500 West 43 Street in Manhattan, New York, caught fire today. According to NBC News, the fire caused the death of one person and left another critically injured. Pictures tweeted from outside the scene appeared to show the fire on a lower floor: Manhattan: FDNY Box #0798, 500 West 43 St. 10-77 All hands fire out the windows on 20 floor of a 36 story high rise. pic.twitter.com/UFigL4CziY Stuck on building on 26 floor. Building on fire. pic.twitter.com/c5bDvWke0x  FREE AppDownload
Rail traffic finished 2013 with a boom.  Intermodal jumped 10.6% on the week which brought the 12 week moving average to 7.6%.  That is the highest 12 week average reading since May of 2011.  Here’s more details from AAR: “The Association of American Railroads (AAR) today reported increased U.S. rail traffic for the week ending Dec. 28, 2013 with 230,933 total U.S. carloads, up 8.1 percent compared with the same week last year. Total U.S. weekly intermodal volume was 172,396 units up 10.6 percent compared with the same week last year.   Total combined U.S. weekly rail traffic was 403,329 carloads and intermodal units, up 9.2 percent compared with the same week last year. Nine of the 10 carload commodity groups posted increases compared with the same week in 2012, including grain with 18,201 carloads, up 36.8 percent; petroleum and petroleum products with 13,532 carloads, up 29.8 percent; and nonmetallic minerals and products with 19,174 carloads, up 14.3 percent. Commodities showing a decrease compared with the same week last year included metallic ores and metals with 22,064 carloads, down 7.2 percent. For the 52 weeks of 2013, U.S. railroads reported cumulative volume of 14,608,403 carloads, down 0.5 percent from the same point last year, and 12,831,692 intermodal units, up 4.6 percent from last year. Total combined U.S. traffic for the 52 weeks of 2013 was 27,440,095 carloads and intermodal units, up 1.8 percent from last year.” Chart via Orcam Financial Group: PragCap FREE AppDownload
Tom Lynn/Getty ImagesEveryone will be focused today on NFL playoff football. In the meantime, here's a look at some stuff that traders are talking about today, courtesy of Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus. "China is likely to see as many as 300 initial public offerings this year raising up to 250 billion yuan ($41B) after the IPO market was frozen for 14 months." (Shanghai Daily) "Emerging market equity funds limped into 2014. In a report published today, funds tracked by EPFR Global recorded net outflows totaling almost $11.9 billion during the fourth quarter - There were some bright spots for emerging market-focused stock funds. EPFR reports that equity funds focused on China had inflows of $2.2 billion during the fourth quarter of 2013, while funds focused on Korea had net inflows of $1.42 billion." (Barron's) 'The Federal Reserve could well consider cutting its bond-buying by more than a $10 billion monthly increment in the future, Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser said on Saturday, floating $25 billion as a hypothetical amount - "I have no problem with gradually unwinding it, but my preference would be to move a little quicker and end it sooner rather than later”' (Reuters) "What the Smart Money Says About Bonds - Bond investors just closed the books on a rough 2013. Barron’s surveyed some of the best fixed-income investors to hear what they expect this year." (Barron's) "It has been decades since parts of the Midwest experienced a deep freeze like the one expected to arrive Sunday, with potential record-low temperatures - This "polar vortex," as one meteorologist calls it, is caused by a counterclockwise-rotating pool of cold, dense air. The frigid air, piled up at the North Pole, will be pushed down to the U.S., funneling it as far south as the Gulf Coast." (CBS) Since Apple confirmed the deal with China Mobile, brokerages have been swiftly reducing their earnings forecast for the world’s largest carrier by subscribers because of steep capital outlays for a new network and anticipated handset subsidies - The carrier will also have to contend with lower interconnection fees from rivals as of Jan. 1 as part of the government’s latest effort to promote competition. (WSJ) FREE AppDownload
Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty ImagesRalph LaurenWealth tends to create more wealth, but a rich background is not the only way to the top. Some of the world's wealthiest people started out dirt poor. All from humble beginnings, these 15 people not only climbed to the top of their industries but also became some of the richest people in the world. Although the rich do get richer, these rags-to-riches stories remind us that through determination, grit, and a bit of luck anyone can overcome their circumstances and achieve extraordinary success. FREE AppDownload
Note: Near the beginning of each year, I find it useful to jot down a few thoughts on how I expect the economy to perform. This isn't to test my forecasting skills - sometimes I learn more when I miss a forecast (As an example, I've spent a significant amount of time looking at the participation rate and demographics since I've been overly pessimistic on the unemployment rate the last few years).Earlier I posted some questions for this year: Ten Economic Questions for 2014.Here is a review of the Ten Economic Questions for 2013.1) Economic growth: Heading into 2014, it seems most analysts expect faster economic growth. So do I. Will 2014 be the best year of the recovery so far? Could 2014 be the best year since the '90s? Or will 2014 disappoint?First, here is a table of the annual change in real GDP since 1999.  Since 2000, the fastest real GDP growth was 3.8% in 2004, and the fastest growth for the recovery was 2.8% in 2012.It is likely that 2014 will be the best year of the recovery, and possibly (with some luck) the best year since Clinton was president. CalculatedRisk There are several positives for the economy at the beginning of 2014: the housing recovery is ongoing (usually the best leading indicator for the economy), state and local government austerity is over (in the aggregate), household balance sheets are in much better shape - and it appears that in the aggregate, household deleveraging is over, most of the obvious downside risks have diminished, and even commercial real estate (CRE) investment and public construction will both probably make small positive contributions in 2014.There is still some austerity at the Federal level (and cutting off emergency unemployment benefits is bad economic policy).  Also, there are always downside risks from Europe and China, rising interest rates and more, but with all these positive trends I'd expect a pickup in US growth in 2014.In 2012 (the best year of recovery for GDP growth so far), Personal consumption expenditures (PCE) only increased at a 2.5% real rate, compared to 3.8% in 2004 (best year since 2000).  I expect PCE to pick up again into the 3% to 4% range, and this will give a boost to GDP.   This increase in consumer spending should provide an incentive for business investment.  Add in the ongoing housing recovery, some increase in state and local government spending, and 2014 should be the best year of the recovery with GDP growth at or above 3% (4% is not impossible).Here are the ten questions for 2014 and a few predictions:• Question #1 for 2014: How much will the economy grow in 2014? • Question #2 for 2014: How many payroll jobs will be added in 2014? • Question #3 for 2014: What will the unemployment rate be in December 2014?• Question #4 for 2014: Will too much inflation be a concern in 2014?• Question #5 for 2014: Monetary Policy: Will the Fed end QE3 in 2014?• Question #6 for 2014: How much will Residential Investment increase?• Question #7 for 2014: What will happen with house prices in 2014? • Question #8 for 2014: Housing Credit: Will we see easier mortgage lending in 2014?• Question #9 for 2014: How much will housing inventory increase in 2014?• Question #10 for 2014: Downside Risks FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joshua LottA story by Jesse A. Myerson in Rolling Stone titled "Five Economic Reforms Millennials Should Be Fighting For" has conservatives on Twitter flipping out. Nick Gillespie at Reason.com has a breakdown of the conservative backlash, but if you actually read the article it's really baffling trying to figure out why the piece is generating such controversy. Myerson identifies five things that should be done, and admittedly, his titles for each idea sound provocative. They are: 1. Guaranteed Work for Everybody2. Social Security for All 3. Take Back The Land 4. Make Everything Owned by Everybody 5. A Public Bank in Every State A number of economists have argued that something like a jobs guarantee or a basic income for everyone — having the government literally give everyone money on a non-temporary basis — is a viable concept to explore as a way of addressing unemployment and the safety net. Milton Friedman favored a negative income tax, so that if you were poor you got money from the government, and the conservative Charles Murray endorses the idea as well. The idea to "Take Back The Land" sounds radical unless you read further that the main idea is more aggressive property tax and for the government to provide more affordable housing. The "Make Everything Owned By Everybody" is again just a dramatic way of saying that there should be a U.S. sovereign wealth fund, as exists in many other countries. Think this idea is so radical? Here it is being discussed in the conservative publication The National Review. And as for a public bank in every state, there's one of these in North Dakota, which seems to be doing fine. Basically it's a publicly owned lending fund designed to subsidize certain projects. You can disagree with all of these — all have various drawbacks and benefits — but the idea that this is some insane communist raving looks like an example of people just deciding to be outraged over something they didn't actually read. FREE AppDownload
It's now legal to purchase recreational marijuana in Colorado — and while the legal weed market is young — it's going to get a serious boost from executives of High Times magazine, who announced a new private equity fund to invest in cannabis-related businesses, Denver Post is reporting. HT Growth Fund hopes to raise $100 million over the next two years, the Post reported. Led by Michael Kennedy, general counsel and director for High Times, and Michael Safir, High Times' business manager, the fund hopes to make investments in companies from $2 million to $5 million. This is obviously good news for businesses affiliated with marijuana, as it can be tougher to get small business loans or even have bank accounts. "We have a deep and detailed knowledge of the needs and wants of the cannabis industry," the firm writes on its website. "The team at the HTG Fund have a combined 70 years of experience related to all things cannabis, which allows us to use our historical knowledge to forsee the future." As Walt Hickey previously reported: The Colorado marijuana industry — which is responsible for thousands of new jobs, and is projected to raise $130 million in taxes for the state next year alone — has accomplished something not seen in this nation since the passage of the 21st Amendment. "What we are looking to do is provide capital and credit to companies that are established and have grown and reached their potential as much as they can without access to traditional capital markets," Michael Safir told Denver Post. Check out the full report at Denver Post &gt; FREE AppDownload
