Getty ImagesThere's no shortage of things that should be fixed in the U.S. There's the "crumbling" physical infrastructure, the never-ending bipartisan arguments in D.C., the inadequate public school systems ... and list goes on. But there are also things that are going right in the U.S. U.S. Trust's Joseph Quinlan identifies these in his "What's Right With America" thesis. "From our vantage point, America needs to leverage its strengths to correct for its weaknesses," he wrote. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPedestrians walk past the Time Warner Cable headquarters in New YorkBy Ronald Grover (Reuters) - Employees of Time Warner Cable will be $416 million richer even if the cable operator's merger with Comcast does not close, a move designed to keep staff from bolting while federal regulators contemplate the deal. A proxy statement, prepared for the shareholders meetings of both companies in October to vote on the merger, also lays out the nearly $81.8  million golden parachute that Time Warner Cable's chairman and chief executive, Robert D. Marcus, would receive. His payment includes cash, restricted stock, options and $300,000 to pay for financial planning services. In all, the company will hand out golden parachutes of more than $136 million to five of its top executives if the deal closes. Comcast Corp last February said it would buy Time Warner Cable Inc in a $45.2 billion stock swap that combines the two largest U.S. cable operators. The day before the deal was announced, the compensation committee of Time Warner Cable's board approved retention grants for more than 1,800 employees that would pay twice the regularly scheduled annual equity awards granted for each person in 2014. The awards, which the proxy said totaled approximately $316.4 million in restricted stock, were awarded to compensate for bonuses in 2015 and 2016 the employees would not receive, according to the proxy. The compensation committee also approved up to $100 million in supplemental bonuses to the more than 15,000 employees eligible to receive cash incentive bonuses. Those bonuses would equal 50 percent of each employee's target bonus for 2014. "The supplemental bonus opportunity was intended to enhance employee retention during the pendency of the merger, while preserving incentives designed to keep employees focused on executing on TWC's operating plan," according to the proxy. The Comcast special shareholders meeting to vote on the merger will be held on Oct. 8. The Time Warner Cable special shareholders meeting will be held on Oct. 9.   (Reporting by Ronald Grover; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Mark HarkinChina Southern Airlines Boeing 787-8 on final approach.Boeing announced this week that it expects China's airlines will require an additional 6,020 aircraft by 2033 with a total value of $870 billion. These latest figures represent an 8% increase over the airplane maker's 2013 projections, reports Reuters.  Fueled by massive investment in airport infrastructure and the burgeoning middle class' demand for leisure travel, the Chinese aviation industry has developed significantly over the past decade.  "China's aviation market is going through dynamic changes," said Randy Tinseth, Boeing Commercial Airplanes vice president of Marketing. "New business models like low-cost carriers and airplane leasing companies, a new generation of fuel-efficient airplanes and evolving consumer needs are driving demand for more direct flights to more destinations." Boeing expects Chinese demand to make up 16% of all airplane orders worldwide and 45% of all orders coming from Asia. Of the 6,020 new airplanes, Boeing expects as many as 4,300 of them to be single-aisle variants like its hot-selling 737NG and 737MAX.  With China's major airlines fielding a balanced mix of Boeing and Airbus aircraft, the country will be a significant battle ground for the two industry titans. Although Boeing claim that more than 50% of airliners flying in the country carrying the company's logo.  FREE AppDownload
AlibabaPost-founding meeting in Jack Ma’s Lakeside Gardens apartment in Hangzhou, 2000.In Alibaba's most recent filing with the SEC, executive chairman and founder Jack Ma issues a letter to prospective investors. Among other things, the letter addresses the company's core business model and vision, writing that the company's vision, "makes it impossible for us to become an empire-like business." Ma also writes that the company plans to "fight for the little guy," and that the company, "will be judged by how much progress we bring to the world." Alibaba's IPO is set to be among the largest, if not the largest, in NYSE history, and could make Ma the richest man in China. Here's the full-text of the letter, which is well worth reading in full.  Dear Investors, Thank you for taking the time to read our prospectus, and for considering investing your precious resources in our company. If you invest with us, you will be embarking on a journey with Alibaba, and in this letter I would like to share with you some of our thoughts and beliefs for the future. Alibaba is a values-based company driven by our mission "to make it easy to do business anywhere." Our proposition is simple: we want to help small businesses grow by solving their problems through Internet technology. We fight for the little guy. Since our founding in 1999, we have helped millions of small businesses to achieve a brighter future, and we hope to do this for at least 102 years, thus spanning our company’s life over at least three centuries. We do not simply attempt to push the boundaries of technology — instead we seek to harness technological improvements to expand the boundaries of business. Alibaba is not the creation of a few technology innovations or a couple of whiz kids. We have developed an ecosystem that has been built by tens of millions of participants who are passionate about the future and steadfast in their belief that the Internet should be fair, open, transparent and shared. Together, these participants have invested time, energy and passion into this ecosystem, and today the world can see what they have accomplished. From the very beginning our founders have aspired to create a company founded by Chinese people but that belongs to the world. In the past decade, we measured ourselves by how much we changed China. In the future, we will be judged by how much progress we bring to the world. This challenge is enormous, but it is also a blessing to have this rare opportunity. This challenge requires us to do our best day-to-day, but most importantly it requires us to think about what is best over the long-term. Alibaba’s mission makes it impossible for us to become an empire-like business. We believe that only by creating an open, collaborative and prosperous ecosystem that enables its constituents to fully participate can we truly help our small business and consumer customers. As stewards of this ecosystem, we spend our focus, effort, time and energy on initiatives that will benefit the greater good of the ecosystem and its various participants. We can only be successful if our customers and business partners are successful. We firmly believe that businesses in the 21st century must take responsibility to help solve the problems of society. In the history of our development, social responsibility has always been embedded in our corporate DNA. We believe that a healthy and prosperous ecosystem can only be achieved through solving large-scale problems of society. The Internet has given us a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to create a new business paradigm in China. This transformative work will not be easy, and it will require us to be consistent, to work across many dimensions, and to focus on what’s best for the long-term benefit of our ecosystem and its participants. In addition, our mission requires our company to behave with the utmost degree of fairness, transparency and efficiency toward participants in the ecosystem. This is not only a moral duty, but also the foundation of our own survival and growth. Our hard work has awarded us unique advantages — the complexity of our ecosystem and the challenges of sustaining its vigor mean that it is not easily replicated by others. If you own shares in our company, you will become a part of our ecosystem. This means that the Alibaba team will have a duty to look after your interests. But it will also mean that you will have an important responsibility to help us maintain and grow our ecosystem by sharing our view that success will be defined as sustainable, long-term growth and prosperity. Our journey over the past 15 years has not been easy, and we have faced our share of challenges. We have often found ourselves in complex situations where we must make difficult choices among competing interests: between buyers and sellers; between competing sellers; between entrepreneurialism and regulation; between innovation and the need for stability. Behind every substantial innovation or step forward, we have encountered and will continue to encounter resistance from vested interests who prefer the status quo. In addition, many problems in the real world manifest themselves in different shapes and forms in our ecosystem, including intellectual property infringement and those who seek to exploit our ecosystem for unfair gains. Like all companies today, we must grapple with these tough issues. Even an ecosystem built on the Internet cannot be entirely free from problems in the traditional economy, because the participants in our ecosystem and their activities cannot be isolated from the physical world. It is by no means easy to handle these issues because there are no perfect solutions to regulate an economy to begin with. By the same token, an ecosystem cannot be perfectly designed ahead of time because it evolves organically. Alibaba’s development therefore must embrace rapid change according to our evolving environment. After we become a public company in the United States, we will face new challenging issues. When an Internet company of our scale that originated from China enters the global scene, you should expect that it will encounter skepticism from different directions due to differences in cultural perspectives, values and even geopolitical positioning. While it may be difficult for a public Alibaba to side-step controversy, we hope that controversies generate constructive debate and add fresh perspectives to the dialogue on globalization. It is not our style to shy away from challenges. As a shareholder of Alibaba, you can rest assured that we will stick to our ideals, be ourselves, focus on the future and adhere to the principles of integrity and transparency in our corporate governance. We will act in a way to safeguard the long-term value and sustainability of the ecosystem. Your trust and support will be our greatest asset, and our creed is to not forsake the trust that people have in us. I have said on numerous occasions that we will put "customers first, employees second, and shareholders third." I can see that investors who hear this for the first time may find it a bit hard to understand. Let me be clear: as fiduciaries of the company, we believe that the only way for Alibaba to create long-term value for shareholders is to create sustainable value for customers. So customers must come first. Next come our employees, because in today’s knowledge economy, employees are most important in having satisfied customers. Without talented, happy, diligent and passionately committed employees, our commitment to serving customers will be empty. A company that does not have satisfied employees will not have satisfied customers, and without satisfied customers, we could not possibly have satisfied shareholders. We respect and are grateful for investors who support us with their precious capital. Our history with long-term investors, including Yahoo and SoftBank, has demonstrated that our investors can benefit substantially from sharing our long-term approach. Not only that, our investors will also derive satisfaction in knowing that they will help Alibaba to create jobs, spur innovation, level the playing field for small businesses, and drive transformation for social and economic growth. Our company will not make decisions based on short-term revenues or profits. Our strategies will be implemented with mission-driven, long-term development in mind. Our people, capital, technology and resources will be utilized to safeguard the sustainable development and growth of the Alibaba ecosystem. We welcome investors with the same long-term mindset. To ensure the sustainability of the company and the interests of our customers, employees, investors and other ecosystem participants, we have always operated under the principles of collaboration and shared commitment among those who are responsible for our business. This operating philosophy is embodied in the Alibaba Partnership. We believe that our partnership approach has helped us to better manage our business, with the peer nature of the partnership enabling senior managers to work as a team and override bureaucracy and hierarchy. Our ecosystem is too complex — and too important — for us to depend on one or two founders or executives, no matter how capable they are. We must deal with the issue of sustainability and succession systematically. Our partnership system promotes people with different skill sets but all having the same beliefs and values. It is not a system established to protect individual interests. It exists to safeguard our mission, values, vision and culture. Each year, by admitting new partners, we inject new energy and perspectives. In this way, we can ensure that our operations will continue to improve with time and scale. In the interest of building a business ecosystem that is healthy, sustainable and growing, the corporate charter of the company empowers the partners in the Alibaba Partnership to have a strong say in charting the strategic direction and moral compass of the company. We have invested a lot of thought into creating this structure and, with a heavy sense of responsibility, we exercise great care in the selection and admission of partners to the partnership. I encourage you to study the description of the Alibaba Partnership in the prospectus to learn more about our philosophical approach to this important aspect of corporate governance, an aspect that we believe is unique and innovative. Following our IPO, you will receive a letter like this one each year in our annual report. My partners in the Alibaba Partnership will take turns writing the annual letter. I would like to thank you for considering an ownership in Alibaba. My colleagues and I would like to assure you that we are committed to serving the Alibaba ecosystem for the benefit of all of its constituents. Jack Ma Executive Chairman Alibaba Group Holding Limited FREE AppDownload
US biotech firm AbbVie is to team up with Infinity Pharmaceuticals, a US pharma company, investing US$800m to develop a promising blood cancer drug. The company is also funnelling US$250m into a joint research partnership with Google to develop drugs for age-related diseases. Under the deal with Infinity, AbbVie will pay the company US$275m upfront in cash to fund further development of blood cancer drug Duvesilib, with an additional US$530m in milestone payments. Both parties will be responsible for developing and commercialising the drug in the US. Outside the US those responsibilities will fall on AbbVie, with Infinity receiving tiered royalties on the product's sales-ranging from 23.5% to 30.5%. Duvesilib, also known as IPI-145, is currently being used in clinical trials for a wide range of blood cancers, including indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma (phase II) and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (phase III). A phase I study of the drug in patients with advanced blood cancers is ongoing and there are plans to launch multiple Phase II and III studies in other haematologic malignancies over the next few years. The deal will add to AbbVie's ongoing expansion in the field of oncology, where it has a total of nine compounds in clinical trials. AbbVie's collaboration with Google will take the form of scientific and clinical development support for Calico, the life sciences unit that was created by the US technology firm last year in a bid to solve the problem of ageing. AbbVie will invest around US$250m in Calico (with Google investing the same amount), some of which will go towards helping the life sciences start-up establish a research and development (R&amp;D) facility in San Francisco. The partners may end up contributing an additional US$500m each to further Calico's research, which will look at areas such as neurodegeneration and cancer. Calico will take responsibility for research and early development during the first five years of the collaboration, while also taking the lead when pushing projects through to Phase IIa of clinical trials for a ten-year period. AbbVie will then be given the opportunity to manage late-stage development activity. Costs and profits will be shared equally throughout the collaboration. These latest agreements mark what is set to be a year of heavy investment by AbbVie, which has already spent around US$54bn buying Shire, a UK pharma firm, in mid-July of this year. AbbVie is hoping that it will be able to use the Shire takeover to move its headquarters to the UK, where corporate tax rates are lower than those in the US. This process, known as "tax inversion", has become increasingly popular among US companies, although a public outcry over the practice has prompted the administration of the president, Barack Obama, to look into ways to crack down on such deals. Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersZuckerberg, founder and CEO of Facebook, gestures during his conference at Seminar "Mexico Siglo XXI", organized by Telmex foundation, in Mexico CityBy Christine Murray MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Facebook Inc  is prepared to spend billions of dollars to reach its goal of bringing the Internet to everyone on the planet, Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg said on Friday. "What we really care about is connecting everyone in the world," Zuckerberg said at an event in Mexico City hosted by Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim. "Even if it means that Facebook has to spend billions of dollars over the next decade making this happen, I believe that over the long term its gonna be a good thing for us and for the world." Around 3 billion people will have access to the Internet by the end of 2014, according to International Telecommunications Union (ITU) statistics. Almost half that, 1.3 billion people, use Facebook. Facebook, the world's largest social networking company, launched its Internet.org project last year to connect billions of people without Internet access in places such as Africa and Asia by working with phone operators. "I believe that ... when everyone is on the Internet all of our businesses and economies will be better," Zuckerberg said.  (Editing by Simon Gardner and Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
John Moore / Getty ImagesTraders at work on the floor.FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Do Rising Stocks Equal Trouble? (AdviceIQ) Times are good in the stock market right now. So good, in fact, that some predict trouble is looming. Don't buy that prediction cautions, V. Raymond Ferrara, president and chief executive of ProVise Management Group LLC. "Recently, the bears have even talked about a 20% downturn, which would qualify as a true bear market. Some are even suggesting that a 50% downturn is possible. While almost anything is possible, the question is what is the probability?" posits Ferrara. "Given solid second quarter corporate earnings as well as decent economic growth, a 50% downturn is highly improbable anytime in the next few years. We can visualize a 20% downturn, but if it occurred it would more likely be a result of geopolitical events rather than economic fundamentals," says Ferrara.  Structured Products Could Be Useful In A Trust Portfolio (Wealth Management) Fiduciaries now have a much great level of freedom to employ a variety of investment products thanks to the widespread adoption of both the Uniform Prudent Investor Act and the Uniform Principal and Income Act.  "Whereas portfolios typically were invested almost exclusively in stocks and bonds previously, today’s portfolios frequently add commodities, foreign currencies and a variety of other investments to the mix," writes JP Morgan investment specialist Adam M. Morris. "Among a fiduciary's current prudent investment choices, structured products can serve an important purpose. In the right circumstances and handled properly, these strategies, also known as structured investments, structured notes or just "structures" -can increase return and reduce risk." Don't Get Caught Out By The Cyclical Nature Of Investing (Institutional Investor)  'In investing, as in life, timing can be everything," says Tad Rivelle, CIO for fixed income at TCW. "The cycles of capital markets are as immutable as are the seasons of the year." "Those who commit risk capital while the cycle is enjoying its risk-on spring will prosper; those who avoid risk-taking during the spring would be advised not to do so as the autumn chill approaches," adds Rivelle.  "Shockingly, the ability of our institutions to forecast, much less control financial and economic cycles has been exceedingly poor," laments Rivelle. However, his point isn't to lambaste the Fed, the government, or Wall Street. Rather, Rivelle seeks "to remind that the customary ways of understanding and measuring cycles are nearly useless and investors need to examine them in a new, or at least different, way." The Relationship Between The Price Of Gold And The Value Of The Dollar (Advisor Perspectives) The relationship between the price of gold and the value of the dollar can be explained very logically, explains AdvisorShare's Ade Odunsi.  "So rather than view gold as a physical asset with a given amount of intrinsic value we instead think of gold as a physical currency whose value can be determined, as with other currencies, relative to other currencies," Odunsi writes. "In its essence when an investor buys gold in dollars they are expressing the view that they expect the price of gold to increase in terms of the number of dollars for which it can be exchanged at a future date. Similarly an investor that holds gold in euro terms is expressing the view that they expect the price of gold to increase in terms of the number of euros for which it can be exchanged at a future date." Fidelity Reviewed Which Investors Did Best And What They Found Was Hilarious (Business Insider) On this week's Master in Business program on Bloomberg Radio, Barry Ritholtz spoke with O'Shaughnessy Asset Management's James O'Shaughnessy.  "Ritholtz and O'Shaughnessy spend much of their discussion talking about the ways people screw themselves when investing, because nothing gets in the way of returns quite like someone who thinks they have a great idea," Business Insider's Myles Udland writes. "Because of our behavioral biases, we often find ourselves buying high and selling low." FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/ Donald BowersThe latest Bloomberg News made some people think that they were getting ripped off for their annual bonuses. Outgoing CEO Dan Doctoroff wrote in his memo that revenues for 2014 were $9 billion. From Doctoroff's memo:  "Company revenues increased from $5.4 billion in 2007 to over $9 billion in 2014 in spite of the impact of the financial crisis and its aftermath." A tipster tells Business Insider that the revenue number as of June 30 was pegged $8.48 billion, not $9 billion.  A Bloomberg insider also complained to Chris Roush at TalkingBizNews because reporters' annual bonuses depend on the media giant's financial results. So if the revenue is actually at $9 billion, then that would have implied bonuses should have been higher. A source familiar with the discrepancy explained: That $9 billion number Doctoroff cites is projected revenue for the year and it's inclusive of the Bureau of National Affairs — a subsidiary of Bloomberg LP —whereas the previous number didn't include the BNA. FREE AppDownload
Google ImagesJoe Takagi enjoyed a successful career leading Nakatomi Trading, which had built its U.S. headquarters in Los Angeles, in the film "Die Hard." A year and a half into Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's tenure, results about his bold attempt to revive Japan's moribund economy remain inconclusive. Last week, the FT literally asked whether Abenomics was failing. While Japan's labor market has strengthened, firms have mostly been creating lower-wage jobs, and economic growth has begun to tail off.  It's thus almost inconceivable that a wave of Japanese conglomerates would be able to snap up American corporate assets as investments.   But in the 1980s, it was a fact of life. Starting with a relative trickle at the beginning of that decade, Japanese corporations went on an epic buying spree in America during the latter half of the decade after both countries agreed to revalue their currencies. The trend became so widespread that the "Japanese takeover" theme began seeping into American culture.   Via Google News, we now take you on a tour of this singular moment in the life of both countries. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeAlibaba founder Jack Ma. Chinese ecommerce giant Alibaba is set to raise up to $21 billion in its IPO, with shares expected to be priced at between $60 and $66, according to a filing with the SEC.  The company's updated filing shows that the offering will comprise up to 320 million shares, with the company itself offering 123 million shares and investors such as founder Jack Ma, executive chairman Joe Tsai, and Yahoo offering 197 million shares. At the midpoint of this range, the company would be valued at about $160 billion. Alibaba's offering is likely to be the largest debut on the New York Stock Exchange. AlibabaA really broad overview of everything Alibaba does. At the high end of its $60-to-$66 offer range, Alibaba would raise about $21.1 billion, surpassing the $19.7 billion raised by Visa in its 2008 public offering.  Alibaba is a Chinese ecommerce behemoth that is part Amazon, part eBay, and part PayPal, among other things. Alibaba's filing shows Yahoo will sell roughly 121 million shares in the IPO, giving Yahoo a 16.3% stake in Alibaba after the offering. Currently Yahoo holds a 22.6% stake in the company. Earlier on Friday, CNBC reported that Alibaba planned to begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Sept. 19 and is likely to price shares on Sept. 18. Shares will trade under the ticker BABA. Alibaba is also set to begin its roadshow — meetings with investors ahead of its public offering — next week, and The Wall Street Journal reports the company will meet with investors in Asia, Europe, and the U.S.  Reports ahead of the IPO have indicated that Jack Ma, the company's founder and chairman, is China's richest person, with a net worth of $21.8 billion owing to his 7.3% in Alibaba and his nearly 50% stake in Alipay, its PayPal-like payment unit.  Back when Alibaba filed for its IPO in May, Business Insider's Jay Yarow pulled these three charts from the company's massive prospectus that basically explain what Alibaba does.  In late August, Business Insider's David Smith highlighted this chart, which shows how Alibaba's revenue from mobile has grown steadily. Additionally, research from Business Insider Intelligence indicated that the value of all merchandise sold over Alibaba's sites was roughly four times greater than that of eBay.BI Intelligence FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerStudents of Shaolin Tagou Martial Arts School are suspended in mid-air as they practise in a dress rehearsal for a stunt performance which is part of the opening ceremony of the 2014 Nanjing Youth Olympic Games, at a stadium in Nanjing, Jiangsu province.Stocks finished higher on Friday, with the S&amp;P 500 making another all-time high, despite an August jobs report that was mixed, as nonfarm payrolls grew by far less than expected, though the unemployment rate fell to 6.1%.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Friday: 1. The biggest news on Friday was the August jobs report, which showed nonfarm payrolls grew by 142,000 in August, far less than 230,000 that was expected by economists. Despite payrolls gains that disappointed, the unemployment rate fell to 6.1% from 6.2%. The report showed that wage growth also came in in-line with expectations, with wages growing 2.1% year-over-year and 0.2% month-over-month. The labor force participation rate fell slightly, to 62.8% from 62.9%, with August marking the fourth time in five months that the labor force participation rate has come in at 62.8%, the lowest in more than 20 years.  2. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics said, "In one line: Noise happens, and this looks like noise. No other data signal slowing labor demand." David Zervos at Jefferies said this market is "perfect" for risk assets like stocks, as Zervos said the report puts no pressure on the Fed to raise interest rates sooner than is necessary. 3. Tesla announced on Thursday afternoon that it will build its gigafactory to manufacture lithium-ion batteries in Nevada. Tesla CEO Elon Musk said that Nevada didn't offer the company the largest incentive deal, but said the most important part of building the factory is time to completion, and Nevada was more prepared than any state to get the project off the ground. California, Texas, and New Mexico were also among the states that Tesla considered for its gigafactory.  4. Tesla shares also had a tough day on Friday, falling more than 3% after Musk said that the company's stock price is "kind of high right now." Speaking with CNBC's Phil LeBeau, Musk said, "I think our stock price is kind of high right now, to be totally honest. Or rather, let me put it to you this way: If you care about the long-term of Tesla, I think the stock is a good price. If you're looking at the short-term, it's less clear." 5. Family Dollar rejected the most recent takeover bid from Dollar General, which raised its bid for the rival discount retailer to $9.1 billion, with Family Dollar saying the most recent offer wasn't reasonable because it would be unlikely to gain regulatory approval. "There is a very real and material risk that the transaction proposed by Dollar General would fail to close, after a lengthy and disruptive review process," Family Dollar Chief Executive Howard Levine said in a statement. Family Dollar shares fell 1% on Friday, while shares of Dollar General were down more than 2%.  6. Among the biggest stock losers on Friday was surfing apparel brand Quiksilver, which fell more than 26% after reporting a $220 million loss in the third quarter on revenue that fell 19% compared to the prior year. Friday's sharp drop in Quiksilver shares also marks the second straight quarter that the stock has fallen sharply after its quarterly report.  Don't Miss: It's Been A Really Long Time Since We've Seen A 10% Decline In Stocks » FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
NY Association Of Homes & Services For The AgingLarry GlazerThe real estate CEO whose company was linked to the small plane that crashed in Jamaica on Friday was called the "patron saint" of Rochester, New York for his extensive claim on the city's skyline. Tim Louis Macaluso of City Newspaper in Rochester profiled Larry Glazer, who owns Buckingham Properties, in July.  Glazer and his wife were on the plane Glazer owned when it crashed, his son confirmed. The plane became unresponsive over the Atlantic Ocean. Here's what Macaluso wrote about Glazer just a couple of months ago: Glazer's company, Buckingham Properties, either owns, co-owns, or manages nearly 13 million square feet of real estate space, including some of downtown Rochester's most iconic buildings: Midtown Tower, Xerox Square, and the Bausch and Lomb building. Glazer, Buckingham's CEO and managing partner, began the company in the late 1960's when he partnered with a friend on a duplex. Now with 60 buildings in the Rochester area as well as projects in Florida, Buckingham is a rapidly growing, highly diversified real estate development company. Glazer had big plans to improve downtown Rochester. One proposed development, dubbed "The Grove," was slated to include retail space, a movie theater, and possibly a hotel, according to City Newspaper. He told the newspaper: "My vision starts with the idea that downtown can come back and it will be vibrant. It will be different than it was. But I've spent the last few years traveling around this country looking at downtowns, and I see what they've done. And I'm telling you that there's no reason why Rochester can't do it, too." Glazer founded Buckingham Properties in 1970, according to the company's website. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonChipotle enjoyed the biggest gains of any restaurant. The fast food business has completely changed over the past decade.  Dominant chains like McDonald's and Burger King have lost market share to fast-casual options like Chipotle, Panera Bread, and Buffalo Wild Wings.  This chart by Morgan Stanley shows which restaurants have become more and less popular over the past decade.  While fast casual chains still make up a smaller percentage than traditional fast food or casual restaurants, they are gaining the most traction, the analysts write.  Chipotle and Panera Bread have gained the most customers. Meanwhile, Burger King and KFC have suffered the most.  Morgan Stanley Other losers include casual dining restaurants like Outback and Red Lobster.  Despite an overall decline in the fast food industry, McDonald's has managed to gain customers.  The burger chain also remains the most popular restaurant in America, as evidenced by the chart below.  Morgan Stanley More than half of adults have visited McDonald's in the past 6 months.  The next popular restaurant was Subway, with 34% of adults visiting one of the sandwich chain's locations.  FREE AppDownload
The S&amp;P 500 has gone more than two years without a 10% correction. This is a long time. But a market going this long without a 10% pullback isn't unprecedented.  In its latest chart book giving an overview of the world economy, Deutsche Bank notes that while the 563-day streak the S&amp;P 500 has gone without a 10% correction is longer than average, "it's fairly typical of an up-cycle outside of recessions."  DB adds that 10% corrections, which many people have expected, usually cluster near recessions and crises, not the middle of a positive economic cycle.  It's been a long time since a 10% correction, and we may be waiting for a while longer until the next one.  Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleHere's Elizabeth Hurley kissing someone else.Married banker Julian Bharti, 27, shelled out $81,000 to plant a kiss on model/actress Elizabeth Hurley, PageSix reports. It was for a good cause. Bharti made the sizeable donation to the Elton John AIDS Foundation at an auction on Thursday evening so he could kiss the 49-year-old bombshell.  Bharti is the founder of Delano Capital, a firm that provides capital raising and advisory services to companies in the natural resources sector. He's also managing director at Forbes &amp; Manhattan — a merchant bank founded by multimillionaire mining financier Stan Bharti. The young banker is married. His wife didn't mind, the report said.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA just-delivered Amazon box is seen on a counter in Golden, ColoradoSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Indian regulators are investigating whether Amazon.com Inc may have circumvented restrictions placed on foreign investors by selling directly to domestic consumers, the Wall Street Journal on Friday cited unidentified sources as saying. The finance ministry's Enforcement Directorate is looking into whether Amazon's Indian subsidiary may have sold directly to customers but made it look as if the sales were made by other companies, the Journal cited two people familiar with the matter as saying. India doesn't allow foreign firms to own majority stakes in retail companies that sell more than one brand. Amazon is allowed there because it acts as a marketplace rather than a retailer, according to the Journal. Amazon was not immediately available for comment.  (Reporting by Edwin Chan; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWilliam Ackman, founder and CEO of hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management, speaks to the audience about Herbalife company in New YorkBy Jeffrey Dastin and Daina Beth Solomon (Reuters) - New York hedge fund manager William Ackman says Herbalife is a pyramid scheme that exploits the poor. He has taken a $1 billion bet against the company’s stock and spent millions on research to attack the nutritional supplements seller, including making a video showing former distributors who claim they were deceived and lost money trying to sell its products. Yet a visit to some of  the clubs that have been set up to dispense the company’s shakes, teas and other items, largely to the Hispanic community in the U.S., shows that it has fans. These are consumers who stress their health has improved and distributors who are thankful to have the opportunity to run their own businesses. In conversations at 10 such clubs that Reuters reporters visited in recent weeks in the Los Angeles area, New York and Newark, New Jersey, more than 20 people said they had lost a substantial amount of weight while consuming Herbalife products. These claims could not be verified by Reuters but if true the comments cast a favorable light on Herbalife’s products, especially as Hispanics suffer from higher rates of obesity than the overall U.S. population. While some of the people running the clubs were struggling to make ends meet, most were optimistic about being distributors of the products. In particular, women with children said they were pleased with flexible hours and the opportunity to bring their kids to work when necessary.  Two customers sipping shakes in a club in Boyle Heights on the east side of Los Angeles, Silvia Lopez and Ana Montenegro, were typical of those who swear by the products. "When I met her, her stomach was up to here," Lopez said, holding a hand over Montenegro's belly. "And I said, 'Let's go. We can do it.'" "She lost 30 pounds!" Lopez said. "Forty," Montenegro corrected her. Both said they have no interest in selling Herbalife products, just consuming them. Ruth Lozano, 41, who also runs a club in Boyle Heights, claims that she dropped eight sizes through use of Herbalife products and her cholesterol levels dropped. And Angel Perez, a 29-year-old daughter of Mexican immigrants, says she makes a “decent, honest living” selling Herbalife products, earning about $3,000 to $4,000 per month. Her club in Inglewood, just west of  Los Angeles, encourages  a friendly, cafe-like environment, with monthly weight-loss challenges. She resents the attacks from Ackman. "I am not a poor, dumb, Hispanic person, and I am not trying to take advantage of people," she said. "I find that insulting. I'm trying to help our community."   SATURATION WARNING Herbalife recommends that those seeking to lose weight replace two of their three meals each day with shakes, which are made with a powder that contains protein and vitamins that is then mixed with soy or nonfat milk and some other ingredients depending on the flavor desired. Some doctors allied with Herbalife back the company’s diet claims. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, though, has not evaluated those claims. Ackman’s main line of attack has not been about the quality of the products and whether they work in controlling weight or improving health. Instead, he has argued that the whole Herbalife system is a pyramid scheme that won’t survive – that it is based on recruiting new distributors to pay existing distributors (their incomes are based on their own sales and on the sales of those they recruit) and that the market will get saturated as more clubs are established often very near existing ones.  His team has produced a video in which a series of former Herbalife distributors say they spent thousands of dollars on Herbalife products and training but ended up with losses and products they couldn’t sell.  "These are pretend businesses," said David Klafter, senior counsel at Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management. The hedge fund estimates that sellers on average lose about $12,000 per year once rent for the clubs is taken into account. Partly as a result of lobbying by Ackman, there are a series of federal and state investigations into whether Herbalife is a pyramid scheme and related questions. It is unclear what the precise details of those probes are, and it is not clear whether they will lead to any action against Herbalife and how serious any such action could be. Herbalife and its supporters argue that it is a legitimate multi-level marketing company that has been growing now for 34 years, sells products that are in demand, and helps many of its 3.7 million distributors worldwide to make a living. “The overwhelming majority of our consumers and members have been satisfied with their Herbalife experiences,” a company spokesman said.   SOME COMPLAINTS On the visits to the clubs in the U.S. there were a minority of distributors who were skeptical about the business they had gotten into. One distributor in South Los Angeles says she spends about $1,200 a month on Herbalife products but only earns enough to help pay the rent at her exercise studio. An 18-year-old Guatemalan-born mother who would only give her name as Mary currently works up to half a day for no pay at a club in Newark, though she does get free shakes. She has also paid a $110 registration fee to become a member and is taking classes to learn more about the product as she wants to become a distributor.  Some of the distributors interviewed said they made a good living.   One 27-year-old, who only gave his name as Alex, pulled out a wad of cash in one club in the Bronx to illustrate how well he claimed to be doing. The clubs vary from relatively sophisticated exercise studios that sell and distribute Herbalife products to very basic rooms with just a dozen chairs in a circle to encourage customers to relax and socialize, sometimes watching Spanish-language soap operas while looking after their kids.   John Hempton, an Australian hedge fund manager, who says he owns the stock and has visited Herbalife clubs in Australia and the U.S., sees the clubs creating a sense of community. “The product is real, and it fulfills a fairly real human need. It is a support group for weight loss,” he recently told Reuters. Still, some distributors warn it clearly isn’t an occupation for everyone. Delmy Ruiz says she makes a couple of thousand dollars a month selling Herbalife out of a club in Canoga Park in the San Fernando Valley but the 64-year-old’s attempt to get her son to do the same failed. “He did what I did step by step, but he didn’t make it,” said Ruiz, adding that his heart wasn’t in it. “You don’t work, you don’t get paid.”     (Additional reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss in Boston and Anjuli Athavaley in New York; Editing by Christian Plumb and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA security guard greets workers outside the AIG headquarters in New York's financial district September 15, 2008. NEW YORK (Reuters) - An American International Group Inc unit sued a company headed by Philadelphia philanthropist Alan Buerger, accusing it of a $150 million fraud involving life insurance policies sold by elderly individuals in exchange for a quick payment. The lawsuit, filed on Friday in Manhattan federal court, said AIG's Lavastone Capital had paid Coventry First of Fort Washington, Pennsylvania, more than $1 billion since 2006 to help it acquire the policies, known as "life settlements." Coventry is the "leader and creator" of the life settlement industry, according to its website. Investors who acquire a policy cover the premiums until the individual’s death and then collect the payout. Rather than identifying appropriate policies and selling them to Lavastone at the elderly individuals' asking price, the lawsuit claimed, Coventry used a network of shell companies to artificially inflate the prices to Lavastone. "Thus, defendants' behavior is no different than an auction house that knows a bidder's maximum price ceiling and then uses 'shill bidders' associated with the auction house to fraudulently inflate the price to that bidder's maximum bid," the lawsuit said. It called Coventry and Chief Executive Officer Buerger "scam artists." Buerger said he could not comment on the lawsuit because he had not yet read it. Lavastone lost more than $150 million as a result of the arrangement, according to the lawsuit, which said that figure was "likely just the tip of the iceberg." Lavastone accused Coventry of engaging in racketeering, fraud, conspiracy, breach of contract and other violations. The lawsuit also noted two previous civil fraud actions against Coventry brought by the New York Attorney General's office and Florida's insurance regulator, both of which were settled. Besides Coventry, the lawsuit names a number of other business entities as well as Buerger and several family members. Lavastone spent approximately $6.5 billion over a decade to acquire nearly 7,000 life settlements with a face value of $20 billion, according to the lawsuit. AIG has since wound down its life settlement business, the lawsuit said. The Buergers are well-known philanthropists in Philadelphia. Last year they donated $50 million to the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. The case is Lavastone Capital LLC v. Coventry First LLC et al., U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, No. 14-7139.   (Reporting by Joseph Ax; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
Deutsche Bank is out with its latest economic outlook presentation, titled "Fragile Equilibrium," and in it the firm has one map that sums up all the problems facing emerging market investors.  DB highlights the diverging growth trajectories among some of the largest emerging market economies including Russia, Brazil, India, Turkey, and South Africa. Each of these have their problems, but Brazil and Russia in particular are struggling, with growth in both nations falling below 1%. Post-World Cup, Brazil is on the verge of a recession, and Russia is dealing with huge international sanctions after its incursions into Eastern Ukraine. Turkey and India are both growing at clips above 3%, with India enjoying growth better than 5% after the spring election of prime minister Narendra Modi.  Overall, Deutsche Bank sees emerging markets growing at 4.7% in 2014 and 5.2% in 2015, and this map serves as a great primer on the challenges the largest emerging market economies face.  Deutsche Bank 
From Deutsche Bank, all you need to know about the last month. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Esben OxholmIs this what it will look like?BERLIN/FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Know what a "Wearable" is? Most top tech executives would struggle to define it. Now they're hoping that Apple will do it for them. Next week, Apple Inc &lt;aapl.o&gt; is expected to stride into the market for wearable accessories that link wirelessly up to phones and create a template for other firms that have struggled to create products consumers would want to be seen in. Rival electronics makers have been marketing hundreds of wearable products over the past year, but have little to show for it in sales despite huge hype for accessories seen as a critical boost to the vast but increasingly saturated market for mobile phones. Executives at Europe's big consumer electronics trade fair this week in Berlin readily admit to hoping that Apple can crack the missing code for everyone. Where the U.S. innovator leads, its rivals plan to follow by bringing their own improvements or by seeking out profitable niche markets that Apple ignores. "If Apple offers its own product, it will expand the market," Sung-jin Lee, Director of LG Electronics Inc's &lt;066570.KS&gt; watch product planning team, said in an interview. "This is what we wanted," Sunny Lee, CEO of Samsung Electronics' &lt;005930.KS&gt; European business told Reuters when asked about Apple's likely debut. Media reports have pinpointed 9 September as the date Apple will introduce its long-rumored smartwatch - a wrist device that typically connects to a nearby phone. Expectations are high for the iWatch, which could be the tech giant’s first brand new product after a four-year dry spell during which it faced pressure to create another groundbreaking consumer gadget. So far Samsung dominates the smartwatch market, with 74 percent, but numbers remain small. Compared to the 1.3 billion mobile phones expected to be sold industry wide this year, just 1 million smartwatches shipped in the second quarter of 2014, according to market research firm Strategy Analytics estimates. BUT WILL YOU WEAR IT? Those kind of volumes suggest the industry remains in wait-and-see mode, despite devoting huge marketing energy to wearable devices that has garnered an amount of press attention disproportionate to the number of products on the shelves. "Ultimately, what all these companies have been doing is just public prototyping," or testing the market, said mobile analyst Ben Wood of market research firm CCS Insight. So far tech companies have struggled to impress consumers in part because younger generations who rarely wear watches but glance at their phones instead don't see the point of a wrist-worn accessory unless it can do something a phone can't. Apple's arrival promises to bring fashion sense and sleek design to a market that so far has emphasized the technology inside their products rather than its outward usability or aesthetics, Wood noted. "We are in the Stone Age of wearables right now," said Wood - a self-confessed wearables geek who has 15 such devices strewn on the floor of his office. While "wearables" is a flexible term that covers health and fitness wrist bands, ear pieces, and even smart glasses or goggles, research firm CCS Insight predicts 87 percent of the market will be wrist-worn devices by 2018. It forecasts the number of wearable devices to ship will reach 135 million in 2018, up from just under 10 million in 2013. That forecast is partly based on anticipation that Apple will enter the market and on hit products eventually emerging.   GOLD RUSH So far market-leader Samsung has launched five watch models including one which can make and receive phone calls without linking to a nearby phone. [ID:nL3N0QY18Z] Its closest competitors, according to Strategy Analytics' data, are Pebble Technology Corp, which holds 13 percent of the market with its square-faced black phones offering links to Web apps, and Sony Corp. &lt;6758.T&gt;, which has 8 percent and recently launched a new smartwatch model that look like a computer clock. In a bid to muscle in, LG announced this week in Berlin a range of smartwatches inspired by the design of classic Swiss watches. Unlike many rival black and boxy devices on the market, one doesn't spot the electronics inside at first glance. "It is not a gold rush yet, but it has the potential to be," said Lee, the LG watch executive, of the wearables market. Chinese network and phone equipment maker Huawei has so far dabbled in wearables but believes that as long as the devices are sold as accessories to phones, rather than by shrinking phone functions to fit inside, the category won't take off. "A wearable should be a stand-alone product - and that may take a while," Shao Yang, Huawei's[HWT.UL] vice president of consumer marketing, said in an interview in Berlin. Traditional watch makers may also benefit if tech firms find the right mix of fashion and function. In a recent interview, Swatch Group &lt;uhr.vx&gt; CEO Nick Hayek said smartwatches might convince younger generations to start wearing something on their wrists - making them Swatch targets at a later stage. The Wall Street Journal and other media report that Apple’s device is likely to come in two versions and simplify the process of making mobile payments, but may not actually ship until next year. Industry executives expect it to eventually also sport an array of sensors to enable health and fitness monitoring.   (Additional reporting by Harro Ten Wolde and Klaus Lauer in Berlin, Silke Koltrowitz in Zurich and Christina Farr in San Francisco; Editing by Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Victor FraileBrazil's Pedro Henrique competes against Australia's Joel Parkinson during the fourth round of the Quiksilver Pro France.Quiksilver shares are crashing. Shares of the surf apparel retailer were down more than 30% on Friday after the company reported a $220 million loss in its third quarter on Thursday night. Revenue fell 19% in the third quarter to $396 million from $488 million in the prior year period. Quiksilver also reported a loss per share from continuing operations of $1.29 in the third quarter, which compares to breakeven quarter in the same period last year.  "We continued to execute against the key initiatives laid out in our profit improvement plan and to drive growth in our direct to consumer channels and emerging markets," said Andy Mooney, president and CEO of Quiksilver. "As we expected, revenues for the third quarter declined in our wholesale channels in North America and Europe. In addition, late product deliveries, largely the result of our transition to global demand planning, negatively impacted our sales performance and gross margin." Friday's tumble marks the second straight quarter that shares of the company have fallen hard after earnings. Back in early June, Quiksilver shares also fell 30% after its second quarter earnings and sales missed expectations.  In its June quarter, sales of its namesake label fell 7%; Quiksilver brand sales fell 17% in the most recent quarter. And overall, 2014 has been a disaster for Quiksilver investors, with shares of the company now down more than 75% year-to-date. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Pascal RossignolBoeing's Ray Conner (R) and Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary at the 50th Paris Air Show, June 19, 2013.PARIS/DUBLIN (Reuters) - Ryanair &lt;rya.i&gt; is in advanced talks to buy around 100 of a high-density version of Boeing's 737 MAX jetliner in a potential $10 billion deal that could be finalized within weeks, two people familiar with the matter said. The move comes two months after Boeing said it was studying plans to offer more seating in its upcoming 737 MAX by introducing a modified version with 200 seats, 11 more than the current maximum. A deal for about 100 of those aircraft could be reached as early as the middle of September, one of the people said, asking not to be identified because the talks are confidential. "Ryanair does not comment upon, or engage in, rumor or speculation," a spokesman for the airline said. A European spokesman for Boeing Co declined to comment.   (Reporting by Tim Hepher, Conor Humphries, Editing by Geert de Clercq) FREE AppDownload
CNBC/Scott WapnerScott Wapner, the anchor of "Halftime Report," is a big star over at CNBC. He works hard, he books big-name guests, and he's constantly getting big scoops and breaking news.  We also can never forget the time he beautifully refereed the historic on-air brawl between billionaire hedge fund titans Carl Icahn and Bill Ackman. He was also the one who helped bring the pair of longtime rivals together to hug it out on stage at the CNBC Delivering Alpha Conference.  Wapner gave us a glimpse into what his typical day is like.  FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Mark J. TerrillElon Musk.  FREE AppDownload
We recently looked at the dominant languages in each of NYC's neighborhoods. Now, we're taking a look at New Yorkers' ancestral backgrounds. The American Community Survey is a massive annual effort by the Census Bureau to understand the citizens of the United States. Over three million people per year are asked questions about housing, demographics, and economics. In one of the many questions on the ACS, respondents are asked to identify their ancestry. This is a very open-ended question, and the Census Bureau provides numerous options. Here are the most common ancestries in each NYC neighborhood: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2012 American Community Survey PUMS The map was made using the ACS Public Use Microdata Sample, an edited version of the individual responses to the survey. With this data, we were able to calculate the most common ancestry in each of New York City's Census-designated "Public Use Microdata Areas," which closely conform to the city government's community districts, for which the city provides very nice-looking map outlines.
Flickr / thebarrowboyTry some of these money manuals to learn more about building your own wealth.Now that we're all headed back to the office to buckle down for fall, it's a great time to work on a little self-improvement.  Head back to the gym, explore a new neighborhood ... learn more about managing money and building wealth. If that third one is on your list, you're in luck. Here, we've highlighted some of the best personal finance books out there for 20-somethings, from expert-recommended classics to some of our favorite new editions. Just because we aren't going back to school doesn't mean there isn't more to learn. Lydia Dallett contributed reporting to this article. FREE AppDownload
WCVB.comMarket Basket protests from earlier this summer.Market Basket, a private grocery chain in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Maine that saw thousands of workers protest after the firing of its CEO in June, showed up in the jobs report.   In July, after employees staged protests in favor of ousted CEO Arthur T. Demoulas, thousands of part-time workers saw their hours reduced, and in many cases cut to zero. Demoulas took back the CEO role in late August, and said that "all associates are welcome back," but this disruption still put a dent in the August report.  The number of workers in the retail industry fell by 8,000 in August, owing partly to a 17,000 worker decline in food and beverage stores. In her commentary accompanying the report, BLS Commissioner Erica Groshen said the drop in workers at food and beverage stores was, "impacted by employment disruptions at a grocery store chain in New England." Groshen noted that elsewhere in the retail sector, auto dealer employment grew by 5,000. In August, auto sales rose to their fastest pace since 2006.  It's a big country with a lot of workers, and while the employee protests at Market Basket may have seemed like a regional story, its impact on the jobs report shows this story clearly had national reach. This chart from the BLS shows the drop in food and beverage employees in August. Look for this to rebound in September. BLS FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesMembers of the Azov Battalion, a far-right group of militant activists, in Independence Square, or Maidan Square, on Thursday in Kiev, Ukraine.Pro-Russian rebels and the Ukrainian government have signed a cease-fire deal that was to begin at approximately 6 p.m. local time in Kiev (11 a.m. ET). The deal came after talks in the Belarussian capital of Minsk, which also included representatives from Russia and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The leaders of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic in eastern Ukraine had earlier announced the cease-fire on the group's Twitter account. Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatseniuk said at the top of a cabinet meeting in Kiev on Friday that any broader peace deal must include three conditions, according to Reuters: a cease-fire, a withdrawal of "Russian forces, and Russian bandits and terrorists," and the "restoration" of Ukraine's state border with Russia. The specifics of the cease-fire deal weren't immediately disclosed. Fighting has raged in Ukraine for months, as pro-Russian separatists have battled Ukrainian forces looking to restore order to the country's eastern region. Upon entering office in June, Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko stepped up his military offensive in the east. Over the past few weeks, Russia has significantly escalated its involvement in the conflict. NATO said last week that more than 1,000 Russian troops crossed the border into Ukraine, and other, more recent estimates upped that total. According to the Financial Times, NATO officials said as of Friday, more than 3,000 Russian troops were in Ukraine. That means more Russian troops were involved in the fight than separatists. REUTERS Russian forces' direct involvement shifted the balance in the conflict and gave pro-Russian separatists a boost after Ukraine's military made significant advances. Meanwhile on Friday, there were reports of heavy shelling north and east of the key strategic city of Mariupol. The city Mariupol sits between areas occupied by separatists and the Crimean peninsula, which Russia annexed in March with the help of special forces. The fear is that Russia is attempting to create a land link between Russia and the strategic peninsula. Geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer, the president of Eurasia Group, told Business Insider last week that Russia's decision to escalate its involvement had forced Poroshenko into a corner. Bremmer said Poroshenko would most likely seek a quick cease-fire solution to prevent his country's economy from completely collapsing."The Ukrainian government has been in an impossible position, they gambled, and they've lost," Bremmer said. "Poroshenko now needs a cease-fire so that he can try to restart negotiations, the terms of which will effectively mean freezing the conflict and ceding significant pieces of Ukrainian territory to the separatists. That's politically perilous for him and risks counterdemonstrations against his government in Kiev. All the while his economy will be falling apart, with very limited support from the West." FREE AppDownload
Paramount PicturesThe 1970s left a strong impression.For many, the 1970s conjures up colorful memories, from John Travolta tearing up the dance floor in "Saturday Night Fever" to the break-up of the Beatles. For others, however, it brings to mind the threat of runaway inflation. In his speech on Thursday, Narayana Kocherlakota, President of the Minneapolis Fed, reminded us of the power that the runaway inflation gremlin still wields over policymakers today and why it's time to put this particular bugbear to rest: It’s fun and educational to read about the 1970s on the Fed history gateway. I encourage you to do so. But it’s critical for monetary policymakers like myself to realize that the times, and challenges, that we face are different from the ones that Mr. Willson wrote about back in 1974. FRED He noted that, far from having to fight a running battle to hold back rising prices, the Fed has seen inflation average 1.5% over the past seven years. That is a full 50 basis points below the Fed's target of 2% and there is little sign that it is likely to alter its trajectory in the near future. There's a reason why the Fed targets 2% inflation. That is the level that economists estimate is consistent with the largest number of people who want to work being able to find a job. As Kocherlakota points out, this period of low inflation suggests that nearly seven years after the onset of the financial crisis, the economy is still running some way below its potential, leaving some of its resources (e.g. the involuntary unemployed) going to waste. The timing of his speech is particularly interesting coming on the heels of a Fed paper suggesting that one of the measures of slack in the U.S. labor market may have been sending out false signals. Despite the gradual improvement in the numbers of Americans able to find work since the crisis, the participation rate, (the share of the total working age population in or looking for work) remains 3% below its 2007 level. For some, the fall in the participation rate is a sign that there is more slack in the labor market than the unemployment rate would suggest. This would mean that it would be appropriate for the Fed to leave interest rates lower for a longer period of time before needing to worry about inflationary pressures. But the authors of the new Fed paper suggest that only about 0.25-1% of the fall in the participation rate can be reversed. The rest, they claim, is due to irreversible factors such as an aging society and higher school enrollment among the young. If they are right that would mean further improvements in the job market could start leading to price pressures sooner than many in the Federal Open Market Committee were expecting. It would be a mistake, however, to read this as a cause to raise rates immediately. As Janet Yellen said in March: The long-term unemployed can see their skills erode, making these workers less attractive to employers. If these jobless workers were to become less employable, the natural rate of unemployment might rise or, to the extent that they leave the labor force, we could see a persistently lower rate of labor force participation. Hiking rates for fear of possible inflation can create the very problem that you're trying to address. This could have terrible consequences for out-of-work Americans. I'm with Kocherlakota on this one, it's time we left the 1970s behind. FREE AppDownload
livestreamPaul Krugman speaking at CUNY's Graduate Center.  New York Times op-ed columnist Paul Krugman believes the conservative movement's "real goal" is to shift the entire country's social policies back 120 years. "Their real goal is to push us back to 1894 — not even to 1924. So these are the stakes. This is really serious stuff," he declared Thursday night. "Never forget just how big this thing is." The Nobel Prize-winning economist sat down for a discussion with Sen. Elizabeth Warren  (D-Massachusetts) at CUNY's Graduate Center in Manhattan. The two were pressed for their take on the U.S. Supreme Court's "Hobby Lobby" decision in June that ruled some "closely held" corporations had the right to deny insurance coverage for birth control. Krugman, needless to say, was no fan of the decision. He argued the "outrageous" and "insane" ruling was based on the flawed premise that business owners could be shielded from certain government regulations based on their individual religious beliefs. "We're telling you you have to provide health insurance. So if we can do that, we can say, 'Yeah, it has to be the standardized thing,'" he said. "This is an insane thing. And of course, where exactly doe the line end? ... How closely held does a corporation have to be when it ceases to be a person? I would say no corporation is a person — no matter what, no employer. Your role as an employer and your role as a person is not the same thing." Krugman pivoted to a larger point and said the ruling must be viewed in the context of a "scary" conservative push on these sorts of issues. "[We] should not be astonished to see this happening in 2014. The deep roots of what's going on in our political system is much bigger and much scarier. Of course, you have to have the political fight as you do on individual issues. But we are fighting something that is quite scary," he said. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVDavid Zervos.Here's one take on Friday's Jobs Report: Jefferies strategist David Zervos says the jobs report is "perfect" for risk assets (like stocks). The reason? There's no pressure on the Fed to tighten sooner than necessary. Here are the key details, as he sees them: •    A well over 100k miss on payrolls when you factor in revisions.•    Durable goods and retail trade were each 30k lower for August vs. July.•    No sign of meaningful wage growth.•    The U6 rate fell 0.2%, but U3 was unchanged.•    The lower U6 rate, and consequent reduction in “slack,” was offset by a slack increasing lower participation rate. For more from Zervos, find his stuff at Markit Hub &gt; FREE AppDownload
TeslaA Tesla rendering of its Gigafactory, which the company expects will double the world's supply of lithium-ion batteries by 2020. On Thursday, Tesla and Nevada legislators announced a $1.25 billion incentive deal to bring the electric automaker's lithium-ion battery "Gigafactory" to the Silver State.  The New York Times' Matt Wald reported that Tesla would pay no sales taxes for 20 years and no property or payroll taxes for 10 years, with discounted electricity prices for eight years and breaks tied to job creation and development and millions of dollars worth of road improvements around the site.   But according to an interview CNBC's Phil LeBeau conducted with Musk outside the Capitol of Nevada in Carson City on Thursday, that wasn't the richest deal Tesla was offered. According to various reports, California, Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona were also in the running to land the $5 billion project, which Tesla says could employ up to 6,500 workers.   But Nevada, Musk said, was ready to move more swiftly than anyone else on getting the Gigafactory off the ground.  "The biggest single factor was time to completion," Musk said. "Unless the Gigafactory is ready when we need to produce the mass-market, affordable electric car, then the vehicle factory will be stalled. So time-to-execution is extremely important. Nevada was in the lead on time to execution."  BI's Matt DeBord explained on Thursday how Tesla may also have been lured by the fact that Nevada is a right-to-work state, meaning the company would not have to negotiate with unions about worker pay packages. The state will also allow Tesla to sell its cars directly to consumers, side-stepping some of the resistance from the dealership industry that the firm has encountered in other states. Musk also reiterated his belief that at $286, Tesla shares were overvalued. The stock has climbed 90% in 2014. "I do think people sometimes get carried away with our stock," he said. "I think our stock price is kind of high right now, to be totally honest. Or rather, let me put it to you this way: If you care about the long-term of Tesla, I think the stock is a good price. If you're looking at the short-term, it's less clear." Shares were down 1% pre-market.  Here's CNBC's full clip:  FREE AppDownload
Thomson Reuters(Reuters) - Family Dollar Stores Inc &lt;fdo.n&gt; rejected Dollar General Corp's &lt;dg.n&gt; $9.1 billion sweetened takeover offer, saying it was not reasonably likely to be completed on the terms proposed. "There is a very real and material risk that the transaction proposed by Dollar General would fail to close, after a lengthy and disruptive review process," Family Dollar Chief Executive Howard Levine said in a statement. Family Dollar said it would stick with an $8.5 billion cash-and-stock offer from Dollar Tree Inc &lt;dltr.o&gt;.   (Reporting by Siddharth Cavale in Bangalore; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila) FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesThe jobs report is out, and it's a big miss. Markets are moving. The most dramativc move is coming from the bond market where the yield on the 10-year Treasury just dropped from 2.47% to 2.40%. U.S. stock market futures are rallying. S&amp;P 500 futures are down just 1 points after being down by around 6 points ahead of the report. U.S. companies added just 142,000 new payrolls in August, missing expectations for a gain of 230,000. July's number was revised up modestly to 212,000 from an earlier print of 209,000. As expected, the unemployment rate ticked down to 6.1% from 6.2% in July. This came as the labor force particiapation rate slipped to 62.8% from 62.9%.   10Y intraday: pic.twitter.com/jAXe4Lvajk FREE AppDownload
davecsparty/flickrThe August jobs report was a big miss, but not all the data was bad. Nonfarm payrolls grew by 142,000 in August, missing expectations for 230,000. The unemployment rate fell to 6.1% from 6.2%, according to the latest release from the BLS, and this was in-line with expectations. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics said: "In one line: Noise happens, and this looks like noise. No other data signal slowing labor demand." Wage growth was also in-line with expectations, as wages grew 2.1% year-over-year, and 0.2% month-over-month.  The average number of weekly hours worked held steady at 34.5 hours.  The labor force participation rate also slipped slightly, falling to 62.8% from 62.9% last month.  The "U-6" unemployment rate, which includes those marginally attached to the labor force or those employed part time for economic reasons, fell to 12% from 12.2% in July.  Here were Wall Street's expectations: The July jobs report was also revised up slightly, to 212,000 from 209,000, while June's report was revised down to 267,000 from 298,000. These charts from the Federal Reserve show the monthly change in nonfarm payrolls, which gained less than expected in August, and the unemployment rate, which declined in-line with expectations. FRED FRED And this chart from the Federal Reserve shows the "U-6" unemployment rate, which includes unemployed workers as well as those marginally attached to the workforce and workers employed part-time for economic reasons, or basically people who want full-time work but have to settle for part-time work instead. In August, the "U-6" rate fell to 12% from 12.2% in July.  FRED The number of employees out of work for more than 27 weeks, or those long-term unemployed, also fell in August to below three million for the first time since the financial crisis.  FRED FREE AppDownload
John Paul DeJoria, the man behind brands such as Paul Mitchell, Patrón, and Rok Mobile, is certainly successful by any measure. But his billionaire status didn't come easy. DeJoria describes his "rags-to-riches" story and explains why he thinks the dream is still alive. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Additional Camera by Graham Flanagan.     
Twitter expects nonfarm payrolls grew by 229,500 in August. Bloomberg economist Michael McDonough tweeted the following chart, showing the social media jobs forecast, culled from tweets using #nfpguesses, #nailthenumber, or #BBGEstimateNFP. Social Media #NFP Consensus forecast, calculated by Bloomberg, at 229.5K: pic.twitter.com/Iv0h01vQBj  You can read the full preview of Wall Street's expectations here, and we'll have full coverage of the report when the numbers hit here.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersNarayana Kocherlakota, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, speaks at the ninth annual Carroll School of Management Finance Conference at Boston College in Chestnut Hill HELENA Mont. (Reuters) - A top Federal Reserve official on Thursday said he believes  U.S. interest rates are too high, and had no "good answer" when asked why the Fed is reducing its efforts to push borrowing costs down. "Interest rates are not low enough," Minneapolis Federal Reserve President Narayana Kocherlakota said at a Town Hall meeting in Montana, citing subdued inflation and "unacceptably high" unemployment as evidence.  The fact that the Fed has not been able to achieve its twin objectives of maximum employment and 2-percent inflation suggests the need for lower rates, he said.   "Given where we are with inflation, I think that it‚Äôs challenging to know why we are removing stimulus from the economy at the rate that we are," he said. "I think that is a challenging question, and I don‚Äôt really have a good answer."  The Fed has kept short-term interest rates near zero since December 2008 in an effort to pull the economy from its worst recession in decades. It has also bought trillions of dollars of Treasuries and housing-backed securities to push borrowing costs down further and spark investment and hiring.  But with the unemployment rate, at 6.2 percent, well below its recession-era peak of 10 percent, and inflation showing no signs of falling further, the Fed has begun to trim its monthly bond purchases, aiming to end them completely by October.  Kocherlakota is a voter on the Fed's policy-setting panel this year and has argued forcefully that the Fed should do more to try to bring inflation up and unemployment down. Still, he has voted all but once with the majority at the Fed to continue to trim the bond-buying program. On Thursday, Kocherlakota forecast inflation to stay below the Fed's 2-percent target until 2018, a sign that the country is not taking full advantage of its resources.  It is a very different picture from the too-high inflation that plagued policymakers 40 years ago, Kocherlakota said at the town hall, held at Carroll College in Helena.  Back then, U.S. President Gerald R. Ford launched an anti-inflation campaign and commissioned Meredith Willson to write a song to go with it. "Who needs inflation? Not this nation," Kocherlakota quoted from the song, to chuckles in the largely student audience.  "Mr. Willson‚Äôs pithy characterization was spot on in 1974," Kocherlakota said. "But 40 years later, I would suggest that it‚Äôs exactly backward. Right now, this nation needs more inflation."  Some of Kocherlakota's colleagues have begun to worry publicly that the Fed's super-easy monetary policy could fuel inflation if the central bank does not begin to raise rates soon. Kocherlakota disagreed.  "I don‚Äôt think we‚Äôve been hitting maximum employment successfully, and we haven't been hitting 2-percent inflation," he said. "Both of those seem to call for lower interest rates... the problem is not that they are too low." (Reporting by Nathan Kavanagh; Writing by Ann Saphir; Editing by Cynthia Osterman, Lisa Shumaker and Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rafael MarchanteMembers of Vila Franca Xira forcados group during a bullfight at Campo Pequeno bullring in Lisbon on Thursday. Forcados are traditional Portuguese bullfighters who catch bulls with their bare hands during the festival.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. 1)  Jobs Day. The BLS will release nonfarm payrolls for August at 8:30 a.m. Consensus is for an increase of 230,000, up from the 209,000 in July. The consensus is for the unemployment rate to decrease to 6.1% in August from 6.2%. "Trends in labor market variables over the past month have shown little change, leading us to look for another month of solid job growth," Barclays says. "However, after a three-month bump in the pace of payroll growth, coinciding with the rebound in activity in Q2, we look for payroll growth to settle into a more consistent run rate in the second half of the year." Barclays also sees average hourly earnings climbing 0.2% and the workweek to remain unchanged at 34.5 hours. 2)  Tesla In Nevada: Billions And Billions. The numbers announced Thursday afternoon at a joint conference between Tesla and Nevada political leaders announcing the site of Tesla's battery production Gigafactory were staggering. First, Tesla is getting $1.25 billion in incentives over 20 years: no sales tax for 20 years, no property tax and payroll tax for 10 years, and tax credits tied to job creation and development, The New York Times' Matt Wald says. The firm will also enjoy discount electricity rates for eight years and make millions of dollars in road improvements around the factory site, he writes. But Gov. Brian Sandoval says the total economic impact over the next 20 years will be $100 billion. The factory will cost $5 billion to build and employ up to 6,500 people. 3)  Apple Beefing Up Security. In an interview with The Wall Street Journal's Daisuke Wakabayashi, CEO Tim Cook said his company would start alerting users on their phones and by email when it appears someone may be trying to illicitly change their iCloud password, restore their data to a new device, or log in for the first time. He also explained how celebrities' accounts were compromised: "Hackers correctly answered security questions to obtain their passwords, or ... they were victimized by a phishing scam to obtain user IDs and passwords. He said none of the Apple IDs and passwords leaked from the company's servers."  4)  Huawei Gets Jump On iPhone 6. The Chinese electronics maker has released a sapphire glass display phone ahead of Apple's iPhone 6, which is also expected to include the technology. The material is more costly but more durable. Huawei's phone also has a fingerprint sensor, which was first seen on Apple's iPhone 5S. "Huawei, which began as a telecom equipment company in 1987, has rapidly transformed itself in recent years into the world's No. 3 smartphone maker behind Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. and Apple," Reuters says.5)  Draghi's Goldilocks Problem. On Wednesday, ECB Chief Mario Draghi announced the bank would begin buying privately owned securities and lowering interest rates to ease monetary conditions in the eurozone. But there was some dissension among ECB members on the decision, and some analysts say Draghi may have overly compromised on a policy that may now be too "just right" and not hot enough to address the serious challenges the region's economy faces. "[As] far as I can see, the SME ABS programme is either going to be too small to make much difference, or is likely to encounter serious problems with loan quality at some point, putting the ECB's balance sheet at risk," financial writer Frances Coppola says.  6)  U.S. Inequality Has Worsened. The Federal Reserve says gains in income and wealth shares during the recovery have been largely concentrated among America's top few income percentiles — a return to an underlying trend temporarily slowed by the recession. "Between 2010 and 2013, mean (overall average) family income rose 4% in real terms, but median income fell 5%, consistent with increasing income concentration during this period," they write. "Some of the 2010 to 2013 growth differential reflected a return to trend, after the cyclical narrowing of the income distribution between 2007 and 2010, when large decreases in top incomes associated with the recent financial crisis reduced mean family income more than median family income. Families at the bottom of the income distribution saw continued substantial declines in average real incomes between 2010 and 2013, continuing the trend observed between the 2007 and 2010 surveys." 7)  Why BP Shares Tanked. On Wednesday the London-based oil giant was found grossly negligent in the 2010 Deepwater Horizon Gulf of Mexico disaster, which killed 11 people, injured 16, and forced BP into a $13 billion settlement with claims victims. Despite BP having already taken a $43 billion charge to cover all legal expenses, shares fell nearly 6% on the ruling. The FT's Ed Crooks and Guy Chazan explain why: "For some BP shareholders, Judge Barbier’s ruling was dismaying. 'The market had been pretty sanguine that BP would not be found grossly negligent,' said Will Riley, co-manager of the Guinness Global Energy Fund. 'We weren’t expecting this.' Charles Whall, co-portfolio manager for Global Energy Fund at Investec Asset Management, said investors had 'taken some encouragement' from Halliburton’s $1.1bn settlement with the Department of Justice this week. 'Most people will be caught off-guard by this,' he said. 'They thought there’d be room for negotiation.'" 8)  Starbucks Shrinking, Upscaling Stores. The Seattle beanroasters say they will open express editions of their outlets in New York City early next year. "The company said the New York store would be small and convenient, with a limited food and beverage menu," Reuters says. "It will use digital payment and mobile ordering to speed up service. Starbucks declined to say how many express stores are planned." Starbucks will also open 100 "Reserve Roastery and Tasting Room" shops for a more refined coffee drinking experience. "Starbucks said it plans to open a 'first of its kind' 15,000-square-foot small-batch reserve roastery in the hipster Capitol Hill neighborhood of its Seattle home market in December," Reuters says. "The company will consolidate roasting of its reserve offerings, including Geisha and Jamaica Blue Mountain, in the facility, which will house a store, a tasting room and a cafe devoted to its reserve coffees." 9)  Markets. Stocks are down around the world. Hong Kong's Hang Seng was off 0.2%. London's FTSE fell 0.66%. U.S. futures declined 0.3%.  10)  While You Were Sleeping. The Seattle Seahawks routed the Green Bay Packers, 36-16, in the opening game of the 2014 NFL season, while Roger Federer rallied from two sets down — saving two match points in the process — to beat Gael Monfils to advance to the semifinals of the U.S. Open.  FREE AppDownload
IAEA Imagebank / FlickrIndia has 20 working reactors with 7 more under construction.New Delhi (AFP) - Australia's prime minister is due to sign a deal Friday allowing nuclear fuel exports to energy-hungry India, as he meets the country's new premier on a visit to boost economic ties. Tony Abbott, who flew into New Delhi late on Thursday after meeting business leaders in Mumbai, said the long-awaited agreement was a sign of "mutual trust" after a long-standing ban on uranium sales to India was lifted in 2012. The world's third biggest uranium producer, Australia had previously ruled out such exports to nuclear-armed India because it has not signed the global non-proliferation treaty. But Abbott said on Thursday that he was assured of India's commitment to peaceful power generation. "India has an absolutely impeccable non-proliferation record and India has been a model international citizen," he told reporters in Mumbai. "India threatens no one, India is the friend to many, India is the world's emerging democratic superpower. This is an important sign of the mutual trust that exists between Australia and India." The agreement will potentially ramp up India's plans for more nuclear power stations, with only 20 small plants at present and a heavy dependency on coal. India is struggling to produce enough power to meet the rising demands of its 1.2-billion-strong population as its economy and vast middle-class expand. Nearly 400 million Indians are still without access to electricity, according to the World Bank, and crippling power cuts are common. Asked about India's management of its nuclear power industry and safety standards, Abbott said it was "not our job to tell India how to conduct its internal affairs". "Our job is to try to ensure we act in accordance with our own standards of decency and that's what we intend to do," he said, adding that India's "standards are improving all the time". The Australian premier told business leaders in Mumbai that the purpose of his trip was "to acknowledge the importance of India in the wider world, acknowledge the importance of India to Australia's future". He announced a scheme to boost the numbers of Australians studying in India and met Indian cricketing great Sachin Tendulkar ahead of Australia's hosting of the World Cup next year. In the capital, he is due to attend a ceremonial reception on Friday morning before meeting senior government members, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who swept to power in May pledging to open up Asia's third-largest economy to foreign investment.  FREE AppDownload
Barclays Bank in the U.K. will begin using a finger vein scanner to identify its customers. The move comes after a wave of hacks on financial institutions that have demonstrated how feeble password and PIN protections have become. The bank will send the small portable device to its customers who want to do their banking online. It will function as a form of two-factor identification. Users will punch in their pass word or account details, and then be required to confirm their identities by sticking their fingers into the scanner, a separate device from their computer. Here's a look at how it will work: BarclaysBarclays customers have already been using a separate portable device, the PINsentry, the access their accounts online. Users log in, then insert their debit cards into the PINsentry to retrieve another code number, and can only proceed with transactions once the website is satisfied that the user, the card, and the PINsentry code all came from the owner of the account. Here is a PINsentry: Jim Edwards The vein scanner will be even more secure. Barclays says: "The compact device can read and verify the users’ unique vein patterns in the finger. Unlike finger prints, vein patterns are extremely difficult to spoof or replicate. Barclays will not hold the user’s vein pattern and there will be no public record of it." Here is a closeup: Barclays finger vein scanner The device will require users to make sure they don't lose any of their fingers, the Guardian noted: Customers will first have to register a finger – Barclays is recommending the index finger, plus a back-up digit should you be careless enough to lose or damage the first choice. The unique vein pattern in the finger will then be held on a sim card that is added to the reader. Barclays itself will not store the data. Barclays The device then scans the unique pattern of veins inside your finger to confirm that it's actually you: Barclays Japan, Turkey, Russia and Poland already have banks using vein scanners to confirm IDs, the Financial Times says. FREE AppDownload
AFPFrankfurt (AFP) - German industrial production rose strongly in July, driven by increased manufacturing and construction output, data showed on Friday.  According to regular data compiled by the economy ministry, industrial output increased by 1.9 percent in July, after already rising by 0.4 percent in June.  Manufacturing output climbed by 2.6 percent and construction output was up by 1.7 percent while energy construction output contracted by 3.7 percent, the ministry calculated. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA television reporter stands beside oil booms at the coast of South PassLONDON (Reuters) - BP should be able to meet the cost of up to $18 billion of new fines for the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill without major asset sales or a big cut in its dividend, analysts say. The oil group's shares dropped nearly 6 percent on Thursday after U.S. District Judge Carl Barbier in New Orleans, Louisiana, said it was "grossly negligent" in the April 20, 2010, rig explosion and spill that killed 11 workers. However, BP said it would appeal the ruling, meaning any decision on indemnities could be years away. "The headline is obviously negative, but BP will appeal and the appeals process is likely to be dragged out for years," said Bernard Hodee, analyst at Raymond James, which kept its rating on BP shares unchanged at "fair value". BP has set aside only $3.5 billion for fines under the Clean Water Act, part of a much broader series of provisions for cleanup, compensation and damages that exceed $42 billion. But it could be liable for up to $17.6 billion if its appeal against the "gross negligence" ruling is denied. "It's a big hit financially, but not a strategy-altering blow. It would have obviously preferred alternative uses for the funds and it is negative but I don't think it changes BP's course. The hard lifting was done in 2010-12," said Jefferies analyst Jason Gammel, referring to asset sales in those years. The unwelcome news, at a time when many oil firms are struggling to cut costs in the face of shrinking profits, is unlikely to have much impact BP's dividend payments in the near-term, as the company had $27.5 billion in cash and equivalents on its balance sheet at the end of the second quarter. "Although this is now a point of high uncertainty for investors, we believe the financial implications of this ruling will remain significantly below the maximum – the Citi estimate is $8.2 billion – a sum that should not impact on BP's ability to fund future growth ambitions nor shareholder dividends," Citi said in a note, signaling they expect the eventual level of fines will be well short of the $18 billion maximum. It upgraded its BP share valuation to "buy" from "neutral", raising its price target to 510 pence from 480 pence. [ID:nL5N0R60P3] The case will go on for months or even years with Barbier set to assign damages after the next phase of a civil trial over the accident, scheduled for January 2015. The two earlier phases of the trial looked at how to apportion blame and examined how much oil spilled. BP shares were flat at $7.42 pence by 0340 ET on Friday.   (Reporting by Ron Bousso and Dima Zhdannikov; Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe speaks next to a teleprompter during a news conference after reshuffling his cabinet, at his official residence in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Prime Minister Shinzo Abe stands "utterly neutral" on whether to decide in December to raise the sales tax again next year but he will be very cautious in his decision given the potential blow to the economy, Japan's economy minister said on Friday. Economy Minister Akira Amari, speaking to reporters in a group interview after a cabinet reshuffle, said the government is ready to roll out a stimulus package to limit the economic impact if it decides to raise the sales tax next year. Abe is due to decide in December whether to proceed with a second-stage rise in the sales tax to 10 percent in October 2015 in a bid to rein in Japan's massive public debt. April's rise to 8 percent from 5 percent triggered the biggest contraction in three years in the second quarter, followed by a run of other weak indicators, raising doubts about whether Japan should go ahead with the hike. "As to what the prime minister is thinking, it's utterly neutral," Amari said. "He said no countries have doubled the sales tax rate over a year and a half ... I expect that he will make a considerably cautious decision." Japan's economy shrank by an annualized 6.8 percent in the second quarter, more than erasing a first-quarter surge in the run-up to the sales tax increase. Analysts in a Reuters poll forecast a 3.8 percent bounce this quarter. The central bank stuck with its massive monetary stimulus on Thursday and maintained its view the economy would continue its steady recovery, with the pain inflicted by the first tax hike gradually easing. The government, however, last month flagged a risk that the April sales-tax hike could have a prolonged effect on the economy. Amari said "there's no gap" in the views of the government and the central bank on the economic outlook. "There's no gap although expressions are different," Amari said. "We're paying close attention to the risk of the reactionary decline (in demand) being prolonged ... I'd like to closely watch the trend of private consumption from now on."   (Reporting by Tetsushi Kajimoto; Editing by William Mallard and Chris Gallagher) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry DowningNATO leaders pose for a class photo at Cardiff Castle in Cardiff, Wales, on Thursday. It's the end of the workweek! Here's what you need to know on Friday.  1. Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko said that a cease-fire deal between Russia and Ukraine could be reached during peace talks in Belarus on Friday. Poroshenko is still hesitant to agree to the seven-point plan presented by Russian president Vladimir Putin on Wednesday.  2. NATO leaders meeting for a second day at a summit in Wales are expected to hit Russia with new economic sanctions that will hurt "the country’s largest energy groups," according to the Financial Times.  3. On Thursday, the European Central Bank unexpectedly cut interest rates and agreed to buy asset-backed securities.  4. BP is facing an $18 billion fine after a U.S. judge found the London-based company acted with gross negligence in the Deepwater Horizon disaster. 5.  British Prime Minister David Cameron is considering airstrikes in Iraq and Syria to roll back the threat of the Islamic State militant group. 6. Comedian Joan Rivers died at the age of 81.  7. For the first time, the World Health Organized released a report on global suicide rates, estimating that over 800,000 people die each year by taking their own lives.  8. Nevada confirmed that it would be the site of Tesla's new $5 billion Gigafactory battery manufacturing facility.  9. Apple is beefing up security to its iCloud service after hundreds of celebrities were hacked and their nude photos leaked online.  10. An 82-year-old woman was reportedly beheaded in North London with a machete. Police are investigating whether the brutal killing was inspired by recent videos from the Islamic State, The Telegraph said.  And finally... Billions of small, blue, jellyfish-like creatures are washing up along North America's West Coast. The flat, oval-shaped sea animals are called by-the-wind sailors.  They look like this: NotaflyA stranded by-the-wind sailor tacks to starboard, but it’s too late. FREE AppDownload
