Note from dshort: This commentary has been revised to include today's surge in nonfarm new jobs. Official recession calls are the responsibility of the NBER Business Cycle Dating Committee, which is understandably vague about the specific indicators on which they base their decisions. This committee statement is about as close as they get to identifying their method. There is, however, a general belief that there are four big indicators that the committee weighs heavily in their cycle identification process. They are: The Latest Indicator Data  Today's report of 288K new nonfarm jobs was well above the Investing.com forecast of 212K. Moreover, the unemployment rate fell to 6.1%, beating the Investing.com expectation of an unchanged 6.3%. Of the Big Four Indicators, this has historically been the least volatile. Here is a column chart of monthly percent change for this indicator over the past fifty years. I've also included a 12-month moving average. We can see that consecutive MoM declines outside of recessions are quite rare. Recessions, other than the second half of the early 1980s double-dip, have followed a distinct downtrend in the 12-month moving average -- not something we're currently seeing.  Click for a larger image The chart and table below illustrate the performance of the Big Four with an overlay of a simple average of the four since the end of the Great Recession. The data points show the cumulative percent change from a zero starting point for June 2009. We now have the first indicator update for the 60th month following the recession. The Big Four Average (gray line below).  Current Assessment and Outlook The overall picture of the US economy had been one of a ploddingly slow recovery from the Great Recession, and the Winter data documented a sharp contraction. The early Spring appeared to support the general view that severe winter weather was responsible for the contraction -- that it was not the beginnings of a business cycle decline. The May Industrial Production strengthened the optimistic view, as has today's release of the June Nonfarm new jobs data.  The next update of the Big Four will be the mid-month data for Industrial Production and Real Retail Sales. Background Analysis: The Big Four Indicators and Recessions The charts above don't show us the individual behavior of the Big Four leading up to the 2007 recession. To achieve that goal, I've plotted the same data using a "percent off high" technique. In other words, I show successive new highs as zero and the cumulative percent declines of months that aren't new highs. The advantage of this approach is that it helps us visualize declines more clearly and to compare the depth of declines for each indicator and across time (e.g., the short 2001 recession versus the Great Recession). Here is my own four-pack showing the indicators with this technique.   Now let's examine the behavior of these indicators across time. The first chart below graphs the period from 2000 to the present, thereby showing us the behavior of the four indicators before and after the two most recent recessions. Rather than having four separate charts, I've created an overlay to help us evaluate the relative behavior of the indicators at the cycle peaks and troughs. (See my note below on recession boundaries).  Click for a larger image The chart above is an excellent starting point for evaluating the relevance of the four indicators in the context of two very different recessions. In both cases, the bounce in Industrial Production matches the NBER trough while Employment and Personal Incomes lagged in their respective reversals. As for the start of these two 21st century recessions, the indicator declines are less uniform in their behavior. We can see, however, that Employment and Personal Income were laggards in the declines. Now let's look at the 1972-1985 period, which included three recessions -- the savage 16-month Oil Embargo recession of 1973-1975 and the double dip of 1980 and 1981-1982 (6-months and 16-months, respectively).  Click for a larger image And finally, for sharp-eyed readers who can don't mind squinting at a lot of data, here's a cluttered chart from 1959 to the present. That is the earliest date for which all four indicators are available. The main lesson of this chart is the diverse patterns and volatility across time for these indicators. For example, retail sales and industrial production are far more volatile than employment and income.  Click for a larger image History tells us the brief periods of contraction are not uncommon, as we can see in this big picture since 1959, the same chart as the one above, but showing the average of the four rather than the individual indicators.  Click for a larger image The chart clearly illustrates the savagery of the last recession. It was much deeper than the closest contender in this timeframe, the 1973-1975 Oil Embargo recession. While we've yet to set new highs, the trend has collectively been upward, although we have that strange anomaly caused by the late 2012 tax-planning strategy that impacted the Personal Income. Here is a close-up of the average since 2000.  Click for a larger image   Appendix: Chart Gallery with Notes Each of the four major indicators discussed in this article are illustrated below in three different data manipulations: Industrial Production The US Industrial Production Index (INDPRO) is the oldest of the four indicators, stretching back to 1919, although I've dropped the earlier decades and started in 1950.  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Real Personal Income Less Transfer Payments This data series is computed as by taking Personal Income (PI) less Personal Current Transfer Receipts (PCTR) and deflated using the Personal Consumption Expenditure Price Index (PCEPI). I've chained the data to the latest price index value. The "Tax Planning Strategies" annotation refers to shifting income into the current year to avoid a real or expected tax increase.  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Transfer Payments largely consist of retirement and disability insurance benefits, medical benefits, income maintenance benefits (more here). The chart below shows the Transfer Payment portion of Personal Income. I've included recessions to help illustrate the impact of the business cycle on this metric.  Total Nonfarm Employees There are many ways to plot employment. The one referenced by the Federal Reserve researchers as one of the NBER indicators is Total Nonfarm Employees (PAYEMS).  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Real Retail Sales This indicator is a splicing of the discontinued retail sales series (RETAIL, discontinued in April 2001) with the Retail and Food Services Sales (RSAFS) and deflated by the seasonally adjusted Consumer Price Index (CPIAUCSL). I used a splice point of January 1995 because that date was mentioned in the FRED notes. My experiments with other splice techniques (e.g., 1992, 2001 or using an average of the overlapping years) didn't make a meaningful difference in the behavior of the indicator in proximity to recessions. I've chained the data to the latest CPI value.  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Note: I represent recessions as the peak month through the month preceding the trough to highlight the recessions in the charts above. For example, the NBER dates the last cycle peak as December 2007, the trough as June 2009 and the duration as 18 months. The "Peak through the Period preceding the Trough" series is the one FRED uses in its monthly charts, as explained in the FRED FAQs illustrated in this Industrial Production chart. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  GARY SHILLING: 9 Investment Ideas For The Current Risk-On World (A. Gary Shilling's Insight) "We believe that a "risk on" investment climate still prevails, despite the many warning signs related to economic growth and financial markets here and abroad," according to Gary Shilling. "So we continue our defensive stance towards equities and suggest Treasurys as a safe haven and beneficiary of possible deflation, especially in the eurozone." In this environment he likes nine investments. 1. Treasury bonds; 2. Selected income-producing securities; 3. Small luxuries; 4. Consumer staples and foods; 5. The U.S. dollar against the euro; 6. Selected health-care providers and medical office buildings; 7. Low P/E stocks; 8. Productivity enhancers; 9. North American energy producers ex renewables. "We've deleted our shorts on the Australian and Canadian dollars, which have risen as investors anticipate faster growth in China and increased demand for commodities," he writes. "For the same reason, we've deleted our shorts on commodities, especially copper." 3 Reasons To Invest In Frontier Markets (BlackRock Blog) Frontier market stocks have been doing better than emerging market stocks. But Russ Koesterich at BlackRock Blog writes that investors have been approaching frontier stocks too narrowly. He thinks investors should have a small portfolio allocation to frontier stocks for three reasons. 1. "The potential diversification benefit:" Globalization has means that in recent years emerging and developed market stocks have become more correlated. "Most of the countries that dominate frontier markets, on the other hand, are very locally oriented," he writes. "In short, with frontier markets, you’re potentially getting back a little bit of that lost diversification benefit that you used to get from investing in emerging markets."2. "Lower volatility:" "Because frontier market stocks are less correlated with each other compared with the correlation between equities of various emerging markets, frontier market stocks’ volatility has historically been below that of emerging markets," writes Koesterich.3. "Faster growth:" These economies are expected to grow faster than emerging and developed economies, driven in late part by their demographics, and because of growing per capita income. UBS Duo Departs For Wells Fargo (Reuters) Wells Fargo has hired a team of advisors from UBS Financial, reports Elizabeth Dilts at Reuters. Robert Higley and Robert Gardner III managed a combined $300 million in assets and had $2.5 million in production at UBS. Gardner and Higley left the Houston-Galleria branch of UBS. A four person team left UBS' Houston office earlier this year. Many Business Owners Don't Understand The Importance Of Succession Planning (US Trust) Two thirds of business owners don't have a formal succession plan in place,according to the U.S Trust 2014 Insights on Wealth and Worth report. But those with a financial advisor are twice as likely to have one, than those without. It is often argued that succession planning can help provide a source of income to business owners. US Trust JEREMY SIEGEL: The Dow Could Hit 20,000 By End Of This Year (CNBC) Bullish Wharton professor Jeremy Siegel told CNBC that the Dow could hit 20,000 by the end of 2014. The Dow closed above 17,000 for the first time on Thursday. ""I think we're going to get to 18 [thousand] and above. Could it go to 19, 20? It could. I'm not going to say that's the likely event, but so many people have missed this bull market that they start saying, 'Hey, you know, this is my last chance.'" Why is that? "The so-called "New Neutral", as Pimco called it, as Bill Gross calls it, really does — as he admits himself — argue for higher valuations in the market. So we shouldn't just think 15, 16 [times earnings]... the old historical normals are normal anymore because if the interest rate is really going to be lower — and I do believe that — we're looking at 18 and 19." FREE AppDownload
An improving labor market, brighter growth prospects, and higher capacity utilization are pointing to a U.S. economy approaching equilibrium. Historically, once the economy moves past equilibrium, whether defined by unemployment, output, or capacity, significant wage inflation tends to follow. Though we are drawing nearer to these levels, it is likely to take one year or longer before the gap is closed and broad-based wage inflation emerges. Guggenheim Partners FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - American Express Co is set to face off against the U.S. government and 17 states in a trial that begins on Monday over claims that it stifles competition from credit card providers that charge lower processing fees. At issue in the trial, expected to last two to three months, are American Express rules that bar its millions of merchants from offering incentives for customers to use less-expensive credit cards or cash when making purchases. Amex, according to the government, charges the highest processing fees on average of any card network. In a pre-trial brief, the government said merchants would testify that they would like to use discounts and other tools to promote competition among the card networks that would help them negotiate lower fees. Amex asserts that the rules protect customers from price discrimination and have helped promote competition, court papers show. The U.S. Justice Department and several states sued Amex, Visa Inc and MasterCard Inc in 2010. The latter two settled the case the same day it was filed. The states include Michigan, Ohio, Texas, Missouri,Maryland, Arizona and Iowa. U.S. District Judge Nicholas Garaufis of Brooklyn will preside over the non-jury trial. Amex claims it commands only 26 percent of the market, as defined by consumer spending. If debit cards are included, as Amex insists, its share would drop to 15 percent. With such a small market share, Amex argues that it is incapable of harming competition. However, the Justice Department has said it can show that Amex's behavior had an "adverse" impact on competition, regardless of its market share. The evidence presented at trial, according to the Justice Department, will show that Amex's rules prevent credit card networks from competing for merchant business and deny merchants a way to reduce their costs. The case is United States of America, et al v. American Express Co, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, No. 10-04496. (Editing by Will Dunham; Editing by Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
APEconomist, actor, and former White House speechwriter Ben Stein wants to set the record straight after the National Enquirer accused him of being part of a "sexting scandal." Stein, who is married, also explained why he wrote a column describing his "secret gf" and his relationships with several other "pretty girls" he met while traveling for speaking engagements. Stein texted Business Insider with four points late Wednesday night after we wrote a story about his column and the subsequent tabloid coverage. He took issue with the Enquirer's claim he was involved in "sexting" and the title of our piece, which characterized his column as describing his "obsession with any beautiful girl he meets." "1. No sexting. 2. No scandal. 3. No obsession. 4. There is no story here," Stein wrote. Stein eventually called Business Insider to explain how the entire situation occurred because he made "the unfortunate mistake of meeting a very vengeful human being who's very angry that she did not get to stay at the Beverly Wilshire." The Enquirer story, published Wednesday, claimed Stein texted a woman he described meeting in one of his regular columns for the American Spectator asking her to be his "secret girlfriend." Additionally, the tabloid said Stein sent the woman several checks totaling $900. The column in question was part of the magazine's long running "Ben Stein's Diary" series and was published in its June issue. Stein's story described his "crushes" on an "absolute knockout young Eurasian woman," a "breathtakingly beautiful middle-aged woman," a "beautiful cocktail party girl," "three glorious co-eds" he met at a Waffle House restaurant and someone he described as "my secret gf from Mississippi." In his text messages, Stein told Business Insider he has been writing "for at least 40 years about the interesting people I meet." "I am flattered that you find it worthy of mention," he explained. "I believe it to have been a staple of writing more or less forever." Stein also said he was merely making a movie reference that was amusing to him and his wife when he wrote about having a "secret gf." "It is a reference to the classic movie 'Animal House' in which Dean Wormer puts [John] Belushi's fraternity on 'secret probation,'" Stein texted. "I don't have a secret gf or a public gf. It is a humorous phrase at least to my wife and me." However, Stein admitted he communicated with the various women he described in his column. "I communicate with many men and women every week. And I send money to some of them," wrote Stein. "They don't even remotely have to be romantically involved with me for me to help them or communicate with them." Stein went on to describe these communications as part of an adherence to basic economic principles.  "Economics is the study of the allocation of scarce goods. The scarcest of these are life and happiness," Stein wrote. "I get a lot of happiness out of meeting and befriending those who appreciate me." After exchanging a series of text messages with Business Insider, Stein called to discuss the situation further. He explained how one of the women he wrote about contacted the tabloids because she was "furiously mad" he would not pay for her to fly out to visit him in Los Angeles and stay at the five star Beverly Wilshire Hotel.  "One of the girls, I won't say which, was furiously mad at me that I wouldn't send her to LA and called the Enquirer," said Stein. According to Stein, he might have paid for the woman's trip if she picked a cheaper hotel. "I think she thought that she had met Daddy Warbucks who was going to make her into a wealthy woman ... she realized it was just idle conversation," Stein explained. "Although, I probably would have given her money if she said, 'Look I'll stay in some modest hotel.' ... Once she started talking about the Beverly Wilshire, all bets were off."  Stein said the woman simultaneously texted him and the Enquirer's sister publication, Radar Online.  "When the girl in question was texting me saying, essentially, 'Where's my trip to the Beverly Wilshire?' she was copying Radar.com," Stein explained. "So, this is a case of a woman who feels done wrong by not getting a trip to the Beverly Wilshire." Stein also said he was surprised the Enquirer took notice of his June column. In that story, he described a woman he met in a bar attempting to get him to buy her a stay at the Beverly Wilshire. "I've been writing these columns about meeting pretty girls at airports and Waffle Houses for literally since before you've been alive," said Stein, later adding, "These columns have been appearing in the Spectator forever. ... There's no point to the columns ... or if there is a point, the point is just to show what I do each day." Stein also noted many of his columns describe his love for his wife, attorney Alexandra Denman. "The vast majority of the ink, or the electrons, or whatever you call it these days is devoted to my love and my life with my wife and second after that my dog," Stein said. His wife was apparently amused by his appearance in the tabloids. "We were joking that I'm probably the only person who's ever read 'A Monetary History of the United States' who ended up in the National Enquirer," said Stein. After our conversation, Stein said several more text messages wherein he detailed his feelings for his wife. "The real issue, as Milton Friedman said often, is maintaining a positive utility function for your life over its entire life," he wrote. "I try to do that but often fail. My wife is the main contributor to my utility function. We have been together since 1966."   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingIt's been a long year and a half for the bears. After a more than 30% gain for the stock market in 2013, markets recovered from some turbulence earlier in the year and are now making new record highs.  That doesn't mean that traders haven't found stocks to take a chance shorting, or betting that their price will go down.  Our most recent crop of shorted stocks has screened out some of the little guys, and we've compiled the 27 most shorted stocks with market caps larger than $2 billion.  The stocks, which include yoga apparel makers, electric carmakers, and natural resource companies, are ranked from least to most shorted as a percent of their outstanding shares being sold short. We ranked the stocks by short interest as a percentage of floating shares. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons"Lewis & Clark at Three Forks" by Edgar Samuel PaxsonFrontier markets have been gaining attention from market watchers and investors alike in recent months. The MSCI Frontier Markets Index has outperformed its developed and emerging market counterparts so far this year, as investors have been searching for growth and bargains in a slow-growing world where most major asset classes appear fully valued. However, despite frontier markets’ increasing popularity, many investors are approaching frontier stocks too narrowly, viewing them as a subset of their emerging markets’ allocation and selling off part of their emerging market equities’ exposure to gain access to the frontier. As my colleague Kurt Reiman and I write in our new Market Perspectives paper, “Investing on the Frontier,” frontier markets should not be lumped in with emerging markets and instead, they should be viewed as a separate asset class, a view I’ve been advocating for a while. As we write in our new paper, there are three reasons why investors should now consider having a portfolio allocation, albeit a small one, to frontier markets over the long term, while maintaining their exposures to developed and emerging markets. The potential diversification benefit. Two to three decades ago, when emerging markets were at an earlier stage of development, their stocks weren’t that correlated with those developed markets. However, over the last 25 years or so, emerging markets have become more global. As a result, stocks in emerging markets like China and Brazil now actually have a high correlation with U.S. and European equities, meaning they all tend to move in the same direction. Most of the countries that dominate frontier markets, on the other hand, are very locally oriented. They’re local banks and agriculture companies that are very tied to the local economy. This means that frontier market stocks have a lower correlation with other equity markets than emerging market equities. In short, with frontier markets, you’re potentially getting back a little bit of that lost diversification benefit that you used to get from investing in emerging markets. Lower volatility. Equities, in general, come with a lot of volatility and frontier markets are no exception. Still, on a relative basis the volatility of frontier markets has historically been lower than you might expect. Because frontier market stocks are less correlated with each other compared with the correlation between equities of various emerging markets, frontier market stocks’ volatility has historically been below that of emerging markets. As such, frontier markets have, at least historically, helped provide upside potential for even conservative-leaning portfolios. Faster growth. Frontier market economies seem poised to grow faster than both developed market and emerging market economies over the next few decades. This is partly thanks to frontier countries’ generally better demographics. Unlike emerging markets, based on United Nations data, frontier markets universally have young, growing populations, which, over the long term, are mostly good for economic growth. In addition, frontier market countries are in a very early stage of growing per capita income. The advantage of being in an early stage is that it’s easy to catch up— frontier countries can basically adopt technology from more established markets and use it to accelerate their growth rates. However, while there is a strong case for embracing the frontier, it’s important to recognize that markets in the so-called “pre-emerging” world are not without significant risks. Not only do you have the same risks you’d have with any developed and emerging market, but there also are a number of risks specific to the frontier. There is a higher risk of political turmoil in frontier market countries, of course. Plus given that frontier markets are at relatively early stages of development, particularly with respect to their financial markets, they offer limited liquidity. The high concentration of financial stocks in frontier markets also means that these markets could be hurt if there is a global banking sector downturn. Finally, frontier markets also could suffer if investors regain enthusiasm for emerging markets. To be sure, given frontier markets’ strong showing in recent years, many investors are wondering whether they should still consider investing in the frontier, especially considering the risks mentioned above. My take: It’s certainly true that frontier markets have had a big run this year and they’re not without their risks, but their diversification benefits, lower volatility and growth potential warrant their inclusion as a long-term strategic holding in most portfolios, with one caveat. Given that the asset class is now closer to being fully valued, investors may want to use techniques like dollar cost averaging to slowly gain exposure to frontier stocks. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipPro-democracy protestors took to the streets of Hong Kong on July 1 marching for universal suffrage, the right to vote.  This came on the back of an informal referendum held by pro-democracy group Occupy Central in which nearly 800,000 Hong Kong residents voted to make the process of selecting top officials in the 2017 election more democratic. Beijing is willing to let Hong Kong elect its next Chief Executive but from a list of candidates that it chooses, which is far shy of the democratic election that Hong Kong residents want. The protests also came after the release of a 14,500 word white paper from the State Council Information Office in China in June, that stated that there are "many wrong views are currently rife in Hong Kong" as concerns the "one country, two systems." Protests on the first of July are not uncommon in Hong Kong. but it was the sheer scale of these protests that drew a lot of attention.  The number of protestors hit 510,000 according to the organizers, but officials put the number closer to 98,000. And police arrested 511 people at an overnight demonstration. Possibility of Chinese military involvement Even as the protests have abated, there have been concerns that the People's Liberation Army (PLA) could intervene in Hong Kong to maintain the peace. Bill Bishop, author of Sinocism, told Business Insider he didn't think a PLA intervention was a "low military event" because it "would have significant consequences in Taiwan and it would destroy business and investor confidence in Hong Kong." While it doesn't seem that the Chinese military would step in now, it doesn't mean that Beijing isn't taking serious note. "Beijing is also acutely aware that if Hong Kong were to go completely democratic, there will be other states within the realm who will also ask and or demand the same," Arthur Dong, professor of strategy and economics at Georgetown University told Business Insider in an email. "If it were only about HK this would be an easy thing to resolve. Policymakers in Beijing are worried about the big picture implications of liberal statehood for Hong Kong. If push came to shove, I wouldn't rule out a greater show of force from the PLA in Hong Kong." REUTERS/Bobby YipA protester wearing a headband which reads "civil disobedience" cries before being dragged away from a street by the police after staying overnight at Hong Kong's financial Central district July 2, 2014. Economic discontent in Hong Kong One of the themes to emerge from these protests has been the growing economic discontent among Hong Kong residents. "The discontent is attributed to many causes including the flood of tourists visiting from the mainland who some have said impacted the quality of life for Hong Kong-ers for the worse," Dong said. "In addition to that, the crowding-out of the real estate market as investors from the mainland have pushed up property prices making an unaffordable city more so as housing gets further and further out of reach for average families. The crowding out of places in Hong Kong universities by mainland applicants has also been a source of tension as demand for college education far exceeds the available supply in Hong Kong." While the protests aren't expected to bring about a lot of political change, "there could be a greater focus on economic issues (Beijing tends to see social disorder as a result of economic problems)," Alaistair Chan at Moodys told Business Insider. "So greater efforts to improve housing affordability, reduce income inequality etc could be seen." While the mass protests may have abated for now, Hong Kong's demand for universal suffrage will likely continue. FREE AppDownload
Previously, we showed you how to make a bowl made entirely of bacon. We cleverly called that creation a "bacon bowl." This time around, we're gonna show you how to make the American flag with bacon. We're calling this the "bacon flag." Produced by Will Wei. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
One of the biggest threats to Apple's future profits and stock price is growing price pressure in the smartphone business. An estimated 70% of Apple's profit comes from the iPhone. And most of that comes from high-end iPhones that sell for about $600 apiece ($200 to the consumer, with subsidy, in rich countries). Apple's gross profit on these phones is estimated to be about 50%. Over the past couple of years, the growth rate of Apple's iPhone business has tanked (see below), which has caused Apple's profit growth to slow. Sales growth has slowed because developed markets have matured, and Apple has not had a phone priced to sell well in huge emerging markets like China and India, where growth is still rapid. Business Insider Apple's decision not to offer a low-priced phone has opened the door for, first, Samsung and other incumbents, and, now, a group of upstart Chinese smartphone makers that are growing like mad. The first phones offered by Apple's low-price competitors were cheap because they were crappy. In the past year, however, the quality of low-priced phones has improved dramatically, to the point where the design and specs of some of these phones, as well as the religious devotion of some of their brand fans, has come to rival that of Apple. And sales of these phones are starting to explode. In the first quarter, for example, sales of phones by Xiaomi, the "Apple of China," soared to a staggering 15 million, up 278% year over year. See the chart from analyst Tony Danova of BI Intelligence below. BII Xiaomi already sells more phones than Apple in China. The 15 million is also approaching nearly half the number of phones that Apple is expected to sell worldwide this quarter (about 35 million). Yes, when Apple finally releases the big-screened iPhone 6, the company will likely sell something on the order of 60-70 million of them for a couple of quarters. But at the rate Xiaomi's sales are growing, it won't be too long before its sales start to close in on Apple's. Xiaomi's top-of-the-line phone, the Mi3, sells for about $320, about half the price of a comparable iPhone. Xiaomi also makes other well-designed phones that sell for $100. Nor is Xiaomi the only maker of high-quality, low-priced phones. BI tech editor Steve Kovach recently tried a phone from a new company called OnePlus. Steve says it's one of the best phones he has ever used (and he's picky). And this phone, the One, also costs less than half of a top-shelf iPhone. The chart below, also from BI Intelligence, shows the rise of the low-priced smartphone makers. Collectively, they already sell way more phones than Apple. BII Importantly, many of these phones are not "cheap plastic crap," as Apple devotees (I'm one) are fond of sniffing at any gadgets that aren't made by Apple. They're slick. And Xiaomi and its charismatic founder, who learned a thing or two about designing and launching products and building fan loyalty from Steve Jobs, has a fanatical following in China. The ~$300 difference in price between these phones and Apple's phones is Apple's profit. If Apple is ever forced to reduce its prices to compete with the likes of Xiaomi—or if any would-be full-priced iPhone buyers are ever seduced by the far more attractive prices offered by the likes of Xiaomi—Apple's profit is going to tank. Will that happen? Diehard Apple fans scoff at the idea. Apple, they say, is like BMW or Mercedes—a premium brand for premium customers. Xiaomi, et al, meanwhile, are like, well, Chrysler or Ford. That analogy sounds persuasive... until you remember two things: First, Apple's customer base has already expanded way beyond the "luxury" market composed of folks who buy Mercedes and BMWs. Apple's market share in the United States, for example, is about 40%. The "luxury" share of the overall U.S. auto market, meanwhile, is only about 10%-11%. So Apple is already selling a lot of phones to people who drive Chryslers and Fords.  Second, unlike cars, phones are a "platform market," meaning that third-parties build products (apps and services, in this case) that are designed to work with a particular platform. In platform markets, market share is important: If a platform's share falls too low, there is less incentive for third parties to build products and services for the platform. And with fewer products and services built for the platform, there's less reason to use the platform. So if Apple's low and declining market share in some markets could ultimately make it even harder for the company to compete, even if it priced its products more aggressively. Apple will likely have an easier time maintaining its prices in developed markets like the U.S., in which carriers continue to offer subsidies, and in which the subsidized top-of-the-line iPhone only appears to cost $200.  In emerging markets, however, and in markets without subsidies, the threat from lower-priced phones is more immediate. And the combination of low platform share, plus price, will likely make it very hard for Apple to grow its share much in markets like India and China. Does this mean Apple is toast? No.  The iPhone 6 upgrade cycle is likely to be huge, and Apple's profit margin is so gigantic that it could get creamed and still be making staggering amounts of money. Apple also has more money in the bank than it or any other company will ever need. But it does mean that Apple's profit margin is likely to come under pressure in the next couple of years, as the smartphone business fully matures and high-quality, low-priced phones become ubiquitous. And margin pressure generally does not bode well for stock prices. Disclosure: I'm still an Apple shareholder (iPhone 6, baby!) SEE ALSO: Sorry, Folks, Rich People Don't Create The Jobs FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Richard DrewTrader Peter Tuchman jokes while wearing a handmade "Dow 17,000" cap as he works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.Stocks rallied in the shortened trading session that followed a blowout June jobs report ahead of the July 4th holiday weekend. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) The June jobs report was a blowout. The report showed 288,000 non-farm payrolls were added in June, crushing estimates for 215,000 additions. The unemployment rate also fell to 6.1%, its lowest level since September 2008, and below expectations for the rate to remain unchanged at 6.3%. The jobs report, however, showed that wage growth fell slightly from the prior month, and hasn't been as robust as the overall improvement in the employment market. Following the report, a number of Wall Street analysts had enthusiastic and colorful reactions, including Chris Rupkey at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, who said, "Kaboom! This report sure is one red-hot firecracker of an economy exploding the myth that growth isn't strong enough to create jobs, isn't strong enough to withstand a rate hike... There is no devil in the details."  2) The European Central Bank announced its latest monetary policy decision, and kept rates unchanged. The ECB kept its refinancing rate at 0.15%, its deposit facility rate at -0.10%, and its marginal lending facility at 0.4%. In his press conference following the meeting, ECB president Mario Draghi said that he expects interest rates will remain low for an extended period of time. Draghi also said the bank is moving to a schedule of holding meetings every six weeks instead of every month.  3) ISM also released its latest non-manufacturing services survey, which came in at 56.0 for June. This was slightly below expectations for a 56.3 reading, though the survey's employment index rose 2 points to 54.4 from 54.2. In a note following the report, Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Solid, but probably understating payrolls for the foreseeable future." 4) The Bureau of Economic Analysis' latest balance of trade report showed the U.S. trade deficit narrowed to $44.4 billion in May, which is down from $47 billion April. This also beats the $45 billion deficit that was expected by economists.  5) There were a number of encouraging details in the jobs report, but among the most notable was the indication that job growth hasn't been slowed by the adoption of Obamacare the way some had feared. In 2014, job growth has been accelerating at an average rate of 231,000 per month, which far outpaces any other since the recession.  6) In corporate news, Lorillard and Reynolds American saw shares gain notably today after CNBC's David Faber reported that a merger between the two could be announced by the end of the month. A combination between the two had been previously reported and discussed in the spring, but investors responded positively to Faber's latest report that a deal appears imminent. Shares of Lorillard gained more than 5%, while Reynolds American, which would be the acquiring company in a merger, gained about 2%.  7) The U.S. stock and bond markets will be closed tomorrow in observation of the Independence Day holiday. Don't Miss: 27 Stocks Traders Are Shorting Like Crazy » FREE AppDownload
Ousted American Apparel CEO Dov Charney has handed over his shares of the retailer to a hedge fund manager with a love for hopeless-looking causes, Soohyung Kim, founder of Standard General. The fund has made investments in things like a defunct amusement park in Westchester County, New York _ where it sank $400,00, and RadioShack. What makes American Apparel so "lost" is that it's a company in the midst of a war with its own founder. Last week it fired Dov Charney, allegedly for lude sexual conduct. That aside, the company is sidled with debt from Charney's mismanagement. Its stock has fallen 54% in the last year. Now that Standard General owns 43% of American Apparel it could wage quite the activist war if it so chooses. The company, for its part, has said that it's willing to at least talk to the hedge fund about corporate governance structure and its financial situation. Those discussions may not mean that Charney gets his company back, though, as Dan Primack of Fortune reports: Standard General’s American Apparel investment is essentially a loan to former CEO Charney, who was recently ousted by the board. Charney is trying to get his job back. Last week, Standard General spent roughly $19.6 million to buy 10% of the outstanding shares of American Apparel. But it didn’t hold onto the stock. Standard General lent Charney $15 million, which he used to buy the shares that the hedge fund bought. It is charging Charney a 10% annual interest rate for the loan, with the right to take back the shares if Charney doesn’t pay. The hedge fund also got a warrant to buy back the shares, plus another nearly 5 million shares that Charney already owned, at last week’s stock price. So Standard will benefit if American Apparel’s stock goes up, if Charney rejoins the company or not. The question is whether or not American Apparel stock will go up given the circumstances. Kim founded Standard General in 2007 and holds a Bachelors from Princeton. After graduating, he worked as an analyst at Bankers Trust. He then cut his hedge fund teeth at Och-Ziff Capital Management, where he helped launch their fixed income group. Standard General manages more than $600 million, according to Institutional Investor. Not too shabby. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Brian J. McDermottThe town of Barnstable, Massachusetts, turns out for a parade the morning of July 4.There are some people who are proud to be American, and then there are entire cities that really bust out the red, white, and blue like it's nobody's business. With the Fourth of July around the corner, we found the most patriotic cities in the U.S. of A. We created a patriotism score for cities around the U.S. by looking at three categories: the percentage of people who are veterans, according to the 2012 American Community Survey; the percentage of residents 18 and over who voted in the 2012 presidential election; and the ranking of the best cities for Fourth of July celebrations from Wallet Hub. We made a weighted average of the three scores, with 50% going to veterans, 30% going to voting turnout, and 20% from the Fourth of July celebrations. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVMichael Feroli(Reuters) - J.P. Morgan moved forward its forecast for a Federal Reserve monetary policy tightening on Thursday, citing the decline in the unemployment rate, positive jobs data and firming core inflation. J.P. Morgan said after the bullish U.S. jobs report on Thursday, the bank sees the Fed's interest rate lift off occurring in the third quarter of 2015, up from the Wall Street bank's original projection of the fourth quarter of that year. The firm's well known chief U.S. economist, Michael Feroli, added in the report that after the June jobs report, a second quarter tightening next year is "plausible."   (Reporting by Michael Flaherty) FREE AppDownload
Hav you ever bought an item of clothing that you just can't figure out how to wear? This neat lifehack from alpha m. style expert Aaron Marino (via Real Men Real Style) should give you a clue.  Simply type in a description of the item in a Google image search, and hundreds of photos showing various styles of the item from fashion blogs and retailers will immediately pop up. Be specific in your description, Marino says, and include "men" or "women" to further narrow down your results.  We tried the hack with the search "men red chinos" and got tons of ideas about how to wear the trendy pants.screenshot via Google Image SearchThis method can also be used to see how to pair various items.  Women who fancy flowy pants but aren't sure how to make them look professional can search "flowy pants shoes women" and get inspired by dozens of professionally styled fashion photos.screenshot via Google Image Search See Marino's full explainer on the hack:  FREE AppDownload
Argentina has its back against a wall. On July 30 it may default on a sovereign-debt payment that could send its economy into a tailspin of rising interest rates, money printing, and inflation. It could be the worst economic tragedy the republic has seen since 2001. And the tragedy will be well deserved, because this is a drama of Argentina's own making, a figment of political imagination tied closely with its history and culture. In Argentina, debt is identity, and this specific over-$1.3 billion debt in question, purchased by a group of hedge fund managers back in 2001, has hit a nerve. Here's what former finance minister Hernan Lorenzino said about it in 2012: "The state has the capacity to make these payments. We have the funds available to make these payments. But fundamentally, we have the political will to continue paying as we have paid. The possibility of default does not exist in Argentina ... (The rating agencies) pretend to install the idea that something is going to fail as they have been unsuccessfully for years. They will not accomplish this." For over a decade the country has refused to pay a group of hedge fund managers led by Elliott Management's Paul Singer. This group, known as NML, refused to take a massive haircut on Argentine sovereign debt purchased after the country's last crash. Argentina, in turn, refused to pay them 100 cents on the dollar and fought to continue doing so all the way to the Supreme Court. It lost. On July 7, the republic will enter into settlement talks with a court appointed special master in New York. Its new finance minister, Axel Kicillof, will be there, supposedly to negotiate. “We’re glad to see the press reports that Argentina has agreed to meet with the special master next week in New York," said Jay Newman, senior portfolio manager at Elliott Management. "But engagement with the court or with creditors doesn’t have to wait another week. We’re ready to meet with Minister Kicillof during his visit to Washington, D.C., this week, and to negotiate without preconditions. We’re serious about negotiations, but we are still waiting for Argentina to engage in any dialogue with us.” Remember ... "supposedly." The reality is that Kicillof has been in Washington meeting with international bodies like the Organization of American States for weeks. He's been trying to convince them that Argentina should not have to honor the clause in its bond agreement with the holdout hedge fund managers that has been the crux of this case — the pari passu clause. This clause states that Argentina cannot favor one group of investors over another. That's what it had been doing — paying the bondholders that restructured, and not the holdouts. Last month it tried to pay everyone except the holdouts (not the best show of faith). But the judge presiding over this case, Judge Griesa, wasn't having it and sent the payments back to Argentina. If some investors get paid, every investor must get paid. To Argentina, the problem is the holdouts are not investors — they're "vultures." They bought the republic's debt after its 2001 default, which President Cristina Fernandez argues shows that they only meant to speculate with it. REUTERS/Argentine PresidencyArgentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner stands next to an Argentina flag during commemorations of the National Flag Day in Rosario June 20, 2014. Fernandez said as much in her speech after the Supreme Court decided against the republic. On a live 30-minute broadcast she walked her nation through a history lesson. She told the story of 1976, the first time international debt turned to inflation. It was, she said, "without a doubt the most powerful trap we'd been in keeping us from growth, the development of Argentina, it created poverty, backwardness, homelessness, a lack of infrastructural development, investment in education, in science ... " Since then, Argentine politicians have associated speculators with their worst national nightmares. They are the lowest of the low and, as such, deserve no respect. "This was a political decision leaders had made," bankruptcy expert William A. Brandt, CEO of Development Specialists Inc., a firm specializing in turnarounds, told Business Insider in 2012. "Argentina is an incredibly sophisticated economy and brought this problem on itself by doing the unthinkable and defaulting on its debt." In that same speech, Fernandez said that paying the holdouts could bring similar claims out of the woodwork — claims to the tune of $15 billion — which would wipe out half of the country's dollar reserves. Still, some contest that argument. In a note, debt specialist Josh Rosner of GrahamFisher said that even if that is true (if) Argentina could still manage the $15 billion: "Argentina has ignored the reality that even if that $15 billion number was correct and the creditors unwilling to negotiate a payment formula that was acceptable to both parties, the government would still be able to manage the increased debt burden as a percent of GDP. Moreover, late last year, at least one Wall Street firm offered to raise the full $15 billion that the government claims it owes. If the government chose to raise capital as a means of resolving this impasse, it would normalize its relations with the international capital markets, reduce its cost of funds going forward and immediately begin to attract the foreign investment necessary to develop key industries, including its energy sector and the broader economy." The other argument Argentina has used to avoid payment is to say that this sets a dangerous precedent for investors in sovereign debt. If investors can avoid haircuts by refusing to restructure, why would they ever? Argentina's refusal to pay the holdouts has thrown the entire sovereign-debt system into question. None of this is to say that Paul Singer and his crew have not been aggressive, sparking a sort of PTSD in the Argentine psyche. NML has used the law to go after Argentine assets all over the world, at one point getting a Ghanaian court to impound an Argentine naval vessel as collateral. But that doesn't make the country's intransigence right. The tone of its politicians has crossed the line into hysterical territory. One of President Fernandez’s deputies, Carlos Kunkel, told the Argentine press that he was convinced that Judge Griesa — the man who handed down the ruling that the country must pay — is forcing negotiations because he’ll get a cut of the payout. Would you want to lend this country money? FREE AppDownload
Stephanie Yang Business Insider via Fortune Live Media flickr/REUTERSIn light of J.P. Morgan CEO Jamie Dimon's unfortunate health complications, two top executives are prepared to take over should Dimon be unable to fulfill his duties, the WSJ reported. The article said Dimon has been grooming several employees for potential succession. Dimon will soon undergo chemotherapy for about eight weeks to treat throat cancer, he announced on Tuesday. He was diagnosed with the illness this week, and said he plans to remain actively involved in the business. The top two contenders are: Mary Callahan Erdoes, CEO of J.P. Morgan's Asset Management division. Erdoes has been with J.P. Morgan for 18 years, joining the company as head of fixed income in 1996. Now, the 46-year-old manages about $1.5 trillion in assets. Last year she brought in $11.3 billion in revenue and $2 billion in net income, and has seen consistent increases in assets over the past five years. Prior to J.P. Morgan, Erdoes worked in corporate finance at Bankers Trust. She earned a B.S. from Georgetown and M.B.A. from Harvard Business School. Gordon Smith, CEO of Community and Consumer Banking. Smith, 55, joined J.P. Morgan in 2007 after working for American Express for almost 30 years. He runs Chase retail banking, including credit cards, auto loans, and mortgages. According to WSJ, his division brought in $10.7 billion in revenue for 2013. Smith graduated from Thunderbird School of Global Management with a Master's degree in international management. Also being considered for long-term leadership are COO Matt Zames, Chief Executive of Commercial Bank Doug Petno, CEO of Corporate and Investment Bank Daniel Pinto, CFO Marianne Lake, and Chief Risk Officer Ashley Bacon, the article said. Read the full story over at WSJ&gt; FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsM&amp;A activity is booming. CNBC's David Faber is reporting that tobacco giants Reynolds American and Lorillard will merge by the end of the month.  The deal, which Faber notes had previously been discussed and reported, now appears to be back on the table and close to coming together.  Following Faber's report, shares of Lorillard were up as much as 5% and shares of Reynolds American were up more than 1%.  This report comes amid what has been a big and busy year for merger activity already, with $750 billion worth of merger deals announced in the first half of the year. Lorillard and Reynolds currently have market caps of about $23 billion and $33 billion, respectively, and this deal coming together would keep the M&amp;A boom in tact. This chart shows the pop in shares of Lorillard after Faber's report.Google Finance FREE AppDownload
BofA Merrill Lynch Global ResearchThe June jobs report crushed expectations in almost every way. U.S. companies added 288,000 payrolls in June, smashing expectations for just 215,000. And May's number was revised up to 224,000 from 216,000. The unemployment rate unexpectedly fell to 6.1% from 6.3% even as the labor force participation rate was unchanged at 62.8%. And economist are overall euphoric. "Nirvana. It is the exact report we discussed yesterday. Headline - Great! Revisions - Higher. Private - Great! Household - Even better than establishment. Unemployment Rate - Low and that was with a stable participation rate. No material wage growth, but good enough. Hours stable. A great report."-Peter Tchir, Brean Capital "Kaboom!  This report sure is one red-hot firecracker of an economy exploding the myth that growth isn’t strong enough to create jobs, isn’t strong enough to withstand a rate hike... There is no devil in the details.  No hidden dark clouds for the outlook.  Participation rate steady, wages are okay, +0.2%, those not in the labor force who actually want work plummeted, those out of work more than 6 months plummeted." -Chris Rupkey, Bank Of Tokyo-Mitsubishi "We see no chinks in the armor of this report, and the broad-based nature of the jobs gains along with the improvement across a broad swathe of labor market indicators causes us to give this report and A+. Add to this the fact that the acceleration in jobs growth comes on the heels of four solid monthly reports and we have every reason to believe that the US economic recovery is now on a higher trajectory, and there is every indication to believe that this higher level of activity is sustainable." - Millan Mulraine, TD Securities "The Bureau of Labor Statistics’ (BLS) update on the employment situation in June will certainly provide maket participants with much to talk about around their 4th of July barbecues." -Brian Jones, Societe Generale "The June employment report was stronger than expected across the board." -Jan Hatzius, Goldman Sachs "The evident strength of the labour market in June is one of the key reasons why we think that the Fed will be persuaded to begin raising interest rates earlier than most expect. The unemployment rate hit a near six-year low of 6.1% last month and the average pace of job gains has accelerated to the fastest average seen in this recovery." -Paul Ashworth, Capital Economics "US June employment report reflects robust labor market." -Dean Maki, Barclays "Very strong report." -Ted Wieseman, Morgan Stanley "Gooooooaaaallllll!" -Ethan Harris, Bank of America Merrill Lynch FREE AppDownload
Today's Non-Farm Payrolls report was unambiguously strong. But there is one interesting wrinkle. Wage growth did not accelerate. Here's a look at average hourly yearnings growth on a year-over-year basis, and as you can see this number ticked down just slightly from the month before. FRED There's been a lot of consternation on Wall Street that wages would zoom up, forcing the Fed to tighten rates sooner than expected. And Janet Yellen herself has called inflationary signals coming from elsewhere in the economy "noise." Today's number takes a little bit of pressure off everyone. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steve MarcusWharton School professor Jeremy Siegel expressed a pretty  bullish sentiment during a recent CNBC interview: the Dow could make it up to 20,000 by the end of the year.  That would represent another 17% gain from the 17,000 we hit earlier today. At the very least, he claims, the Dow should get to 18,000. He said during the interview: "I think we're going to get to 18 [thousand] and above. Could it go to 19, 20? It could. I'm not going to say that's the likely event, but so many people have missed this bull market that they start saying, 'Hey, you know, this is my last chance.'" Such a projection is hardly surprising from the notoriously bullish finance professor. In October 2012 he explained what would drive the Dow to 17,000, and in March 2013 discussed why he expected the Dow to hit 18,000 by the end of 2013. The Dow broke 17,000 for the first time today following a solid June jobs report. But according to Siegel, the difference between his claim last year and this year is the interest-rate "situation:" "The so-called "New Neutral", as Pimco called it, as Bill Gross calls it, really does — as he admits himself — argue for higher valuations in the market. So we shouldn't just think 15, 16 [times earnings]... the old historical normals are normal anymore because if the interest rate is really going to be lower — and I do believe that — we're looking at 18 and 19." However, he does believe that if the market hits 20-21,000 in the short run, then it "could be overvalued" because markets "often go beyond fair market value before they correct back down."  Additionally, he believes that "in the short-run, in six months to twelve months" there could be a lot of volatility in the market. Here's the entire interview from CNBC:  FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Skye GouldTop row: Janet Yellen, Warren Buffett, Li Ka-shing; bottom row: Louis Bacon, Sallie Krawcheck, Julian Marchese In finance experience is everything, but these people show you can be 18, 38, 68, or 108 and still be a powerhouse on Wall Street. From teen traders to veteran executives, we found the most powerful person in finance at every age. These big names are influencing budding businesses as well as macroeconomics. They make things happen in the finance industry. To compile this list, we considered three factors. Those on this list are commanding money, making major business deals, and executing financial decisions that affect people or companies. Because of the nature of the industry, we began the list at age 16 and skipped wherever appropriate people for certain ages couldn't be found. We also took into account the nominations that were submitted by Business Insider readers. Did we miss anyone? Let us know in the comments! FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Ben MargotThe US trade deficit narrowed to $44.4 billion in May, from $47 billion the previous month. Nominal exports climbed 1% month-over-month and nominal imports fell 0.3% MoM. This data doesn't bode well for Q2 GDP. Remember, the -2.9% annualized drop in Q1 GDP was largely driven by a drop in exports which "subtracted 150 bps from overall output and a slower pace of inventory accumulation, which lopped another 170 bps off of growth," Deutsche Bank analysts pointed out. So it was expected that an improvement this time around might provide a boost to GDP. Turns out, the better headline number in May masked an interesting detail, namely that most of the improvement was tied to a drop in the petroleum deficit. "This narrowing was driven by the real petroleum balance, which printed -$8.9bn (previous: -$10.6bn) as the real ex-petroleum deficit widened to $49.0bn (previous: $48.3bn)," writes Cooper Howes at Barclays.  "While the real goods deficit shrank, it was less than what we had penciled in as a rebound following a large widening in April.  As a result, this report suggests that net exports continued to act as a drag on real GDP growth in the second quarter after providing a -1.5pp contribution in Q1." Barclays sees US Q2 GDP tracking down 0.5 percentage points to 2.7%, after the "May real goods balance narrows less than forecast." Jana McTigue at Pantheon Macroeconomics also points to this and adds, that "even if we assume better export numbers in June, the quarter as a whole looks very unbalanced, with core exports likely to rise at a 6% annualized rate while imports are heading for 22%."  "Net foreign trade therefore will be a drag on Q2 GDP growth, subtracting perhaps as much as 0.7 percentage points from growth. H2 should be better, but right now these numbers are grim," McTigue writes. And it had been such a good morning for the U.S. economy. FREE AppDownload
The stellar June jobs report, which crushed economists' expectations, brought with it a new milestone. Private-sector job growth has increased in 52 consecutive months — the longest streak on record, according to the White House. Private payrolls added 262,000 jobs in June, making up the bulk of the 288,000 jobs added. The new private-sector streak, which began in March 2010, surpasses the previous streak of 51 consecutive months of private-sector growth from February 1996 through April 2000.  It's likely to continue for the foreseeable future — this is the first time job growth has been above 200,000 for five straight months since September 1999 through January 2000. Overall, U.S. nonfarm payrolls added 288,000 jobs in the month of June, and the unemployment rate plummeted to its lowest since 2008 at 6.1%. The unemployment rate has fallen 1.4% over the past year, the sharpest decline in about three decades. Here's a chart from the White House: White House FREE AppDownload
Salim Fadhley / FlickrISM's non-manufacturing survey for June came in at 56.0. Expectations were for the report to come in at 56.3, unchanged from last month. The report's employment index rose 2 points to 54.4 from 52.4 in May. New orders rose to 61.2 from 60.5, while prices fell 0.2 to 61.2. Following the report, Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Solid, but probably understate payrolls for the foreseeable future... The headline index tends to reflect the strength — or otherwise — of the recent core retail sales numbers, which have been pretty good... The ISM survey does not capture the state of very small companies, which we think are recovering rapidly." Cooper Howes at Barclays notes that with this reading, the average for the second quarter stands at 55.8, the strongest quarter since the third quarter of last year. The data comes after what has been a huge day already as the U.S. jobs report showing the economy added 288,000 in non-farm payrolls in June, blowing away expectations. This chart from ISM shows the month-over-month changes in its non-manufacturing survey. ISM FREE AppDownload
Media MattersWhile Thursday's jobs report demolished expectations and sent the country's unemployment rate plummeting to 6.1%, the Fox News Channel noted the "real" unemployment rate was twice that number. Citing the figure the Bureau of Labor Statistics calls "U-6," defined as the "total unemployed, plus all marginally attached workers plus total employed part time for economic reasons, as a percent of all civilian labor force plus all marginally attached workers," the conservative-leaning news channel emphasized the higher number. "Brand new monthly jobs numbers to tell you about," a show anchor said Thursday morning, according to video provided by the left-leaning group Media Matters. "The unemployment rate [is] falling 0.2% to 6.1%. But with many out of the labor market, we need to point out the real unemployment rate stands at 12.1%." The segment quickly pivoted to discuss Wednesday's Quinnipiac poll showing a plurality of American voters rank President Barack Obama the worst modern-day president. For what it's worth, some economists have criticized the notion that the "U-6" number represents the "real" unemployment figure. View the segment below.  (h/t Jon Favreau) FREE AppDownload
Markit"The US economy is enjoying a major growth spurt, entering the second half of the year with very strong momentum," said Markit's Chris Williamson. Markit's services purchasing managers index (PMI) climbed to 61.0 in June from 58.4 in May. Any reading above 50 signals growth in the sector. "The index has now picked up in three of the past four months, with the latest reading signalling the strongest rate of output growth since the survey began in October 2009," noted Markit. "Moreover, the average reading during the second quarter of the year (58.0) was the strongest since Q1 2012." Here are some key points from the report: "A further acceleration of growth signalled by the manufacturing and services PMIs in June suggests that the economy may have grown at an annualised rate of perhaps 4% in the second quarter," continued Williamson. "Some of this growth represents a rebound from the weather- related disruptions of the first quarter, but there is a clearly underlying groundswell of rising demand for both goods and services." Markit FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressThe Dow has broken 17,000 for the first time. The new record high in the blue-chip index comes following a blowout jobs report earlier this morning that showed the economy added 288,000 non-farm payrolls in June. Following the report stocks are higher across the board, with the Dow up 75 points, the S&amp;P 500 up 7 points, and the Nasdaq up 10 points. Bond yields have also edged up following the data, with the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury bond at 2.67%, and the two-year note at 0.52%. June's jobs report also showed that the unemployment rate also fell to 6.1%, its lowest level since September 2008. Expectations were for the unemployment rate to hold steady at 6.3%. The jobs report also showed average hourly wages grew 2%, which was better than expected, and the labor for participation rate remained at 62.8% for the third straight month. In other economic news, the U.S. trade deficit narrowed to $44.4 billion, better than the $45 billion that had been expected. ISM's June non-manufacturing services report came in at 56.0, below expectations for 56.3. The report's employment component, however, increased 2 points to 54.4 from 52.2 in May.  In corporate news, a report from CNBC's David Faber said that tobacco giants Reynolds American and Lorillard are on track to announce a merger by the end of the month. Shares of Lorillard were up as much as 5% following the report.   FREE AppDownload
APInsurance companies operating in New York State's marketplace are expected to ask for double-digit premium hikes next year, according to new filings from the companies.  Capital New York reports the average requested increase was 13%. The New York Post reports that number at about 12%. But the bigger insurers are seeking a bigger premium hike — according to Capital, the six most popular plans in New York are requesting an average increase of almost 15%.  The Post reports that Excellus Health Plan, which has about 24,000 customers, is requesting a 19.7% hike. MVP Health Plan, which has nearly 33,000 customers, is seeking a 19% increase. New York's largest insurer on the exchange — Health Republic Insurance of New York, which has 68,000 customers — is requesting a 15% increase. The requests from states are being closely watched, after the end of the first open-enrollment period of the Affordable Care Act. According to the reports, insurers cited a number of reasons for the proposed premium hikes in their filings, including rising medical costs, having a sicker and/or older pool of customers, and new regulations and taxes levied by Obamacare. "Our goal in pricing is to match expected medical spending — including medical costs, utilization and mandated coverage — with premiums. Other factors include plan design and new taxes and fees,"  Maria Gordon Shydlo, a spokeswoman at UnitedHealthCare, told the Post. Health insurance premiums rise every year. But insurers' proposed increase is markedly higher than average — though there is little data with which it can directly be compared. According to a study released by the Commonwealth Fund, which supports the Affordable Care Act, individual health insurance premiums rose by more than 10% on average in the three years before President Barack Obama signed the Affordable Care Act into law. In 2008, according to the study premiums grew by an average of 9.9%, by 10.8% the following year, and by 11.7% in 2011. According to the study, there was also considerable variation across states. For example, in 2008, premiums increased by about 3% in Iowa, compared with about 20% in Connecticut.  Insurers within individual states have requested varying increases — and even decreases — so far next year. In Connecticut, two insurers are proposing to raise premiums by more than 10%, while one insurer, HealthyCT, is proposing almost a 9% decrease.  Another example: In Arizona, Cigna requested an average rate hike of 14.4%. Humana, though, is looking for a startling 25.5% increase, according to The Arizona Republic. This post was updated at 8:25 p.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
One of the big criticisms of Obamacare was that it would discourage job creation, because employers would find the cost and "uncertainty" too burdensome. Welp, that's not happening. Here's a look at average monthly job growth, via Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok. Up until this year, job growth average between 174,000 and 194,000 jobs per month. This year after today's great report? A massive jump to 231,000 jobs per month. Deutsche Bank, Torsten Slok   FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Goldman Sachs Group Inc on Wednesday said Google Inc has blocked access to an email containing confidential client data that a contractor sent to a stranger's Gmail account by mistake, an error that the bank said threatened a "needless and massive" breach of privacy.  The breach occurred on June 23 and included "highly confidential brokerage account information," Goldman said in a complaint filed on Friday in a New York state court in Manhattan. Goldman did not say how many clients were affected. It has been seeking a court order compelling Google to delete the email, which it said on Wednesday had yet to occur. “Google complied with our request that it block access to the email,” Goldman spokeswoman Andrea Raphael said. “It has also notified us that the email account had not been accessed from the time the email was sent to the time Google blocked access. No client information has been breached.” A Google spokeswoman declined to comment. According to Goldman, the outside contractor had been testing changes to the bank's internal processes in connection with reporting requirements set forth by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Goldman said the contractor meant to email her report, which contained the client data, to a "gs.com" account, but instead sent it to a similarly named, unrelated "gmail.com" account. The bank said a member of Google's "incident response team" reported on June 26 that the email could not be deleted without a court order. "Emergency relief is necessary to avoid the risk of inflicting a needless and massive privacy violation upon Goldman Sachs' clients, and to avoid the risk of unnecessary reputational damage to Goldman Sachs," the bank said in court papers. Goldman is based in New York, and Google in Mountain View, California. The case is Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co v. Google Inc, New York State Supreme Court, New York County, No. 156295/2014. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Dan Grebler and Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois LenoirEuropean Central Bank (ECB) President Mario Draghi waits to deliver a speech at a conference for the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the European Monetary Institute, in Brussels February 12, 2014. The European Central Bank chose to keep interest rates unchanged during its July meeting. The ECB kept its refinancing rate at 0.15%, the marginal lending facility rate at 0.40%, and the deposit facility rate at -0.1%. Draghi pushed interest rates into negative territory in the June meeting. Draghi has now begun his press conference. Draghi said monetary policy meetings will occur every 6 weeks from Jan 2015. The first question concerns forward guidance and details on targeted Long-Term Refinancing Operation (TLTRO) conditions and potential asset backed securities purchase programs. Remember, TLTROs are subsidized loans in targeted areas, and are intended to boost lending to the non-financial private sector. However, they exclude loans for home purchases. The overall take up could total $1 trillion, and then it will be up to the banks, Draghi said. This new measure depending on its take up will have an impact on inflation and growth rate of the euro area, our models say it will have significant impact taking the inflation rate to below 2%.  In terms of participation, he said banks can participate individually or form a group. There are six TLTROs in a quarterly period. ""I'm confident the banks will quickly understand that even though TLTROs are complicated they are very attractive," he said. Draghi has said that he doesn't plan on synchronizing ECB meetings with the Fed or any other central bank. We are interested in ABS because we want to heal lending channels. No CDO squared or financial derivatives. Transparency is key to this feature. On a paper from the Bank of International Settlements saying that loose monetary policy is creating euphoric markets Draghi said, "we have a mandate which is price stability and our current stance is geared to achieve this mandate," He said the ECB is  however "quite sensitive to the formation and creation of potential financial stability risks." He pointed out that they have taken asset quality reviews, required recapitalization of banks, ahead of results of AQR. "Even in TLTRO operations we've excluded lending to real estate purposes and to sovereigns. We've introduced treatment for sovereigns that's quite conservative. We are addressing these risks as we see them. The bottom-line the first line of defense should be macro prudential tools. ...I don't think people would agree raising interest rates now, for the ECB. Interest rates will stay low for an extended period of time and governing council is unanimous in using." When asked if the ECB is in the shadow of the Federal Reserve, Draghi says that there is no individual pressure but they need to manage expectations. Draghi joked that they should move to a six month meeting schedule, instead of six weeks. Following the ECB meeting, Nicholas Spiro, managing director at Spiro Sovereign Strategy, wrote that the central bank's measures are "doing little to address the underlying problems of Europe's economically depressed and ill-managed single currency area." He said the latest measures raise more questions and provide fewer answers. "The worrying reality is that the ECB - whose credibility as Europe's monetary guardian has been suffering for some time given that inflation in the eurozone currently stands at just one quarter of the ECB's target - is no longer an important part of the solution," Spiro wrote. You can find Draghi's opening remarks here » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressThe Dow has broken 17,000 for the first time. The new record high in the blue-chip index comes following a blowout jobs report earlier this morning that showed the economy added 288,000 non-farm payrolls in June. Following the report stocks are higher across the board, with the Dow up 75 points, the S&amp;P 500 up 7 points, and the Nasdaq up 10 points. Bond yields have also edged up following the data, with the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury bond at 2.67%, and the two-year note at 0.52%. June's jobs report also showed that the unemployment rate also fell to 6.1%, its lowest level since September 2008. Expectations were for the unemployment rate to hold steady at 6.3%. The jobs report also showed average hourly wages grew 2%, which was better than expected, and the labor for participation rate remained at 62.8% for the third straight month. In other economic news, the U.S. trade deficit narrowed to $44.4 billion, better than the $45 billion that had been expected. ISM's June non-manufacturing services report came in at 56.0, below expectations for 56.3. The report's employment component, however, increased 2 points to 54.4 from 52.2 in May.  In corporate news, a report from CNBC's David Faber said that tobacco giants Reynolds American and Lorillard are on track to announce a merger by the end of the month. Shares of Lorillard were up as much as 5% following the report.   FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Mark LennihanThe U.S. trade deficit narrowed to $44.4 billion in May. This beat expectations for a trade deficit of $45 billion, and is down from a deficit of $47 billion in April. Exports totaled $195.5 billion and imports totaled $239.8 billion. "May exports were $2.0 billion more than April exports of $193.5 billion. May imports were $0.7 billion less than April imports of $240.5 billion." While the latest trade report is sure to be overshadowed by the jobs report, it's one to keep a close eye on.  "Recall that the -2.9% annualized drop in Q1 real GDP was primarily due to a plunge in net exports, which subtracted 150 bps from overall output and a slower pace of inventory accumulation, which lopped another 170 bps off of growth," Deutsche Bank economists wrote ahead of the data release. Click here for the full press release. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonJob creation in June was much stronger than expected as signs grow that the U.S. economy is accelerating. The U.S. added 288,000 jobs in June, blowing away expectations for an addition of 215,000 in nonfarm payrolls. The unemployment rate also fell to 6.1%, the lowest reading since September 2008. Expectations were for the unemployment rate to remain unchanged at 6.3%. Last month's jobs report was also revised, with nonfarm payrolls growing by 224,000 in May, better than the previously reported 217,000. The report also showed April nonfarm payrolls were revised up to 304,000 from 282,000. The labor force participation rate remained unchanged at 62.8%, the third straight month that measure has remained steady. The employment-to-population ratio was reported at 59%, little changed over the month but up by 0.3% year-over-year. Average hourly wages grew 2% year over year, slightly better than the 1.9% increase that had been expected. The number of long-term unemployed, which the BLS defines as those out of work for 27 weeks or more, declined by 293,000 in June to 3.1 million.  The number of persons employed part time for economic reasons, also known as involuntary part-time workers, increased by 275,000 in June to 7.5 million. These charts from the BLS show the net payrolls additions over the last two years and the drop in the unemployment rate. BLS BLS More to come ... FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
 dovcharney  via Flickr(Reuters) - Ousted American Apparel Inc Chief Executive Officer Dov Charney has handed over his entire stake and voting rights in the struggling retailer to Standard General LP, enabling the fund to negotiate directly with the independent directors over the company's future, two sources close to the matter said on Wednesday. Earlier Standard General had loaned its American Apparel shares to Charney, according to regulatory documents, allowing him to boost his stake in the company from about 27 percent to 43 percent. Charney had hoped to gain majority control, but American Apparel countered with an anti-takeover plan that prompted him to change his strategy. As a result, the 45-year-old American Apparel founder handed over his entire holdings to his ally Standard General, according to the sources, who requested anonymity because the talks are private. The retailer, which has refused to meet with Charney since he was suspended, has agreed to negotiate with the New York-based fund over the retailer's corporate governance structure and its financial condition, the sources said. It is unclear what changes will result, and the sources cautioned that the negotiations could still fall apart. American Apparel declined to comment. Standard General officials were not immediately available for comment. Charney, accused of misusing corporate funds and helping disseminate nude photos of an ex-employee, has also given up his battle to recover his CEO role until an investigation being led by FTI Consulting is completed, the sources said. According to regulatory filings earlier this week, Charney himself had intended to pursue discussions with the board and called for a special shareholder meeting on Sept. 25. Days earlier, American Apparel said it had adopted a "poison pill" takeover defense that would be triggered when shareholders who own more than 15 percent of the stock acquire an additional 1 percent or more. At the time Charney was in the process of building his shares. Standard General, known for investing in distressed companies such as RadioShack Corp, has had a relationship with American Apparel. The fund provided capital in March when the retailer needed to make an interest payment to its largest bondholder, Monarch Alternative Capital, a third source familiar with the matter said. Amid the public battle between the company and its ex-CEO, American Apparel employees have expressed concern over the company's future, including a possible buyout, the sources said. Last week, a board director spent several hours at its main manufacturing facility in Los Angeles assuring employees that the company still cares about them and that the company is not for sale, one of the sources said. (Reporting by Nadia Damouni and Jeffrey Dastin in New York; Editing by Jilian Mincer, Frank McGurty and Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
At 8:30 a.m. ET, the Bureau of Labor Statistics will release its June jobs report. The average Wall Street economist surveyed by Bloomberg estimates that 216,000 nonfarm payrolls were added during the month. The median estimate is 215,000 But the folks on Twitter have been Tweeting their #NFPGuesses all day. According to Bloomberg's Michael McDonough, the average Twitterer is looking for 232,960. The chart below shows when each guess came in.  The numbers range from a low of 231,000 to a high of 235,000. @M_McDonough FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Cheryl RaveloCafe attendants, dressed up in maid uniforms, dance at the MeiDolls Cafe in Cainta Rizal, east of Manila January 30, 2011. When you are in the market to buy a car, you want options. You want details. It's a big decision, and a lot of money. You're going to have to live with it for a long time. Same logic applies to buying a maid, no? It does in Singapore. According to a disturbing Al Jazeera report, Bukit Timah Shopping Center in Singapore has five levels of galleries selling real live maids. They are from places like Indonesia, the Philippines and Myanmar. And if you act now, you can get one at a "special discount."  Inside the galleries, maids sit quietly. Some nod. At displays elsewhere in Singapore, they act out tasks, like wheeling wheelchairs or pretending to change a baby doll's diaper. Some places reportedly market stereotypes as well. Filipinos are "smarter," while Indonesians are "less bright." And Burmese maids, why they are "sweet-natured and compliant," of course.   These scenes are upsetting, though reports of maids being treated like slaves in Southeast Asia are nothing new. The Philippines is apparently looking into the issue.  FREE AppDownload
APPresident Barack Obama declared Wednesday that "an unfinished piece of business" is to crack down on banks that accept "big risks because the profit incentive and the bonus incentive is there for them." Obama made his remarks in an interview on the "Marketplace" radio show in which he struck an unusually fiery tone addressing Wall Street and the banking industry. Potomac Research Group labeled the interview a "populist bombshell" in its Thursday-morning briefing. "Now, it's a great strength of our economies that we've got the deepest, strongest capital markets in the world, but what has also happened is that as the financial sector has grown, more and more of the revenue generated on Wall Street is based on arbitrage — trading bets — as opposed to investing in companies that actually make something and hire people," Obama said, according to a transcript.  Obama went on to say he told his economic team to look at ways to "grow the real economy" and shift profit incentives away from the riskier financial behaviors. "And so what I've said to my economic team is that we have to continue to see how can we rebalance the economy sensibly, so that we have a banking system that is doing what it is supposed to be doing to grow the real economy, but not a situation in which we continue to see a lot of these banks take big risks because the profit incentive and the bonus incentive is there for them," he said. "That is an unfinished piece of business." Obama praised the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial regulations and stressed "some of the work to get that done" will be banks restructuring themselves internally, but he didn't detail the steps he will take to reform the system. One way he can act, however, is through enforcement actions by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, according to Potomac. "Bitterly frustrated by Congress — he is contemptuous of House Republicans — Obama has limited options to take on big banks," the firm wrote. "He's obviously fond of executive orders, but we don't envision the Federal Reserve or the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency executing tough new regs just because Obama wants them to. The SEC can be expected to regulate and prosecute vigorously, however." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange March 3, 2014. Dave Lutz of Jones Trading has the a quick guide to the top topics about which traders are chatting today: Good Morning! US Futures are marked higher into this Holiday shortened session, as the rally in momentum names continues (TSLA, TWTR, NFLX all marked 50bp+ higher), but stay focused for weakness in Airlines, as terror threats mount into America’s birthday. Over in Europe, markets are in rally mode but volumes pace light into the ECB announcement at 7:45 (should be a snooze) – the real potential for fireworks comes during Draghi’s 8:30 presser. Over in Asia, Nikkei snaps a 3day win streak, and the Sensex takes a break from it’s moonshot into next week’s budget announcement. China markets rallied on strong Services data, that helped Aussie’s market which was lead higher by another pop in the Miners – Material Stocks and Industrials are the best global performers right now, while Banks and REITS fall under pressure. The 10YY is retreating from an overnight high near the 100dma at 2.64%, after a sharp pop thru resistance on yesterday’s ADP#s. While Leverage Focus is on the USDJPY back upside 200dma, Sweden’s Krona getting clobbered as the Riksbank cuts more than anticipated on deflationary pressures, this hit Norway’s Krone as well. With the DXY getting some legs into NFP#s, we have a natural headwind for commodities – Both Silver and Gold are retreating sharply, while WTI is on it’s longest losing streak in 2years on Libya headers. Scheduled Catalysts today include ECB at 7:45 – at 8:30 we get hit with NFP#s, and the Draghi Presser – At 9:45 Markit gives us US Services data, while the official ISM services release hits at 10 – At 10:30 we get Natty Storage Data – and there is NO POMO at 11. Early Closes today: Both the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq will close at 1ET – SIFMA recommends that the U.S. bond market close at 2 p.m - Among commodities markets, Comex floor trading for metals futures and options will end at 1:30 p.m., while Nymex floor trading for oil will at 2:30 p.m. Floor trading won’t re-open until Monday. FREE AppDownload
Suzanne Plunkett/ReutersLike this swanky pad seen in south Kensington in west London.Bank of England deputy governor Sir Jon Cunliffe has warned that the housing market is the "biggest risk" to the UK economy. Cunliffe, who is in charge of financial stability at the central bank, said a particular threat was prices rising faster than people's incomes. "That leads to... a big increase in the amount of debt in the economy," he told BBC Radio 5 Live. A few days ago he outlined his concerns about rising household indebtedness, warning that Britain's obsession with home ownership could leave the Bank powerless to control household debt. His latest comments came after figures from Nationwide, Britain's biggest building society, showed the average price of a property in London has risen by more than a quarter to £400,404 over the past year, a rate of growth not seen since the summer of 1987. Last week, the Bank of England's financial policy committee laid out measures to limit risky lending, but stopped short of taking more drastic steps to cool the housing market. The measures – the first limits on the mortgage market in 30 years – include that lenders must check mortgage applicants can cope with a 3 percentage point rise in interest rates – slightly tougher than current affordability checks. From October, there will be a 15% cap on the number of mortgages that banks and building societies can give to people who want to borrow more than 4.5 times their income. Cunliffe told the BBC that a "sustained rise" in house prices would be of concern. "Some months ago I thought the biggest risk at that point came from the UK housing market in Britain," he said. "And it's not the risk around house prices as such, it's the risk that we get a sustained rise in house prices - and this is very important - [the risk of] house prices rising faster than people's incomes. That leads to the sustained increase, a big increase in the amount of debt in the economy, in the amount of debt that mortgage holders have." The International Monetary Fund has also identified rapidly growing house prices as the biggest threat to the UK's economic recovery. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
The European Union's new law giving people a "right to be forgotten," which requires Google to remove links to information about them, is having exactly the effect its critics predicted: It is censoring the internet, giving new tools that help the rich and powerful (and ordinary folk) hide negative information about them, and letting criminals make their histories disappear. Exhibit A: Google was required to delete a link to this BBC article about Stan O'Neal, the former CEO of Merrill Lynch. O'Neal led the bank in the mid-2000s, a period when it became dangerously over-exposed to the looming mortgage crisis. When the crisis hit, Merrill's losses were so great the bank had to be sold to Bank of America. O'Neal lost his job, but he exited with a $161.5 million golden parachute. There is nothing incorrect in the post, in fact it's a rather mild account of O'Neal's incompetence during the period. O'Neal was forced out of the company after he began discussing selling it without informing his board of directors. This is ancient, well-established history. Having it removed from Google doesn't undo the fact that it happened. But there is a new generation of 25-year-old investment bankers who perhaps do not have a firm grasp of the 2007 crisis that reshaped banking globally. Their grasp will be ever more slightly weaker due to this new law. "There is an argument that in removing the blog, Google is confirming the fears of many in the industry that the 'right to be forgotten' will be abused to curb freedom of expression and to suppress legitimate journalism that is in the public interest," BBC writer Robert Peston says. Six links to stories in The Guardian not related to O'Neal have also been removed. Also, Business Insider previously noted that deletion requests were granted for a former politician who wanted to remove links to a news article about his behavior when previously in office — so that he can have a clean slate when running for a new position — and a man who was convicted of possessing child sexual abuse imagery. So pedophiles can take advantage of this law as well.  Forget.me, a company that expedites Google deletion requests, tells Business Insider that it is fielding 250 requests per day. Here's a breakdown of what is being deleted from the world's greatest search engine: Forget.me It's exactly like the "memory holes" in George Orwell's "1984," in which Big Brother's minions burn information that the government wants people to forget. But the E.U. law is terrifying for another reason: The entire process is so non-transparent that the consequence for the individual is even worse than what the courts intended.  This excellent discussion from Danny Sullivan at MarketingLand.com shows that even when Google removes links, new ones pop up in their place. And Europeans can get the full, uncensored internet by leaving Google.co.uk and searching at Google.com. Here's a U.K. search result for the Stan O'Neal article: MarketingLand.com (Note the disclosure from Google that its results have been censored.) Sullivan then searched for the name of the first commenter on the article and got this: MarketingLand.com We don't know whether it was O'Neal who asked that the link be removed. In fact, O'Neal's name may be being dragged through the mud unnecessarily here. Peston believes it may be someone mentioned by readers in the comments section under his story about the ruling.  He suggests that as a "Peter Dragomer" search triggers the same disclosure that a result may have been censored, that perhaps it was not O'Neal who requested the deletion. In an amazing coincidence, the person posting as "Peter Dragomer" claims to be an ex-Merrill employee. Right now, thousands of people probably think that Stan O'Neal is on some quixotic quest to make people forget that he was at the wheel when Merrill drove off a cliff. And there is no evidence that that's the case. But because the law exists, we have no idea what the truth is. That ought to worry everyone. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonLightning strikes One World Trade Center in Manhattan as the sun sets behind the city after a summer storm in New York July 2, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Here Comes The Jobs Report. This jam-packed week of economic data ends with a whopper: the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) employment situation report. Economists estimate that U.S. companies added 215,000 payrolls in June with the unemployment rate unchanged at 6.3%. But The Number Could Actually Be Huge. Earlier this week, ADP said that U.S. companies added 281,000 private payrolls in June, crushing expectations for 205,000. This has some economists thinking that we could get a big surprise today. "The overall tone of [the ADP] report was unambiguously positive and it suggests that the US labor market may again be firing on all cylinders, and on an accounting basis points to payrolls growth closer to 300K," said TD Securities Millan Mulraine, who also noted that ADP tends to miss the BLS report by a wide margin. Here's Societe Generale's Brian Jones, who's forecasting 290,000: "A variety of factors support our call for the largest payroll gain since the 360,000 leap recorded at the beginning of 2012. The average number of persons filing initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits contracted by 12,100 to 312,000 over the four weeks heading into the June establishment survey period. The total number of persons collecting unemployment insurance benefits under regular state programs likely contracted by 54,000 to 2.57 million between canvassing periods – the fewest since October 2007 – implying that a substantial number of those previously unemployed are finding work. The impressive breadth of hiring across private industries over the March-May span also points to a pick-up in headline payroll growth." Keep An Eye On Wages. Included, in the BLS report will be wage growth data. Economists estimate average hourly earnings climbed by 0.2% month-over-month and 1.9% year-over-year. "Wage rates should be as important now as the jobless rate," said UBS's Kevin Cummins. "Although the latter lends insight into the size of the output gap, the former sheds light on whether labor or capital is claiming the upper hand in the perennial struggle for national income. Both are critical to policy-makers watching for signs of rising inflation risks." Markets Are Up. U.S. stock market futures are in the green with Dow futures up 16 points, S&amp;P futures up 1.8 points, and Nasdaq futures is up 5 points. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is up 0.4%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.4%, Germany's DAX is up 0.5%, and Spain's 0.2%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed down 0.1% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 0.1%. U.S. markets close at 1:00 p.m. ET. Sweden's Central Bank Cuts. Sweden's Riksbank cut its benchmark interest rate by 0.5%, which was more than expected by economists. The Swedish krona fell and European stocks rose after the announcement. Eurozone Sales Are Going Nowhere. Retail sales saw 0.0% growth in May, missing expectations for a 0.3% gain. To make things worse, the April 0.4% growth rate was revised down to -0.2%. "In one line: Slightly disappointing, but we remain optimistic that current momentum can be sustained," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen noting the 0.7% year-over-year growth. "Consumption growth is still decent in the eurozone, but not as impressive as we would have hoped given the strong trend in consumer confidence." Overall, Europe Is Slowing. Markit's Eurozone composite purchasing managers index (PMI) fell to a six-month low of 52.8 in June from 53.5 in May. "At first glance, June’s PMI survey results make grim reading and raise worries that the euro area’s recovery is already fading," said Markit's Chris Williamson. "Dig a little deeper, however, and there are grounds for optimism. We should not lose sight of the fact that, even with the slowdown, the June data round off the best quarter for three years. We should expect economic growth to strengthen from the 0.2% rise seen in the first quarter to perhaps 0.4% in the second quarter." Pay Attention To Draghi. The European Central Bank meets today to discuss and decide on the path of monetary policy. Economists expect the ECB to hold the main refinancing rate at 0.15%, the marginal lending facility rate at 0.40% and the deposit facility rate at -0.1%. However, ECB-watchers will be listening for any more information regarding the bank's plan for targeted ong-Term Refinancing Operations (TLTRO), the subsidized loans in targeted areas, which are intended to boost lending to the non-financial private sector. Don't Forget About The Trade Report. Economists estimate that the U.S. trade deficit narrowed to $45.0 billion in May from $47.2 billion in April. "While June employment will no doubt overshadow this morning’s international trade and nonmanufacturing ISM releases, it is worth highlighting the former," wrote Deutsche Bank economists. "Recall that the -2.9% annualized drop in Q1 real GDP was primarily due to a plunge in net exports, which subtracted 150 bps from overall output and a slower pace of inventory accumulation, which lopped another 170 bps off of growth." It's Worth Watching ISM Services. The ISM non-manufacturing report will be published at 10:00 a.m. ET. Economists estimate this index will be unchanged at 56.3. "The ISM non-manufacturing index probably remained elevated in June, consistent with our economic forecast for a sharp bounce back in growth in the second quarter," said Citi's Peter D'Antonio. "The regional and national purchasing managers’ surveys have been running at a feverish pace, offering support for this view." FREE AppDownload
It's Jobs Day, AKA the greatest day of the month. Analysts expect to see 215,000 new jobs created in June, with the unemployment rate staying steady at 215K. But here's a little trick for watching today's number like a pro. Watch what happens to average hourly earnings. One of the biggest debates right now in the economy is what is happening with prices and inflation. This is something the Fed watches closely, and it going to be a major signal to the market about what will happen next in terms of monetary policy. Because if wages are surging, that means the labor market is getting tight, and that tightness means potential inflation. There have been gains in average hourly earnings, but there's been no major surge just yet. This number is just as important as the general jobs created number. FRED FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Benoit TessierGuests take a selfie in front of supermarket shelves at the Grand Palais transformed into a "Chanel Shopping Center" after the German designer Karl Lagerfeld Fall/Winter 2014-2015 women's ready-to-wear collection show for in French fashion house Chanel during Paris Fashion Week March 4, 2014. BRUSSELS (Reuters) - Retail sales in the euro zone stagnated in May as Europeans held back from spending on food, while April's figures were revised down, a sign that high unemployment continues to erode households purchasing plans. Sales in the 18 countries using the euro showed no growth in May compared to April, the EU's statistics office Eurostat said on Thursday, while economists polled by Reuters expected a slight increase of 0.2 percent increase in May. Spending on food, drinks and tobacco fell, offset by a slight rise in spending on clothing, electrical goods and computers equipment. April's previously positive reading was revised down by Eurostat to show a fall in retail sales trade of 0.2 percent. On an annual basis, what was a 7-year high for sales in the bloc in April was also revised down to 1.8 percent from 2.4 percent. May's annual reading was the weakest since January at 0.7 percent, with Germany, Europe's largest economy, posting a 0.6 percent fall in May year-on-year. While volatile, the data nonetheless paints a somber picture of domestic demand in the euro zone, where some 18.5 million people are out of a job, and suggests that households are not in a position to support the bloc's fragile recovery. Stronger retail sales in Spain, France and Portugal are positive signs, but Germany saw its second consecutive monthly fall in May. Data was not available for Italy.              (Reporting by Robin Emmott; editing by Robert Jan Bartunek) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric ThayerA competitor adjusts his hat before the gate opens for him to begin his ride, during the Professional Bull Riders invitational at Madison Square Garden in New York, January 6, 2013.The consensus for today's jobs report is that U.S. companies added 215,000 nonfarm payrolls in June. But of the 94 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, no one was more bullish than Societe Generale's Brian Jones. "Our analysis suggests that market participants should be prepared for fireworks ahead of Independence Day," wrote Jones in his note to clients. Jones expects us to learn that 290,000 payrolls were added during the month, helping to bring the unemployment rate down to 6.2%. From his note: Hiring pace expected to reaccelerate sharply in June: The recent saw-toothed pattern of net job gains probably continued in June. Indeed, nonfarm employers likely added 290,000 workers, well above the 217,000 positions created in May but only marginally eclipsing the 282,000 net new hires posted in April (see table below left). A variety of factors support our call for the largest payroll gain since the 360,000 leap recorded at the beginning of 2012. The average number of persons filing initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits contracted by 12,100 to 312,000 over the four weeks heading into the June establishment survey period. The total number of persons collecting unemployment insurance benefits under regular state programs likely contracted by 54,000 to 2.57 million between canvassing periods – the fewest since October 2007 – implying that a substantial number of those previously unemployed are finding work. The impressive breadth of hiring across private industries over the March-May span also points to a pick-up in headline payroll growth. The BLS’ three- month diffusion index rose by 2.9 percentage points to 71.8% in May, marking the largest job gains since the winter of 2012. Weather should also provide a lift to job creation in the upcoming report. At 70.5oF, the mean temperature nationwide over the month-to-date period ended June 14th was almost ten degrees above the relevant prior-month span and 11/2 degrees above the seasonal norm. In producing our forecast, we have assumed that the number of persons unable to work because of bad weather in non-agricultural industries – our proxy for the impact of climatic conditions on the establishment survey – will print below the 26,000 mean posted over the 2004-13 period. Construction, leisure and hospitality hiring, in particular, should benefit from the warmer temperatures. We'll cover the release live at 8:30 a.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stoyan NenovPeople queue outside a branch of Bulgaria's First Investment Bank, in Sofia June 27, 2014.It’s been a tense week in Bulgaria. Two bank runs occurred last week, with depositors withdrawing the equivalent of 10% and 20% of the assets held by two important national banks. An emergency line of 3.3bn Bulgarian levs (€1.7bn) was approved by the European Commission on Monday, and tensions in the country seem to have eased since then. The modalities and motives of this mini financial crisis are not entirely clear yet, but it seems to be deeply rooted in a long-standing domestic business and political feud. It all started last week. After a run by depositors, the Bulgarian National Bank took control of the country’s fourth lender, Corporate Commercial Bank (KTB). The operations were frozen, the directors suspended and the bank put under special administration, in the attempt to stop what the Central Bank described as “an attempt to destabilise the state through an organised attack against Bulgarian banks”. Two days later, the bank has been nationalised, but it was not enough. Tensions spilled over from KTB to First Investment Bank (FiB), an even bigger domestic bank. According to the Financial Times, depositors withdrew 800m lev (about $556m) on Friday from First Investment Bank, and funds appear to have been moved to the foreign-owned banks in the country. The Bulgarian banking system is in fact dominated by foreign lenders, especially Italian Unicredit, Hungarian DSK, Austrian Raiffeisen (Figure 1). WSJFigure 1. The worsening of this situation triggered the introduction of a set of emergency measures by the Central Bank and the approval by the European Commission of a 3.3 billion levs (€ 1.7bn) credit line to ensure the necessary liquidity support to the banks. Sources quoted by the FT suggest that 1.3 Lev have already been raised on Monday through a special bond issue, mainly covered by foreign banks. In its press release, the Commission stressed that that Bulgaria's banking system is: "well capitalised and has high levels of liquidity compared to its peers in other member states". So how and why were these two banks exposed to a run? Concerning the “how”, the Bulgarian run is interesting because it basically shows how a bank run could look like in the tech and social networking era. Both the government and the central bank have in fact claimed that the run was ignited by a “cyber attack”, for which six people have already been arrested. According to the Bulgarian National Security Agency (see here, for a reporting in English), an investment company that “built a network of associated companies for marketing services” that was used to diffuse panic by means of an alert, uncomfortably titled “Information Bulletin of on the Risk of Deposits in Bulgarian Banks”. The “bulletin” claimed – Bloomberg reports – KTB was undergoing a liquidity shortage. The message apparently also said that the government deposit guarantee fund was under-capitalised to meet possible repayments, that banks could go bankrupt and that the peg of the currency with the euro could be broken. Allegedly, the alert was diffused by text, email and even Facebook messages, thus ensuring a very widespread outreach. In a country that in 1997 underwent a very serious banking crisis featuring all these characteristics – whose memory is still fresh – this was enough to spur panic.  Concerning the why, the story is extremely complicated. Different interests prevail according to different versions, making it quite difficult to reach a clear conclusion, but it certainly seems to have little to do with economics and a lot to do with politics. KTB bank – the first to all in trouble last week – is the ultimate hotspot where business feuds, personal issues, corruption, political uncertainty, tensions with Russia and pressures from Bruxelles all come together into an explosive mix. KTB bank is known to have very strong and complex political connection. According to the Financial Times, 30% of KTB is controlled by Oman and a 10% by the Russian bank VTB. The largest shareholder owning a larger than 50% stake (which, incidentally, will be written off as a consequence of the state recapitalisation) is Tsvetan Vassilev, linked to the ruling party. Several sources, including New York Times and Financial Times attribute the bank run to the unfolding of a complicated  “feud” between Tsvetan Vassilev and Delyan Peevski, another controversial prominent Bulgarian businessman owner of a media empire as well as Member of the Parliament. The two fellows’ businesses appear to share a number of connections. The tycoon’s empire is in fact reportedly built on loans approved by the now-troubled KTB bank itself. At the same time, the successful expansion of KTB bank is partly due to the fact that the bank was able to attract an extremely large amount of deposits from state-controlled companies, offering at the same time exceptionally high interest rates on retail deposits. This “business model” had caught government’s attention last year already, leading to a strong regulatory reaction. In May 2013, in fact, a law was approved according to which those companies in which the government had a stake of more than 50 per cent should diversify the allocation of their deposits, with a maximum of 25 per cent per bank. Bulgarian news reports Prime Minister Marin Raykov as saying that in 2013 54 per cent of state-owned companies’ deposits were held by one bank. While Raykov declined to name the financial institution, the Sofia Globe argues that the most likely guess – and one widely made by Bulgarian media – is Corporate Commercial Bank (KTB). Several analysts’ and news reports attribute the bank run and last week mini-crisis to the unfolding of a latent war between Peevski and Vassilev. In particular, the trigger of the crisis at KTB (controlled by Vassilev) has possibly been the withdrawal of a large amount of money by Peevski. According to this version of the story, the money would have been moved exactly to FIB, which would have later come under pressure when allies of Vassilev retaliated by spreading rumours about its solidity. While these can be considered speculations, the relationship between the two businessmen is certainly not good now, and they repeatedly accused each other of various wrongdoings. On top of the internal feud, the run comes at the end of a period during which political uncertainty has been mounting in Bulgaria. This is partly due to the fact that Bulgaria – which is a major transit route for Russian gas – has been caught in the crossfire between Russia and Europe over the country’s participation in South Stream. The Prime Minister announced his resignation and the country will most likely see anticipated elections, while Standard &amp; Poor’s cut Bulgaria’s sovereign rating to triple-B minus, citing political instability as the main concern. Such nervous and precarious political environment, coupled with the fact that Bulgaria is one of the countries most affected by corruption, offers little protections against the unfolding of business and political feuds like the one that appears to have been behind the bank run of last week. Luckily, contagion seems to have been stopped before turning these embers could ignite a more serious fire. Read more at Bruegel http://www.bruegel.org/nc/blog/detail/article/1378-fact-of-the-week-a-spam-newsletter-caused-a-bank-run-in-bulgaria/ FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexander DemianchukWe've had a monster week already for the economy. Data we've received this week has given us fresh insight into manufacturing, home sales, and car sales, among other things. And today is The Grand Finale: The June Jobs Report. We're more excited about this report than we've been for any in awhile because there's growing evidence that the economy is accelerating, and we might get that breakout report (with strong job growth and wage growth) that we've been waiting a long time for. Officially, expectations look fairly normal. The consensus on Wall Street is for 215K new jobs, and for the Unemployment Rate to stay steady at 6.3%, with wages plodding along at 0.2%. But some economists are expecting big things. SocGen, for example, thinks we'll get 290K. Barclays sees 250K. Millan Mulraine of TD Securities said that the Wednesday ADP report offers the possibility of 300K or more new jobs for the month. Bottom line is, there's evidence the economy is accelerating, and it seems there's a shot of a big report that will reframe the way we think about the economy. Or maybe we'll get another damp blanket that will leave us hanging, and hoping next month is the month. FREE AppDownload
Good morning! Here's everything you need to know before your first meeting of the day. 1. The Fed's Janet Yellen says she is more interested in maintaining a robust underlying finance system than in popping bubbles: The FT says that means there is little chance of an increase in interest rates to head off exuberant stock or bond markets, suggesting that investors will be allowed to inflate and collapse asset classes as long as the underlying financial system is strong enough to withstand any shocks. 2. A new report from UBS analyst Steve Milunovich suggests that voice messaging could actually be the key feature of the iWatch. Milunovich was recently able to talk to Apple CEO Tim Cook, who reportedly mentioned a trip abroad to China where he witnessed people walking down the street and dictating voice messages to their phone instead of texting. 3. Bank of England deputy governor Sir Jon Cunliffe has told the BBC that the housing market poses the "biggest risk" to the UK economy. He's worried that when house prices rise faster than incomes it leads to too much debt in the economy. 4. Warren Buffett called Jamie Dimon to wish him well on his cancer treatment: He handled the public disclosure of his throat cancer diagnosis well, the FT says, saying that executives have a responsibility to provide shareholders with fast and accurate information about their health. 5. Tinder's culture was riddled with frat-like behavior, BusinessWeek claims: But Wolfe's accusation goes even further. Her suit says, “Although it is tempting to describe the conduct of Tinder’s senior executives as ‘frat-like,’ it was in fact much worse—representing the worst of the misogynist, alpha-male stereotype too often associated with technology startups.” 6. The failure of government to protect girls in the U.K. from female genital mutilation is an "ongoing national scandal", The Guardian says. A cross-party House of Commons committee has called for schools to lose funding if their headteachers do not do more to stop hardline Muslim parents from cutting their children. 7. Former French president Nicolas Sarkozy has been formally charged with influence peddling. The allegation against Mr. Sarkozy is that he sought insider information from a judge regarding an investigation into illegal campaign financing, the BBC says. 8. U.K. Home Secretary Leon Brittan was given a file in 1983 describing child abusers at work in Westminster and Whitehall. But the Home Office yesterday admitted the dossier is either lost or destroyed. 9. The Financial Conduct Authority will investigate whether traders manipulate share prices by placing large orders at the end of the day to boost or depress prices, Mark Garnier MP said at a Treasury Select Committee hearing. 10. People are really angry that Google was required to delete an a link to an article by the BBC's Robert Peston on the departure of Stan O'Neal from Merrill Lynch. Here is the missing-link blog post, so you can read it yourself. And finally ... The Independent thinks Andy Murray was unsettled by something shortly before the quarter final match at Wimbledon, which he lost in straight sets. Murray was heard muttering the words “shut the f*** up” to himself, as he struggled to stay in the game, and: “Five minutes before the f***ing match.” There is no further explanation! FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA waiter passes in front of Lutter and Wegner restaurant in BerlinBERLIN, (Reuters) - Germany's private sector expanded at the slowest rate in eight months in June, a survey showed on Thursday, as manufacturing lost steam, although Europe's largest economy looked set to post solid growth in the second quarter. Markit's final composite Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI), which tracks growth in the manufacturing and services sectors, fell to 54.0 in June from 55.6 in May. That was well above the 50 mark that separates growth from contraction but was the lowest level since October last year and also came in below a flash estimate of 54.2. The services sector PMI fell to 54.6 in June from 56.0 a month earlier and also below the 54.8 flash estimate, but Markit said the sector had grown at the fastest rate in three years in the second quarter. "While the services sector is clearly making a strong contribution to growth in the German economy, the manufacturing sector lost some momentum in June," said PMI economist Oliver Kolodseike. He said Germany looked on course for 0.7 percent economic growth in the second quarter, which would be just down from 0.8 percent growth in the first three months of the year. Economists and the government expect growth to ease slightly, with the government forecasting a 1.8 percent expansion overall this year. - Detailed PMI data are only available under licence from Markit and customers need to apply to Markit for a licence. To subscribe to the full data, click on the link below: http://www.markit.com/Contact-Us For further information, please phone Markit on +44 20 7260 2454 or email economics@markit.com (Reporting by Annika Breidthardt; Editing by Hugh Lawson) ((annika.breidthardt@thomsonreuters.com)(+49 30 2888 5166)(Reuters Messaging: annika.breidthardt.reuters.com@reuters.net)) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA worker walks past a gas turbine under construction at the gas turbines production unit of the General Electric plant in BelfortLONDON, (Reuters) - Euro zone business expanded at the slowest rate in six months in June, a survey showed on Thursday, but new orders poured in at the fastest pace in over three years, suggesting growth will accelerate in the second half of the year. Activity in France, the bloc's second-biggest economy, shrank at the fastest rate in four months and even in Germany, the backbone of the common currency area, the pace of growth eased. Markit's Composite Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI), based on surveys of thousands of companies across the region and seen as a good indicator of growth, was in line with a preliminary reading of 52.8, down from May's 53.5. The headline PMI for the euro zone's service industry fell to 52.8 from 53.2, also in line with an earlier flash reading and above the 50 mark that signifies growth. "At first glance, June's PMI survey results make grim reading and raise worries that the euro area's recovery is already fading," said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit. "Dig a little deeper, however, and there are grounds for optimism. With new orders rising at the fastest rate for three years, the pace of economic growth should also pick up again as we move into the second half of the year." A composite sub-index covering new orders jumped to 53.1 from 52.6, its highest reading since May 2011. But some of that business was generated by firms cutting prices again. A PMI measuring output prices in the service industry was below the break-even level for the 31st month, coming in at 49.2 although that was the highest reading since March 2012. The data will be disappointing reading for the European Central Bank's Governing Council members, who are expected to have made no change to monetary policy when they announce their latest decision at 1145 GMT (7.45 a.m. EDT). ECB President Mario Draghi announced a raft of measures last month to counter the threat of deflation and support the recovery, including cutting the deposit rate below zero and offering more long-term loans aimed at boosting bank lending to businesses. Annual consumer inflation was 0.5 percent in June, further highlighting the bloc's feeble economic state as households avoid spending and retailers try to keep down prices to entice shoppers. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Markus SchreiberThe European Central Bank will announce its interest rate decision at 7:45 a.m. ET. This will be followed by a press conference with ECB head Mario Draghi.  Economists expect the ECB to hold the main refinancing rate at 0.15%, the marginal lending facility rate at 0.40% and the deposit facility rate at -0.1%. Draghi pushed interest rates into negative territory at the last meeting in an effort to combat weak growth and prevent deflation. The move was also intended to weaken the euro, but that hasn't really happened. This chart shows the weakness in the Euro against the dollar following the meeting that didn't last long. Google Finance While economists aren't looking for any major policy announcements they are looking for commentary on a few key things: details on targeted Long-Term Refinancing Operation (TLTRO) conditions and potential asset backed securities purchase programs. The TLTROs are subsidized loans in targeted areas, and are intended to boost lending to the non-financial private sector. However, they exclude loans for home purchases. Anatoli Annenkov at Societe Generale expects that the ECB will see how its TLTROs go before making any other policy moves. "We remain sceptical as to the effectiveness of the negative deposit rate and more liquidity to deliver a significant easing in fragmentation and higher inflation," writes Annenkov. He expects a move focused on asset purchases in early 2015. Draghi is also likely to face some questioning on forward guidance following his comments to Dutch publication De Telegraaf. "We have prolonged banks’ access to unlimited liquidity up to the end of 2016," Draghi said. "That is a signal. Our programme in support of bank lending to businesses will continue for four years. That shows that interest rates will remain low over a longer period. But thereafter they will increase when the recovery will firm up." We'll be covering the decision LIVE at Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
