The hat. A classic menswear piece that has fallen out of style over the last 50 years. That’s too bad.  Why? Well hats are: 1) Functional. A hat protects you from the elements, make you look taller, send a visual message of societal position, and cover imperfections of the upper head.  It works to help you feel and look better! 2) Timelessly stylish. For thousands of years they have been the calling card of the type of men who wore them.  Can you imagine a cowboy without his hat?  What about a Marine without his cover?  A Greek fisherman without his wool cap?  A Russian without his Ushanka? In this classic men’s hat infographic I expose you to 16 class men’s headwear pieces you should consider adding to your wardrobe.   You’ll find variations of all these across the globe – find the few that suit your needs and wear with confidence! Real Men Real Style This article originally appeared at Real Men Real Style.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
These post-recession years have not been gentle on young college grads, and by now, you've heard plenty of stories about students matriculating from campus to life as a barista. But how many B.A.'s are really out there toiling in dead-end jobs? A new report from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York offers us an answer this week, which I think can be summed up as: Fewer than you probably think, but definitely more than we're used to. Using Census data, the bank's researchers found that, through 2012, roughly 44 percent of working, young college graduates were "underemployed," meaning they were in a job that did not require their degree. While the number sounds pretty daunting, it's not actually without precedent. It's about the same rate as in 1994.  via The Atlantic But there's underemployment, and then there's underemployment. It's one thing to find yourself as a decently paid administrative assistant. It's another to find yourself walking dogs to make ends meet. And during the last decade, the underemployed have come to look less like administrative assistants and more like dog walkers.   Here's the math. Since the dotcom bust, the share of underemployed college grads in what the Fed calls "good non-college jobs," which today pay at least $45,000 a year,* has declined from more than half to slightly over a third. Meanwhile, the share in "low-wage jobs," which today pay $25,000 a year or less, has risen to about 20 percent, from roughly 15 percent. Do little back-of-the- envelope math,** and you find that about 9 percent of all working college graduates are stuck in jobs that pay less than $25,000, or probably somewhere south of $12.50 an hour.   via The Atlantic That rough 9 percent figure is the good news here. Not nearly so many graduates as you might imagine are grinding coffee beans for a living (and to those who do it because they truly love coffee, more power to you). On the other hand, overall unemployment is also still high for young B.A.'s. So fewer are working at all, and more are truly clinging to the bottom rungs of the job market.  In a sense, this reflects a shift in the broader economy; for more than a decade now, middle-class jobs have given way to low-wage service work. And young college graduates haven't been spared the change. *And indeed, in most majors, college graduates come out of school making closer to $30,000 than $45,000.  **Said math: Take the 44 percent of all working grads who are underemployed and multiply it by 20 percent. You get 8 percent of the whole.    FREE AppDownload
However, Russian exports remains firmly raw-material based, with human-capital-intensive sectors making only a minor contribution.  This pattern, strongly enough delineated in Soviet times, has become further entrenched since transition began. That suggests some fundamental problem of alignment between education and effective human capital endowment. Data from comparative international surveys on general education show Russia scoring well on enrolment, and on basic literacy and numeracy, but much less well on information and communications technology (ICT) and on the ability to apply knowledge to unfamiliar situations. Only around 12% of workers engage in lifelong learning (LLL, meaning continuous, on-the-job learning), compared with over 70% in Sweden. Employer expenditure on LLL in Russia was only 0.3% of payroll in 2007, compared with 1.5% in France, and is showing no tendency to increase. What LLL there is largely concentrated on management workers and skilled workers, with unskilled and semi-skilled workers hardly participating. There are also huge problems with the vocational training system. The old Soviet vocational training system was rigid and inflexible, and weak on the teaching of transferable skills, but it was at least reasonably well funded. Since the demise of the Soviet Union, funding for vocational training has been cut sharply, while the structural problems of the system have persisted. There is no systematic element of enterprise-based training within the vocational training system. Not surprisingly, therefore, most companies find that they have to retrain workers coming straight from school. And the unemployment rate among graduates of technical colleges is comparatively high. So much for the education and training of the general workforce. What about the high-flyers with university education? The Soviet system had great strengths in the traditional academic disciplines of mathematics and physics, and these continue to be strong points of the Russian higher educational system. In newer areas such as biological sciences Russia is still struggling to catch up. But the biggest problem facing Russian higher education, and the biggest impediment to the conversion of scientific knowledge into commercially applicable innovation, is the continued separation of research, which still largely goes on in specialist research institutes, including the institutes of the Russian Academy of Sciences, from teaching, which largely goes on in the universities. The experience of the advanced Western countries confirms that the way to maximise innovative thinking, whether in 'blue skies' research or practical innovation, is by nesting research and teaching in the same institutions-not just so that academic staff can enjoy a richer and more challenging intellectual environment, but also so that bright students, including undergraduates, can have the opportunity of hands-on involvement in cutting-edge innovation. None of this would be news to the Russian government or the Russian Ministry of Education. Indeed, reform of the educational system has been a central element in the drive to switch Russia onto an innovation-based growth path. There is a proposal before the government to stipulate that 25% of vocational courses in technical colleges should be enterprise-based. A federal law from 2009 granted exemptions from corporation tax to company expenditure on training, and from personal income tax on personal expenditure on education. A subsequent law passed in 2012 established that companies might, under certain circumstances, be reimbursed for expenditure on training. An internship programme for engineers involving 500 companies and 5,000 engineers is running over the period 2012-14. The development of research universities is being encouraged, with SkolTech, nested within the new Skolkovo science park, the flagship. And the notion of the 'entrepreneurial university' is being strongly promoted under the aegis of the Bologna Process. It is perhaps a little early to pass final judgement, but to date, the impact of these various measures and initiatives has been imperceptible. Are there elements in the Russian socio-economic system outside the specific fields of education and innovation that hamper the creation of clear channels running from human capability to human capital? The generally low level of wages, especially for unskilled and semi-skilled jobs, weakens the incentive for workers to become involved in LLL. The rapid rate of turnover of personnel in these jobs makes it look like a very marginal investment for employers. Brain drain is a problem at all levels, and most of the Russians who leave the country for work reasons are highly skilled, whereas most immigrants into Russia are unskilled. One of the reasons for brain drain at the highest level is the lack of opportunity for scientific and technological high-flyers in Russian companies. Only around 10% of Russian manufacturing companies do any innovation at all, by far the lowest figure among the advanced and emerging economies. Those that need highly qualified workers find it difficult to recruit, because the domestic market for highly-skilled labour is too small to compete with alternative job markets, abroad, with foreign companies in Russia, or in blue skies research institutes. Finally, the traditional view among Russian scientists that commercially applicable innovation is not their business remains strong. The Academy of Sciences, which still dominates Russian scientific life despite recent attempts by the government to limit its financial autonomy, remains a steadfast champion of the conservative view. In the words of one young Russian scientist, "We do not have an innovation culture-no experience, no traditions. Our scientists are still Soviet in their attitudes, for them business is something dirty. Our scientific culture is practically untouched by the business entrepreneurial spirit." Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
However, Russian exports remains firmly raw-material based, with human-capital-intensive sectors making only a minor contribution.  This pattern, strongly enough delineated in Soviet times, has become further entrenched since transition began. That suggests some fundamental problem of alignment between education and effective human capital endowment. Data from comparative international surveys on general education show Russia scoring well on enrolment, and on basic literacy and numeracy, but much less well on information and communications technology (ICT) and on the ability to apply knowledge to unfamiliar situations. Only around 12% of workers engage in lifelong learning (LLL, meaning continuous, on-the-job learning), compared with over 70% in Sweden. Employer expenditure on LLL in Russia was only 0.3% of payroll in 2007, compared with 1.5% in France, and is showing no tendency to increase. What LLL there is largely concentrated on management workers and skilled workers, with unskilled and semi-skilled workers hardly participating. There are also huge problems with the vocational training system. The old Soviet vocational training system was rigid and inflexible, and weak on the teaching of transferable skills, but it was at least reasonably well funded. Since the demise of the Soviet Union, funding for vocational training has been cut sharply, while the structural problems of the system have persisted. There is no systematic element of enterprise-based training within the vocational training system. Not surprisingly, therefore, most companies find that they have to retrain workers coming straight from school. And the unemployment rate among graduates of technical colleges is comparatively high. So much for the education and training of the general workforce. What about the high-flyers with university education? The Soviet system had great strengths in the traditional academic disciplines of mathematics and physics, and these continue to be strong points of the Russian higher educational system. In newer areas such as biological sciences Russia is still struggling to catch up. But the biggest problem facing Russian higher education, and the biggest impediment to the conversion of scientific knowledge into commercially applicable innovation, is the continued separation of research, which still largely goes on in specialist research institutes, including the institutes of the Russian Academy of Sciences, from teaching, which largely goes on in the universities. The experience of the advanced Western countries confirms that the way to maximise innovative thinking, whether in 'blue skies' research or practical innovation, is by nesting research and teaching in the same institutions-not just so that academic staff can enjoy a richer and more challenging intellectual environment, but also so that bright students, including undergraduates, can have the opportunity of hands-on involvement in cutting-edge innovation. None of this would be news to the Russian government or the Russian Ministry of Education. Indeed, reform of the educational system has been a central element in the drive to switch Russia onto an innovation-based growth path. There is a proposal before the government to stipulate that 25% of vocational courses in technical colleges should be enterprise-based. A federal law from 2009 granted exemptions from corporation tax to company expenditure on training, and from personal income tax on personal expenditure on education. A subsequent law passed in 2012 established that companies might, under certain circumstances, be reimbursed for expenditure on training. An internship programme for engineers involving 500 companies and 5,000 engineers is running over the period 2012-14. The development of research universities is being encouraged, with SkolTech, nested within the new Skolkovo science park, the flagship. And the notion of the 'entrepreneurial university' is being strongly promoted under the aegis of the Bologna Process. It is perhaps a little early to pass final judgement, but to date, the impact of these various measures and initiatives has been imperceptible. Are there elements in the Russian socio-economic system outside the specific fields of education and innovation that hamper the creation of clear channels running from human capability to human capital? The generally low level of wages, especially for unskilled and semi-skilled jobs, weakens the incentive for workers to become involved in LLL. The rapid rate of turnover of personnel in these jobs makes it look like a very marginal investment for employers. Brain drain is a problem at all levels, and most of the Russians who leave the country for work reasons are highly skilled, whereas most immigrants into Russia are unskilled. One of the reasons for brain drain at the highest level is the lack of opportunity for scientific and technological high-flyers in Russian companies. Only around 10% of Russian manufacturing companies do any innovation at all, by far the lowest figure among the advanced and emerging economies. Those that need highly qualified workers find it difficult to recruit, because the domestic market for highly-skilled labour is too small to compete with alternative job markets, abroad, with foreign companies in Russia, or in blue skies research institutes. Finally, the traditional view among Russian scientists that commercially applicable innovation is not their business remains strong. The Academy of Sciences, which still dominates Russian scientific life despite recent attempts by the government to limit its financial autonomy, remains a steadfast champion of the conservative view. In the words of one young Russian scientist, "We do not have an innovation culture-no experience, no traditions. Our scientists are still Soviet in their attitudes, for them business is something dirty. Our scientific culture is practically untouched by the business entrepreneurial spirit." Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim Shemetov The Winter Olympic Games that begin next month in Sochi, Russia, are very expensive. At a projected cost of around $50 billion, it's not just, by any measure, insanely expensive, it's also the most expensive Olympic Games ever. Let's put that in perspective. Last year, using available data compiled by the Times of London*, we charted what appeared to be the most expensive Olympic games of all time: Adam Taylor / Business Insider (*That concept — available data — is important here. The finances of Olympic hosts are notoriously vague and opaque.) As you can see from the chart, Sochi is pretty far ahead of Beijing, previously the most expensive games. That's impressive in itself, but what's more impressive is that Sochi is a Winter Olympics, generally the cheaper variety of games. Sochi is almost three times the cost of the next most expensive winter games, which were held in 1998 in Nagano, Japan. One particular road and rail link between the city of Sochi and the nearby site of the skiing events is estimated to have cost more than the entire budget for the 2010 Vancouver winter Olympics. Sochi has wildly overrun its original budget, which was set at $12 billion when Russia won its bid in 2007. While it's not that unusual to overrun an Olympic budget — last year one academic paper described the proposed budgets for Olympic bids as "more like a fictitious minimum that is consistently overspent" — the level of overspend is still remarkable. So why is Sochi so expensive? Well, there are a number of factors: Why would a country even want to have an event like the Olympics if it's going to cost some $50 billion? Mark Wilson, a professor of urban and regional planning at Michigan State University, and Eva Kassens-Noor, an assistant professor of urban and transport planning at Michigan State University, have spent some time studying "mega events" such as the Olympics, the World Cup, and the World's Fair, and found they have a variety of effects both in the short term and the long term. Kassens-Noor explains most host countries expect "certain benefits" from hosting a mega event, including improved infrastructure, prestige, and putting themselves on the map globally. A big issue, however, is whether you can actually receive these benefits — and whether they are worth it. "There is a high cost associated with these mega events, but you also have to ask what you get for your money," Wilson says. "If this is money that improves the city, provides a legacy in the long term, then it might be a good investment by the city even though the cost is high. But the key question is, how will it make our city a better place to live in the future? And you could also ask yourself, what other uses could there be for that money?" Barcelona's 1992 Summer Olympic Games are often held up as the games with the biggest positive effect on the country, not only using the creation of two miles of beachfront and a modern marina to change the city from an industrial backwater to a hot Mediterranean tourist destination, but also helping spearhead a sporting revival in Spain. While the exact cost of these Olympics is still unclear, one report found that the event would cost $11.4 billion in 2009 dollars (400% over budget). That's a lot of money, but changing a city forever like that is arguably worth it. Similarly, Russia was particularly keen to establish a world-class ski resort in the country, Kassens-Noor explains, and a large part of whether the games are viewed as a success or not will rest upon whether the games truly establish it as that. Will the infrastructure created for the Olympics actually be used in a decade's time? Or will the country be hit by the so-called "Olympic Curse" that saw venues in Beijing and Athens end up decrepit and unused just years after the events? These are long-term risks, but in the short term, there are potential problems too. Vladimir Putin has clearly staked a lot on the event with the intention of projecting a new Russia — one that's economically stable and capable of organizing huge, complicated events — a Russia that's a million miles away from the country's gray Soviet past or the violent, chaotic "Wild East" of the 1990s. By releasing dissidents such as the members of Pussy Riot and jailed oligarch Mikhail Khodorkovsky before the games start, the Russian president has been attempting to control the narrative about the Sochi Olympics. But outside events could well strip his control away — the controversy over gay rights in Russia may end up overshadowing the Russian government's boasts, and the threat of terrorism is a serious problem. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/incase.FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Three Things You Should Know Before You Work With Generation Y Clients (The Wall Street Journal)  As baby boomers retire and advisors see a generational shift in their client-base, there are a few key things they need to remember about advising Millennials or Generation Y clients writes Brandon Moss of Dallas-based United Capital in a new WSJ column. 1. Don't pander to them but remember that they are focused on how you can help them. 2. Make them a part of the financial planning process and know that they will take longer to invest because they are "very information- and research-oriented." 3. They are less likely to give up things they enjoy to save, so "teach them to automate bill paying and saving and have the rest be discretionary spending." 43% Of Advisors Are Close To Retirement Even As Broker Dealers Struggle To Recruit New Advisors (FA Mag)  43% of advisors are over 55, and the average of advisors is 50.3, according to a report from Cerulli. The financial advisory industry faces a generational shift in terms of its clients and retiring advisors. "As the advisor population ages, broker-dealers and custodians are at risk of losing AUM as advisors exit the industry," Cerulli's Kenton Shirk told FA Mag. "Broker-dealers continue to struggle to recruit new young advisors into the industry to offset those advisors who are nearing retirement." People Are Way Under-Invested In The Bond Market (Sober Look)  "Directional investors/traders remain heavily short or under-invested in the bond market," writes Walter Kurtz at Sober Look. "Institutional investors are also heavily under-invested in bonds. The so-called "real money", such as pensions, endowments and insurance firms were overweight duration (holding higher bond positions than their targeted allocations) when yields were the lowest (back in 2012). Now with higher yields, these same investors (after being whipsawed by the market) are running duration levels that are the lowest since 2008." DB, Sober Look Morgan Stanley's Wealth Management Unit Has A Strong Quarter (Morgan Stanley)  Morgan Stanley reported a 70% drop in Q4 profit but its Wealth Management unit did well. Net revenue came in at $3.7 billion, up from $3.3 billion a year ago. Asset management fee revenues were up 7% on the year to $2 billion, "primarily reflecting an increase in fee based assets and positive flows." Total client assets came in at $1.9 trillion.  Client assets in fee based accounts increased 26% on the year to $697 billion. Fee based asset flows were $11.6 billion in the quarter. For the full year, wealth management net revenue climbed to $14.2 billion, from $13 billion a year ago. Three Reasons You Should Still Have Bonds In Your Portfolio (LPL Financial)  After a stellar stock market rally in 2013, and in a rising interest rate environment, many investors shed their bond holdings. But there are three reasons they should still stay invested, writes Anthony Valeri at LPL Financial. 1. Bonds offer good diversification benefits. "During stock market pullbacks in excess of 5%, bonds outperformed stocks on average by a double digit margin, a significant difference. Excluding the historic mid-2008 to early-2009 sell-off, the performance differential narrows but is still notable at a 9.6% advantage in favor of high-quality bonds. 2."Even in a low-yield environment, bonds provide a buffer as price movements, not yields, are the primary buffer to equity movements." 3. "An allocation to core bonds, in addition to less interest rate sensitive sectors such as high-yield bonds and bank loans, may make sense for investors." FREE AppDownload
On closer inspection, what stands out is the extraordinary increases in spending on R&amp;D and software both in current dollars and adjusted for inflation. In current dollars, the total is at a record $578 billion (saar), doubling since the end of 1998. Spending on R&amp;D and software combined has been running around 30% of total capital spending in recent years, doubling since the mid-1980s. The two categories currently each account for about 15% of capital spending. Thirty years ago, R&amp;D was 11% of the total, while software was just 4%.  Dr. Ed's Blog Thursday's Morning Briefing: R&amp;D Rocks. (1) Keeping a lid on costs and boosting margins. (2) Are record profit margins bad news for the bulls? (3) Profits not as wonderful on aggregate basis. (4) An upbeat assessment of capital spending. (5) R&amp;D and software account for a third of capital spending. (6) Smart equipment. (7) More bang per R&amp;D buck thanks to IT. (8) The Internet of Things. (9) Rockwell’s super-smart factories. (10) Obamacare creates more problems that private sector will solve. (11) Focus on overweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Industrials. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
The New York TimesDavid BrooksDavid Brooks has a column about inequality today and it's wrong. But it's wrong in a way that helps explain why conservatives have no idea how to talk about inequality. Brooks offers two theories of what sort of problem inequality might be: That people at the top are accruing too much money, and that people at the bottom are getting left behind. Like most conservatives, he wants to focus on the second problem. Regarding the first, he attacks the "primitive zero-sum mentality" that holds "growing affluence for the rich must somehow be causing the immobility of the poor." The thing is, while growing affluence for the rich isn't causing low and moderate incomes to stagnate, they are to a large extent results of the same forces. There is a zero-sum tradeoff between the two, so a zero-sum mentality (primitive or otherwise) is called for. Productive economic activity produces returns to both labor and capital. Over the last few decades, returns to labor have fallen relative to returns to capital. This has promoted sharp rises in wealth at the top and stagnating wage income for most of the public. Because of the declining marginal utility of money, a more unequal distribution of the returns to economic growth is undesirable, all else being equal. The question is, is all else equal? Have there been economic changes in the last four decades that make greater returns to capital necessary for innovation and growth? Or is the shift in returns just an artifact of policy choices on taxes, trade, inflation, and intellectual property that we can reverse without sinking the economy? I think the answer is probably some of each. But "some of each" means there are a lot of policy choices that can and should be made to reduce inequality in a zero-sum manner. For example, Brooks notes "the superstar effect": "in an Internet economy, a few superstars in each industry can reap global gains while the average performers cannot." But this isn't just a fact of life; it's in large part a reflection of intellectual property policy choices. The existence of much larger global markets greatly raises the return to producing a beloved product, whether that's a piece of software or a hit song. Governments could react to this by weakening protections for IP, since IP protections are supposed to be just strong enough to encourage the generation of good ideas. This would be a desirable and more or less zero-sum policy to combat inequality. Instead, industry lobbies have been pushing for strengthening of IP, which will tend to concentrate wealth in the hands of superstars, at the expense of everybody else (stronger IP means higher prices, and therefore lower real incomes.) The growth of returns to capital relative to wages is also driven in part by the fact that we have not had policies that consistently promote full employment. More aggressive monetary and fiscal policies to keep unemployment low, or direct government hiring of the unemployed, would push firms to pay workers more and hold inequality down. These policies would grow the economy overall (at least the macro policies would; direct hiring would depend on execution) but they would also reduce corporate profits as a share of the economy, meaning again that the rise in mass incomes would lead to a reduction in wealth at the top. Policies that promote unionization would also tend to push wages upward, at least in industries with weak competition, such as the public sector, large-scale construction, or airplane manufacturing. And of course, taxes and transfers can reduce inequality. All these policies have economic impacts beyond their distributional changes which should be considered. But adjusting them in an effort to reduce inequality isn't just an exercise in jealousy; it's an exercise in making the economy work for everybody. There are other desirable policies that could raise the incomes of the poor by improving or better using human capital. For example, we could improve transit links between low-income neighborhoods and job centers. Brooks is right to want to explore such policy avenues. But the availability of such policies doesn't mean we can just wave away the zero-sum problems of, and solutions to, inequality. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Steve HelberA storage tank with the chemical designation MCHM, 4-methylcyclohexane methanol, the chemical that leaked into the Elk River, is shown at Freedom Industries storage facility in Charleston, Va.Freedom Industries filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in a court in the southern district of West Virginia, just eight days after a dangerous chemical leak in the state. Up to 7,500 gallons of 4-methylcyclohexane methanol (MCHM), a chemical used to wash coal, leaked from a tank at a Freedom facility upstream from the Kanawha Valley water treatment plant on Jan. 9. Following the leak, some 300,000 residents and many businesses were advised not to use tap water for drinking, cooking, washing, or bathing — and many were without water for around a week. Tainted water smells like licorice and can cause nausea, vomiting, dizziness, diarrhea, rashes, and reddened skin. More than 100 people went to the hospital with reported symptoms. Freedom Industries has been accused of negligence and causing a public nuisance in a number of lawsuits after the spill. The company is seeking protection from these lawsuits with their bankruptcy filing. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Adrian PrattOxford's Saïd Business School Business-school students are a pampered bunch. Scholars sipping a glass of red in the posh rooftop bar of Oxford's Saïd Business School could be forgiven for thinking they had wandered into the nearby Randolph Hotel by mistake. Stanford students can view an impressive modern-art collection housed in its own museum. Harvard Business School MBAs can book a masseuse to relieve the stress of a hard day slaving over case studies. Life for the next generation of business students is to get even cushier. In the past few years the leading schools have been raising vast amounts to spend on new facilities. On January 9th Yale's School of Management formally opened its swanky new home, designed by Foster + Partners, Norman Foster's architecture practice. The Kellogg School of Management in Illinois will soon start work on a new headquarters (see artist's impression, above) for its MBA programme on the shores of Lake Michigan, at a cost of $200m. Stanford's business school spent $345m on its new campus, largely thanks to the largesse of Phil Knight, the founder of Nike. The biggest project, at least in terms of cost, is under way in New York. Columbia Business School is within touching distance of raising the $600m it needs to complete a new campus in West Harlem. From Cambridge, MA, to Cambridge, UK, an arms race is under way to provide MBAs with the plushest place to study. There are several reasons for this. One is that many business schools built campuses in a previous expansionary phase in the 1960s and 70s, and these are now ripe for regeneration. Rising expectations among prospective students also play a part. The posher the school, the more demanding its applicants. Harvard Business School's campus is the envy of all its competitors, and for good reason. Yet in a survey by The Economist in 2013, MBA students ranked its facilities (measured, admittedly, by more than just the quality of its buildings) a lowly 27th in the world, below those of institutions such as Brunel University, a modest college in Uxbridge, in west London. Since Harvard puts the total cost of taking its MBA at around $200,000, students have every right to expect perfection. Breaking ground on expensive new facilities is not without risk. Demand for MBAs remains soft. Some schools, particularly lower down the pecking-order, may find their new state-of-the-art classrooms sparsely populated. In the 2012-13 testing year there were 238,000 entries for GMATs, the de facto business-school entrance exam. That is 50,000 fewer tests taken than the year before and the lowest number for six years. For some schools, the risk is lower. The University of Cambridge's Judge Business School is raising £52m ($85m) for a new building that will, among other things, house its lucrative non-degree executive-education programmes. These are currently scattered around Cambridge's other colleges. Judge thinks it will recoup the outlay of bringing them together under one, expensive roof within a few years. In any case, the money for most big schools' projects comes from wealthy alumni and sponsors, who do not expect it back. Of the $600m Columbia is raising, for example, only $100m is from university coffers. The rest will come from gifts, including donations of $100m each from two private-equity fund managers, Ronald Perelman and Henry Kravis. Kellogg says not a single tuition-fee dollar will be spent on its new building. Indeed, one reason more schools can afford big capital projects is that they have turned philanthropy into a professional business. Nearly all the top schools now employ full-time fund-raisers. Their preferred targets tend to be former students who have made it big since graduation. Deans are often judged on just two criteria: how a school fares in rankings (including ours, at economist.com/whichmba) and how much money they have screwed out of rich alumni. But if there is little financial risk to schools, there is a danger of obsolescence. Higher education is, many think, on the brink of being disrupted by distance-learning technology. In the future, many more students are expected to study remotely. Trophy campuses could become relics. "Our industry is about to transform itself," says Sally Blount, Kellogg's dean. "And you have to decide whether you are in or out of face-to-face education." Being "in" means investing now in better facilities, to keep up with rivals. The best schools, Ms Blount thinks, will continue to attract students to campus; the lure of networking and securing a brand-name degree will not diminish. Yet some are hedging their bets. As Yale opened its fancy new campus, its website was plugging its "new generation of online courses". Click here to subscribe to The Economist.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Adrian PrattOxford's Saïd Business School Business-school students are a pampered bunch. Scholars sipping a glass of red in the posh rooftop bar of Oxford's Saïd Business School could be forgiven for thinking they had wandered into the nearby Randolph Hotel by mistake. Stanford students can view an impressive modern-art collection housed in its own museum. Harvard Business School MBAs can book a masseuse to relieve the stress of a hard day slaving over case studies. Life for the next generation of business students is to get even cushier. In the past few years the leading schools have been raising vast amounts to spend on new facilities. On January 9th Yale's School of Management formally opened its swanky new home, designed by Foster + Partners, Norman Foster's architecture practice. The Kellogg School of Management in Illinois will soon start work on a new headquarters (see artist's impression, above) for its MBA programme on the shores of Lake Michigan, at a cost of $200m. Stanford's business school spent $345m on its new campus, largely thanks to the largesse of Phil Knight, the founder of Nike. The biggest project, at least in terms of cost, is under way in New York. Columbia Business School is within touching distance of raising the $600m it needs to complete a new campus in West Harlem. From Cambridge, MA, to Cambridge, UK, an arms race is under way to provide MBAs with the plushest place to study. There are several reasons for this. One is that many business schools built campuses in a previous expansionary phase in the 1960s and 70s, and these are now ripe for regeneration. Rising expectations among prospective students also play a part. The posher the school, the more demanding its applicants. Harvard Business School's campus is the envy of all its competitors, and for good reason. Yet in a survey by The Economist in 2013, MBA students ranked its facilities (measured, admittedly, by more than just the quality of its buildings) a lowly 27th in the world, below those of institutions such as Brunel University, a modest college in Uxbridge, in west London. Since Harvard puts the total cost of taking its MBA at around $200,000, students have every right to expect perfection. Breaking ground on expensive new facilities is not without risk. Demand for MBAs remains soft. Some schools, particularly lower down the pecking-order, may find their new state-of-the-art classrooms sparsely populated. In the 2012-13 testing year there were 238,000 entries for GMATs, the de facto business-school entrance exam. That is 50,000 fewer tests taken than the year before and the lowest number for six years. For some schools, the risk is lower. The University of Cambridge's Judge Business School is raising £52m ($85m) for a new building that will, among other things, house its lucrative non-degree executive-education programmes. These are currently scattered around Cambridge's other colleges. Judge thinks it will recoup the outlay of bringing them together under one, expensive roof within a few years. In any case, the money for most big schools' projects comes from wealthy alumni and sponsors, who do not expect it back. Of the $600m Columbia is raising, for example, only $100m is from university coffers. The rest will come from gifts, including donations of $100m each from two private-equity fund managers, Ronald Perelman and Henry Kravis. Kellogg says not a single tuition-fee dollar will be spent on its new building. Indeed, one reason more schools can afford big capital projects is that they have turned philanthropy into a professional business. Nearly all the top schools now employ full-time fund-raisers. Their preferred targets tend to be former students who have made it big since graduation. Deans are often judged on just two criteria: how a school fares in rankings (including ours, at economist.com/whichmba) and how much money they have screwed out of rich alumni. But if there is little financial risk to schools, there is a danger of obsolescence. Higher education is, many think, on the brink of being disrupted by distance-learning technology. In the future, many more students are expected to study remotely. Trophy campuses could become relics. "Our industry is about to transform itself," says Sally Blount, Kellogg's dean. "And you have to decide whether you are in or out of face-to-face education." Being "in" means investing now in better facilities, to keep up with rivals. The best schools, Ms Blount thinks, will continue to attract students to campus; the lure of networking and securing a brand-name degree will not diminish. Yet some are hedging their bets. As Yale opened its fancy new campus, its website was plugging its "new generation of online courses". Click here to subscribe to The Economist.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan AlcornA Super Scooper firefighting plane makes a water drop on the Colby Fire in Azusa, California January 16, 2014.Most stocks ended in the red today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial. FREE AppDownload
If you're like most men, you've probably been wearing clothes your entire life that are too large for you. "Most guys are used to wearing baggy clothes," Veeral Rathod, CEO of the men's clothing e-retailer J. Hilburn, told us in a recent interview. "They want to dress properly and they want to present themselves well, but they just don't know how." For the best-fitting menswear, you should either go to a tailor or buy your clothes from a custom clothier like J. Hilburn, which has 3,000 stylists around the country to take your measurements, he said. But for those of you who don't want to go through the trouble of getting measured, there's an easy fit guide to live by that covers all the basics. It's called "How Clothes Should Fit" and it's based on a popular guide book from Reddit. Let's start with shirts: Ilias Ismanalijev The collar: "If turning your head causes the collar to turn with it, the collar is too tight," according to the guide. "You should be able to comfortably fit two fingers inside of your buttoned collar without it tightening against your skin." The cuffs: Cuffs should fit a bit looser than a watch and fall two centimeters from your wrist bone. The shoulders: The shirt's seam should sit at your shoulder bone.  The sleeves: If you can see the details of your arms, your shirt's too tight. "But they should also not be so loose as to billow," the guide says. "When you bend your arm, your cuff should not move more than an inch up your wrist." Now onto chinos: Ilias Ismanalijev   Dress pants should fit similarly to chinos — comfortably close to the leg without billowing. Pleats, again, should be avoided at all costs. Here's more information on the fit for dress pants: Ilias Ismanalijev   If you button your suit jacket and it pulls across your abdomen, making an "X" shape in the fabric, then your suit is too small, the guide says. The same is true if there's pulling between your shoulders. The jacket must be long enough to cover your bottom and the second button from the bottom should sit just above your belly button. Ilias Ismanalijev When it comes to jeans, avoid boot-cut. Straight-leg or slimmer is the way to go. Here are some more tips on the right fit for jeans: Ilias Ismanalijev   For additional style tips, go to How Clothes Should Fit. FREE AppDownload
Deutsche Bank executives are thinking about issuing a warning that Q4 2013 earnings will be ugly, says the Wall Street Journal. They fear earnings will disappoint investors with more losses than expected when the bank announces on January 29th. The stock is down over 3% on this news. There are a bunch of reasons why Deutsche could disappoint, chief among them being that the German bank must raise money in order to comply with European capital regulations. It has been selling assets in order to do so, but has sold less than expected. The bank also has problems that we know all too well here in the U.S. — legal expenses. Deutsche had to pay $1 billion in fines in order to settle allegations related to rate rigging last month. Last quarter, the bank reported a loss of almost $3 billion. Analysts expect the bank to report profits of $946 million for Q4 2013, so we'll see what happens. FREE AppDownload
A YEAR AGO Jody Sherman shot himself. His online shop, Ecomom, which sold eco-friendly and health products for children, was running out of cash. A few weeks later the business closed its virtual doors. A new owner relaunched it in June. There is no evidence that entrepreneurs kill themselves more often than people in other high-pressure jobs, but the news of Sherman’s death (which coincided with the suicide of Aaron Swartz, an internet activist) led to a rare moment of self-examination in the startup sphere. In a blog post Jason Calacanis, an outspoken serial entrepreneur, mused whether there was a need to examine if "the pressures of being a founder, the pressure of our community’s relentless pursuit of greatness, in some way contributed to their deaths". These pressures form part of the darker side of startups, along with concerns that startup communities, though very international, are made up largely of youngish white males who are not so much entrepreneurs as new kinds of workers. A further worry is that software--and hence startups--are eating not just the world but jobs, too. Ask founders why they put up with the hardships, and they reply with predictable enthusiasm. "I want to change the world," says Daan Weddepohl, chief executive of Peerby, a service based in Amsterdam that could indeed make a difference if it takes off. It lets people borrow things they need (a drill, a lawnmower, an icemaker) from their neighbours within half an hour. But beneath this fervour there is often a world of uncertainty. In essence, a founder’s job is to create something out of nothing, which often means convincing people that there may be something in their idea. "Building a startup is all about building credibility--with investors, partners, customers, the media," explains Mr Weddepohl, a recent TechStars alumnus. A big part of that is hype. "Everything is always awesome, but even startups considered successful tend to have huge issues," says Andreas Klinger, an Austrian who co-founded a (now defunct) London-based online shop for designer clothing. What makes being a founder stressful is being on an emotional roller-coaster all the time. "In the morning you feel everything is on the right track and in the evening everything seems in the gutter," says Shawn Zvinis, the co-founder of Tab, a London startup which closed in December. "There are days you don’t want to get out of bed. And you ask yourself: does changing the world feel like this?" For most founders money is a constant worry. Investors often give them only relatively small sums at a time. To keep costs down and make sure that employees get paid, they draw little money for themselves and live as cheaply as they can. "If you haven’t missed payroll at least once, you are not a real entrepreneur," goes a startup mantra. Since many founders have no life outside their company, they consider it their family. That makes it traumatic when a long-standing employee or, worse, a co-founder leaves. "It’s like getting divorced," says Mr Weddepohl, who has twice parted company with a co-founder. Attitudes to failure vary by culture, though it is always a personal disaster when, after years of hard slog, a founder realises that the dream is over. But many still want to give it another try. "It’s part of the game. You have to ask yourself what you have learned and move on," says Gaith Kawar, a Jordanian serial entrepreneur who is on his seventh startup. Some experiment not only with new services but new work patterns too. At Jimdo, a firm based in Hamburg that makes it easy to build websites, employees came up with an internal set of rules to keep their to-do list manageable and ensure they are "well-rested". This does not seem to have hurt the firm: it has helped customers to set up 10m websites from offices in San Francisco, Tokyo and Shanghai and employs 170 people. But on the whole the startup world, even more than other forms of business, leaves little room for life beyond work. That may be one reason why only about 10% of founders are women, according to Compass, a startup research outfit. It does not help that there are hardly any female role models, and that many schools do not encourage girls to take an interest in computing. The financial side is similarly male-dominated. In 2013 less than 5% of IT investments were made in firms founded by women, according to PitchBook, a research firm (see chart 4). And it is not just women who are underrepresented. Founders may come from all over the world, but most of them are white or pale. The Economist The lack of ethnic diversity is particularly noticeable in accelerators, but their managers say there is little they can do about it: the people who present themselves are "a bunch of white and Asian dudes", notes Mr Graham, the founder of Y Combinator. This seems likely to limit innovation. Still, a growing number of investors now at least recognise that there is a problem. Having found that only a handful of its applicants were female, Entrepreneur First, a London accelerator for individual founders, decided to launch CodeFirst:Girls, a series of free courses to teach female students how to code. Among the latest batch, four out of 31 founders are women, which is still not great. A more diverse group of founders might develop a more mature self-image. For the moment many see themselves as the next Steve Jobs or Mark Zuckerberg, but last year Venkatesh Rao of Ribbonfarm, a consultancy, offered a different narrative. "Entrepreneurs are the new labour," he claimed in a series of well-argued blog posts with the same title. And it is true that many founders do indeed live on "rent and ramen [noodles]". But Mr Rao’s analysis goes deeper. He sees a connection between today’s entrepreneurs and the artisan steelmakers of the late 19th century. As the market matured, he explains, the Victorian steelworkers’ knowledge became commoditised, making them the nucleus of the new working class. Something similar is now happening to founders, Mr Rao claims. The lean startup methodology, the accelerators and the standardised term sheets for investments are all signs that the knowledge required to run a startup is becoming codified and commoditised. This has tilted the balance of power between investors and entrepreneurs, he writes. "Investors have won, and their dealings with the entrepreneur class now look far more like the dealings between management and labour." Many founders will end up being "acqui-hired", with a large tech company buying a startup not for the technology but for the team, reckons Mr Rao. That may be no bad thing: a good engineer will quickly get a job that he would have taken twice as long to reach on a conventional career ladder, as well as a significant chunk of cash. But it puts a different light on startups and accelerators, suggesting that they are less about identifying the next Mr Zuckerberg or Mr Jobs than about providing a new system to train workers for the knowledge economy. Can founders not at least feel good about themselves as job creators? Between 1990 and 2011 information and communication technology (ICT) businesses in America aged between one and five years increased their workforce by 10% a year, according to a recent study by the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation. But since most of these businesses are small, so are the absolute numbers of jobs they generate. Although startups often "scale" quickly, they rarely become "massive", says Erik Brynjolfsson of MIT Sloan School of Management. In a new book, "The Second Machine Age", co-written with a colleague, Andrew McAfee, Mr Brynjolfsson contrasts Eastman Kodak, founded in 1880, with Instagram, a photo-sharing app only 18 months old that was bought by Facebook for about $1 billion in 2012. In its heyday Kodak employed over 145,000 people and indirectly provided work for thousands more. It filed for bankruptcy a few months before Instagram was sold. At the time of the sale the photo-sharing firm had 130m customers but just 16 employees. Even Facebook, which now boasts more than 1.2 billion users, employs only about 5,800 people. Yet it would be wrong to conclude that the entrepreneurial explosion will lead to more unemployment, argues Mr Brynjolfsson. Startups may disrupt existing industries, but they often create the foundation for many new jobs outside their own business. On Etsy, an online marketplace for homemade items, more than 1m people have opened stores to sell their wares. On eLance and oDesk, two freelancing sites, 2.3m and 4.5m members respectively are offering their services. Most important, digital technology has created endless possibilities for new products. "The answer is not less entrepreneurship but more," says Mr Brynjolfsson. "We are in no danger of running out of combinations to try." That cornucopia is now extending from software to hardware. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Sony/"American Hustle"Christian Bale, who was super fit as Patrick Bateman in 'American Psycho', had to gain weight for his role in 'American Hustle.' People talk about getting the freshman 15 from too much beer in the 1st year of undergrad ... when in reality, if you don't make it into the gym at all when you have basically 12 free hours a day, you probably deserve it and should be mocked for laziness. Compare that to your 1st year of sell-side trading (or sales / research). Not only are you going to be dining out with clients and going out for drinks, but you'll also be working 60-70 hours a week on top of that. It might be excusable to let yourself go ... and become 'skinny fat'. Skinny fat is when you lose your muscle, your shoulders become narrower, and yet you get a bigger gut. At the same time, you need to go out and drink/eat with clients so you can build your network and meet your clients/potential employers on the buy-side. It's a tough balancing act, so here are some tips from someone who did just this for many a year, trying to stay in shape while working from 6:30am-7pm and drinking 20+ drinks a week (half work-related). Don't let yourself go and gain the sell-side 15, but make sure you take advantage of networking that comes alongside client events. Here are some quick tips on how to stay fit, and fit in with the S&amp;T guys, who are some of the wildest drinkers on the street, and some examples of what happens when you don't do things the right way. If you are in sales/trading you are expected to usually go to one client dinner a week at the least (usually steak), and go out for 'casual drinks' at least one or two other nights. It's hard to balance this with not getting obese and getting to the gym, yet it's a big and necessary part of what your job as a junior trader/salesperson is. Pro-tips on casual drinks with clients: Tips on client dinners: So now that you've constrained your 'inputs' (alcohol, red meat) it's time to work on the 'output' - working out is tough because if you go out on a Tuesday, not only is Tuesday night terrible but Wednesday night is for passing out immediately. So you lose 2 days with one event. The key is to use your weekends - I always made either Friday/Saturday a big night, but tried to work out on Saturday/Sunday mornings. And outside of that, Monday nights and Wednesday nights were the most likely. If you can get 2-3 workouts in during the week, and a bonus one if you have time, then you are doing great. What to do at the gym? Hit the weights for 30 minutes. Your goal is to maintain as much of your muscle from college as possible. Don't be one of those people that goes and runs on the tread mill at 5mph for an hour. Do 1-2 heavy weight exercises, and then 3-4 other exercises with lower weight/higher reps. That should be an optimal mix. As for cardio, running at a high speed on the treadmill is key. Also have yogurt/fruit/veggies at home. Continue reading the rest of the post at Wall Street Oasis &gt; This article originally appeared at Wall Street Oasis.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
 OH NO, NOT another accelerator, you may think. But this one is different. On the tables are not just the obligatory laptops and smartphones but circuit boards, cables, screwdrivers and a few items which look only vaguely familiar. One resembles a very old mobile phone with an oddly shaped knob attached to it. Another, a set of small blocks with switches and buttons, calls to mind a disassembled mixer in a recording studio. Yet another might be the microphone of a computer headset, but is mounted on a pair of glasses. Even more surprisingly, the home of Haxlr8r (pronounced “Hackcelerator”) is not some co-working space in London or San Francisco but the 10th floor of an office building in Shenzhen. The city in the Pearl River Delta, close to Hong Kong, is the world capital of electronics: most of the planet’s digital devices are assembled in factories in and around the city. Haxlr8r is living proof that, as Karl Popper once said, history repeats itself, but never in the same way. Just as with software services, new technology makes it ever easier to build new types of devices, most of them connected to the internet. The difference is that making hardware remains, well, hard—which is why Haxlr8r is in Shenzhen. That way its teams may avoid the fate of a first generation of hardware startups, mostly based in America. They put their ideas up on Kickstarter and Indiegogo, the leading crowdfunding services, but then endured months of delay or never got as far as manufacturing their devices. The technologies that allowed software services to be developed more cheaply and quickly were cloud computing, social networks and any number of digital services called application programming interfaces (APIs). For hardware the list includes all of the above plus 3D printers, sensors and microcontrollers which bridge the analogue and the digital worlds. The platform for most connected devices is smartphones. All these elements can be combined in countless ways, creating a Cambrian explosion not just in software but in physical electronic devices too. When the latest batch of founders arrived at Haxlr8r in August, new wireless chips based on a standard called Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) had just become widely available. These are cheaper and less power-hungry than the previous generation, and startups do not have to ask Apple for permission to use them to tether their devices to the iPhone (and pay for it). Most teams at Haxlr8r went on to use BLE chips in their contraptions. The old mobile phone with the knob is actually a wireless tuning device called Roadie—and an example of how technology, personal interest and culture can come together in surprising ways. Bassam Jalgha and Hassane Slaibi are the founders of Beirut’s first hackerspace, a clubhouse for tinkerers. But they are also musicians and know how difficult it is to tune a lute, a popular instrument in Lebanon. So when they came to Shenzhen, they set out to build something that makes it easy to tune string instruments. A smartphone app listens to the sound and tells the motor in the tuning device whether to tighten or loosen a string. The blocks, called Palette, are indeed the components for a mixer of sorts and are meant to be assembled by designers and photographers who need a physical interface for repetitive tasks on a computer. The microphone, dubbed Vigo, is a “drowsiness meter”: the tip contains a sensor that measures how often a user blinks—a sign of how tired he is, and whether he should stop driving or get a cup of coffee. Yet most of the value of such devices is not so much in the design but in the software and services that are part of the package. Roadie comes with a smartphone app, Palette, with a program that runs on a PC. Vigo will show the user on a website how his attention fluctuates over time. Such offerings not only make products harder to copy but might allow their makers to earn additional money from subscriptions. Makers and shakers When Cyril Ebersweiler and Sean O’Sullivan, two venture capitalists, set up Haxlr8r in September 2011, they chose Shenzhen for a good reason. The district of Futian, the accelerator’s home, has dozens of shopping malls for electronics. The biggest is the Seg market. The bottom floor is reserved for screws, cables and chips, and as you go higher up the products become more finished: circuit boards, networking equipment, personal computers. The sixth floor offers LEDs in all shapes and sizes, from super-thin Christmas garlands to super-bright lamps. Shenzhen is also packed with all kinds of suppliers and service providers that can make life easier for hardware startups. Having a new circuit board made there takes days, not weeks as it does in America, reports Eszter Ozsvald of Notch, another Haxlr8r startup. Her company is developing small motion trackers. And had Wearpoint not gone to China, it would probably never have found the track pad it needs for its remote control for Google Glass, a head-mounted display. Being in Shenzhen also allows founders to look at lots of factories, which proved handy forEverpurse, a company that sells fancy handbags with a built-in smartphone charger. “If the workers are not happy, they may leak your intellectual property,” says Dan Salcedo, the firm’s co-founder. If a factory passes muster, other Haxlr8r startups often go on to use it too. Howard Hunt, the boss of DustCloud, had scouted out a factory to make casings for prototypes of his Dusters, gun-shaped devices for playing open-air laser tag. When he went to pick them up and pay (cash) in early October, the founders of Notch and Wearpoint came along to see whether the factory could also work for them. The meeting showed that people from different cultural backgrounds can communicate perfectly well with a minimum of translation. Each time the Western founders asked a question, the Chinese owner of the factory fetched another plastic sample that met with approval. Silvia Lindtner of the University of California, Irvine, and Fudan University in Shanghai, who follows the startup scene in China, is not surprised. The two sides complement each other, she says. The founders of hardware startups, often steeped in the open-source culture, partner with factories rooted in the Chinese culture of shanzhai, which translates as “mountain stronghold”. It used to mean pirated electronic goods but now stands for open-source manufacturing. Haxlr8r is not the only model for plugging into Shenzhen’s extraordinary manufacturing platform. Another is Seeed Studio, a contract manufacturer for makers, as the world’s ever-growing crowd of tinkerers is called. “Haxlr8r is for backpackers who want to do things themselves,” explains Eric Pan, who founded Seeed in 2008. “We on the other hand offer guided tours. And you don’t even have to come here.” Having worked for about 200 makers last year, Seeed is now one of the world’s biggest manufacturers of open-source hardware. When a maker asks Seeed to build a circuit board, the firm keeps a copy of the design which can then be used without charge by other customers. Most factories in Shenzhen work for big customers and have long assembly lines where workers perform only one task. But makers typically want just a few items and are willing to pay more, so Mr Pan has split his employees into self-organizing teams. Whereas Seeed is a Chinese creation,PCH International is a Western take on Shenzhen. Also based in the city, it started out as a sourcing company with a reputation for being the fastest supplier of parts to electronics makers. Liam Casey, who founded the company in 1996, had criss-crossed the Pearl River Delta, gathering knowledge about supply lines. PCH later added packaging, logistics and manufacturing to its portfolio. Today the firm, which had revenues of $1 billion in 2013, is an “end-to-end platform, a sort of Amazon Web Services for electronics manufacturing”, in the words of Mr Casey. He has even started an accelerator, Highway1, which is based in San Francisco, to generate more things to make for his platform. Some firms prefer to go it alone, like Zound Industries, a Swedish maker of fashionable headphones, including brands such as Urbanears and Molami. Back in 2008, when production in Shenzhen did not get off the ground because factories failed to deliver, Zound sent one of the founders, who hired a couple of experienced hands to work with manufacturers. Today the firm has 18 employees in the Chinese city and uses five factories which have so far produced nearly 8m headphones. For the moment Haxlr8r’s latest batch of startups can only dream of such success. In November they had their demo day, held in San Francisco and marking the beginning of their “Kickstarter” campaigns, which essentially consist of a video presenting the project and asking for money. Investors can be surprisingly generous, even for rather odd projects.Petcube managed to raise more than $250,000 for a small, internet-connected metal box with a video camera, microphone and laser pointer inside that lets owners watch their pets from afar and play with them by controlling the laser pointer. The Kickstarter campaign is only the beginning of a long journey. Founders must get their products certified, find distributors, organize production and avoid getting sued for infringing other people’s intellectual property. “Hardware is really hard,” says Amanda Williams, whose company,Fabule, was part of Haxlr8r’s previous batch. She is back in Shenzhen dealing with manufacturers of the firm’s first product, a programmable lamp. Some of the contraptions may seem a shade frivolous, but Haxlr8r’s startups also includedBabybe, an “emotional prosthetic” designed to help prematurely born babies to catch up. It transmits the mother’s heartbeat, breathing pattern and even her voice to a mattress in the infant’s incubator. With startups you never know what you will get. But the platforms, the accelerators and the ecosystems that allow them to develop are already emerging in other industries, too. FREE AppDownload
"Thank You For Smoking"Nick Naylor aka "The Sultan of Spin"Nicotine levels in cigarettes went up 15% between 1999 and 2011, according to a study published this week in the journal Nicotine and Tobacco Research. The data were collected from the annual report filed with Massachusetts Department of Public Health by four major manufacturers of cigarettes from 1997 to 2012. “Young people could have an easier time becoming addicted to cigarettes the first few times they do smoke,” lead author Thomas Land, director of the Office of Health Information Policy and Informatics at the State Health Department, told Deborah Kotz of The Boston Globe. From The Globe: Each day, 3800 American teens try their first cigarette and 1000 become hooked, according to a 2012 Surgeon General’s report. Those who are unable to quit as adults will die, on average, 13 years earlier than their peers.  This is not the first study to find rising nicotine levels in cigarettes. In 2007, a Harvard study found nicotine levels had gone up by nearly 11% between 1997 and 2005, the Globe noted. Industry executives disputed the findings and attributed the increase to agricultural and rainfall variations that led to more concentrated levels of nicotine in tobacco crops. But Land told The Globe that if that were the case, “we would have seen a similar trend of increased nicotine yield for all cigarette makers since they tend to buy their tobacco from the same regions. We did not.” The study concludes that nicotine levels "are controllable features of cigarettes, and should be monitored and regulated by government agencies." While federal law lets the FDA set new regulations to lower nicotine content, according to Kotz, he noted that the agency has not set new limits on the amount of nicotine allowed in each cigarette. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jon WooChinese officials appear to be making a more concerted effort to crack down on shadow banking and excessive liquidity. Controlling local government debt became one of the top tasks set forth during the economic work conference, for the first time. And several senior local government officials now think the central government won't backstop their debts. Rising local government debt has had many concerned about an impending financial crisis in China. The latest audit of Chinese government debt, showed that local government debt is up to 17.9 trillion renminbi (about $2.8 trillion). And shadow banking, including the use of wealth management products (WMPs) — a pool of securities like trust products, bonds, stock funds that offer higher yields than bank deposits and are sold as low-risk investments — has been one of the main sources of credit for local governments. A Wave of Trust Defaults Bank of AmericaWe've seen WMPs rise 47.4% in Q3 2013, from a year ago. Trust products are up 60.3% in the same period and LGFV bonds are up 59.7% on the year. In the past five weeks, we've seen sales and yields of WMPs spike. Eighty-three percent of WMPs sold in the last five weeks have seen an expected return of 5-8%, an all-time high, Cui points out. Yesterday, an official with the Industrial &amp; Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) told Reuters that the bank would not repay a 3 billion yuan ($495 million) trust product that is expected to mature on Jan. 31. ICBC, China's largest state-owned bank, distributed "2010 China Credit/Credit Equals Gold #1 Collective Trust Product" to raise funds for coal-miner Shanxi Zhenfu Energy Group. As China's economy slows and commodity prices fall, many miners are taking a hit. Bank of America's David Cui writes that there might be a "wave of trust defaults" coming, and that the pace of these defaults "appears to be accelerating rapidly." From Cui: "If a local government finance vehicle (LGFV) trust defaults, a psychologically very important event, we suspect that the trust market may tip over," writes Cui. Moreover, the risk of bond defaults is rising too. "An unidentified enterprise bond might have defaulted in Dec 2013 (Dec 30, Golden Securities), and a Shanghai-based tech company recently announced a default on its SME collective note," writes Cui. "At this stage, we think it's unclear whether the various parties involved will cover up these losses. Nevertheless, our impression is that default pressure is building and it's a matter of time before some corporate bonds will default. 1Q this year is another peak maturing period." What does this mean? All of this is worrisome for a few key reasons. With wealth management products and trust products we often see a duration mismatch. The products themselves tend to have shorter maturities (about three to six months) than longer-dated assets (like long-term construction projects) they're invested in. And often many of these projects don't pay off. For instance, "61.8% of WMPs sold over the past five weeks have a 1-3 months duration; 4.7%, less than one month," wrote Cui in a note to clients. "So in total, around 66.5% of WMPs sold last five weeks have a duration of less than 3 months, moderately edging up from previous period." Of course this isn't new. We've seen a stream of trust defaults for two years now. But the size and the pace of these defaults are picking up as the sector has grown. And this is part of the reason banks are under pressure to cash out. "This is one of the reasons for the cash crunch. The banks, if they have a product, a wealth management product that they've sold or trust products, that if they don't want to see that fail, they have to step up to the plate and cash it out," Patrick Chovanec of Silvercrest Asset Management told Business Insider. These are basically cash obligations that are not on their balance sheets and are growing larger every year. But not doing so raises concerns of a systemic risk that would lead to a broader credit crunch. "Everything is too big too fail," Chovanec said. "Even the smallest trust or company is too big to fail because the consequences of any kind of default tend to have a domino effect." Moreover, it'll make it harder to sell the next trust or WMP because people will realize they're assuming a lot more risk and that would make it much harder to roll over bad debt. When we take these waves of trust defaults, WMP defaults, the credit crunch we saw in December and back in June, and the surge in local government debt at a time when China's economy is slowing, the picture gets a little scary. "People have said for some time that China's shadow banking sector, including trust sector, are an accident waiting to happen and now it's happening," Chovanec said. FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoDo the wealthy Chinese know something we don't? A new report shows that 64 percent of Chinese millionaires have either emigrated or plan to emigrate—taking their spending and fortunes with them. The United States is their favorite destination.  The report from Hurun, a wealth research firm that focuses on China, said that one-third of China's super rich—or those worth $16 million or more—have already emigrated. The data offer the latest snapshot of China's worrying wealth flight, with massive numbers of rich Chinese taking their families and fortunes overseas. Previous studies show the main reasons rich Chinese are leaving is to pursue better educations for their kids, and to escape the pollution and overcrowding in urban China. (Read more: 10 of the priciest views in America) But analysts say there is another reason the Chinese rich are fleeing: to protect their fortunes. With the Chinese government cracking down on corruption, many of the Chinese rich—who made their money through some connection or favors from government—want to stash their money in assets or countries that are hard for the Chinese government to reach. According to WealthInsight, the Chinese wealthy now have about $658 billion stashed in offshore assets. Boston Consulting Group puts the number lower, at around $450 billion, but says offshore investments are expected to double in the next three years. A study from Bain Consulting found that half of China's ultrawealthy—those with $16 million or more in wealth—now have investments overseas. The mass millionaire migration out of China is also hitting luxury companies hard. Hurun said China's luxury sales last year fell 15 percent—the biggest drop in over a half a decade. Spending on gifts, which made up a sizable portion of luxury sales, fell 25 percent. Bentley Motors last week said that its sales in China slowed last year in part because of "the migration of high net worth individuals from China." (Read more: Super-luxury car sales fell in 2013. Blame China) In other words, it isn't that wealthy buyers in China are spending less—they're just disappearing. Most are looking for permanent residences, Hurun said. The United States was their top destination, which any real estate agent in San Francisco, Seattle or New York can confirm. Europe is their second favorite destination, followed by Canada, Australia, Singapore and Hong Kong. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric ThayerShoppers are seen at a Target store during Black Friday sales in Brooklyn.BOSTON (Reuters) - The cyber security firm IntelCrawler said on Friday it has uncovered at least six ongoing attacks at merchants across the United States whose credit card processing systems are infected with the same type of malicious software used to steal data from some 40 million credit cards at Target Inc. Andrew Komarov, the firm's chief executive, told Reuters that his firm has alerted law enforcement, Visa Inc and intelligence teams at several large banks about the findings. The report from IntelCrawler is the latest evidence to suggest that disclosures from Target Inc and upscale department store Neiman Marcus about cyber attacks that resulted in the theft of payment cards and other customer data may only be the tip of the iceberg. Komarov said that retailers in California and New York were among those compromised with BlackPOS, the same malicious software used in the attack on Target. Their names could not immediately be confirmed. A Visa spokeswoman said she could not immediately comment. (Editing by Richard Valdmanis and Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsIT IS no secret that equity analysts at banks do not always give the best investment advice. In 2001 Eliot Spitzer, the attorney-general of New York state, exposed their habit of heaping praise on undeserving firms with which their colleagues hoped to do business. Some had advised clients to buy stocks they had referred to in private as "junk", "crap" and "shit". But it is hard to talk up dud firms when markets are falling, and anyway, there is little business to be won at such times. So it might have been reasonable to assume that analysts' recommendations are better in bearish markets than bullish ones. New research, alas, suggests this is not so: the advice analysts give in bad times seems to be even worse than the boosterism they peddle in good.* Roger Loh of Singapore Management University and René Stulz of Ohio State University looked at analysts' forecasts of profits and the buy or sell recommendations they issued for the period 1983-2011. Their predictions, it turned out, were less reliable in falling markets than in rising ones, even after making allowances for increased volatility in such times. Analysts' forecasts of profits for the next quarter were out by 46% more during periods of financial crisis than at other times, for instance. The drop in accuracy may be linked to cuts in research budgets. During downturns banks spend less on research. For instance, in the most recent crisis budgets were cut by around 40%, according to Neil Scarth at Frost Consulting, largely by replacing more experienced (and more expensive) analysts with younger, greener ones. The fear of being fired may also befuddle rather than focus minds. Ironically enough, Messrs Loh and Stulz also found that investors pay more attention to analysts' opinions when times are tough. Normally only one change in ten in analysts' stock recommendations moves the price of the share in question. But the proportion increases to one in seven in falling markets, even though there are more changes during market routs. Just as drivers value maps more when it is foggy, investors pay more heed to research during periods of increased uncertainty, reckons Mr Stulz. Unfortunately for them, that is also when their maps are most likely to be wrong. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
APAs stock indices go, the Dow is weird and people tend to hate it. That's because it's a price-weighted index, so a stock with a high per-share price will move the index around more. In fact, a one-point move in any single Dow stock moves the whole index by 6.4219 points. Right now, the Dow is up about 60 points (0.4%). And that's entirely due to two credit card companies, Visa and American Express. American Express is ripping just under 5% today after posting solid earnings, accounting for 26.5 points of the Dow's rise. Visa is only up 2%, but it's adding 30 points to the Dow.Together, Visa and American Express are responsible for 94% of the entire index's rise. Again, the Dow is weird and people tend to hate it. Meanwhile, the S&amp;P 500 is basically flat today. Go figure. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Eduardo MunozThe world is rapidly changing, and investors would be well-advised to position their portfolios for key long-term themes. We recently published The US 20, chronicling 20 trends that will shape America for decades. Today, we present our global edition. Among the main themes: the shifts in emerging markets, the ravages left on European society from the continent's catastrophic economic downturn, and new security challenges from stuff we're all used to taking for granted, like water and safe computer access. Check it out. 
Peter Macdiarmid / Getty IN 1930, when the world was "suffering…from a bad attack of economic pessimism", John Maynard Keynes wrote a broadly optimistic essay, "Economic Possibilities for our Grandchildren". It imagined a middle way between revolution and stagnation that would leave the said grandchildren a great deal richer than their grandparents. But the path was not without dangers. One of the worries Keynes admitted was a "new disease": "technological unemployment…due to our discovery of means of economising the use of labour outrunning the pace at which we can find new uses for labour." His readers might not have heard of the problem, he suggested--but they were certain to hear a lot more about it in the years to come. For the most part, they did not. Nowadays, the majority of economists confidently wave such worries away. By raising productivity, they argue, any automation which economises on the use of labour will increase incomes. That will generate demand for new products and services, which will in turn create new jobs for displaced workers. To think otherwise has meant being tarred a Luddite--the name taken by 19th-century textile workers who smashed the machines taking their jobs. For much of the 20th century, those arguing that technology brought ever more jobs and prosperity looked to have the better of the debate. Real incomes in Britain scarcely doubled between the beginning of the common era and 1570. They then tripled from 1570 to 1875. And they more than tripled from 1875 to 1975. Industrialisation did not end up eliminating the need for human workers. On the contrary, it created employment opportunities sufficient to soak up the 20th century’s exploding population. Keynes’s vision of everyone in the 2030s being a lot richer is largely achieved. His belief they would work just 15 hours or so a week has not come to pass. Yet some now fear that a new era of automation enabled by ever more powerful and capable computers could work out differently. They start from the observation that, across the rich world, all is far from well in the world of work. The essence of what they see as a work crisis is that in rich countries the wages of the typical worker, adjusted for cost of living, are stagnant. In America the real wage has hardly budged over the past four decades. Even in places like Britain and Germany, where employment is touching new highs, wages have been flat for a decade. Recent research suggests that this is because substituting capital for labour through automation is increasingly attractive; as a result owners of capital have captured ever more of the world’s income since the 1980s, while the share going to labour has fallen. At the same time, even in relatively egalitarian places like Sweden, inequality among the employed has risen sharply, with the share going to the highest earners soaring. For those not in the elite, argues David Graeber, an anthropologist at the London School of Economics, much of modern labour consists of stultifying "bullshit jobs"--low- and mid-level screen-sitting that serves simply to occupy workers for whom the economy no longer has much use. Keeping them employed, Mr Graeber argues, is not an economic choice; it is something the ruling class does to keep control over the lives of others. Be that as it may, drudgery may soon enough give way to frank unemployment. There is already a long-term trend towards lower levels of employment in some rich countries. The proportion of American adults participating in the labour force recently hit its lowest level since 1978, and although some of that is due to the effects of ageing, some is not. In a recent speech that was modelled in part on Keynes’s "Possibilities", Larry Summers, a former American treasury secretary, looked at employment trends among American men between 25 and 54. In the 1960s only one in 20 of those men was not working. According to Mr Summers’s extrapolations, in ten years the number could be one in seven. This is one indication, Mr Summers says, that technical change is increasingly taking the form of "capital that effectively substitutes for labour". There may be a lot more for such capital to do in the near future. A 2013 paper by Carl Benedikt Frey and Michael Osborne, of the University of Oxford, argued that jobs are at high risk of being automated in 47% of the occupational categories into which work is customarily sorted. That includes accountancy, legal work, technical writing and a lot of other white-collar occupations. Answering the question of whether such automation could lead to prolonged pain for workers means taking a close look at past experience, theory and technological trends. The picture suggested by this evidence is a complex one. It is also more worrying than many economists and politicians have been prepared to admit. Economists take the relationship between innovation and higher living standards for granted in part because they believe history justifies such a view. Industrialisation clearly led to enormous rises in incomes and living standards over the long run. Yet the road to riches was rockier than is often appreciated. In 1500 an estimated 75% of the British labour force toiled in agriculture. By 1800 that figure had fallen to 35%. When the shift to manufacturing got under way during the 18th century it was overwhelmingly done at small scale, either within the home or in a small workshop; employment in a large factory was a rarity. By the end of the 19th century huge plants in massive industrial cities were the norm. The great shift was made possible by automation and steam engines. Industrial firms combined human labour with big, expensive capital equipment. To maximise the output of that costly machinery, factory owners reorganised the processes of production. Workers were given one or a few repetitive tasks, often making components of finished products rather than whole pieces. Bosses imposed a tight schedule and strict worker discipline to keep up the productive pace. The Industrial Revolution was not simply a matter of replacing muscle with steam; it was a matter of reshaping jobs themselves into the sort of precisely defined components that steam-driven machinery needed--cogs in a factory system. The way old jobs were done changed; new jobs were created. Joel Mokyr, an economic historian at Northwestern University in Illinois, argues that the more intricate machines, techniques and supply chains of the period all required careful tending. The workers who provided that care were well rewarded. As research by Lawrence Katz, of Harvard University, and Robert Margo, of Boston University, shows, employment in manufacturing "hollowed out". As employment grew for highly skilled workers and unskilled workers, craft workers lost out. This was the loss to which the Luddites, understandably if not effectively, took exception. The EconomistWith the low-skilled workers far more numerous, at least to begin with, the lot of the average worker during the early part of this great industrial and social upheaval was not a happy one. As Mr Mokyr notes, "life did not improve all that much between 1750 and 1850." For 60 years, from 1770 to 1830, growth in British wages, adjusted for inflation, was imperceptible because productivity growth was restricted to a few industries. Not until the late 19th century, when the gains had spread across the whole economy, did wages at last perform in line with productivity (see chart 1). Along with social reforms and new political movements that gave voice to the workers, this faster wage growth helped spread the benefits of industrialisation across wider segments of the population. New investments in education provided a supply of workers for the more skilled jobs that were by then being created in ever greater numbers. This shift continued into the 20th century as post-secondary education became increasingly common. Claudia Goldin, an economist at Harvard University, and Mr Katz have written that workers were in a "race between education and technology" during this period, and for the most part they won. Even so, it was not until the "golden age" after the second world war that workers in the rich world secured real prosperity, and a large, property-owning middle class came to dominate politics. At the same time communism, a legacy of industrialisation’s harsh early era, kept hundreds of millions of people around the world in poverty, and the effects of the imperialism driven by European industrialisation continued to be felt by billions. The impacts of technological change take their time appearing. They also vary hugely from industry to industry. Although in many simple economic models technology pairs neatly with capital and labour to produce output, in practice technological changes do not affect all workers the same way. Some find that their skills are complementary to new technologies. Others find themselves out of work. Take computers. In the early 20th century a "computer" was a worker, or a room of workers, doing mathematical calculations by hand, often with the end point of one person’s work the starting point for the next. The development of mechanical and electronic computing rendered these arrangements obsolete. But in time it greatly increased the productivity of those who used the new computers in their work. Many other technical innovations had similar effects. New machinery displaced handicraft producers across numerous industries, from textiles to metalworking. At the same time it enabled vastly more output per person than craft producers could ever manage. For a task to be replaced by a machine, it helps a great deal if, like the work of human computers, it is already highly routine. Hence the demise of production-line jobs and some sorts of book-keeping, lost to the robot and the spreadsheet. Meanwhile work less easily broken down into a series of stereotyped tasks--whether rewarding, as the management of other workers and the teaching of toddlers can be, or more of a grind, like tidying and cleaning messy work places--has grown as a share of total employment. But the "race" aspect of technological change means that such workers cannot rest on their pay packets. Firms are constantly experimenting with new technologies and production processes. Experimentation with different techniques and business models requires flexibility, which is one critical advantage of a human worker. Yet over time, as best practices are worked out and then codified, it becomes easier to break production down into routine components, then automate those components as technology allows. If, that is, automation makes sense. As David Autor, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), points out in a 2013 paper, the mere fact that a job can be automated does not mean that it will be; relative costs also matter. When Nissan produces cars in Japan, he notes, it relies heavily on robots. At plants in India, by contrast, the firm relies more heavily on cheap local labour. Even when machine capabilities are rapidly improving, it can make sense instead to seek out ever cheaper supplies of increasingly skilled labour. Thus since the 1980s (a time when, in America, the trend towards post-secondary education levelled off) workers there and elsewhere have found themselves facing increased competition from both machines and cheap emerging-market workers. The EconomistSuch processes have steadily and relentlessly squeezed labour out of the manufacturing sector in most rich economies. The share of American employment in manufacturing has declined sharply since the 1950s, from almost 30% to less than 10%. At the same time, jobs in services soared, from less than 50% of employment to almost 70% (see chart 2). It was inevitable, therefore, that firms would start to apply the same experimentation and reorganisation to service industries. A new wave of technological progress may dramatically accelerate this automation of brain-work. Evidence is mounting that rapid technological progress, which accounted for the long era of rapid productivity growth from the 19th century to the 1970s, is back. The sort of advances that allow people to put in their pocket a computer that is not only more powerful than any in the world 20 years ago, but also has far better software and far greater access to useful data, as well as to other people and machines, have implications for all sorts of work. The case for a highly disruptive period of economic growth is made by Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee, professors at MIT, in "The Second Machine Age", a book to be published later this month. Like the first great era of industrialisation, they argue, it should deliver enormous benefits--but not without a period of disorienting and uncomfortable change. Their argument rests on an underappreciated aspect of the exponential growth in chip processing speed, memory capacity and other computer metrics: that the amount of progress computers will make in the next few years is always equal to the progress they have made since the very beginning. Mr Brynjolfsson and Mr McAfee reckon that the main bottleneck on innovation is the time it takes society to sort through the many combinations and permutations of new technologies and business models. A startling progression of inventions seems to bear their thesis out. Ten years ago technologically minded economists pointed to driving cars in traffic as the sort of human accomplishment that computers were highly unlikely to master. Now Google cars are rolling round California driver-free no one doubts such mastery is possible, though the speed at which fully self-driving cars will come to market remains hard to guess. Even after computers beat grandmasters at chess (once thought highly unlikely), nobody thought they could take on people at free-form games played in natural language. Then Watson, a pattern-recognising supercomputer developed by IBM, bested the best human competitors in America’s popular and syntactically tricksy general-knowledge quiz show "Jeopardy!" Versions of Watson are being marketed to firms across a range of industries to help with all sorts of pattern-recognition problems. Its acumen will grow, and its costs fall, as firms learn to harness its abilities. The machines are not just cleverer, they also have access to far more data. The combination of big data and smart machines will take over some occupations wholesale; in others it will allow firms to do more with fewer workers. Text-mining programs will displace professional jobs in legal services. Biopsies will be analysed more efficiently by image-processing software than lab technicians. Accountants may follow travel agents and tellers into the unemployment line as tax software improves. Machines are already turning basic sports results and financial data into good-enough news stories. Jobs that are not easily automated may still be transformed. New data-processing technology could break "cognitive" jobs down into smaller and smaller tasks. As well as opening the way to eventual automation this could reduce the satisfaction from such work, just as the satisfaction of making things was reduced by deskilling and interchangeable parts in the 19th century. If such jobs persist, they may engage Mr Graeber’s "bullshit" detector. Being newly able to do brain work will not stop computers from doing ever more formerly manual labour; it will make them better at it. The designers of the latest generation of industrial robots talk about their creations as helping workers rather than replacing them; but there is little doubt that the technology will be able to do a bit of both--probably more than a bit. A taxi driver will be a rarity in many places by the 2030s or 2040s. That sounds like bad news for journalists who rely on that most reliable source of local knowledge and prejudice--but will there be many journalists left to care? Will there be airline pilots? Or traffic cops? Or soldiers? The EconomistThere will still be jobs. Even Mr Frey and Mr Osborne, whose research speaks of 47% of job categories being open to automation within two decades, accept that some jobs--especially those currently associated with high levels of education and high wages--will survive (see table). Tyler Cowen, an economist at George Mason University and a much-read blogger, writes in his most recent book, "Average is Over", that rich economies seem to be bifurcating into a small group of workers with skills highly complementary with machine intelligence, for whom he has high hopes, and the rest, for whom not so much. And although Mr Brynjolfsson and Mr McAfee rightly point out that developing the business models which make the best use of new technologies will involve trial and error and human flexibility, it is also the case that the second machine age will make such trial and error easier. It will be shockingly easy to launch a startup, bring a new product to market and sell to billions of global consumers (see our special report on startups). Those who create or invest in blockbuster ideas may earn unprecedented returns as a result. In a forthcoming book Thomas Piketty, an economist at the Paris School of Economics, argues along similar lines that America may be pioneering a hyper-unequal economic model in which a top 1% of capital-owners and "supermanagers" grab a growing share of national income and accumulate an increasing concentration of national wealth. The rise of the middle-class--a 20th-century innovation--was a hugely important political and social development across the world. The squeezing out of that class could generate a more antagonistic, unstable and potentially dangerous politics. The potential for dramatic change is clear. A future of widespread technological unemployment is harder for many to accept. Every great period of innovation has produced its share of labour-market doomsayers, but technological progress has never previously failed to generate new employment opportunities. The EconomistThe productivity gains from future automation will be real, even if they mostly accrue to the owners of the machines. Some will be spent on goods and services--golf instructors, household help and so on--and most of the rest invested in firms that are seeking to expand and presumably hire more labour. Though inequality could soar in such a world, unemployment would not necessarily spike. The current doldrum in wages may, like that of the early industrial era, be a temporary matter, with the good times about to roll (see chart 3). These jobs may look distinctly different from those they replace. Just as past mechanisation freed, or forced, workers into jobs requiring more cognitive dexterity, leaps in machine intelligence could create space for people to specialise in more emotive occupations, as yet unsuited to machines: a world of artists and therapists, love counsellors and yoga instructors. Such emotional and relational work could be as critical to the future as metal-bashing was in the past, even if it gets little respect at first. Cultural norms change slowly. Manufacturing jobs are still often treated as "better"--in some vague, non-pecuniary way--than paper-pushing is. To some 18th-century observers, working in the fields was inherently more noble than making gewgaws. But though growth in areas of the economy that are not easily automated provides jobs, it does not necessarily help real wages. Mr Summers points out that prices of things-made-of-widgets have fallen remarkably in past decades; America’s Bureau of Labour Statistics reckons that today you could get the equivalent of an early 1980s television for a twentieth of its then price, were it not that no televisions that poor are still made. However, prices of things not made of widgets, most notably college education and health care, have shot up. If people lived on widgets alone-- goods whose costs have fallen because of both globalisation and technology--there would have been no pause in the increase of real wages. It is the increase in the prices of stuff that isn’t mechanised (whose supply is often under the control of the state and perhaps subject to fundamental scarcity) that means a pay packet goes no further than it used to. So technological progress squeezes some incomes in the short term before making everyone richer in the long term, and can drive up the costs of some things even more than it eventually increases earnings. As innovation continues, automation may bring down costs in some of those stubborn areas as well, though those dominated by scarcity--such as houses in desirable places--are likely to resist the trend, as may those where the state keeps market forces at bay. But if innovation does make health care or higher education cheaper, it will probably be at the cost of more jobs, and give rise to yet more concentration of income. Even if the long-term outlook is rosy, with the potential for greater wealth and lots of new jobs, it does not mean that policymakers should simply sit on their hands in the mean time. Adaptation to past waves of progress rested on political and policy responses. The most obvious are the massive improvements in educational attainment brought on first by the institution of universal secondary education and then by the rise of university attendance. Policies aimed at similar gains would now seem to be in order. But as Mr Cowen has pointed out, the gains of the 19th and 20th centuries will be hard to duplicate. Boosting the skills and earning power of the children of 19th-century farmers and labourers took little more than offering schools where they could learn to read, write and do algebra. Pushing a large proportion of college graduates to complete graduate work successfully will be harder and more expensive. Perhaps cheap and innovative online education will indeed make new attainment possible. But as Mr Cowen notes, such programmes may tend to deliver big gains only for the most conscientious students. Another way in which previous adaptation is not necessarily a good guide to future employment is the existence of welfare. The alternative to joining the 19th-century industrial proletariat was malnourished deprivation. Today, because of measures introduced in response to, and to some extent on the proceeds of, industrialisation, people in the developed world are provided with unemployment benefits, disability allowances and other forms of welfare. They are also much more likely than a bygone peasant to have savings. This means that the "reservation wage"--the wage below which a worker will not accept a job--is now high in historical terms. If governments refuse to allow jobless workers to fall too far below the average standard of living, then this reservation wage will rise steadily, and ever more workers may find work unattractive. And the higher it rises, the greater the incentive to invest in capital that replaces labour. Everyone should be able to benefit from productivity gains--in that, Keynes was united with his successors. His worry about technological unemployment was mainly a worry about a "temporary phase of maladjustment" as society and the economy adjusted to ever greater levels of productivity. So it could well prove. However, society may find itself sorely tested if, as seems possible, growth and innovation deliver handsome gains to the skilled, while the rest cling to dwindling employment opportunities at stagnant wages. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Directional investors/traders remain heavily short or under-invested in the bond market. For example the CFTC commitment of traders shows speculative investors, particularly the smaller ones, being quite short the 10y note futures. Barchart, Sober Look"Comm" stands for "commercial" futures participants, such as dealers who use futures to hedge their positions Institutional investors are also heavily under-invested in bonds. The so-called "real money", such as pensions, endowments and insurance firms were overweight duration (holding higher bond positions than their targeted allocations) when yields were the lowest (back in 2012). Now with higher yields, these same investors (after being whipsawed by the market) are running duration levels that are the lowest since 2008. DB, Sober Look These technical factors should provide some support to treasuries in the near term in spite of the Fed's taper - particularly if the equity market does not perform as well as many are expecting. FREE AppDownload
flickr/Dave RuttShould have seen this one coming. The European Commission recently passed a law that will cap bonuses of "code staff" at banks — risk-takers that make more than $820,000 — at 100% of their base salary. It starts in 2014, and that kind of messed with the pay structure at banks, where bonuses can sometimes dwarf salaries (especially in London). But not to worry! Goldman Sachs and Barclays figured out a solution to the bonus cap. Just call it something else. The New York Times' Jenny Anderson reports: Starting this year, certain Goldman employees will earn a salary, a bonus and some “role-based pay.” It may be paid monthly or divided, with some paid monthly and some accruing to be handed out at the end of the year. The new type of pay will not be used when tallying pension contributions. The bank may be able to claw some of it back, and it can change from year to year. But it will have the effect of driving up base salaries. Role-based pay, huh? Sounds pretty bonusy. Incidentally, one management specialist told the Times that, for tax collection reasons, the government would actually make more money with big bonuses. Either way, did you really think a bunch of people whose core competency is making money would have a hard time figuring out how to get paid? Read the full report at the New York Times » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Pascal LauenerGoldman Sachs Chairman and CEO Lloyd BlankfeinSome of the biggest names in finance worked a variety of jobs before heading to Wall Street.  We're talking about things from bagging walnuts to selling peanuts to delivering newspapers and attending parking lots.  Some of these jobs were things they did as kids to earn some extra spending money, while others were to pay for college or make an actual living. We've compiled a detailed list of these titan's gigs.  FREE AppDownload
If history repeats — and history has a funny way of doing that — then the release of Martin Scorsese's "The Wolf of Wall Street" should warn investors of an impending market crash. Call it the Hollywood Effect. Maybe that's a little strong, but Bond Vigilantes has a funny chart getting passed around today showing that popular Wall Street movies tend to correlate with stock market crashes (correlation doesn't equal causality, but lighten up, it's a fun chart). Oliver Stone's iconic 1987 film "Wall Street"? Boom, 23% correction."Boiler Room" in 2000? Say goodbye to 46% on the S&amp;P. So will Martin Scorsese ruin the recovery? We'll find out. Here's the chart from Bond Vigilantes: Bond Vigilantes  FREE AppDownload
Wall Street's analysts have the tough task of estimating what a company will earn in a quarter. Because there are so many variables to consider, you'd think these estimates would have a pretty wide dispersion. However, the dispersion of these estimates tends to be pretty tight. And for Q4 2013, the dispersion is at its lowest level in nearly three decades. "The average estimate dispersion for S&amp;P 500 companies ticked down in 4Q to 7% from 8% last quarter, the lowest reading since 1986 and below the long-term average of 18%," sad Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Savita Subramanian. "This indicates that analysts are more clustered than ever around consensus in EPS estimates, which we believe suggests a reluctance to diverge from the pack or rather than a strong conviction in earnings." "A reluctance to diverge from the pack" sure sounds a lot like herding behavior. Bank Of America Merrill Lynch FREE AppDownload
OMEGAStill great, even in a low-yield environment.— A look back at prior stock market pullbacks illustrates how bonds have historically provided good diversification benefits. — Even in a low-yield environment, bonds provide a buffer as price movements, not yields, are the primary buffer to equity movements. — An allocation to core bonds, in addition to less interest rate sensitive sectors such as high-yield bonds and bank loans, may make sense for investors. Strong equity market performance in 2013 and still-low yields may cause investors to overlook the fact that bonds can still serve as an effective diversification tool.  Following a year in which stocks returned 30% and bonds posted their worst return since 1994*, investor sentiment for stocks remains positive while bond sentiment is poor. The divergence in sentiment is evident in actual investment dollars. Inflows into stock mutual funds totaled $168 billion in 2013 versus a rare outflow for bonds, which totaled $82 billion. Our 2014 forecast calls for 10% to 15% returns for stocks and another challenging year for bonds with returns roughly flat. The case for stock investing is strong but pullbacks can arrive without warning. As mentioned in our Outlook 2014, we expect more volatility this year. In 2013, the stock market experienced only one brief pullback of just over 5%. Historically such calm is rare. Looking beyond 2014 the case for stocks over bonds is compelling, but for investors with shorter-term horizons protection against an equity market sell-off is prudent. After all, the average annual peak-to-trough decline in the S&amp;P 500 from 1960 to 2013 has been 16%, and pullbacks can arrive without warning. Investors need to be prepared and bonds can help provide a buffer. A look back at prior stock market pullbacks illustrates how bonds have historically provided good diversification benefits. Figure 1 shows all equity market pullbacks of 5% or more lasting three weeks or more over the past 10 years and the corresponding return for stocks and high-quality bonds. Figure 1 also illustrates the hypothetical return of a balanced 60% stock/40% bond portfolio and the dampening impact bonds can have on stock weakness. During stock market pullbacks in excess of 5%, bonds outperformed stocks on average by a double digit margin, a significant difference. Excluding the historic mid-2008 to early-2009 sell-off, the performance differential narrows but is still notable at a 9.6% advantage in favor of high-quality bonds. LPL Financial In a few cases, both stocks and bonds declined together. This is a troubling outcome and reflects a failure of diversification, but it is rare. Still, bonds managed to outperform stocks on those occasions. In 2008, high-quality bonds provided a buffer but not without volatility, as investment-grade corporate bonds declined for the year and even high-quality mortgage-backed securities (MBS) suffered brief declines. While not all segments of the bond market perform similarly every time, an allocation to high-quality bonds has proven effective at offsetting stock market weakness. Not About Yield Today’s low-yield environment does not negate the diversification benefit of bonds. During 2012, the stock market suffered two pullbacks greater than 5%, and bonds rose more than 1% over each period. The 10-year Treasury yield varied between 1.4% and 1.9% during the 2012 equity market sell-offs, much lower than today’s level. In fact, during each stock market pullback in Figure 1 bond market performance is fairly consistent, averaging 1%, despite varied levels of interest rates. Two of the bond market’s strongest gains during stock market sell-offs occurred in 2010 and 2011, a post-recession period in which yields had already declined sharply. Over short-term periods, price movement, not interest income, is the primary driver of bond performance. Interest income accrues slowly and although the primary driver of long-term bond returns, price changes, up or down, often overwhelm the impact of interest income over short periods of time. Therefore, a low-yield environment does not preclude bonds acting as a diversification tool.  Pension Buyers Pension plans represent another investor group that can use bonds to help achieve a specific objective. Pension investors, who have a very long time horizon and are therefore less sensitive to interest rate movements, use bonds to offset their long-term liabilities.  Robust equity market gains in 2013 improved pension funding ratios broadly and reduced the need to take on additional risk to achieve investment goals. Following a year in which equities gained 30%, pension buyers took advantage of long-term Treasury yields near 4% and long-term corporate bond yields above 5% [Figure 2] to better balance the risk-reward profile of their investment portfolios. Pension buying, which has been a steady source of demand so far in 2014 and one reason why bonds are off to a good start, illustrates another way in which bonds can address specific investor objectives. LPL Financial Conclusion Low yields will likely translate into lower long-term bond returns, and therefore the hurdle for stock investors to beat bond performance over the long term is lower. However, for investors with shorter horizons or those simply unwilling to endure stock market swings, bonds can play a diversification role even in today’s low-yield environment. In conjunction with sectors that historically hold up better against rising rates, such as high-yield bonds and bank loans, an allocation to core bonds makes sense to help protect against potential stock market weakness. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Twitter/@JohnCKellyJohn C. KellyA former wealth manager for Morgan Stanley allegedly told prosecutors it was an accident when he recorded sex with three different women, the New York Daily News reports. The acts were caught on tape by a camera intended to watch his dog while he's away, John C. Kelly allegedly told prosecutors. In November, Kelly was charged with three felony counts of unlawful surveillance in the second degree and faces a maximum of 12 years in prison. He pleaded not guilty. He reportedly told prosecutors: "[The camera] is not on and sometimes stays on. So I accidentally recorded myself having sex because it's always recording." A lawyer for one of the women Kelly is accused of taping sex with said that he was using an "elaborate system" consisting of three different devices, the Daily News reports. Kelly says one of the women was stalking him. Kelly is the son of prominent lawyer John Q. Kelly, who represented the estate of Nicole Brown Simpson and the mother of missing teenager Natalee Holloway. Morgan Stanley fired him in November for writing bad checks, according to the Daily News. Kelly's lawyer, Benjamin Brafman, told the court the case all started with his client's own stalking allegations. “This is an ill-advised prosecution and Mr. Kelly is the victim in this case," Brafman said, according to the post. We reached out to Brafman to give him a chance to provide additional comment and will update this post if we hear back. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/IdhrenNot the jorts report. Update: There were 4 million jobs openings in November, beating analyst expectations for 3.93 million, according to the BLS' JOLTS report. There were 4.5 million hires in November, basically no change from October. The quit rate also remained essentially unchanged, at 1.8% for total non-farm. Quits are up over the last 12 months.  Before: Heads up! We're just minutes away from the JOLTS report. JOLTS tracks job openings, hires, and separations, and is the oft-neglected younger sibling to the BLS' big monthly jobs report. Janet Yellen, the new Fed chair, has cited the JOLTS report as an important labor market indicator. Based on last month's FOMC meeting, those at the Fed will definitely be watching the JOLTS report for at least one important reason — quits. Here's Pantheon's Ian Sheperdson (via Ben White): In the minutes of the December FOMC meeting, members are reported citing a number of indicators supporting their view that the labor market is improving. One of these indicators was the 'uptrend in quits', a measure of the proportion of employees voluntarily leaving their jobs, reported in the JOLTS survey. ... [S]o the quit rate has moved smartly up the agenda. Incoming Chair Yellen is a long-standing fan of the JOLTS survey, so we expect to hear a good deal more about it in the period ahead. It makes sense. If people feel good about the labor market, they are more likely to quit their job. We'll also be looking at job openings, of course. Coming to you live at 10:00 a.m. FREE AppDownload
TD Securities, University of MIchiganConsumer purchase intentions data from the University of Michigan's preliminary January consumer confidence survey.The preliminary results of the University of Michigan's January consumer confidence survey are out. The report's headline index unexpectedly fell to 80.4 from December's 82.5 reading. Economists were looking for an advance to 83.5. The economic conditions sub-index fell to 95.2 from December's 98.6 reading, while the economic outlook sub-index fell to 70.9 from 72.1. "The details of the survey provide little contrary evidence to the weaker headline report, with consumer purchase expectations for homes and durables slipping during the month," says Gennadiy Goldberg, a U.S. strategist at TD Securities. "Home purchase expectations fell to 158 from 167, even as they remain near recently more solid levels. The fall in January durable goods purchase expectations may simply have been a retracement from last month’s cycle high 156 print, with expectations now slipping to 146. Auto purchase expectations continued to recover, however, rising to 141 from 136 — a positive sign given the December slowdown in auto sales. Overall, consumer purchase expectations hint that despite their latest slowing, consumer spending is likely to continue supporting economic growth in the months to come." FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Chip EastFormer Tyco International Ltd. Chairman Dennis Kozlowski arrives with his wife Karen at New York Supreme court March 30, 2004.Over the past two decades, our addiction to cell phones ended our need for public pay phones. As a result, there are no more telephone booths. For those of us who grew up watching "The Adventures of Superman," we saw mild-mannered reporter Clark Kent slip into dozens of phone booths where he transformed into Superman. Over and over again, the caped superhero exited the booths to fight for truth, justice, and the American way. We were conditioned to believe that truth and justice for all was our birthright. I believed it. I thought the foundation of the American legal system was our collective desire for justice. But we have strayed from the American way that Superman embodied. Phone booths have disappeared, and so has our fight for truth and justice. This month, the State of New York will parole former Tyco International CEO Dennis Kozlowski and former CFO Mark Swartz after they each served 100 months, that's 8 1/3 years, in prison. The two former executives were convicted of a number of felony charges related to unauthorized compensation they received during the decade they led the huge multinational conglomerate. There are those who believe their sentences were too light, and that the justice system isn't tough enough on white-collar crime. But looking at the facts of this case, and the circumstances under which Kozlowski and Swartz were prosecuted, it's entirely possible they shouldn't have been charged, convicted, or incarcerated. In this case, truth and justice were lost in the process. It seems all politicians, prosecutors, judges, and others who are seeking office or courting public favor claim to be tough on crime. It is perhaps the only political position for which there is universal support. How many stump speeches have asked for tougher laws, more severe criminal penalties, and depending on the time and place, taken aim at specific individuals? For example, in the early 2000s, it was opportunistic to target executives of large corporations. With daily headlines filled with the details of massive corporate scandals, it was advantageous to go after those at the top of the some of the largest corporations in the world. There were accolades and rewards for those who identified, investigated, prosecuted, and convicted corporate executives. This was especially true in New York City. Recognizing corporate corruption and ending abuses of power are noble goals. No one argues that we, as a society, should be weak on white-collar crime. We all want corporations and their leaders to act ethically, responsibility, and to make decisions that are in the best interest of their constituents. But our system of overseeing, controlling, and when necessary, punishing corporations and their executives is flawed. Convictions should not be the goal; justice should be the goal. Instead of rewarding those who prove themselves to be the toughest on white-collar crime, why don't we reward those who demand justice? Why aren't there incentives for those who seek the truth? Unfortunately, not all politicians, lawmakers, and prosecutors seek justice. It is far more advantageous to get convictions, to prosecute, win, and throw people in prison for as long as possible. Truth and justice are often lost in the process because there are no incentives for achieving just outcomes. The only rewards are for convictions — for winning. In their aggressive pursuit of white-collar criminals and the rewards that come with convicting high profile business leaders, some prosecutors have resorted to overcriminalizing the decisions and actions of corporate executives. Some bad business decisions are crimes, but most are not. It's possible to act unethically, foolishly, and even harmfully without breaking any criminal laws. Bad business decisions are not necessarily crimes. Unethical business actions are not necessarily crimes. Prosecutors have a lot of discretion and if they choose, they may charge business men and women with crimes for unethical, foolish, sloppy business decisions that would be more appropriately addressed with disciplinary action or resolved through civil litigation. In many cases, the criminal allegations are enough to end careers, cause irreparable harm, bankrupt, and forever change the lives of those accused — whether or not they are ever convicted. Mens rea is a basic tenet of criminal law. Translated from Latin, mens rea refers to a person's state of mind. In order for an individual to be convicted of a crime, with few exceptions, the prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused acted with some degree of criminal intent. In other words, to be guilty of a crime, an individual must have known that what he or she was doing was wrong. In white-collar prosecutions, criminal intent is often the most difficult hurdle to clear. How do you prove that a corporate executive acted with criminal intent when he or she may have simply made bad business decisions, without the intent to do anything wrong? If an individual sells illegal drugs or robs a bank, it's pretty easy to show that he or she knew what they were doing was wrong. But when making decisions as a corporate executive, it is more difficult to show that an individual knew that his or her decisions and actions were criminal — that they knowingly did something wrong. In the 2005 trial of Kozlowski and Swartz, the Manhattan District Attorney had to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the former Tyco executives took compensation from the company, more than $170 million, that the two men knew they had no right to receive. There was a lot of evidence showing that Kozlowski and Swartz received the money openly — the transactions in question were processed in the ordinary course of business, the payments were reported by Kozlowski and Swartz to the company's auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers, the two declined offers of substantial additional compensation offered to them by the Tyco board of directors, and the defendants never actually took much of the money in question out of the company. The actions of the defendants showed clearly that they believed they had a right to the money. However, the DA didn't see it that way, and zealously prosecuted the two former executives. For months, prosecutors shared with the jury voluminous evidence of the defendants' lavish lifestyles; during the trial being wealthy was equated to being evil, to being criminal. Prosecutors also fought during the trial and throughout the appellate process to keep critical evidence from Kozlowski and Swartz — evidence that even the appellate court admitted could exonerate the defendants. In the end, the defendants were not allowed to have that evidence, the jury never saw it, and the former Tyco executives were found guilty of a long list of felonies that sent Kozlowski and Swartz to New York State prisons for 8 1/3 to 25 years. For the Manhattan DA, the convictions were very important. It was immediately after the bankruptcies of corporate powerhouses Enron, WorldCom, and Global Crossing (Tyco never declared bankruptcy and continued to thrive after the scandal), the public was disgusted with highly-paid corporate executives, and Kozlowski and Swartz were among the most richly compensated business leaders in the world. The Manhattan DA would be rewarded for convicting them — Robert Morgenthau, then the DA, was re-elected shortly after Kozlowski and Swartz were sentenced in the fall of 2005. The public wanted convictions — not justice. Prosecutors focused on winning more than finding the truth and fighting for justice. Is this now the American way? Win at all costs — without regard for truth and justice? I spent two and a half years researching the Tyco corporate scandal and immersed in the criminal prosecution of Kozlowski and Swartz. Before I began this project, I was naïve. I believed everyone involved in our legal system wanted the same thing: to find the truth. I thought everyone wanted to provide all existing evidence to those accused of crimes, especially evidence that could prove they were innocent. No one would knowingly allow them to be convicted without affording them the opportunity to present all relevant evidence to the jury who would decide their fates. I was wrong. The trial of Kozlowski and Swartz wasn't about justice. It was about winning. It was about convicting wealthy corporate executives at a time when those convictions were politically advantageous. In our legal system, truth and justice have become as scarce as telephone booths. Catherine S. Neal, author of Taking Down the Lion: The Triumphant Rise and Tragic Fall of Tyco's Dennis Kozlowski, is an Associate Professor of Business Ethics and Business Law in the Haile/US Bank College of Business at Northern Kentucky University. She is a graduate of the University of Cincinnati College of Law where she was a Corporate Law Fellow.  Professor Neal was granted unprecedented access to Dennis Kozlowski, his papers, attorneys, family, friends, and former Tyco colleagues, as well as transcripts and evidence from two criminal trials. Neal's research included interviews with former Manhattan DA Robert Morgenthau, the foreman of the jury that convicted Kozlowski, and key Tyco insiders.For more information about the book please visit the publisher's website. FREE AppDownload
Driving around the hollows of West Virginia with local resident and activist Paul Corbit Brown and listening to his stories, it's easy to imagine the man is a bit paranoid.  Can it be possible a group of miners chased him and his girlfriend more than thirty miles one night, trying to force them off the side of the road to get at Brown for what they saw as the threat he posed to their jobs? Did he really sit parked on the street one night talking when a man with a pistol in his belt opened his coat and told Brown he'd f------ kill him if he lost his job? And did someone really pump five shots from a high-powered rifle into the front of his house following a town hall meeting one night, not caring if they killed the people inside? Robert Johnson for Business Insider It all seems a bit much. So, when he says we're being followed by a coal company employee in a pickup truck I'm not sure what to believe, so I snap a picture of the guy. Almost instantly the truck fades into the road dust behind us. As if he were reading my mind, Brown says, "Do you still think I'm paranoid?" Brown was taking us to the one spot in a mountaintop coal removal area that the public could access. A small unkept cemetery at the top of an impossible steep hill. From up there we could see dump trucks in the distance rebuilding the mountain that miners had blown apart pulling out veins of coal.   It turns out that a lot of the things supposed to be true about West Virginians actually are true. Making moonshine is a legacy passed on through the generations, families and neighbors here take care of their own, and many, many people survive by working the coal mines. Robert Johnson for Business Insider Whole towns were built over the centuries to house the men who went in to dig the coal, but where once it took several hundred men underground to do, it now takes a handful of men a fraction of the time by blowing the mountain apart. It's effective and perhaps safer in the immediate, but mountaintop removal mining is environmentally devastating. Blast by blast and truck by truck, the coal companies haul out the coal. They sift it from the rock and return all the rock where they found it. Unfortunately when the mountain is restructured it lacks the three feet of top spoil required to host a hardwood forest — the same soil that acts as a sponge when it rains and keeps the Appalachian Valley ecosystem one of the richest in the world. Robert Johnson for Business Insider Robert Johnson for Business Insider The mountain is sculpted into steppes and settlement ponds placed descending down the valleys. Like the Canadian oil sand mining, the big questions here involve reclamation and water. Can land bounce back to its orginal state when it's mined like this, and can the mining companies truly be sure the water they're putting back into the environment is safe? Robert Johnson for Business Insider The other thing about West Virginians is that many of them still trust the coal companies. Brown tells us the story of a woman, a mother of two, he interviewed before the coal company bought her house and razed it to the ground.  Her father worked at the coal company for years and, despite reports of mutated wildlife downstream, she said the coal company would never do anything bad. The only problem she ever had, she said, was once in a while her well water would turn red. "It turns out," Brown says, "that the woman's water turned red when the chemicals in the ground water built up." We're driving past the flatland where the woman's home stood until a couple years ago. "She'd dump bleach into her well to get rid of the red. Two gallons at a time." "People here just don't know," he says. "They just don't know."
CRT Capital, Federal ReserveClick to enlarge.December U.S. industrial production data are out. Industrial output rose 0.3% to an all-time high in December, right in line with consensus estimates. November's advance was revised down to 1.0% from 1.1%. Capacity utilization rose to 79.2% from November's upward-revised 79.1% reading, above consensus estimates. Manufacturing production growth slowed to 0.4% in December from 0.6% in November, but economists predicted a slightly larger slowdown to a 0.3% growth rate. "This economic statistic does not fit the widely-used characterization of a slow-growth economy that is underachieving," says Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ. "There is no output gap that we need to close before lifting interest rates if you use capacity utilization instead of the unemployment rate. Capacity utilization — factory run-rate — is 79.2% in December, close enough to the 2007 average of 80.5%." Below is a summary of the data from the release. -------------------- Market Groups The production of consumer goods increased 1.5 percent in November and stood 2.7 percent above its level of a year earlier. The output of durable consumer goods rose 2.2 percent, and all of its major components registered gains of 1.0 percent or more. The largest increases were in the production of automotive products, which rose 3.3 percent, and in the production of home electronics, which moved up 2.6 percent. The production of consumer nondurables rose 1.3 percent. The rise was supported by strong gains in chemical products and especially in consumer energy products. After three consecutive months of gains, the output of business equipment fell 0.5 percent in November. The indexes for information processing equipment and for industrial and other equipment declined 1.8 percent and 0.6 percent, respectively, while the production of transit equipment increased 1.0 percent. Despite its decrease in November, the index for business equipment was 2.2 percent above its year-earlier level. The output of defense and space equipment declined 0.8 percent in November following three months of gains. The index for November was 1.4 percent above its year-earlier level. Among nonindustrial supplies, construction supplies moved up 0.6 percent in November to record its sixth consecutive monthly increase; the index was 4.9 percent above its level of a year earlier. The output of business supplies advanced 1.0 percent in November, its fifth consecutive increase, and has gained 3.1 percent during the past 12 months. In November, the production of materials to be processed further in the industrial sector rose 1.4 percent. The rise reflected improvements in each of the major components of the index, with an advance of 2.7 percent for energy materials, a gain of 0.9 percent for durable materials, and an increase of 0.2 percent for nondurable materials. Among durable materials, all major components registered gains. Among nondurable materials, the indexes for textile materials and chemical materials increased 2.4 percent and 0.4 percent, respectively, while paper production decreased 0.5 percent. Industry Groups Manufacturing output rose 0.6 percent in November to a level that was 2.9 percent above a year earlier but 3.6 percent below its pre-recession peak; gains were widespread across industries. The factory operating rate rose 0.4 percentage point to 76.8 percent, a rate 1.9 percentage points below its long-run average. The production of durable goods advanced 0.8 percent in November. The output of motor vehicles and parts increased 3.4 percent, and gains of nearly 1.0 percent or more were recorded for wood products; non-metallic mineral products; fabricated metal products; electrical equipment, appliances, and components; furniture and related products; and miscellaneous manufacturing. Decreases were registered by the indexes for primary metals, for machinery, for computers and electronic products, and for aerospace and miscellaneous transportation equipment; each declined 0.2 percent. The utilization rate for durable manufacturers rose 0.4 percentage point to 77.3 percent and was above its long-run average of 77.0 percent for the first time since April 2008. The output of nondurables rose 0.5 percent in November for its largest increase since December 2012. The index for textile and product mills rose 1.7 percent, while the indexes for petroleum and coal products and for chemicals both advanced 0.9 percent. Small gains were recorded by paper and by plastics and rubber products, while small losses were registered by apparel and leather and by printing and support. The operating rate for nondurables rose 0.4 percentage point to 77.6 percent, a rate 3.1 percentage points below its long-run average. Following a 0.7 percent decline in October, the production of non-NAICS manufacturing industries (publishing and logging) moved up 0.6 percent in November; over the past 12 months, output for this group of industries has decreased 1.5 percent. Mining output advanced 1.7 percent in November after having declined 1.5 percent in October; temporary shutdowns of oil and gas rigs in the Gulf of Mexico in anticipation of Tropical Storm Karen contributed to the October decrease. Capacity utilization at mines increased 1.1 percentage points to 89.7 percent in November and has been at or above its long-run average of 87.3 percent since October 2011. The output of utilities rose 3.9 percent in November, and similarly sized gains were posted for both the electric and the natural gas categories. The capacity utilization rate for utilities rose 3.0 percentage points to 81.0 percent. Capacity utilization rates in November for industries grouped by stage of process were as follows: At the crude stage, utilization increased 1.1 percentage points to 88.3 percent, a rate 2.0 percentage points above its long-run average; at the primary and semifinished stages, utilization rose 1.2 percentage points to 77.9 percent, a rate 3.1 percentage points below its long-run average; and at the finished stage, utilization edged up 0.1 percentage point to 75.9 percent, a rate 1.2 percentage points lower than its long-run average. Revision of Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization The Federal Reserve Board plans to issue its annual revision to the index of industrial production (IP) and the related measures of capacity utilization in late March 2014. New annual benchmark data for 2012 for manufacturing will not be available in time for this revision, however, the revised IP indexes will incorporate other annual data, including information from the U.S. Geological Survey on the mining of metallic and nonmetallic minerals (except fuels). The weights for market splits of the indexes will be updated with information from the 2007 benchmark input-output accounts from the Bureau of Economic Analysis. The updated IP indexes will include revisions to the monthly indicator (either product data or input data) and to seasonal factors for each industry. In addition, the estimation methods for some series may be changed. Any modifications to the methods for estimating the output of an industry will affect the index from 1972 to the present. Capacity and capacity utilization will be revised to incorporate data through the fourth quarter of 2013 from the Census Bureau's Quarterly Survey of Plant Capacity, which covers manufacturing, along with new data on capacity from the U.S. Geological Survey, the U.S. Department of Energy, and other organizations. Once the revision is published, it will be available on the Board's website at www.federalreserve.gov/releases/G17. Note. The statistics in this release cover output, capacity, and capacity utilization in the U.S. industrial sector, which is defined by the Federal Reserve to comprise manufacturing, mining, and electric and gas utilities. Mining is defined as all industries in sector 21 of the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS); electric and gas utilities are those in NAICS sectors 2211 and 2212. Manufacturing comprises NAICS manufacturing industries (sector 31-33) plus the logging industry and the newspaper, periodical, book, and directory publishing industries. Logging and publishing are classified elsewhere in NAICS (under agriculture and information respectively), but historically they were considered to be manufacturing and were included in the industrial sector under the Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) system. In December 2002 the Federal Reserve reclassified all its industrial output data from the SIC system to NAICS. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Business Insider AustraliaVeteran traders may have noticed some numbers appearing more often than others in the markets, and believe it or not, there’s scientific research that explains why. In late 2012, economists from the US and Singapore found that firms traded with a 23% “lucky number premium” on the Shanghai Stock Exchange and Shenzhen Stock Exchange within their first three years of listing. That’s right: companies with listing codes containing the digit 6, 8 and 9 attracted almost a quarter more capital than those with the digit 4 which, in Mandarin and other dialects, sounds like the word for death. And more companies than statistically expected had “lucky” three-digit listing codes on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (52.2% versus 51.4%), while listing codes that contained the dreaded number 4 accounted for only 6.7% of total companies – almost half of the expected 12.7%. Chinese New Year is coming up this month, and with it, there’ll be red packets and a bit of casual gambling for some families looking to test their luck for the months ahead. This may help you navigate numerical superstitions in the year of the horse: Pronounced èr in Mandarin, the number 2 is considered auspicious because of the Chinese saying, "<U+597D><U+4E8B><U+6210><U+53CC>" (good things come in pairs). The Cantonese pronunciation, ji, sounds like the word for "easy," which is also a good thing, but some northern Chinese also take the word to mean "stupid." The number 4 is pronounced sì in Mandarin, which sounds like the word for death. It's considered unlucky in Japan, Korea and Vietnam for similar reasons, so many Asian hotels skip levels containing the digit 4 entirely. When catering to the superstitious, beware of how you combine 5 with other numbers. It's pronounced wu in Mandarin and ng in Cantonese, which is associated with 'not', so can be used to negate other auspicious (or inauspicious) connotations. The number 6 sounds similar to the word for flow (liu) in Mandarin, implying that things will run smoothly, and the word for wealth (lok) in Cantonese. Pronounced ba in Mandarin and baat in Cantonese, the number 8 is one of the most popular in Chinese culture because it's thought to sound similar to the word for 'prosper' (fa and faat respectively). It's exceedingly common in phone numbers, number plates and price tags. The 2008 Beijing Olympics also notably opened at 8pm on 08/08/08. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
YouTube / SeinfeldShrinkage. Goldman Sachs' bonus package saw some shrinkage this year, Quartz's Mark DeCambre reports. Citing internal sources, Quartz reports that bonus packages are "flat to down relative to last year." Some bankers saw cuts of 5% to 10%. While growth potential on, say, the bond trading desk ain't what it used to be, pay is still going up in other areas of the company like leveraged finance. And those who worked on big deals like the Twitter IPO obviously had a good year, Quartz noted.  Read the full report at Quartz »  FREE AppDownload
Management expected to report Q4 earnings of $1,25 per share, which is much lower than the $1.43 expected by analysts. "U.S. results were negatively impacted by the challenges of the compressed peak season coupled with an unprecedented level of online shopping that included a surge of last-minute orders," said UPS in a press release. "In an effort to maintain service standards and commitments, UPS took extraordinary measures deploying additional equipment and people. For example, the company utilized 85,000 temporary employees, 30,000 more than planned. Also, weather events in December weighed on results." "On December 23, UPS delivered more than 31 million packages, the most ever and 13% over the prior-year peak day," they added. "This year’s highest delivery day occurred six days later than expected and was 7.5% greater than planned." Looking ahead, management sees EPS growing 10%-15%, which translates to around $5.03 to $5.26. Analysts were looking for $5.49. FREE AppDownload
Pantheon Macroeconomics"The chart shows that the trend in single-family building permits is more or less flat."—Ian ShepherdsonDecember U.S. housing starts and building permits data are out. Starts fell 9.8% to 999,000 units at an annualized pace. November's starts figure was revised up to 1.107 million units annualized from 1.091 million. Building permits fell 3.0% to 986,000 units annualized. November's permits figure was revised up to 1.017 million units annualized from 1.007 million. The consensus estimate of market economists polled by Bloomberg was for a 9.7% decline in starts to 985,000 units annualized. For permits, the consensus estimate was for a 0.3% decline to 1.014 million units annualized. "The December data have slightly undershot, presumably as a result of the severe weather in the second week of the month," says Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. "Looking ahead, the dip in December permits is consistent with a further very modest decline in starts. The underlying trend in permits, which are less volatile than starts, seems now to be more or less flat, consistent with the levelling-off in the trend in new home sales. Housing's contribution to growth is fading; something else — business capex, we hope — needs to take its place." Below is the full text of the release. --------------------------------------- NEW RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION IN DECEMBER 2013 The U.S. Census Bureau and the Department of Housing and Urban Development jointly announced the following new residential construction statistics for December 2013: BUILDING PERMITS Privately-owned housing units authorized by building permits in December were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 986,000. This is 3.0 percent (±1.1%) below the revised November rate of 1,017,000, but is 4.6 percent (±1.1%) above the December 2012 estimate of 943,000. Single-family authorizations in December were at a rate of 610,000; this is 4.8 percent (±1.0%) below the revised November figure of 641,000. Authorizations of units in buildings with five units or more were at a rate of 350,000 in December. An estimated 974,700 housing units were authorized by building permits in 2013. This is 17.5 percent (±0.8%) above the 2012 figure of 829,700. HOUSING STARTS Privately-owned housing starts in December were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 999,000. This is 9.8 percent (±10.7%)* below the revised November estimate of 1,107,000, but is 1.6 percent (±11.9%)* above the December 2012 rate of 983,000. Single-family housing starts in December were at a rate of 667,000; this is 7.0 percent (±8.9%)* below the revised November figure of 717,000. The December rate for units in buildings with five units or more was 312,000. An estimated 923,400 housing units were started in 2013. This is 18.3 percent (±2.9%) above the 2012 figure of 780,600. HOUSING COMPLETIONS Privately-owned housing completions in December were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 744,000. This is 10.8 percent (±9.9%) below the revised November estimate of 834,000, but is 10.7 percent (±11.7%)* above the December 2012 rate of 672,000. Single-family housing completions in December were at a rate of 550,000; this is 8.2 percent (±10.1%)* below the revised November rate of 599,000. The December rate for units in buildings with five units or more was 183,000. An estimated 762,200 housing units were completed in 2013. This is 17.4 percent (±3.7%) above the 2012 figure of 649,200. FREE AppDownload
Now that all of the major U.S. banks have reported, it's time to highlight a tiny little metric that means everything to bankers — compensation. Specifically, we'd like to point out a little change in the game (read: rivalry) between Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs. Up until last quarter, when Morgan absolutely crushed the rest of the Street in terms of earnings, Goldman basically had an undisputed leg up. I mean — it's Goldman Sachs. This quarter, neither bank reported particularly great earnings. Goldman's Q4 net income fell 19% from the same time last year, despite the fact that the bank beat analyst estimates. Morgan Stanley beat too, but with a load of noise. So when Morgan and Goldman bankers tuck themselves in tonight, it's likely they won't be thinking about which bank racked up the best numbers in terms of profit. They'll be thinking about the fact that compensation at Goldman Sachs fell 3% to 12.6 billion from Q4 2012 to Q4 2013, while the bank increased its staff by 2%. Meanwhile, at Morgan Stanley compensation expense is up from $3.6 billion in Q4 2012 to $4.0 billion in Q4 2013. Obviously this is important because a lot of people go into banking for the pay, but it's also an important sign of how the bank is doing. This is simple stuff. Goldman is tightening its belt while Morgan is paying its employees more, especially in its Wealth Management business — which some on Wall Street think is a total snooze — where compensation increased from $1.9 billion in Q4 2012 to $2.1 billion in Q4 2013. Now, it's worth pointing out that Goldman's earnings report says that compensation was reduced to fund a charitable venture called Goldman Sachs Gives, which cost employees about $155 million. They'll survive, though. FREE AppDownload
Apple needs 2014 to be a good year. You’ll know that globally, Apple’s share of the market is dwarfed by Android devices. At the end of last year, Apple had just 12% of market share – down from 14% in 2012 – compared to Samsung’s crushingly dominant 32%. In some markets – including the U.S. and Australia – Apple remains strong, even growing last year after the release of the new iPhone. But these are exceptions to the global trend. Apple likes to point to some of the big differences in how people use iPhones over other phones. Take mobile shopping. Apple users part with much more money on their mobiles than users of Google’s Android platform. It may be a matter of Apple users having more disposable income, or being younger, or more engaged with their devices. Whatever the drivers behind it, it’s an important consideration for businesses who want to reach customers on a mobile device. If you’re selling over handsets you need to be on Apple. But even this is looking scratchy with a slow but sure shift affecting one of the company’s critical advantages – the size and quality of its App Store. With the dominance of Android handsets, software developers have been putting more effort into the platform that only a couple of years ago was an afterthought when it came to app development. Another big difference is that almost all Apple users are on the latest version of iOS – comparatively, it’s chaos in the Android world, and Google is having to take steps to address it. But overall the momentum is behind Samsung and other Android handset makers at the moment. After the CES conference in Las Vegas this week, Business Insider’s Jim Edwards made the withering observation that Apple now risks being the BlackBerry of 2014. We know of at least two important things happening this year that Apple will be counting on to arrest the slide. The first is that iPhones will now be distributed through the world’s largest carrier, China Mobile, in the world’s most populous country. The iPhone has been made compatible with China’s fastest network since September in preparation. Apple CEO Tim Cook spoke to The Wall Street Journal during the week about this and was asked, inevitably, if he was worried about the never-ending talk about market share slippage. Here is part of his response: Many many things can change but the North Star should be clear, and for Apple that’s always been making the best products in the world. That’s our strategy and that’s not changing today or tomorrow or the next day or the next year. When you really back up and look at what’s happening in China the usage numbers are staggering. Fifty-seven percent of the mobile browsing in China is done on iOS devices. Now there are many different views of unit market share and you can choose to look at whichever one you think is most reputable, but for us that is not our North Star, we don’t get up in the morning saying we want to sell the most, we get up saying we want to make and create the best, and so that’s our strategy and it doesn’t change. But what if the execution isn’t there to back the strategy? Put another way, what if Apple’s devices simply aren’t the best? Last year I ditched my iPhone for a Samsung Galaxy S4. I’ve been taken aback by how much better it is. So much so that I now pity iPhone users, especially when it comes to two critical functions: typing, and browsing the Web. The GS4's bigger screen is so much more practical for browsing the Web and general reading, that doing the same on the iPhone is now a vastly inferior experience. It’s a simple matter but it’s the one thing that Samsung users who’ve switched from iPhone will uniformly say about the Samsung’s advantages. Apple has misread the appeal of, and demand for, larger screens. There are other benefits. Typing on the iPhone’s tiny keys is comparatively fiddly and frustrating. (And a little app I’ve installed called SwiftKey now predicts full sentences for me. “I will call you later,” for example, is now done in five keystrokes with my thumb. It’s much faster. And surprisingly liberating. I’ve seen similar apps for the iPhone but none comes remotely close.) A neat plus is the Google Now service, which surfaces what Google thinks is relevant information depending on where you are and what you’re doing. For example, it will ping you if there are traffic jams on your commute route home, or let you know you need to leave for an appointment that you have across town, having calculated the walking time to the address. And it silently drops in sports results from your favourite teams. It’s a little gimmicky and inaccurate but it’s getting smarter all the time. Again, there are Apple equivalents but the tight integration with Google services makes the Android version the clear winner. All combined, the Galaxy S4 makes the iPhone look rather quaint. But going back to the initial advantage, the bigger screen, is right now what would deter me from ever going back to an iPhone. If anything I’ll get a bigger screen next time. Which leads to the second important thing happening this year that Apple’s doing: the anticipated release of a new iPhone, with a larger screen. Cook talks about being driven by quality over quantity. But moving aggressively for distribution in China and tackling the most obvious strong point of the iPhone’s biggest competitor don’t present as the actions of a CEO who is unconcerned about volume. It’s one thing to have the big, hairy goal of making the best devices. In a crowded market, where the big competitors also have deep pockets, it’s quite another to deliver on it. And at the moment, Apple really isn’t doing that. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sue OgrockiTrader Nick Ceravolo works the phones October 2, 2001 at the Eurodollar futures pit at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange in Chicago, following the announcement that the Federal Reserve is again slashing short-term interest rates a half-percentage point, its ninth cut this year.Dave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a roundup of what traders are chatting about ahead of the U.S. market open: Good Morning!  US Futures have a upbeat tone, with the E-Minis up 30bp into Expiration today as Lipper reports equity fund inflows of $3.6B, up 50% w/w.   This follows strength overseas, where the DAX is nearing +1%, and EU Stoxx back on 6Y highs.   EU Banks shrugging off the $1T shortfall headlines, and back in the green as Yields drop on S&amp;P not downgrading Portugal -  but Globally Banks weaker again, with China, Indian and UK banks all off 1%+.   Over in Asia, Chinese stocks closed at a 17-week low, as local money-market rates hit a six-month high.  The Nikkei managed to close unchanged, despite Nintendo getting smacked as they slash Wii shipments.   That said, Nikkei futures are up well over 1% as the Yen has slid in early trading today.    All of EM Asia was in the red – and Aussie closed basically unchanged despite Miners jumping again, gaining 2% on average.  Oil services will be in focus as well, as Royal Dutch warning smacked BP in London.    Finally, I’ll be watching for a pulse in Retailers, as the group has been smacked into expiry, and UK retail sales leap higher.  “WTAW” will opine on the “Gift Card” effect on seasonality showing possible 12%+ upside in the XRT.  Single Stock movers include TWTR +3% (SF initiation), SLB +1% (earnings), GE + 50bp (earnings) – Losers being INTC -4% (earnings), COF -2% (earnings).  AAPL is rolling out at China Mobile today, but under some early pressure as the NY Times opines a weak response.   The 10YY is unchanged this AM, but near the highs of the session – That said, FT chattering the Asian demand for Treasuries as Yields are near 1M lows in the USA.   Both the Yen and Euro are weaker to the $, the DXY nearing a new 2month high this AM.   This is a natural hedwind for commodities – and we are seeing Industrial Metals weak (China Money rates?), and Gold just dipped red, testing the 50dma yet again.   WTI is rallying, mostly against Brent – as OPEC is cutting demand forecasts yet again.   Nat gas is seeing some profit-taking, off 1% in early trade.   Eyes remain on the AG complex, where Corn is about to reverse earlier gains on headlines of another shipment rejected by the Chinese.    Focus should be on the Home Starts print at 8:30, as Builders have been one of the worst performers this week, we also get IP at 9:15, Michigan Confidence at 9:55, JOLTs jobs data at 10, a decent size POMO at 11, and Fed’s lacker speaking at 12:30 ahead of the 3 day weekend in the States.  Returns over the past 15 years surrounding the MLK holiday (Friday +ve 60% of the time, avg gain 14bp) - Tuesday up 53% of the time, but with a avg loss of 35bp. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVHoward MarksHoward Marks, the veteran fund manager at Oaktree Capital, has just published a new memo to clients titled "Getting Lucky." As the title would suggest, the memo offers an extensive discussion of the important role of luck plays in everyday successes. "There’s no doubt that hard work, planning and persistence are essential for repeated success," writes Marks. "But even the hardest workers and best decision makers among us will fail to succeed consistently without luck." The memo is pretty exhaustive, and it's certainly worth reading. However, his thoughts are summed up nicely in this excerpt: The first thing I remember learning at Wharton in 1963 was that the correctness of a decision can’t be judged from the outcome. Because of the randomness at work in the world and the unpredictability of the future, lots of bad decisions lead to good results, and lots of good decisions end in failure. In other words, for an investor to both be right and make money: —his view of what will happen in the future – and what should be done about it – has to be analytically correct a priori, —the things he thinks will happen have to actually happen, and —those things have to happen on schedule. But in investing, it’s hard to know what will happen and impossible to know when it will happen. Many things influence performance other than (a) investors’ hard work and skill and (b) the market’s dependable discounting of information about the future. Luck – randomness, or the occurrence of things beyond our knowledge and control – plays a huge part in outcomes. Investment success isn’t just a question of whether the investor put together the “right” portfolio, but also whether it encountered a beneficial environment. Thus being successful requires a significant degree of luck. No one gets it right every time. (That’s why even the best investors diversify, hedge and/or limit their use of leverage.) But the skillful investor is right more often, over a long period of time, than an assumption of randomness would permit. We say about such investors, “it can’t be luck.” It's remarkable that someone as successful as Marks is willing to admit that much of what he has accomplished is due to luck. Perhaps, it is the recognition of the role of luck in investing that is indeed a skill in itself. Whatever that means. Read the whole memo at Oaktree.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuri GripasMorgan Stanley just reported a noisy earnings beat for Q4 2013 with earnings per share of $0.50 ex tax benefits and one-time legal reserve expenses of about $1.2 billion. Analysts expected an earnings per share of $0.44. Revenue came in at $8.2 billion — analysts on average expected earnings of $8.0 billion. That's nice and all, but it's more important to note that the bank reported a profit of $181 million — down 70% from the same time last year when the bank made a profit of $594 million. Yikes. A couple things to note in this report —  trading (especially in fixed income), wealth management and compensation. On trading — last quarter banks got completely smacked in this sector, this quarter it wasn't as bad, but it wasn't pretty either. Analysts expected fixed income trading revenue to come in around $800 million, but Morgan missed on that one bringing in $694 million citing "weakness in interest rate products." Equity sales and trading fared much better, coming in at $1.5 billion compared to $1.4 billion at the same time the year before. Onto wealth management. This is key because it's the crux of Gorman's business model for the bank. So far it has served them well — it's what had Morgan beating its arch rival Goldman Sachs last quarter. Morgan Stanley made a net revenue of $3.7 billion on its wealth management business in Q4 2013, compared to $3.3 billion at the same time the year before. Compensation expense in the sector increased from $1.9 billion to $2.1 billion of the same period. In fact compensation was up at Morgan Stanley in general, from $3.6 billion in Q4 2012, to $4.0 billion in 2013. Check out the top of the release below: Morgan Stanley Reports Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013: NEW YORK, January 17, 2014 – Morgan Stanley (NYSE: MS) today reported net revenues of $7.8 billion for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2013 compared with $7.0 billion a year ago. For the current quarter, income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley was $192 million, or $0.07 per diluted share,6 compared with income of $661 million, or $0.33 per diluted share,6 for the same period a year ago. Results for the current quarter included pre-tax legal expenses of $1.2 billion or $0.40 per diluted share.4 The current quarter also included a discrete tax benefit of $192 million or $0.10 per diluted share.4 Results for the current quarter included negative revenue related to changes in Morgan Stanley’s debt-related credit spreads and other credit factors (Debt Valuation Adjustment, DVA)1 of $368 million, compared with $511 million a year ago. Excluding DVA, net revenues for the current quarter were $8.2 billion compared with $7.5 billion a year ago. Income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley was $433 million including elevated legal expenses, or $0.20 per diluted share, compared with income of $982 million, or $0.49 per diluted share, a year ago.3,7 Compensation expense of $4.0 billion in the fourth quarter increased from $3.6 billion a year ago. Non- compensation expenses of $3.9 billion increased from $2.5 billion in the prior year driven by higher legal expenses. The current quarter includes $1.2 billion of additions to legal reserves for mortgage-related matters, specifically litigation and investigations related to residential mortgage-backed securities and the credit crisis. For the current quarter, net income applicable to Morgan Stanley, including discontinued operations, was $0.07 per diluted share,6 compared with net income of $0.29 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2012.     FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Chaiwat SubprasomAn anti-government protester uses a pair of binoculars during a rally in central Bangkok January 16, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. — Congress has officially avoided another government shutdown — for now. The Senate on Thursday passed the $1 trillion omnibus spending bill (that will keep the government open through September) 72-26, days after the House also easily passed the bill. President Obama has said he will sign it. — President Obama will speak today about government surveillance in the wake of the NSA leaks from whistleblower Edward Snowden. White House aides say it's a coincidence, but Obama picked an interesting date for his speech — on January 17, 1961, Dwight Eisenhower delivered his famous "military-industrial complex" warning. "In the councils of government, we must guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence, whether sought or unsought, by the military-industrial complex," Eisenhower said then. "The potential for the disastrous rise of misplaced power exists and will persist." Go figure. — Just as it looked like anti-government protests were calming in Bangkok, an explosive device tossed into a protest wounded 36, Reuters reports. "Police said the device was hurled at protesters marching with their leader, Suthep Thaugsuban, near Chulalongkorn University in the city centre," according to the report. Protestors have called for the current prime minister to step down, citing corruption. — It's a busy day of economic data again. At 8:30 a.m. ET, we'll get data on U.S. housing starts and building permits for the month of December. Economists expect starts fell to an annualized pace of 991,000. "Construction payrolls dropped in December and housing permits and new home sales slid back some in November," wrote Wells Fargo's John Silvia. "However, a low supply of new homes and a growing number of consumers planning to purchase a home in the next six months should keep starts at a 986,000-unit pace." — At 9:15 a.m., industrial production data will be released. Economists are looking for a 0.3% increase in production activity in December. "We look for flat industrial production in December, with growth restrained by a pullback in utilities output," Citi's Peter D'Antonio wrote clients. "The estimated decline in utilities may seem odd given the cold weather in December, which should have necessitated a lot of heating fuels. However, November actually was even colder seasonally adjusted. The drop in utilities says more about how cold November was and the extreme amount of electricity and natural gas that was produced in that month than about weather in December." — At 9:55 a.m., the Michigan consumer confidence figure will be released. Economists expect that the preliminary reading on consumer sentiment will climb to 83.5 in January. "The positive effects of an improving labor market and rising home values should outweigh potential drags on consumer sentiment in early January," wrote Credit Suisse economists. "The negatives include somewhat higher prices at the gas pump and stalled gains in the stock market."  — Finally at 10:00 a.m., we'll get the job openings ("JOLTS") report, giving us a better idea of hires, quits, and layoffs. In the past, new Fed chair Janet Yellen has cited the report as one an important indicator of labor market health. — Asian markets were relatively flat in overnight trading. Japan's Nikkei was down 0.08%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng was up 0.64%, and Korea's KOSPI fell o.66%. In Europe, U.K. retail sales grew 5.3% in Dember from the year prior. That's the fastest sales growth in more than nine years, according to the BBC. European markets were slightly higher, and U.S. futures were in the green. — Intel's earnings disappointed yesterday, sending the stock down a few percentage points in after-hours trading. The company reported earnings of $0.51 per share, slightly below analysts' consensus estimate of $0.52 EPS, but did beat on revenue. "We had a solid fourth quarter with signs of stabilization in the PC segment and financial growth from a year ago," Intel CEO Brian Krzanich said. — Morgan Stanley will report its fourth quarter earnings today. Analysts are looking for earnings per share of $0.45 and revenue of $8 billion. As The Street notes, investors are expecting an earnings beat for Morgan Stanley after Bank of America saw a 19% increase in Q4 trading revenue. Elsewhere, Shell indicated it will miss earnings expectations by $1 billion and Nintendo said it expects a $336 million operating loss for the year to the end of march on weaker holiday demand. FREE AppDownload
MarkitU.K. retail sales surged 2.6% in December, smoking expectations for a 0.3% gain. "Consumer confidence has improved in recent months, fueled by improved job security as the labour market picks up, the better economic news flow in the media and lower inflation," said Markit Economics' Chris Williamson. "At the same time, more people are in employment, which naturally boosts consumer spending as more people are earning. However, wages are also starting to rise, according to survey data." Williamson noted that the annual growth was the largest in nine years. FREE AppDownload
Operating earnings jumped 20% year-over-year to $0.53 per share, which was right in line with expectations. The global manufacturing conglomerate said organic revenues climbed 5%. Orders during the period jumped 8%. “We saw good conditions in growth markets, strength in the U.S., and a mixed environment in Europe," said CEO Jeff Immelt. "We had strong operating performance for the year and are pleased with our execution in 2013, taking $1.6 billion of cost out, growing margins, reducing the size of GE Capital, and returning more than $18 billion to shareholders.” Orders, which represent future growth, grew 8% in the U.S., 3% in Europe, and 13% in the growth markets. GE makes everything from wind turbines to jet engines to high-tech medical equipment. It is widely considered a good bellwether of economic activity. FREE AppDownload
flickr/EricssonFranceSAN FRANCISCO/STOCKHOLM (Reuters) - Microsoft Corp is considering Ericsson Chief Executive Hans  as a possible successor to outgoing CEO Steve Ballmer, Bloomberg reported, citing sources briefed on the software giant's executive search. The dynamic 48-year-old Swede fits the bill as a media-savvy technology fanatic, but his emergence as a leading candidate for the U.S. company will still come as a surprise to many on Wall Street. Vestberg, a former elite-level handball player, worked his way through the ranks at the world's largest mobile telecoms equipment maker, with stints in China, Brazil, Mexico and the United States en route to becoming chief financial officer before taking the top job in 2010. But he has struggled to convince investors that Ericsson can maintain its lead in mobile networks in the face of stiff competition from rivals such as China's Huawei. Since Vestberg took the helm, the company's shares have underperformed the sector. Though the share price has risen 19 percent, in line with Microsoft, that compares with a leap of nearly 60 percent for the Stoxx Europe 600 Technology Index over the same period and a 41 percent rise for Sweden's blue-chip index. Both Microsoft and Ericsson declined to comment on Bloomberg's report, though a source close to the U.S. company has said that no CEO appointment is likely until the last week of January at the earliest. Furthermore, Microsoft might prefer a candidate with more experience in consumer products as it tries to take the fight to market leaders Apple and Samsung in handsets and tablets after its purchase of Nokia's mobile phone business. Vestberg was in charge of Ericsson's exit from its handset joint venture with Sony two years ago, ending the company's association with consumer products. "I don't think it's very likely that they will choose Vestberg," said Bengt Nordstrom, head of Swedish telecoms consultancy Northstream. "It's more logical that they will find a U.S. leader, from their network of owners, board members and experienced CEOs with a software, enterprise and media background. There's enough with talent and experience in the U.S. market." Since Microsoft's Ballmer announced his retirement plans last August, analysts have discussed potential candidates ranging from company insiders Satya Nadella and Tony Bates to several outsiders. But speculation refocused on internal choices this month after the leading external candidate, Ford Motor Co CEO Alan Mulally, took himself off the list. Sources familiar with the company have told Reuters that, with Mulally out of the running, the list of candidates able to run a globe-spanning software corporation struggling to expand into the mobile software and devices markets is thin. Analysts say that Microsoft may have to look at "dark horse" candidates, but noted that some widely touted executives in the technology sector, including Pivotal Inc CEO Paul Maritz, have already declined to take the job. In a blog post on Microsoft's website last month lead independent director John Thompson, who is spearheading the search, emphasized the need for a CEO with good technology credentials and "an ability to lead a highly technical organization and work with top technical talent". (Additional reporting by Olof Swahnberg and Simon Johnson; Editing by Eric Walsh and David Goodman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon Apple Inc. CEO Tim Cook (R) and China Mobile's Chairman Xi Guohua (L) with iPhones pose with a customer at an event celebrating the launch of Apple's iPhone on China Mobile's network at a China Mobile shop in Beijing January 17, 2014. Apple Inc is finally launching its iPhone on China Mobile Ltd's vast network on Friday, opening the door to the world's largest carrier's 763 million subscribers and giving its China sales a short-term jolt. BEIJING (Reuters) - Apple Inc is finally launching its iPhone on China Mobile Ltd's vast network on Friday, opening the door to the world's largest carrier's 763 million subscribers and giving its China sales a short-term jolt. Underlining how much the launch means for Apple, Chief Executive Tim Cook was on hand as the carrier's flagship store opened in Beijing's financial district. With China Mobile Chairman Xi Guohua alongside, Cook gifted signed iPhones to a handful of customers and posed for pictures. The long-awaited deal could trigger a limited turnaround for Apple, whose fortunes have wavered in China in the face of stiff competition from market-leader Samsung Electronics Co Ltd and up-and-coming local rival Xiaomi Tech. Samsung had a 21 percent share of China's smartphone market in the third quarter of 2013, with Apple trailing in fifth place with just 6 percent, according to research firm Canalys. But the arrival of the iPhone could be a double-edged sword for China Mobile, with some analysts predicting a costly subsidy war as rival carriers compete to lure customers. "I don't see a price war coming where Apple is engaged in the war, but I do think you're going to see a subsidy war coming," said Michael Clendenin, managing director of Shanghai-based RedTech Advisors. "China Mobile, if they're not making their targets on sales for these phones, they're going to increase the subsidies... It's like airlines: the other guys will fall like dominoes, so China Unicom will do it and China Telecom will do it." China Mobile's iPhone sales are expected to reach 12 million in its 2014 fiscal year, but its subsidies will leap 57 percent to 42.4 billion yuan ($7 billion), up from 27 billion yuan in its fiscal year 2013, wrote Cynthia Meng, a Jefferies analyst, in a December note. For the basic 16GB iPhone 5S, with no subscriber contract, China Mobile is charging 5,288 yuan ($870), the same as on Apple's China website. The carrier is charging 4,488 yuan ($740) for a basic iPhone 5C, again the same price as on Apple's China site. China Unicom Hong Kong Ltd and China Telecom Corp Ltd slashed their iPhone prices by as much as 1,288 yuan ($210) following the announcement that a deal had been struck between Apple and China Mobile. The pair have also offered a range of cut-price deals on contracts. These offerings and the launch of the iPhone on China Mobile come in the weeks running up to Chinese New Year, when people traditionally exchange gifts of money in red envelopes and retail sales jump. After taking years to hammer out a deal with China Mobile, Apple's sales in China should get a short, sharp boost as subscribers make the most of the double-whammy of the iPhone's arrival and the rollout of high-speed 4G mobile networks. Reservations for iPhones had already hit 1.3 million on Wednesday, according to a China Mobile spokeswoman, although Reuters checks showed that there were multiple registrations using fake ID numbers. But the rewards are expected to be short-lived for the Cupertino, California-based company, which faces a deeper problem in China of having fallen out of favor with consumers who are increasingly opting for domestic offerings. Another issue is the thriving grey market for iPhones, where users can buy handsets typically smuggled from Hong Kong and then sign up for a China Mobile contract. China Mobile already has 45 million iPhone users inChina, according to a company spokeswoman. "You need to consider the cannibalization for sales to China Unicom, China Telecom and the grey market, so even though there's an addition from China Mobile it will also impact sales from other channels as well," said CKLu, a Taiwan-based analyst with Gartner. "If we really want to see the expansion of sales we'll have to wait for the next version of the iPhone. If China Mobile gets first launch and their subsidies are attractive people will probably rush to the iPhone that China Mobile can provide." ($1 = 6.0557 Chinese yuan) (Additional reporting by Adam Rose; Editing by Alex Richardson and Kenneth Maxwell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sue OgrockiAfter more than two decades of a fixed-income bull market, 2013 was not a great year for the bond market. Rates bottomed out, many mutual funds had negative returns and bond mutual funds experienced a record $80 billion in redemptions as investors hit the panic button. But it would be foolhardy to assume that 2014 will be a repeat year for fixed income. Rather, the bond market has become more complex and will likely reward those who closely study what worked, what did not and why. Here are the seven lessons we’ve learned from 2013 and the opportunities they’ve created for investors in 2014: 1)      You can no longer win with just “core.” For nearly 15 years, investing in a core bond portfolio (with at least 85% in investment-grade bonds) practically guaranteed a win, as steadily falling rates helped boost returns. But in 2013, that win streak came to an end: the Barclays US Aggregate Bond Index fell to 2.0%—its first negative calendar-year return since 1999 and the worst since 1994. As a result, many investors need to rethink their fixed-income portfolio to achieve the same level of success going forward. 2)      Own bonds for more than just returns. Just because core and other categories performed poorly in 2013 doesn’t mean it was a bad idea to own them in your portfolio. Bonds offer value beyond their returns, offsetting the volatility of riskier assets in many portfolios, and the performance should be viewed in this context. For example, a portfolio with 60% in the S&amp;P 500 Index and 40% in the Barclays US Aggregate Bond Index performed very well—up 18.6%—with a level of volatility suitable for many investors. 3)      Flexibility trumped the benchmark. While benchmarked investing worked well enough when interest rates were declining—providing a major tailwind to bond returns—unfortunately, rates rose dramatically in 2013. The result: nontraditional or unconstrained strategies performed better than their benchmark counterparts in 2013. (The median manager performance for nontraditional bond funds was 0.63% in 2013, according to Morningstar, versus (1.65)% for intermediate-term bond funds.) Today, almost every bond index offers historically low yields and the same interest-rate risk as before, creating the unintended risk of duration—but unconstrained strategies offer more room to manage that risk. 4)      Bank loans weren’t the bargain people expected. We all knew that rates were going to rise eventually. Accordingly, many investors thought to pile into high-yield bank loans or other floating-rate strategies in 2013 and abandon more duration-sensitive sectors such as high yield. While their logic was right, they didn’t stop to do the math. High-yield bonds performed well despite rising US Treasury yields—the bonds were up 7.4% in 2013, according to the Barclays US Corporate High Yield 2% Issuer Capped Index. Bank loans rose just 5.4% (display).  Alliance Bernstein 5)      Made in the USA isn’t always best. It was wise to go global in 2013, as the Barclays Global Aggregate (USD Hedged) Bond Index outperformed the Barclays US Aggregate Bond Index. But because the economic recovery and actions by global central banks have been uneven, and central banks don’t all do the same thing at the same time, investing globally can help diffuse US interest-rate risk and increase diversification. 6)      The death of US munis was greatly exaggerated. Fears over rising rates and municipal defaults, most notably Detroit’s bankruptcy, exacerbated muni fund outflows to the tune of more than $50 billion in 2013. But many investors were too hasty in jumping ship. While lack of demand caused the five-year AAA municipal yield to rise sharply from 80 basis points in January 2013 to 160 b.p. in June 2013 and it’s been fluctuating ever since, too many investors panicked and thought it no longer made sense to own munis, despite a 0.1% default rate and improving municipality finances (e.g., increasing tax revenues). The result: the sell-off in 2013 created buying opportunities—especially in intermediate-duration munis and lower-rated bonds. 7)      Limited liquidity is the new normal. Regulatory changes impacting the banking community and their fixed-income market-making functions have reduced liquidity in secondary markets. This has intensified volatility and will likely continue to do so. Since the financial crisis, transacting in bonds beyond the most liquid developed government markets has become more challenging as dealers and inventory have waned, and we expect mutual fund flows (including ETFs) to represent a larger percentage of the overall secondary market trading activity relative to the past. The bottom line is that, despite what happened in 2013, investors shouldn’t turn their backs on bonds. Whether they knew it or not, fixed-income investors have always sought some combination of stability, core and income, and those needs still exist. What has changed, however, is that the 10-year US Treasury note is no longer able to provide the solution it has in the past. Going forward, navigating the bond market is going to be more complicated, and different portfolios will be necessary to suit investors’ diverse needs. The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice or trade recommendations and do not necessarily represent the views of all AllianceBernstein portfolio-management teams. Douglas J. Peebles is Chief Investment Officer and Head of Fixed Income at AllianceBernstein. This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Hal Varian has spent a good deal of time trying to figure out why a fiat money has any value at all.  He has been intrigued by the idea that while fiat money is supposedly backed by legal tender laws and men with guns, it can also always be rejected by its users.  So, if people can reject a currency even if it’s backed by a government then surely something else must be a powerful driver of its acceptance.  Varian coined the concept of the “network effect”.  In essence, we accept money because we know it will be accepted by others as a medium of exchange. Varian has used an interesting example to prove his point.  When the first Iraq war ended UN sanctions forced Saddam Hussein to create new currency to finance his spending.  He called these notes “Saddam Dinars” and required the exchange of all outstanding currency for these new notes.  But the old notes continued to trade.  Over time, Hussein printed so much of the new currency that the old Iraqi Dinar surged in value relative to the new Saddam Dinars.  The old Iraqi Dinars became the dominant form of money as Saddam Dinars hyperinflated themselves away. Boring story?  Not in the least!  The fact that the old notes even traded at all is curious.  After all, they were no longer backed by a government force.  They were only good due to social convention and the network effect.   And that’s what I find most interesting about Bitcoin.  It is most backed by the network effect and social convention.  Of course, there’s more to Bitcoin than pure belief, but to a monetary nerd like myself, I find this concept of the network effect and the viability of money to be of particular interest… FREE AppDownload
Historically, it is the pace of global economic growth that has and should continue to be the most important driver of the price of metals, energy products and other commodities. And from mid-2012 until the middle of last year—when commodities were in critical condition—annualized GDP growth was running below its long-run average of 3.5 percent. But growth began reverting to its long-term average in the second half of 2013, and the year ended with an estimated 3.3 percent GDP increase in the fourth quarter. Commodity prices began stabilizing in the latter part of the year, too. In 2014, Credit Suisse’s economists expect continued, albeit modest, improvement in global GDP growth, with a forecasted increase of 3.8 percent. And that, they say, should result in flat commodity prices. “Over the course of this year, demand is unlikely to be either strong enough to push many prices materially higher, or to suggest a clear short,” the bank’s commodity analysts note in their most recent forecast of Jan. 6.  The first quarter could be a little rough going, as industrial production in resource-hungry emerging markets slowed at the end of last year. That has been particularly notable in China, where Credit Suisse’s own estimates show that the boost from a government stimulus program implemented last summer appeared to be waning by year-end. But by the second half of 2014, the picture should start to improve. “Prices of many base metals in particular will come under pressure in the first quarter,” Credit Suisse Global Head of Product Research Ric Deverell said on a client call last week. “But then as we move into the second quarter, and certainly into the second half of the year, prices will stabilize and then move higher.” One notable recent change is that the prices of commodities and equities have begun to move somewhat independently again, this after hanging together for much of the Great Recession. That temporary union was not an unusual one: During and after the biggest macroeconomic shocks in modern history – the Depression in the 1930s, or the oil shortages of the 1970s, for example – investors have tended to sell equities and commodities at the same time, for the same reasons. Fearing the knock-on effects of sluggish demand, they shed any relatively risky assets in favor of “risk off” assets, including cash. But as markets ease out of that panicked mindset, an asset class whose prices no longer correlate tightly with equities may once again start to look like a viable component of a diversified portfolio, Deverell noted.  The performances of individual commodities are diverging, too, creating clearer bright spots and danger zones within each asset class. In such an environment, say Credit Suisse analysts, understanding specific supply and demand pressures will prove more important in 2014 than it has been in several years. With that in mind, we review Credit Suisse’s forecasts for several commodities. Oil: Bearish Outlook, But a Lot Depends on Geopolitics  Analysts are pessimistic about oil prices in the coming year, and recently reduced their 2014 forecast on Brent crude prices by 8 percent to $102 per barrel. In the third quarter, they expect the price to break through the $100- to $120-per-barrel range it’s traded since mid-2010, to an average of $95 per barrel. Much will depend on what happens in two countries that defy easy forecasting: Iran and Libya, both members of OPEC. Right now, the Iranian embargo is keeping 1.2 million barrels of crude out of the market, while nearly 1 million barrels are offline due to ongoing protests in Libya. Credit Suisse Head of Global Energy Research Jan Stuart forecasts that Libyan oil production could normalize by the end of this year, especially if a Feb. 14 meeting in Tripoli to draw up a new constitution goes well. Earlier this month, armed protesters at the El Sharara oilfield, which produces about 20 percent of Libya’s crude oil, agreed to call off disruptive demonstrations. Meanwhile, if Iranian leaders and the so-called P5+1 group – China, France, Russia, the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany – successfully negotiate a deal on Iran’s nuclear program this year, sanctions could conceivably relax enough to return 500,000 barrels per day of Persian oil to global markets.  Strong production in non-OPEC countries should put additional pressure on prices later this year. Stuart expects producers outside the cartel to ramp up production by 1.5 million barrels per day, with 1.16 million of those extra barrels coming from the United States. Precious Metals: No Hope For Gold Bugs, But Palladium a Bright Spot  Gold: Is anybody a gold bull anymore? Prices of the yellow metal, after all, fell some 25 percent over the past year from $1,668 to $1,249 per ounce. And it’s probably not over yet, cautions Credit Suisse Head of Precious Metals Research Tom Kendall, who forecasts that prices will drop even further, to an average of $1,080 in 2014. Several different factors are at play here, too. With complete economic meltdowns sidestepped both in Europe and the United States, fewer investors are rushing into gold in preparation for a financial apocalypse. Nor, for that matter, is there much current interest in gold as a hedge against rising prices, since the inflation outlook in much of the developed world is extremely low. In addition, with interest rates rising in the U.S., yield-bearing investments are starting to look more attractive. Some 85 percent of the demand for gold is either for jewelry or investment purposes – gold bars, coins and gold-linked exchange-traded funds – as opposed to industrial use, Credit Suisse says. But Credit Suisse’s Kendall sees softening demand there as well, predicting falling demand for gold bars and coins, as well as a continuing selloff in gold-linked exchange-traded funds Restrictions on gold imports enacted last year in India, the world’s largest gold buyer, should also serve to constrain demand. Taking those factors into account, Credit Suisse forecasts an oversupply of 100 metric tons of the shiny stuff in 2014. Palladium: The near-term future looks good for this precious metal, not because of any huge increase in demand among makers and buyers of fine jewelry, but because of its more practical industrial applications. Palladium is used in catalytic converters for gasoline-powered vehicles and should benefit from rising demand for new cars in emerging markets, particularly China, and North America. Palladium prices should also get a supply-side boost, as Russia is reportedly running down its huge stockpiles of the precious metal and selling less into the market. All told, Credit Suisse expects the metal to sell at $760 an ounce on average in 2014, a 4 percent increase over the 2013 average. Base Metals: Winners and Losers  Zinc: Credit Suisse expects this metal, which is used primarily to galvanize steel, to be one of the key winners among industrial commodities this year. But that outlook is based less on an overall bullish outlook for steel demand than it is on zinc’s own supply/demand dynamics. In the coming year, the zinc supply should only grow by 1.5 percent, while Credit Suisse expects global demand to grow between 4 and 4.5 percent in both 2014 and 2015— the result, the analyst says, will be an increase in zinc prices by some 8.9 percent in 2014 to $2,100 per ton. Over the medium term, zinc prices should also enjoy some support from the mid-2015 closure of the largest zinc mine in the world, the Chinese-controlled MMG Century mine in Australia. Iron ore: Iron ore,the main ingredient in steel, enjoyed strong demand in the second half of 2013, as steel production in China grew dramatically thanks to a government stimulus that included money for building railroads. But they don’t call them cyclical metals for nothing: with global supply of iron ore expected to increase by 12 percent this year, Credit Suisse predicts that average 2014 prices will end up 18 percent lower than their 2013 levels at $111 per ton. Surprisingly strong demand out of China could save the day, but it would take another year of 9 percent growth in Chinese steel demand to keep the market balanced. Credit Suisse does not foresee that happening.    All charts from Credit Suisse’s “Commodities Forecasts: Light at the End of the Tunnel.” FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Grufnik Markets aren't doing much early in the European trading session. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.1%. France's CAC 40 i up 0.1%. Germany's DAX is up 0.2%. Spain's IBEX is down 0.4%. Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.2%. Earlier, Shell warned that its Q4 profits fell to $2.9 billion, missing analysts' expectation for $4.0 billion. "Our 2013 performance was not what I expect from Shell," said new CEO Ben van Beurden. The company blamed weak refining margins, higher production costs, and disruptions in Nigeria. U.S. stock market futures are modestly higher with Dow futures up 18 points and S&amp;P futures up 2 points. Later today, we'll get U.S. housing starts and industrial production data. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregor"Our 2013 performance was not what I expect from Shell," the CEO said.LONDON (Reuters) - Royal Dutch Shell &lt;RDSa.L&gt; warned on Friday that its fourth-quarter figures are expected to be significantly lower than recent levels of profitability because of oil and gas prices and problems with its refining business. The sharp cut in forecasts for earnings on a current cost of supplies basis (CCS), excluding identified items, to $2.9 billion from market expectations of about $4 billion, is the first major move by new Chief Executive Ben van Beurden, who took over at the start of the year. Shell also missed analyst forecasts for its third-quarter trading in October, saying that weak refining profit margins, higher production costs and output stoppages in Nigeria had weighed on its performance. "Our 2013 performance was not what I expect from Shell," the CEO said. "Our focus will be on improving Shell's financial results, achieving better capital efficiency and on continuing to strengthen our operational performance and project delivery." Analysts had been expecting fourth-quarter earnings on the CCS basis of about $4 billion. In the third quarter, CCS earnings excluding identified items came in at $4.5 billion, down from $6.6 billion in the same period of 2012. The big drop in profits has been led by the significantly weaker industry refining conditions that have been widely flagged by the company and others in the industry. (Reporting by Kate Holton; Editing by David Goodman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon Apple Inc.'s CEO Tim Cook (3rd L) reacts next to China Mobile Ltd's Chairman Xi Guohua (3rd R) at an event celebrating the launch of Apple's iPhone on China Mobile's network at a China Mobile shop in Beijing January 17, 2014. BEIJING (Reuters) - Apple Inc is finally launching its iPhone on China Mobile Ltd's vast network on Friday, opening the door to the world's largest carrier's 763 million subscribers and giving its China sales a short-term jolt. Underlining how much the launch means for Apple, Chief Executive Tim Cook was on hand as the carrier's flagship store opened in Beijing's financial district. With China Mobile Chairman Xi Guohua alongside, Cook gifted signed iPhones to a handful of customers and posed for pictures. The long-awaited deal could trigger a limited turnaround for Apple, whose fortunes have wavered in China in the face of stiff competition from market-leader Samsung Electronics Co Ltd and up-and-coming local rival Xiaomi Tech. Samsung had a 21 percent share of China's smartphone market in the third quarter of 2013, with Apple trailing in fifth place with just 6 percent, according to research firm Canalys. But the arrival of the iPhone could be a double-edged sword for China Mobile, with some analysts predicting a costly subsidy war as rival carriers compete to lure customers. "I don't see a price war coming where Apple is engaged in the war, but I do think you're going to see a subsidy war coming," said Michael Clendenin, managing director of Shanghai-based RedTech Advisors. "China Mobile, if they're not making their targets on sales for these phones, they're going to increase the subsidies... It's like airlines: the other guys will fall like dominoes, so China Unicom will do it and China Telecom will do it." China Mobile's iPhone sales are expected to reach 12 million in its 2014 fiscal year, but its subsidies will leap 57 percent to 42.4 billion yuan ($7 billion), up from 27 billion yuan in its fiscal year 2013, wrote Cynthia Meng, a Jefferies analyst, in a December note. For the basic 16GB iPhone 5S, with no subscriber contract, China Mobile is charging 5,288 yuan ($870), the same as on Apple's China website. The carrier is charging 4,488 yuan ($740) for a basic iPhone 5C, again the same price as on Apple's China site. China Unicom Hong Kong Ltd and China Telecom Corp Ltd slashed their iPhone prices by as much as 1,288 yuan ($210) following the announcement that a deal had been struck between Apple and China Mobile. The pair have also offered a range of cut-price deals on contracts. These offerings and the launch of the iPhone on China Mobile come in the weeks running up to Chinese New Year, when people traditionally exchange gifts of money in red envelopes and retail sales jump. SALES CANNIBALISATION After taking years to hammer out a deal with China Mobile, Apple's sales in China should get a short, sharp boost as subscribers make the most of the double-whammy of the iPhone's arrival and the rollout of high-speed 4G mobile networks. Reservations for iPhones had already hit 1.3 million on Wednesday, according to a China Mobile spokeswoman, although Reuters checks showed that there were multiple registrations using fake ID numbers. But the rewards are expected to be short-lived for the Cupertino, California-based company, which faces a deeper problem in China of having fallen out of favor with consumers who are increasingly opting for domestic offerings. Another issue is the thriving grey market for iPhones, where users can buy handsets typically smuggled from Hong Kong and then sign up for a China Mobile contract. China Mobile already has 45 million iPhone users in China, according to a company spokeswoman. "You need to consider the cannibalization for sales to China Unicom, China Telecom and the grey market, so even though there's an addition from China Mobile it will also impact sales from other channels as well," said CK Lu, a Taiwan-based analyst with Gartner. "If we really want to see the expansion of sales we'll have to wait for the next version of the iPhone. If China Mobile gets first launch and their subsidies are attractive people will probably rush to the iPhone that China Mobile can provide." ($1 = 6.0557 Chinese yuan) (Additional reporting by Adam Rose; Editing by Alex Richardson and Kenneth Maxwell) FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Rob DiCaterinoTOKYO (Reuters) - Nintendo Co Ltd said it expects an operating loss of 35 billion yen ($336 million) for the year to end-March, citing much weaker-than-expected sales of its Wii U and 3DS game machines during the crucial holiday season. The move reverses its previous forecast of a 100 billion yen profit and would mark the third consecutive year of operating losses for the embattled company, falling drastically short of the average estimate of a 54.7 billion yen profit in a survey of 18 analysts by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. The warning comes just three months after the creator of the Super Mario franchise stood by its sales projections for the Wii U, counting on the console to revive its fortunes amid cut-throat competition from Microsoft Corp's new XBox One and Sony Corp's recently released PlayStation 4. "We failed to reach our target for hardware sales during the year-end, when revenues are the highest," the Osaka-based company said in a statement. "As a result, the sale of high-margin software fell far short of our projections." The dismal sales of the Wii U mark a major setback for Nintendo President Satoshi Iwata, who has repeatedly had to scale back sales projections for the console as it failed to emulate the success of its hugely popular predecessor, the Wii. Iwata told a briefing a year ago, when the company warned of its second consecutive year of operating losses, that he had "made a commitment" to achieve an operating profit of 100 billion yen or more in the year to March 2014. "The fact that the 'Wii U strategy' has failed is disappointing and will likely trigger a sell-off as soon as the market opens," said Makoto Kikuchi, chief executive of Myojo Asset Management. "The company appears to have failed to differentiate the Wii U from the Wii," he said, adding that his own 10-year-old son, who owns a Wii and DS, had shown no interest in the Wii U. Nintendo on Friday also warned of a net loss of 25 billion yen for the year ending on March 31, a substantial reversal from its prior projection of a 55 billion yen profit. It now expects revenues of 590 billion yen, down 36 percent from its prior forecast. It cut its full-year dividend to 100 yen from 260 yen. The company slashed its global Wii U sales forecast for the business year by almost 70 percent, to 2.8 million units from 9 million, and its 3DS sales forecast to 13.5 million units from 18 million units. Nintendo shares have fallen almost 10 percent since hitting a two-and-a-half year high of 15,880 yen on January 10. The stock climbed 55 percent in 2013, in line with a 57 percent rally by the benchmark Nikkei average but underperforming a 91 percent surge by rival Sony. ($1 = 104.2400 Japanese yen) (Additional reporting by Ayai Tomisawa, Dominic Lau and Reiji Murai; Editing by Edmund Klamann and Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
