(Reuters) - A class-action lawsuit has been filed in Canada against Mt. Gox, the leading bitcoin exchange that lost more than $400 million of customers' digital currency, along with Mizuho Bank Ltd, one of Japan's largest lenders. The lawsuit, filed Friday in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice, comes just days after Mt. Gox, based in Tokyo, filed for a U.S. Chapter 15 bankruptcy, which shields the company from lawsuits in U.S. courts. The plaintiffs are Canadian residents who allege they are owed currency and the value of bitcoins by Mt. Gox that they have been unable to withdraw. The lawsuit was filed on behalf of "all persons in Canada who paid a fee to Mt. Gox to buy, sell or otherwise trade bitcoins" and all those who had bitcoins or currently stored with Mt. Gox on February 7. The filing alleges that a lengthy security breach at Mt. Gox resulted in "the pilfering of millions of dollars' worth of its' users' bitcoins." On February 25 the website was shut down and users who had currency, including bitcoins, in Mt. Gox accounts could no longer access those funds. Approximately 750,000 of users' bitcoins were lost, the lawsuit states. Mizuho Bank is named in the lawsuit because "all non-bitcoin currency received by the Mt. Gox Defendants from its users was held in an account or accounts" at the Japanese lending institution, the lawsuit said. The case is David Joyce, et al and MtGox Inc, et al, Ontario Superior Court of Justice, CV-15-500253-00CP. (Additional reporting by Tom Hals in Wilmington, Delaware; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Stephen Brashear / Getty Despite all the poverty, famine, disease, terrorism, and war in the world today, things are actually really good and they're only getting better, according to Bill Gates. "We're on this rising tide that's not recognized. It’s overwhelming how prosperity is spread around the world," the ex-Microsoft CEO who is the world's richest man said in a conversation at the American Enterprise Institute. One reason that people don't appreciate global gains is our obsession with GDP, which doesn't account for many ways our lives are getting better in the modern era. Even when it comes to GDP per capita, however, Gates is optimistic. Here's more on his prediction that there will be almost no poor countries by 2035: [T]oday 45 countries that are still in that low-income category. And what I’m saying is that, by 2035, there should be less than 10, and they’ll mostly be either places like North Korea, where you have a political system that basically creates poverty, or land-locked African countries where the geography, the disease burden, the disparate ethnicities mean that they haven’t been able to bring together a government that in terms of education, infrastructure, health does even the most minimum things for them. And so we’re on this rising tide that’s not recognized. It’s overwhelming how prosperity is spread around the world, say from 1960, where there were very few rich countries and a gigantic number of poor countries. Now most countries are middle-income countries, and poor countries are much smaller. Now, just saying that they’ll all move up past that threshold doesn’t mean they won’t have poor people within the countries; it doesn’t say their governments will be fantastic, but it will be a lot better on average than it is today. He says people tend to be irrationally pessimistic: I think that a deep problem in perception is that if you want something to improve, you have a tendency to be bothered by the status quo and to think that it’s much worse than it is. And that can be beneficial because you don’t like, say, the level of violence in the world, the level of poverty, the level of — number of kids dying. But if you divorce yourself from the true facts of improvement and look at the exemplars, look at what’s worked — if you get sort of a general despair about is the world improving, then you won’t latch on to those examples. The Steven Pinker example, one of my favorite books of all time, is that if you ask people, “Is this one of the most violent eras in history?” they will say yes. Overwhelmingly, Americans say yes. Well, it’s overwhelmingly the least violent era in history. And so what it means is your disgust with violence actually increases, and that’s partly why we take steps and why within our own society and the world at large it’s come down so dramatically. And here's more on the world getting better in ways not captured by economic data: You know, I’m not a fan of the way time-series adjustment for comparing GDP between various points in time is done. I think it meaningfully understates the rate of progress. If you take, say, how you get news, your ability to get news, as far as the GDP is concerned, the news business is down. It’s employing less people. It’s gathering less money. And are you impoverished in terms of your ability to search and read articles today versus, say, 30 years ago? Probably not. You know, buying encyclopedias, you know, I bought it — my parents bought a World Book. I read it. You know, I had to learn the world alphabetically. Very weird way to learn things. You know, now, every kid who has Internet access has Wikipedia. And so whether it’s in the area of technology or medicine or various things, you’re — there’s a lot of a qualitative nature that’s not captured in those things. So whether the gross number goes up or not, the rate of improvement in livelihood, you know, I think will be very rapid in the future. Now just because things are getting much better, doesn't mean all of the world's problems are going away. Gates says there will still be poor people and disease, and that problems like inequality and unemployment could keep getting worse. Speaking about the replacement of workers with software, he had a worrying prediction: "20 years from now, labor demand for lots of skill sets will be substantially lower. I don’t think people have that in their mental model." Indeed, the $76-billion-man says we have a lot to do when it comes to charity, education reform, and tax reform to keep society moving in the right direction. But he wants people to remember the big picture: The world has never been better. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim UrquhartThe recent bankruptcy of Mt. Gox curbed the staggering rally of bitcoin. This recent controversy raised the debate over the validity of bitcoin. Despite the securities issues related to this currency, the current price of bitcoin remains high, at more than $600. After all, the virtual currency offers some advantages over regular money, such as instant money transfers with few, if any, regulations. But considering bitcoin as an investment, is it the new gold -- a substitute investment against the potential devaluation of the U.S. dollar? I think there are three reasons bitcoin isn't the new gold. The chart below shows the sharp rise in the price of bitcoin in the past six months. At one point, bitcoin passed the $1,000 mark. Since then, however, its price came down to the $600-$900 range.  Source: Blockchain.   One of the reasons for the drop in its price is the security issues related to bitcoin.   1. Security issues Besides the latest Mt. Gox controversy, bitcoin has had its fair share of security issues, including heists. But even users of PayPal, a global online money transfer company, which is fully owned by eBay (NASDAQ: EBAY  ) , have faced scams. The main difference is that PayPal has ample funds to invest toward improving its security. Just in 2013, the company brought in $6.6 billion in revenue for parent company eBay. This provides cash for investing in security and keeping PayPal from facing security breaches. This kind of security risk is less common in gold, because it is mostly traded in the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, which isn't as heavily used as PayPal is. Moreover, gold trading is very limited to a few exchange markets and is heavily regulated  so that heisting gold derivatives is as likely as robbing Apple shares. The recent breach in Mt. Gox is still unclear but some analysts suspect the security breach was in  bitcoin's protocol: Hackers were able to deceive Mt. Gox's software into assuming transactions didn't go through. It's unknown how much Bitcoin inventors and exchange companies such as Bitstamp, the world's largest bitcoin exchange, invest in the currency's security. But the recent collapse of Mt. Gox suggests the virtual currency's level of security isn't enough. Furthermore, such publicity is likely to impede bitcoin's broader acceptance. Besides security issues, bitcoin remains a risky investment .   2. Riskier than U.S. dollars or goldThe risk of the potential devaluation of the U.S. dollar has increased in the past several years, mainly after the 2008 financial meltdown. These circumstances resulted in a shift toward safe-haven investments such as gold. The shift in market sentiment toward risk aversion was also accompanied by the Federal Reserve's decisions to purchase long-term securities, which resulted in an increase in the U.S. monetary base. These factors enabled the price of gold to reach $1,900 back in 2011. Gold enthusiasts tend to use SPDR Gold(NYSEMKT: GLD  ) to invest in gold. And up until the middle of 2012, the price of gold and SPDR Gold rallied. Since then, however, gold and SPDR Gold haven't performed well as the market sentiment has slowly shifted back toward taking more risk. But the Fed's ongoing policy to purchase long-term securities left fear of a potential rise in inflation. The inflation never materialized, but these circumstances raised the demand for alternative currencies such as bitcoin. But this currency remains very risky, which puts into question its value. For example, in the past year, the standard deviation of the daily percent changes of bitcoin's price was 7.6%. In comparison, during that time frame, the standard deviation of the euro/USD was 0.4% and USD/Yen was 0.4%. The standard deviation of the price of gold was 1.4%. This means bitcoin is much more volatile than leading currencies or gold, and even though bitcoin might be considered an alternative to the U.S. dollar, it's still much riskier. The last issue to consider is this currency's underlying value. 3. No underlying valueThis is one of the main issues bitcoin investors face: Gold and the U.S. dollar have their underlying value: Gold can be used to make jewelry, and the U.S. dollar is backed by the Federal Reserve. Does bitcoin have a base value? What if tomorrow, no one believes in bitcoin anymore?  The takeawayFor now, bitcoin is still alive and kicking, even after the recent fall of Mt. Gox, which put a spotlight on one of bitcoin's main problems: security. This isn't the only problem bitcoin enthusiasts face, though. The currency's high volatility and lack of base value will keep haunting bitcoin investors. The key to big returnsLet's face it, every investor wants to get in on revolutionary ideas before they hit it big. Like buying PC-maker Dell in the late 1980s, before the consumer computing boom. Or purchasing stock in e-commerce pioneer Amazon.com in the late 1990s, when it was nothing more than an upstart online bookstore. The problem is, most investors don't understand the key to investing in hyper-growth markets. The real trick is to find a small-cap "pure-play" and then watch as it grows in EXPLOSIVE lockstep with its industry. Our expert team of equity analysts has identified one stock that's poised to produce rocket-ship returns with the next $14.4 TRILLION industry. Click here to get the full story in this eye-opening report. Lior Cohen has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends eBay. The Motley Fool owns shares of eBay. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) In the week through Wednesday, March 12, the amount of U.S. Treasury securities held in custody for foreign official and international accounts (i.e., central banks) at the Federal Reserve dropped by a staggering $104.5 billion, marking what was far and away the biggest weekly drop on record. These custody holdings have fallen almost every week since mid-December, as weakness in emerging-market (EM) currencies has caused EM central banks to raise dollars by liquidating their U.S. Treasury holdings, and then turn around and sell those dollars on the open market in order to prop up their own currencies. This has prompted some speculation that central banks selling Treasuries were behind the record drop in Fed custody holdings. However, such activity doesn't come close to explaining what happened in the last week. For example, the Central Bank of Russia — which has been in the spotlight due to escalating military tensions in Ukraine and has thus seriously underperformed against other EMs as of late — only bought 154.97 billion rubles in the week ended March 12. At an average exchange rate of 36.35 rubles to the dollar over that time period, the CBR's intervention amounted to about $4.3 billion — leaving more than $100 billion of the drop in Fed custody holdings unaccounted for. The second-largest weekly drop in Fed custody holdings of U.S. Treasuries for foreign official accounts on record took place in the week ended June 26, 2013. Recall that June 2013 was a period of significant, widespread stress in emerging markets on the back of assertions by then-Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke that the U.S. central bank would likely begin winding down its quantitative easing program later in the year. During that week in June, JPMorgan's Emerging Markets Currency Index fell as much as 2.5%. Over the week ended March 12, 2014, on the other hand, the index fell only 0.6%. Moreover, traders on U.S. Treasury desks were unaware of any unusual central bank flows this week — meaning "fire sales" of U.S. Treasuries by EM central banks appears to be an insufficient explanation for the large drop in holdings.  The most likely explanation for the drop in custody holdings is that Russia moved its U.S. Treasuries outside of the U.S., so that if and when the West levies financial sanctions against it as a result of escalating military tension in Ukraine, Russia will still be able to access its money. BofA Merrill Lynch interest rate strategists Shyam Rajan and Priya Misra make two points to that effect in a note to clients (emphasis added): 1) Although large shifts out of the New York Fed custody are rare, we have seen custodian shifts elsewhere, recently. For example, the December 2013 TIC data showed a massive increase in Belgium's Treasury holdings (higher by $57 billion), matched by a drop in China’s holdings (-$48 billion). Given that Belgium’s reserves total less than $20 billion, the spike higher was likely a shift in custodians by a major reserve manager. The recent shift could be also be a similar large reallocation to a different custodian. 2) The upcoming referendum in Crimea this weekend and the multiple threats of sanctions could have triggered a significant reallocation of Treasuries to a non-U.S. custodian. Note that custodian banks are not allowed to transact with entities listed in the OFAC list, once sanctions are imposed. What impact does all of this have on the market? "A mere shift in custodians should not have any impact on yields in the Treasury market," say the BofAML strategists. "A consistent move out of the New York Fed merely diminishes the reliability of this indicator as a high frequency source for foreign official demand." FREE AppDownload
Employment prospects for young people have gotten much worse since 2000, but those prospects vary from place to place. The Brookings Institution just released a comprehensive report on the state of youth employment and unemployment, and things are grim. They found that employment among teenagers and young adults has plummeted over the last decade. However, in some places, teenagers are more likely to be working than others. The map below, based on data from the report, shows the ten cities with the highest rates of youth employment in 2011 in green, and the ten cities with the lowest rates in red: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Brookings Institution Here are the teen employment rates for these cities: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Brookings Institution Even in the cities with the highest teen employment, fewer than fifty percent for 16-19 year olds are working. The Brookings Institution found a number of factors that are associated with different levels of teen employment in different cities: "Larger shares of college students, high school dropouts, and teens from low-income families among the teen population were significantly associated with reduced employment rates." That is, it appears that lower teen employment levels could depend both on more teenagers going to college, which is likely a good thing in the long run, but also on negative factors like drop out rates and poverty. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersDriver Hinchcliffe of Canada races during the practice session at the Honda Indy in Toronto(Reuters) - Web hosting company The GoDaddy Group Inc is preparing for a second run at an initial public offering, according to two people familiar with the matter, as the 2014 tech IPO pipeline continues to grow. GoDaddy, the Internet domain registrar and web host known for its racy ads, would join a number of high-profile technames expected to go public this year in the wake of Twitter Inc's successful debut. They include "Candy Crush" developer King Digital and cloud services providers Box and Dropbox. The company is in the process of selecting underwriters for its IPO, one of the two sources said on condition of anonymity. GoDaddy was not immediately available for comment. GoDaddy had filed to go public in 2006 but was told at the time that it would be required to take a 50 percent haircut -- a percentage that is subtracted from the par value of assets that are being used as collateral -- on its initial public offering. The company instead decided to pull its filing, citing unfavorable market conditions. The company, founded in 1997, was eventually acquired by a private equity consortium led by KKR &amp; Co and Silver Lake in 2011 for $2.25 billion. Silver Lake declined to comment while KKR did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Other private equity buyers included Technology Crossover Ventures. GoDaddy, which provides website domain names, is famous for airing bawdy commercials with scantily clad women for the past decade during the Super Bowl. The Wall Street Journal first reported on the plans. (Reporting By Nicola Leske; Editing by Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
Banalities / FlickrThe United States has a complex network of "massage parlors" that are fronts for prostitution and truck women across the country to have sex for money, according to a new report on America's sex economy. The Urban Institute's new report examines how these massage parlors operate in eight different cities, noting they often operate in a "circuit" of cities. Dallas, Texas, for example, is networked with parlors in Queens, N.Y., Seattle, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, and Atlanta. The purpose of shipping prostitutes from massage parlor to massage parlor is "to keep clients interested," the report found. Here's how it works in Washington, D.C., according to the report, which said there are nearly 5,000 erotic massage parlors across the U.S.: [Massage parlors] are commonly run out of business locations and found scattered throughout downtown DC. Prices charged at massage parlors—operating as fronts for prostitution and sex trafficking—include a $60 to $80 set "house fee." This is a set price for walking in the door and, depending on the sex act the buyer wants, additional fees are added. For a "full service," the fee is (on average) an additional minimum of $120 which includes a table shower, massage, and sexual intercourse. One law enforcement official described how women are able to keep some of their money—unlike in street pimp cases where the women and minors typically hand all of their money over—but often pay additional fees to the brothel owner. Massage parlors often recruit women from Thailand and the Philippines, offering them jobs that don't involve prostitution, according to the report. Once these indebted women arrive in the U.S., the parlors coerce them into doing sex work. It's hard to prosecute the sex workers because the women often refuse to give up information about the people who are connected to the operation. And once the women are accustomed to the lifestyle — including gym memberships and expensive clothes — they might be reluctant to get out of the business, according to the Urban Institute. Police sometimes try a different tactic: going after the landlords. Few landlords might be willing to allow these massage parlors to operate inside their buildings in the first place. But once police go after these landlords, they're even less likely to let the operation to continue. The massage parlors are highly organized and typically run by business-savvy people from China or Korea, according to the report. They invest money in locally owned community banks, real estate, and other legitimate businesses. Massage parlor owners have also reportedly gotten good at hiding their assets and changing tactics once law enforcement caught on to what they were doing. FREE AppDownload
This is getting ridiculous. After surging as much as 17% yesterday, fuel cell machine distributor Plug Power shares closed down 16% to $6.71. The catalyst appears to have been two downgrades, one from Cowen, which recently executed a registered offering for the firm; and one from Roth. Plug Power $PLUG receives double downgrade this morning $PLUG Downgraded - Market Perform - Cowen $PLUG Downgraded - Neutral - Roth Capital Cowen also notes fuel cell and hydrogen-related companies (BLDP, FCEL, HYGS, and PLUG) are trading in a range of 2.9-8.2x EV (earnings value)/2015 estimated sales. "PLUG is at the high end, consistent with 2015E sales growth of 100% (vs. 19-39% for peers)," analyst Rob Stone writes. Ballard, which supplies the cells for Plug's machines, was down as much as 8%, while fellow fuel cell traveler FuelCell Energy was off as much as 11%. Here's the (totally wacky) chart for the week. According to Bloomberg, 20% of Plug's float is short interest. Yahoo FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovWorld heavyweight champion Vladimir Klitschko (L) of Ukraine and challenger Alexander Povetkin of Russia exchange punches during their heavyweight title fight in Moscow October 6, 2013. Klitschko retained his heavyweight world titles with a points victory over Povetkin in Moscow's Olimpiyskiy stadium on Saturday. Stocks started in the red, went green, then tumbled late this morning, then surged back into the green at noon, and then spent the afternoon sliding back into the red. It seemed like a nervous trade, whatever that means. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Craig Lassig/APImagesFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. 'In Or Out' Isn't An Investment Strategy Its Gambling With Time (Charles Schwab)  After the amazing year the S&amp;P 500 had last year, many investors worried that they had missed out one of the best bull runs. But after the recent volatility many are wondering if they should get out. "Popping in and out of markets trying to catch the wave at just the right moment rarely works for the vast majority of investors," writes Charles Schwab. "Neither 'get in' nor 'get out' are investment strategies; they’re gambling on a moment in time." "Millions of Americans pulled their money out of the stock market during the painful crash in September and October of 2008; and more followed them in early 2009 and the outflows even continued well into 2012, with their assets flowing into cash and bonds.  In fact, the five years from 2008 through 2012 was record-breaking in terms of equity fund outflows; with nearly four of those years experiencing a strong bull market.   "The pervasiveness of pessimism and/or skepticism is understandable; but it’s been to the great disadvantage of investors’ portfolio returns. Simply keeping steady was a better strategy..." Advisors Targeting Wealthy Business Owners Have To Be Patient (Investment News) A report from CEG Worldwide and Wealth Engine has found that a third of America's wealthy investors are business owners. 74% of the super-affluent, those with $5 - $20 million in investible assets are business owners, and 89% of those with $25 million or more in investible assets are business owners. But advisors targeting these wealthy business owners have to be patient writes Liz Skinner at Investment News. "Many business owners’ wealth initially is tied up in those companies, so there may not be many assets for an adviser to manage at the onset of a relationship. The payoff typically comes when the owner sells or takes the business public." The Top 5 Reasons Advisors Jump Ship (WealthManagement.com) WealthManagement.com has drawn on REP.’s 2014 Independent Broker/Dealer Report Card to point out why advisors jump ship. We highlighted the top five.  1. Service - "Advisors unanimously pointed to poor service as the most important factor influencing their decision to leave," especially when it impacted how the client views them. 2. Technology - This was the second most important factor for those moving. Advisors gave their independent broker dealers (IBDs) a score of 5.7 out of 10. 3. Payout - Compensation and other special perks are another key reason advisors jump. 4. Business support - "Defecting advisors also gave their current IBDs a failing grade for practice support and professional development (5.7 out of 10)." 5. Product selection - While advisors didn't feel the pressure to sell proprietary products, they did think their firms "could do a better job on the quality of the investment research, giving firms an average 8.5 rating (out of 10) here." Advisors Need To 'Beware Of The Overlap Trap' (Vanguard) Advisors need to beware of the 'overlap trap,' according to Rodney Comegys, a principal at Vanguard. While some might think that picking a large cap, mid-cap and small cap ETF will make their portfolio market-proportional this isn't the case. Stocks like Chipotle appear in different indexes. "Take the S&amp;P 500 Index and the CRSP US Mid Cap Index: Fully two-thirds of the companies classified as mid-cap by CRSP are also in the large-cap S&amp;P 500 Index (where they represent a much smaller share of the index of corporate giants)," writes Comegys. A Global Investment Portfolio Shouldn't Ignore Europe (The AllianceBernstein Blog)  Non-US regional equity fund flows into Europe jumped to  €37 billion, turning positive for the first time since 2009, writes Mark Phelps at The Alliance Bernstein Blog. That being said the earnings we're seeing out of European companies don't support the investor optimism. Phelps writes  that investor optimism could be explained by two things. 1. The economic recovery. 2. The hope that the European Central Bank will "ultimately follow the examples of the US and Japan, where extraordinary monetary policies have helped kick-start the private sector." Meanwhile, he thinks "the current environment creates an excellent backdrop for discerning, stock-picking approaches." FREE AppDownload
The art market is blazingly hot right now — Christie's 2014 inaugural auction saw 35 works sold for over 1 million British pounds, with four artists setting records for their work. But how do you know whom you should be buying? The gallerist, quant trader and data scientist behind ArtRank.com can tell you.  Using a proprietary algorithm, the art fund the trio operated for 16 months through the spring of 2013 helped net them a 4,200% return, according to Carlos Rivera, the gallerist, venture capitalist, and only member of the group authorized to speak on the record about the project. The formula has four main components: Here's the current ranking:  ArtRank Zak Prekop, the 35-year-old Brooklyn-based painter (and brother of legendary underground Chicago rocker Sam Prekop) takes pole position. Rivera explained that Prekop has a large following on social media and hasn't yet produced many works, but the ones he has created continue to sell well. Zak Prekop at Thomas Duncan #NADA #ABMB pic.twitter.com/M2Q35PHnT3 "We track points of inflection," Rivera said. "Once something sells for x-amount, people start to come out of the woodwork."  But growth in the market for Jacob Kassay, 30, who is No. 4 on the liquidate list, has stalled. One of his works recently sold for just $50,000, after a comfortable period in the six-figure range. If ArtRank is correct, it's a sign of just how short the prime period for an emerging artist can be — just four years ago, BlouinArtInfo ran a piece called, "Through the Looking Glass: Behind Jacob Kassay's Meteoric Auction Rise." Ad Reinhardt-inspires canvases of Jacob Kassay at 303 Gallery booth #adaa #artmarket pic.twitter.com/QRDz99zlkW Rivera explained the algorithm ultimately tracks the shape growth potential. "If you buy a Jacob Kassay at $100,000 now, there's a chance it could sell for $120,000 six months from now maybe. That's quite optimistic. Whereas if you buy works from the under $10,000 category, there's a large potential for exponential returns." Kassay's career may not be finished — it just means the growth market for his work is now likely to simply be linear instead of exponential. The same is true for Banksy, Rivera says. By now you've probably realized that such an algorithm can be used in other ways. As a venture capitalist, Rivera is keenly aware of this too, and he says the trio are actively exploring expanding their offerings to more mainstream consumer products. For now, their main source of profit is selling early access to updated tables. "We're looking at how a corporation that isn't necessarily as large as Nike, but wants to know whether green or red shoes will be more popular, what can be created in service of that." The website is highly polarizing: One gallerist we spoke with currently representing a top-ranked artist in ArtRank's "buy now" category would not let us run an image of the artist's work for this post, saying he didn't wish to be associated with it in any way. Rivera acknowledges that gallerists have proved hostile, and that they changed the site's original name, "Sell You Later, to ArtRank to avoid further inflaming parts of the art crowd. "There was a collector who said we should be put in front of a firing squad," Rivera said. But he explained that the artists themselves — at least the ones in the "buy now" category — have mostly given the site the okay, since it gets them exposure. And wealthy collectors dig it too. "What we've seen is popularity among a large portion of those doing early access, whose sport is finding an artist before he sells for a million dollars."  For now, the site also only tracks living, emerging artists, to take advantage of the prevailing phenomenon of virality. But that's likely to change, Rivera says, given the larger data set for deceased artists and masters.   Rivera also cautions that the site should not be the sole premise on which to make a transaction. "You should use this and use your own taste —it should only be used as a guide, to check out an artist's trajectory." FREE AppDownload
1) The Delusions Of Real Returns by Brett Arends, WSJ This is a topic that I discuss very often with clients.  Past performance is no guarantee of future results, and making investment decisions based on such is likely going to leave you very disappointed.  Extrapolating 110 year historical average returns going forward is extremely dangerous.  First, you won't live 110 years from the time you start saving to achieve those results, and starting valuation levels are critical to your expected returns.  Brett does an excellent job discussing this issue. "Money managers point to historical data going back to the 1920s to show that in the past stocks have produced total returns of about 10% a year over the long term and bonds, about 5%—meaning a standard "balanced" portfolio of 60% stocks and 40% bonds would earn just over 8% a year. (Naturally, their legal departments quickly add that the past is no guide to the future.) Are these forecasts realistic? Are they sensible? Are they even based on actual logic or a correct reading of the past data? A close look at the data reveals a number of disturbing errors and logical flaws. There is a serious danger that investors are deluding themselves and that returns from here on may prove far more disappointing than many hope or believe. This has happened before. Money invested in a balanced fund of stocks and bonds at certain points in the past—such as in the late 1930s, or during the 1960s and 1970s—ended up losing money for many years, after accounting for inflation. Far from making an annual profit, investors went backward in real, purchasing-power terms. And those losses were even before deducting costs or taxes." 2) Lessons From The Bull Market by Jason Zweig, Joe Light and Liam Pleven If you do nothing else this weekend - read this article.  There are simply too many nuggets of wisdom for me to summarize, but here are a couple of my favorite points. "Every day, in the newspapers, on financial-news shows and online, dozens of market strategists make bold predictions about the direction stocks are heading.  Take their forecasts with a mound of salt. After all, current prices already reflect the sum of stock-market buyers' and sellers' opinions. If one investor is bullish, there must be another investor on the other side at the current price." "In a speech about intellectual honesty 40 years ago, Nobel Prize-winning physicist Richard Feynman said, 'The first principle is that you must not fool yourself—and you are the easiest person to fool.' What they should be asking is this: Am I fooling myself into remembering my losses as less painful than they were? Am I itching to take risks that my own history should warn me I will end up regretting? Am I counting on willpower alone to enable me to stay invested and to rebalance through another crash?" "Investors who hear the phrase 'bull market' might decide it is time to get in on the rally. On the other hand, investors who hear the current bull market in stocks has been running for five years might worry it will soon end. In either case, investors would do better to tune out the chatter. The definition of a bull market is arbitrary, and the term tells investors little about what will happen next." 3) How Market Tops Are Made by Barry Ritholtz via Bloomberg This is a great follow up to my articles this past week on "10 Signs Of Exuberance" and "Market Internals."  Barry interviews Paul Desmond, the Chief Strategist and President of Lowry's Research, who has spent the past five decades analyzing markets.  From Barry: "I spoke with him [Paul Desmond] recently, chatting about his work in identifying market tops. Rather than focus on the usual noise, Desmond suggests anyone concerned about a top should be watching for very specific warning signs. He notes the health of a bull market can be observed by watching internal indicators that provide insight into the overall appetite for equity accumulation. These four include: 1. New 52-Week Highs 2. Market Breadth (Advanced/Decline Line) 3. Capitalization: Small Cap, Mid Cap, Large Cap 4. Percentage of Stocks at 20 percent or greater from their recent highs" 4) New All Time Highs = Secular Bull Market? by Cam Hui via Humble Student Of The Markets Blog I wrote an article recently entitled "Correcting Some Misconceptions About A New Secular Bull Market" as the markets pushed toward new highs at the end of 2013.  At that time, there was a flurry of articles suggesting that the markets had entered into a new secular bull market.  However, my argument against this thesis revolved around the fact the no secular bull market in the history of the known universe has ever started from peak market valuations.  Cam Hui brings forward an excellent point: "Here is a difficult question for those in the secular bull camp. What's the upside from here? Ramsey of Leuthold Weeden Capital Management projects limited upside under a secular bull scenario, even assuming that everything goes right: If the current cyclical bull unfolds into a secular one that is perfectly average in duration and magnitude (a very tall achievement, in our book), the annualized total return over the next ten years will still be a bit below the long-term average return of 10%. Frankly, we don't find this all that compelling, considering all that must go according to plan for the market to achieve it (i.e. sustained EPS growth at a healthy 6% and an inflated terminal P/E multiple). He added some of these gains depends on assuming the resumption of a stock market bubble: Based on the relative positions of these time-tested measures, secular bulls seem to be implicitly betting on the reflation of a multi-generational stock bubble less than 15 years after it popped. The pathology of 'busted bubbles'—which we've detailed at length in the past—doesn't support that bet. When he puts it all together, my inner investor thinks that, if we are indeed seeing a new secular bull market, the extraordinary measures undertaken by global central banks in the wake of the Lehman Crisis has front-end loaded many of the gains to be realized in this bull." 5) Does Shiller's CAPE Still Work? by Bill Hester, Hussman Funds It is becoming more difficult for more mainstream commentators, analysts and managers to justify their arguments for a continued bull market when having to contend with rising valuation levels.  However, as would be expected, at the peak of every major bull market in history there have always been those that have suggested "this time is different."  In 1929, stocks had reached a new permanent plateau.  In 1999, old valuation measures didn't matter as it was about "clicks per page."   In 2007, subprime credit was "contained" and it was a "goldilocks economy."  In 2014, old valuation metrics simply don't account for the new economy.  We have always heard the same "sirens song" during every major bull market cycle and, as the sailors of the past, we are ultimately lured toward our demise.  Bill Hester does an excellent job breaking down the arguments against Shiller's CAPE valuation metrics. "More recently the ratio has undergone an attack from some widely-followed analysts, questioning its validity and offering up attempts to adjust the ratio. This may be a reaction to its new-found notoriety, but more likely it's because the CAPE is suggesting that US stocks are significantly overvalued. All of the adjustments analysts have made so far imply that stocks are less overvalued than the traditional CAPE would suggest. We feel no particular obligation defend the CAPE ratio. It has a strong long-term relationship to subsequent 10-year market returns. And it's only one of numerous valuation indicators that we use in our work – many which are considerably more reliable. All of these valuation indicators – particularly when record-high profit margins are accounted for – are sending the same message: The market is steeply overvalued, leaving investors with the prospect of low, single-digit long-term expected returns. But we decided to come to the aid of the CAPE ratio in this case because a few errors have slipped into the debate, and it's important for investors who have previously relied on this ratio to understand these errors so they can judge the valuation metric fairly. STA Wealth Management Importantly, the primary error that is being made is not even the fault of those making the arguments against the CAPE ratio. The fault lies at the feet of a misleading data series." EXTRA:  Just Good Stuff To Know I use Google for just about everything.  Email, picture uploads, all of my spreadsheets that I use for blogging, analysis, newsletters, etc.  From my phone to my computer, Google has just about all of my data.  That makes me a little more than uncomfortable. If you are like me, then you will find the following links very useful in adjusting things from what Google knows about you to archiving the stuff you put on the site. Here are 10 important links that every Google user should know. This article originally appeared at STA Wealth Management.  Copyright 2014. Follow STA Wealth Management on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
This week, Herbalife confirmed that they're being investigated by the Federal Trade Commission. Herbalife said that they welcomed the investigation and that they're confident they operate in compliance with all laws and regulations.  The multi-level marketing company has received a lot of attention lately.  Herbalife, which sells weight loss shakes and nutritional supplements, has been caught in the crosshairs of an epic hedge fund war. Activist investor Bill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square, is betting on the company's demise. It's his contention that Herbalife operates as a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower income individuals and that regulators will be persuaded to investigate it and shut it down. Not everyone has agreed with Ackman. A number of hedge fund managers, including Ackman's arch-nemesis Carl Icahn, are betting on the stock's rise. We've been exposed to Herbalife via this nasty hedge fund battle, but haven't really been able to look at the people who make a living selling this product.  If you look on Instagram, there's more than 1.5 million photos that are hashtagged #Herbalife. There are also many so-called "Independent Distributors" marketing Herbalife products on the social media app.  We've posted images from 19 different independent distributors below. One thing we noticed is that a bunch of them refer to themselves as "wellness", "health" or  "nutrition" coaches instead of "distributors."  Apparently, it's pretty popular to take selfies enjoying Herbalife. Check it out:                         We're not sure if that's a real tattoo...   FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA dealer trades at Moscow International Currency Exchange (MICEX) July 3, 1998.U.S. stocks are in the green today following the latest headlines out of Russia, capping a week in which the S&amp;P 500 index has given up 1.5% on widespread risk aversion largely related to geopolitical concerns. The S&amp;P 500 is currently trading at 1850, 0.2% above Thursday's closing levels. Treasuries are trading slightly lower, with the yield on the 10-year note one basis point higher at 2.65%, and the 5-year/30-year curve is flattening. The U.S. dollar is down 0.3% against the euro and the Japanese yen. The Russia-Ukraine conflict continues to dominate the headlines. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov just told reporters in London that Russia has no plants to intervene in eastern Ukraine, and that Russia will respect the choice Crimea makes in an independence referendum to be conducted this weekend. Ukraine's Crimea region, an area home to many ethnic Russians, is expected to vote to declare independence from Ukraine. The market angst over the recent conflict between Russia and Ukraine in recent days has stemmed largely from military developments in Crimea. "Yesterday’s Ukraine threat roller-coaster may not reverse today ahead of the Crimean election over the weekend," says David Keeble, head of fixed income strategy at Crédit Agricole. "Clearly, the West is upping the rhetoric and Russia is not backing down. This makes the weekend vote rather a center point for the fear trade. The main unknowns are not the referendum result or that sanction threats will be displayed, but rather if violence erupts in Crimea, and whether the Russians instantly annex Crimea or play out a waiting game to achieve the same result in the future along with some legal niceties. It all suggests playing it cautious, which is what some clients were doing on Thursday – buying back their shorts [in the Treasury market]." European indices have been in the red all morning, but have rallied somewhat from the lows, and the German DAX — one of the worst performers in recent sessions — is eking out gains. Euro zone government debt is catching a bid as well, sending yields lower. Russia's MICEX equity index closed down 0.9% Friday, and yields on 10-year Russian government bonds denominated in the local currency soared 28 basis points to 9.59%. The Russian ruble is down about 0.3% against the U.S. dollar, while the Ukrainian hryvnia is 1.8% lower. Data released on Thursday afternoon by the Federal Reserve revealed that foreign holdings of U.S. Treasuries in custody accounts at the Fed by foreign central banks fell by $104 billion in the week ended Wednesday, March 12, marking what was by far the largest weekly drop on record. Because Treasuries traded higher throughout the week, however — and there was little chatter about central bank selling among traders — the most likely scenario is that Russia moved a large portion of its Treasury holdings to accounts outside of U.S. jurisdiction in order to get ahead of any possible financial sanctions that may be levied against it by the West as the conflict in Ukraine unfolds, as opposed to foreign central banks actually selling holdings of U.S. government debt. This morning saw two notable economic data releases in the United States — February producer prices data and preliminary March consumer confidence data. Both missed consensus estimates, but markets were unfazed. FREE AppDownload
The rule of law has long been a stranger to the sweltering lowlands known as the Tierra Caliente in the Mexican state of Michoacán. The site of battles over land in the 1940s and 1950s, the area suffered an exodus of migrant workers to California. In the 1970s the drug trade took root there, attracted by the proximity of the port of Lázaro Cárdenas and the remoteness of the federal government in Mexico City. Not content with trafficking methamphetamines, the latest mafia to lord it over the Tierra Caliente, the whimsically named "Knights Templar", established a tight grip over its invertebrate society, co-opting local authorities, extorting protection money and raping women. That proved too much for the Tierra Caliente's ranchers and lime-growers. A year ago they rebelled, forming "self-defence groups". These vigilantes now control 26 of Michoacán's 113 municipal districts. When earlier this year they threatened to storm Apatzingán, a town of 99,000, President Enrique Peña Nieto dispatched a federal official, Alfredo Castillo, and a squad of federal policemen. Mr Castillo struck agreements with the vigilantes: they will be vetted, in theory at least, and then join an ill-defined "rural defence corps" under the army's aegis. The vigilantes have attracted sympathy from right and left in Mexico, which see them as legitimate expressions of popular desperation in the face of mafia violence and official neglect. The government seems perplexed. Mr Castillo said he would restore order "in 15 days", but there is no sign that he has a thought-out strategy to deal either with the vigilantes or the lawlessness that spawned them. That is alarming, especially since the germ of vigilantism has appeared elsewhere in Mexico. Experience in other Latin American countries suggests that Mr Peña's people risk dallying with a monster. Colombia is the most notorious case. In the 1980s landowners and ranchers, faced with attacks by left-wing guerrillas, organised vigilante groups. These quickly mushroomed into the United Self-Defence Forces of Colombia, a national organisation of over 20,000 paramilitaries who slaughtered tens of thousands of civilians and stole their land while morphing into drug-trafficking outfits. Although most disbanded after a government security build-up, remnants have murdered more than 60 farmers to thwart efforts to restore stolen land to its rightful owners. On the face of things, Peru's experience of vigilantism was more successful. Villagers in Cajamarca, in the country's northern Andes, formed rondas campesinas (a sort of neighbourhood watch) in the 1970s, to tackle cattle-rustling and rural crime. Further south, around Ayacucho and the Apurimac valley, in the 1980s and 1990s the army fostered lightly armed peasant self-defence committees. These helped defeat the Shining Path, a Maoist guerrilla group. Although the Shining Path has long since faded, the vigilantes are stronger than ever. In the Apurimac valley, they have turned into well-armed militias of coca growers. In Cajamarca the rondas are now led by rural schoolteachers from a far-left party; they battle mining companies and are the real power in the land, says Rubén Vargas, a security consultant. The common element in all three countries is the weakness of law enforcement in rural areas. That is what tempts governments and security forces to ally themselves with vigilantes. This can bring short-term results against guerrillas or drug-traffickers, but in the long run it makes things worse. As Mauricio Romero, a political scientist at Javeriana University in Bogotá, points out, once vigilantes acquire coercive power, the temptation to use this for private ends--revenge attacks, drug-trafficking or other criminal activities--is simply too great. The embryo of the monster is already implanted in the Tierra Caliente. The self-defence forces turn out to have members with dubious pasts and the kind of weaponry--assault rifles and improvised armoured cars--that is the trademark of narcos. They have split into warring factions, and are imposing and ejecting mayors. Mr Peña entered office with one big new idea on security: speedily to set up a rural gendarmerie of at least 40,000 troops, retrained as policemen, from Mexico's unnecessarily large army. By putting bodies on the ground and protecting the politicians and judges, this force would have been tailor-made for Tierra Caliente. But the army and state governors killed the plan. Instead, a much smaller gendarmerie of 5,000 civilian recruits will launch later this year. That seems too little, too late. For all its recent successes against drug kingpins, the political defeat over the gendarmerie may come to haunt Mr Peña and his administration. Click here to subscribe to The Economist.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Global markets are still jumpy about the situation between Russia and Ukraine. But as one market analyst notes, there's a reason Europe has more to fear than the U.S. Wells Fargo's Jay Bryson writes that while American trade ties with Russia are more extensive than with the Ukraine, the "overall numbers are still rather small when viewed in the context the overall U.S. economy." "American exports to Russia total about $11 billion, which is less than 1 percent of overall American exports of goods," he noted. "A bit more than 1 percent of total U.S. imports come from Russia (about $30 billion)." But in Europe, the trade exposure is much more extensive, Bryson writes. From the note: EU exports to Russia total about $150 billion, which accounts for more than 7 percent of the total exports that the European Union sends outside of its borders. Conversely, the European Union receives nearly 12 percent (about $250 billion) of its imports from Russia. Notably, these imports are concentrated in energy products. OECD Europe imports about 10 million barrels per day (mbd) of crude oil to satisfy its oil consumption that totals 13 mbd. Although OECD Europe imports oil from many different countries, Russia is the single most important source of petroleum products for Europe. Moreover, Russia produces about 11 mbd, which represent about one-eighth of total global production of crude oil. Thus, Russia can have potentially marked effects on global oil prices. Check out the chart. Wells Fargo FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jacky NaegelenEquity investors are struggling to figure out how to approach the European enigma. It’s clear that a recovery is brewing, but there’s still too much uncertainty for comfort. In our view, distinguishing the European context from that of the US or Japan can help point the way toward unravelling the puzzle. Investors have been rediscovering Europe. During 2013, flows to non-US regional equity funds investing in Europe turned positive for the first time since 2009, jumping to €37 billion (Display). It’s been a long time since we’ve seen such a clear preference for European equities over other regions. The AllianceBernstein Blog But earnings don’t seem yet to support the renewed optimism. Profit margins of European companies are still compressed. Earnings growth remains sluggish across the continent. And earnings revisions for European companies have been below those elsewhere in the world so far this year. Is the Recovery Real? So why are investors upbeat? Signs of a nascent recovery of economic growth are clearly part of the story, as some of the hardest-hit countries in the periphery—including Spain, Portugal and Ireland—exited recession last year. Our economists forecast euro-area growth of 1.1% in 2014. It’s also possible that investors hope the European Central Bank (ECB) will ultimately follow the examples of the US and Japan, where extraordinary monetary policies have helped kick-start the private sector. In other words, perhaps the ECB will eventually be forced to resort to the same type of quantitative easing tactics that have fueled economic growth elsewhere in the largest developed economies. In fact, to date, the ECB has conspicuously avoided following the lead of the Fed and Bank of Japan in expanding the monetary base—despite ECB president Mario Draghi’s famous pledge to do “whatever it takes” to protect the euro (Display, left chart). As a result, inflation in the euro area has continued to decline, in contrast to Japan (Display, right chart), where the Abenomics plan has helped prompt a reversal of persistent deflation. And as long as fiscal austerity remains the norm and quantitative easing isn’t on the policy agenda, the threat of deflation will linger. None of this sounds very good for European stocks. The AllianceBernstein Blog Finding Winners in a Complex Landscape That view, however, depends on how you look at it. In fact, we think the current environment creates an excellent backdrop for discerning, stock-picking approaches. Relatively low levels of earnings and profit margins mean that there is ample room for European companies to improve profitability and deliver growth. But since regional conditions are so shaky, it’s vital to identify those companies with a strategic advantage, global revenue base and superior management that are capable of delivering results. This is not a case of all boats rising at the same time. Caution is warranted. At the stock level, many European companies are vulnerable and could underperform without a supportive monetary and fiscal environment. And at the portfolio level, passive, diversified approaches offer little protection from potential bouts of weakness. Investors in European index funds may find themselves saddled with exposure to many companies that are less capable of weathering volatility and more susceptible to a potential downturn of the market. We think global portfolios shouldn’t ignore Europe, where the recovery isn’t fully baked into stock prices, as in some other parts of the world. By using deep research to search across diverse sectors, stock pickers can find companies with better prospects for margin improvement that can do well in challenging conditions—and would be rewarded even more in a surprise acceleration of a European recovery. The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice or trade recommendations and do not necessarily represent the views of all AllianceBernstein portfolio-management teams. AllianceBernstein Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom. This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Sotheby's International RealtyFormer Citigroup chief executive Sandy Weill has listed his stunning Greenwich, Connecticut estate for $14 million, the Wall Street Journal reports. The 16,400-plus square-foot mansion sits on 6.3 acres on Round Hill Road.  Sotheby's International Realty has the listing. Weill and his wife Joan currently live mostly in Sonoma, Calif. They still own residences in New York City, the Adirondacks and the Bahamas, according to the WSJ.  Weill's Connecticut compound is definitely a dream home, and now we're going to take a tour.  FREE AppDownload
Brett Bolkowy via www.flickr.com creative commons It starts here: evictions of tenants in San Francisco during the 12 months through February 2014 rose to 1,977 – the highest since 2001-2002. At the time, the dotcom bubble was disintegrating unceremoniously. Everything these days gets benchmarked against the last bubbles: the dotcom bubble that blew up in 2000, and the housing bubble that blew up in 2007, and whether we are either almost there or long beyond it, and why there is never anything to worry about. Evictions can take place for a variety of reasons, but “Ellis Act” evictions, which occur when the owner of a rental property wants to get out of the landlord business, jumped to 216 during that period, up from 116 in the prior 12-month period, and up from 64 two years ago. According to the SF Examiner, “City officials and tenant advocates say most uses of the Ellis Act are by real estate speculators who have just purchased a rent-controlled building.” Board of Supervisors President David Chiu called it an “affordability crisis.” It’s the outgrowth of the new housing bubble in San Francisco – and in the Bay Area – where home prices have become gravity-defying phenomena. But something else is happening too: sales volumes are crashing. The industry can’t blame the weather. This rainy season, which started in the fall, has been warm and gorgeous. In the nine-county Bay Area, according to San Diego based DataQuick, February home sales volumes plunged to 4,963, the worst February since 2008 and the second worst February in the history of the data series going back to 1988. By comparison, the highest volume February occurred in 2002 with 8,901 sales. It’s not a fluke. January had been the worst January since 2008, December the worst December since 2007, just months after the prior Bay Area housing bubble peak which occurred in June and July 2007 (there’s that benchmark again). The simple fact is sales are drying up. But the median price soared 33.3% in February from a year ago to $525,000. It was the 23rd month in a row that the median price has risen year-over-year, and the 16th month that it has risen 20% or more. At this rate, it’ll hit the prior bubble peak of $665,000 in about 9 months. Adjustable-rate mortgages – the landmines that blew up during the collapse of the last housing bubble – made up 24.8% of all purchase mortgages in February, a notch down from 25.1% in January, but more than double the 11% last year, as homebuyers, not all of whom are sudden IPO millionaires, surprisingly, twist and stretch to finance the incredibly ballooning cost of their homes. Meanwhile, absentee buyers – “mostly investors,” DataQuick points out, including those Ellis Act speculators in San Francisco – bought 24.5% of all Bay Area homes, same as in January. While that sounds like a lot, it was way down from 32.3% a year ago. The collapse in investor interest is even more stunning in absolute numbers: they bought 2,118 homes in February last year versus 1,216 in February this year. That’s a 42.6% dive. While total sales dropped by 441 units, sales to investors plummeted by 902 units. The smart money is losing interest, given these prices – while the dumb money is still piling in. My beloved and crazy San Francisco has an uncanny knack for inflating bubbles further than other places and keeping them inflated longer, only to watch them end in tears all over again. The peak of the prior housing bubble in San Francisco occurred in November 2007, long after the hot air had started hissing out of bubbles in other cities. That month, the median home price hit an all-time phenomenal record of $814,750. The $1 million mark was on everyone’s mind. San Francisco would be immune to the collapse of the housing market that was playing out across the rest of the US. Everyone knew the reasons for this immunity. It all boiled down to the fact that San Francisco was different than any other place. And by February 2011, the median price had plummeted to $589,000, and sales were drying up. That was the bottom. But for the last two years, prices have been skyrocketing. In December, the median price hit $813,000, nudging up against the 2007 peak, continued to soar in January to an all-time high of $884,500, and then, in February to $945,000. Up 34.9% from a year ago. By other measures, including RealtyTrac’s, the median price in San Francisco already exceeds the one-million mark. Hard-to-get mortgages – try to get one for a median home costing $1 million on a median San Francisco household income of $74,000 per year! – and affordability “certainly play a role today,” said DataQuick president John Walsh. “It’s going to be fascinating to watch how things play out between now and June. At some point rising home prices will trigger a more significant increase in the number of homes on the market. It’s just a question of when.” That’s what they thought at the last bubble. And that’s exactly what happened. I remember walking down the streets, dodging two or three realtor signs on certain blocks. On weekends we went to open houses in our neighborhood just to see how other people lived. The only problem was: there weren’t enough buyers to mop up these homes. And prices began to dive. So who the heck is going to buy these super-pricey homes this time when, as Mr. Walsh speculated, they will finally show up on the market as current owners want to cash out? The bedraggled and strung-out denizens of the middle class? Forget them. They’ve long ago been priced out of the market. Teachers are a symbol of that middle class. In California, they earn on average $69,300 annually, fifth highest in the country. Not exactly a pittance. But it is a ludicrous pittance if they’re trying to buy a home. Read.... California Housing Bubble: Now Even Teachers Can No Longer Afford To Buy A Home FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim UrquhartBitcoins created by enthusiast Mike Caldwell are seen in a photo illustration at his office in Sandy, Utah, September 17, 2013. The last few weeks have been rough for top cryptocurrency Bitcoin. Immediately after Mt. Gox crumbled and lost 850,000 Bitcoins ($472 million when initially reported), malicious hackers robbed other exchanges such as Flexcoin and Poloniex. Meanwhile, other hackers unearthed transaction statements allegedly revealing Mt. Gox CEO Mark Karpeles' personal balance of 950,000 Bitcoins (approximately $600 million) despite the exchange's U.S. bankruptcy filing at the end of February. A court froze Karpeles' U.S. assets in response, allowing lawyers to subpoena Mt. Gox's documents. Warren Buffett then notably stated that Bitcoin was "not a currency" — a view echoed by Goldman Sachs (NYSE: GS  ) , which also eviscerated the idea of Bitcoin as a currency in a recent report. To top all that off, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) issued an investor alert titled "Bitcoin: More Than a Bit Risky," warning investors of massive price fluctuations and recent hacks. Yet despite all of these red flags, Bitcoin supporters are still enthusiastic about the future of the virtual currency. A new incubator in Silicon Valley, known as Boost VC, aims to accelerate the growth of the Bitcoin industry through payment processors, exchanges, mining companies, and retail businesses. Why accepting Bitcoin is just free publicity Bitcoin supporters are quick to mention that an increasing number of businesses — including Overstock.com (NASDAQ: OSTK  ) , Zynga (NASDAQ: ZNGA  ) , and Tesla (NASDAQ: TSLA  ) — are accepting Bitcoin. Overstock.com CEO Patrick Byrne claims that the e-commerce site has accepted over $1 million in Bitcoin payments, and is currently processing approximately $20,000 to $30,000 in Bitcoin payments daily. However, $1 million is really pocket change for a company that generated nearly $400 million in sales last quarter. What Bitcoin actually represents is not additional revenue, but free publicity. Not only has Overstock laid claim to being the "first online retailer to accept Bitcoin," it also gains plenty of free exposure across media outlets that report on trending stories about Bitcoin. It suddenly makes Overstock, which is frequently overshadowed by Amazon.com (NASDAQ: AMZN  ) and eBay (NASDAQ: EBAY  ) , look like a hip, tech-savvy underdog. Zdnet.com via The Motley Fool However, eBay's PayPal president David Marcus clearly stated last December that Bitcoin should not be considered a currency due to volatility and regulatory issues. eBay has also had major security issues regarding Bitcoin in the past.Over the past year, eBay and PayPal were hit by numerous hackers, who stole legitimate PayPal accounts to buy Bitcoins on eBay and transfer them into their own digital wallets. In response, eBay started cracking down on virtual Bitcoin merchants, although sales of Bitcoin miners and mining contracts are still allowed.The use of Bitcoin as a publicity tool rather than a currency is obvious when we take a closer look at smaller businesses such as barbers, grocery stores, and coffee shops -- all of which profit from free advertising on news outlets rather than the actual use of Bitcoin at its stores. Why volatility matters Many people who believe that Bitcoin is a currency will likely think twice before paying for their dinner with shares of their favorite stock. Yet considering that Bitcoin jumped from $47 to $1,000 before declining to around $640 over the past 12 months, it would probably make more sense to pay for dinner using the stock instead of Bitcoin.People are reluctant to pay for anything using stock for a simple reason — it might be worth considerably more in just a few months. Vendors aren't willing to accept stock as a direct payment for an equally simple reason — it could be worthless in a year.Meanwhile, the volatility that national currencies experience can usually only be felt in three ways — traveling abroad, importing and exporting products, and long-term inflation. None of these price swings come anywhere close to Bitcoin's volatility, as illustrated in this chart from the aforementioned Goldman Sachs report on Bitcoin: Goldman Sachs via The Motley Fool There's no way for a currency that volatile to ever gain widespread adoption. Consider the case of Laszlo Hanyecz, a Florida programmer who bought two pizzas for 10,000 Bitcoins back in 2010. That turned out to be the most expensive meal he would ever have in his life, since those 10,000 Bitcoins are worth a whopping $6.3 million today. The bottom line In a previous article, I mentioned that Bitcoin needs to establish trust, better security, and be more closely regulated to evolve. There's simply no way for Bitcoin to be taken seriously as a real currency considering that its exchanges are not insured in any way, its security safeguards are opaque, and it is more volatile than many penny stocks. Until then, all the headlines about retailers accepting Bitcoin is just noise, intended to generate publicity for the business by piggybacking off of the public's unending fascination with Bitcoin and other virtual currencies. Unfortunately, all of this noise is obfuscating the raw truth -- that Bitcoin is simply not a currency. There’s a huge difference between a good stock and a stock that can make you rich. The Motley Fool's chief investment officer has selected his No. 1 stock for 2014, and it’s one of those stocks that could make you rich. You can find out which stock it is in the special free report "The Motley Fool's Top Stock for 2014." Just click here to access the report and find out the name of this under-the-radar company.  FREE AppDownload
Facebook/Gay Waltrip DonnellLululemon's share price is down 16% in 2014.  The company has been hit by a string of quality control and customer service issues. These problems blew the door wide open for competitors like Nike and Under Armour.  And despite having a new CEO and strategy, Lululemon's problems are far from over, said Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors.  "There is explosive growth occurring for offerings from Nike and Under Armour that is higher quality and more versatile, for lower prices, than at Lululemon," Sozzi said, adding that Lululemon might have to start selling cheaper products to connect with customers.  Web traffic is also exploding at Nike and Under Armour, while Lululemon's growth is slowing, Sozzi said.  Lululemon is also not capitalizing on incorporating technology into its clothing, a trend illustrated by the popularity of Nike's FuelBand.  "Although a premium player in the athleticwear market, Lululemon is not immune to rising style choices with improved quality by competitors," Sozzi said.  In order to succeed, Lululemon is going to have to commit to quality or lower its prices.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsArchimedesHappy Pi Day! It's March 14, or 3/14, matching the first three digits of p.  p is one of the fundamental constants of mathematics: the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter.  p is an irrational number — it can never be written as a fraction of two whole numbers, and it does not have a terminating or repeating decimal expansion. The decimal expansion of p goes on forever, never showing any repeating pattern. Since p is irrational, all we can ever hope to do is get better and better decimal approximations.  So, how did the ancients first approximate p? The Greek mathematician Archimedes developed one of the first somewhat rigorous approaches to approximating p. Archimedes observed that polygons drawn inside and outside a circle would have perimeters somewhat close to the circumference of the circle.  As described in Jorg Arndt and Cristoph Haenel's book Pi Unleashed, Archimedes started with hexagons: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz We start with a circle of diameter equal to one, so that, by definition, its circumference will equal p. Using some basic geometry and trigonometry, Archimedes observed that the length of each of the sides of the inscribed blue hexagon would be 1/2, and the lengths of the sides of the circumscribed red hexagon would be 1/v3.  The perimeter of the inscribed blue hexagon has to be smaller than the circumference of the circle, since the hexagon fits entirely inside the circle. The six sides of the hexagon all have length 1/2, so this perimeter is 6 × 1/2 = 3. Similarly, the circumference of the circle has to be less than the perimeter of the circumscribed red hexagon, and this perimeter is 6 × 1/v3, which is about 3.46. This gives us the inequalities 3 &lt; p &lt; 3.46, already moving us closer to 3.14. Archimedes, through some further clever geometry, figured out how to estimate the perimeters for polygons with twice as many sides. He went from a 6-sided polygon, to a 12-sided polygon, to a 24-sided polygon, to a 48-sided polygon, and ended up with a 96-sided polygon. This final estimate gave a range for p between 3.1408 and 3.1428, which is accurate to two places. Archimedes' method of approximating p with polygons, and similar techniques developed in China and India, would be the dominant way mathematicians would approach the calculation of the digits p for centuries. Today we use algorithms based on the idea of infinite series from calculus, and our ever-faster computers allow us to find trillions of digits of p.  FREE AppDownload
Moscow ExchangeAll eyes continue to be on Russia, Ukraine, and Crimea. The world awaits Sunday's referendum in Crimea where voters will be asked whether they want to join with Russia. Meanwhile, Russia's MICEX index continues its slide, falling 1% today. At it's lowest point today, it was down 5.2%. Year-to-date, it's down 20.4%. Most experts seem to agree that the referendum is illegal as it is out of line with Ukraine's constitution. "Moreover, we note that previous measures of Crimean public opinion have not revealed a clear majority in favour of joining Russia: in 1991, 54% of the population voted for Ukrainian independence, and in an opinion poll in early February, 41% of the population said they wanted to join Russia," said Morgan Stanley's Russia economics and strategy team. "Nonetheless, it is widely expected that Sunday’s referendum will deliver a strong majority in favour of joining Russia, and that Russia, which recognizes the current Crimean authorities as legitimate and argues that the Kiev authorities are not legitimate, will then pass a law allowing external territories to accede to Russia, paving the way for the Russian Federation to annex Crimea." "If there is no sign of any capacity to be able to move forward and resolve this issue, there will be a very serious series of steps in Europe and here with respect to the options that are available to us," said U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry on Thursday.  "While we expect de-escalation eventually, near term, further sanctions are likely, although we expect the impact will be manageable," said Morgan Stanley. They consider three scenarios: (i) Russia annexes Crimea post-referendum, (ii) Russia intervenes in Ukraine beyond Crimea, or (iii) a negotiated settlement. While Crimea and Russia continue on the track of annexation without diplomatic engagement, we expect further visa bans and asset freezes. If Russia were then to annex Crimea or to intervene further in Ukraine, we’d expect broader trade and finance sanctions. "Short term, Russia’s strong reserve asset position should limit the effect of sanctions," they noted. "Longer term, sanctions could mean lower growth in Russia, due to more expensive and less easily available finance, and a growing role for the state in the economy, while heightened security tension could impact global growth." FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingIt looks like short-seller Carson Block's just got burned on his short on Singaporean agricultural commodities trading firm Olam International.  Bloomberg News reports that Singapore's state-owned Temasek Holdings Pte's unit has offered to buy Olam International Ltd. for $4.2 billion. Temasek was already the largest shareholder. The stock is on a tear. It was up more than 11.7% following the news.  Block, who runs Muddy Waters Research, revealed that he was shorting Olam back in November 2012. At the Ira Sohn Conference in London, Block questioned the Olam's accounting practices. He believes the trading firm is booking profits from transactions before the deals are done. He also said he thinks the company will fail.  Shares of stock have climbed more than 14% since then.  Block declined to comment on Olam, Bloomberg reports.  Andrew Barber, chief strategist at Asymmetric Risk Advisors, has been following Olam for a while. Barber, who does not have a position in the stock, explained that these things can happen. "One of the big problems with shorting a stock is that it can turn into an arm wrestling match with large holders. If they have more capital than you they can rip your face off even if you are correct in your investment thesis."  Block is well-known for targeting Chinese companies he believes are frauds. He's best known for his Sino-Forest takedown. Block's Muddy Waters issued a report that claiming the company overstated its timberland holdings. This caused hedge fund billionaire John Paulson  to lose millions and eventually sell out of the stock. The company ultimately ended up filing for bankruptcy.  Here's a chart from when Block's Olam short was made public:  Yahoo! Finance  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jeff HaynesThe preliminary results of the University of Michigan's monthly consumer confidence survey are out. The report's headline index fell to 79.9 from February's 81.6 reading. The consensus forecast of market economists predicted it would rise slightly to 82.0. The economic conditions sub-index rose to 96.1 from 95.4, but the economic outlook sub-index fell to 69.4 from 72.7. Inflation expectations one and five years ahead remained unchanged at 3.2% and 2.9%, respectively. "While broader confidence surprised to the downside, relative buying conditions for homes and durable goods saw further improvement during the month," says Gennadiy Goldberg, a U.S. strategist at TD Securities. "Relative home buying conditions edged to 159 from 158 in March, with durable goods purchase intentions rising to 149 from 148. The fall to 132 from 138 in auto purchase intentions this month was a bit concerning, but with dealers heavily discounting autos due to the recent (likely weather-induced) slump in demand, we believe auto purchase expectations will rebound substantially in the coming months. In fact, the number of respondents suggesting that they cannot purchase autos due to high prices plunged to 8% from 14% this month — reflecting the hefty discounts. Despite recent volatility, trends in consumer purchase intentions remain broadly positive, suggesting that stronger consumer expenditures will continue to support the economic recovery in the months ahead." FREE AppDownload
Talk that Russia could be behind the bulk of the more than $100 billion drop in the Federal Reserve's custody holdings for foreign central banks in the week ending Wednesday has many observers scratching their heads. This would represent about eighty percent of their dollar holdings. As we noted earlier, rather than selling the Treasuries, Russia simply transferred them from the Federal Reserve out of the U.S. The incentive would be the threat of sanctions following this week's Crimean referendum. There is precedent for this kind of behavior from Russia. Recall the origins of the Eurodollar market. The Eurodollar market has nothing to do with the European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) or the euro itself. Rather, the Eurodollar market refers to dollars outside the U.S., initially Europe. In 1956, the U.S. and the Soviet Union opposed the British and French (and Israeli) invasion of Egypt (Suez Crisis). The U.S. threatened to sell British pounds and intensify the pressure it was already experiencing in maintaining it peg to the dollar under Bretton Woods. It also threatened to veto the U.K.'s request for a large IMF assistance package. Russia witnessed the U.S. willingness to use its financial acumen to impose its will on its special ally. At roughly the same time, a reformist government came to power in the Hungary and among other things tried to leave the Warsaw Pact. The Soviet Union invaded. Russia feared that the U.S. would use its financial superiority against it in protest. In 1957, Russia-based Narodny Bank shifted dollars from the U.S. and deposited them in its branch in London. Viola, the birth of the Eurodollar market. There were other advantages of this offshore market for U.S. dollars beyond the Soviet Union's intentions. Those dollars were not subject to U.S. interest rate cap or regulations. These dollars, as we know with the benefit of hindsight, became the basis for a new bank credit, and a critical part of international finance. The logic now is that Russia is bracing for the next round of sanctions. The U.S. and Europe are reluctant to confront Russia with militarily. U.S. and Europe did not confront Russia militarily after the Soviet Union invaded Hungary or Czechoslovakia, and it wasn't that Eisenhower or Johnson (the respective presidents at the time) were weak as some claim about Obama. Nor did President Bush confront Russia with arms when it invaded and continued to occupy parts of Georgia in 2008. To be sure, the Federal Reserve does not publish the client list of who uses its custodial services. As we noted, some suggest it could be China diversifying reserves out of dollars and ostensibly into euros, which would help explain the persistent euro strength. However, we are a bit more skeptical of China in that it has a lot of its plate presently. The timing of the drop in custody holdings makes Russia a more likely suspect. The intervention by emerging-market central banks, including Russia, seem far too small to account for $100 billion move in a week. FREE AppDownload
A comprehensive new report on the sex industry in the U.S. offers an extensive rundown on the sex business in eight major cities. The industry is huge, with sex markets estimated to be worth anywhere from $40 million to $290 million in seven of eight cities profiled in the government-sponsored report by the Urban Institute. The charts below give a view of the sex market in Miami, Dallas, Washington, D.C., Denver, Kansas City, San Diego, Seattle, and Atlanta. Here are some of the notable trends from the report, which was covered extensively this week in The New York Times: The Urban Institute The Urban Institute The Urban Institute The Urban Institute  The Urban Institute  The Urban Institute The Urban Institute The Urban Institute The Urban Institute
FREE AppDownload
Here's what happened when Ben Horowitz asked his employees to work 7 days/week during a pivotal time for his company. Produced by Justin Gmoser.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook Disclosure: Marc Andreessen, co-founder of Andreessen Horowitz, is an investor in Business Insider.
CNBCWarren BuffettWarren Buffett was on CNBC's Squawk Box today. He said that he'd be "surprised" if stock prices fell 50% from current levels. But he also warned that the world will be eventually be confronted by another financial crisis, just not anytime soon. "Humans will behave in crazy ways, both on the upside and the downside in the next 50 years," said Buffett. "It's very unlikely they do it in the next few years because after something like 2008, once they get out of the emergency room, they're a little more careful for awhile." Reflecting on the recent financial crisis, Buffett said that it was worse than he had expected. He noted that present concerns about the crisis in Ukraine or the slowdown in China didn't have him selling any assets. This is inline with his statements on CNBC earlier this month. "I never really buy businesses based on macro factors," he said on March 4. As tensions heated up in Ukraine at the time, Buffett said he was "absolutely" buying on the dips. He also addressed the Bitcoin, the digital currency that everyone's still trying to figure out. "Stay away from Bicoin," he said. "It's a mirage." Buffett was on to promote his controversial billion-dollar bracket challenge. Partnering with Quicken Loans, Buffett will award $1 billion to whoever fills out the perfect NCAA men's basketball tournament bracket. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaWarren BuffettWarren Buffett is warning investors to "stay away" from Bitcoin, calling it "a mirage," when asked about the digital currency's long-term potential. Appearing on CNBC this morning, he also mentioned it lacks intrinsic value, though he conceded that they are an efficient way to transfer dollars. That echoes Goldman Sachs analysts' recent take in which they cast doubt on the viability of widespread adoption of Bitcoin, arguing it remains too volatile. But they also said the underlying technology may hold potential. Follow along here for live updates of Buffett on CNBC » FREE AppDownload
RIA Novosti / Reuters BRUSSELS/BERLIN (Reuters) - The EU has drawn up a list of 120-130 names of Russians who could be hit with travel bans and asset freezes, European officials said on Friday, and a German newspaper said the CEOs of Russia's two biggest companies - Alexei Miller of Gazprom and Igor Sechin of Rosneft - would be on it. Reuters was not immediately able to confirm the report in the Bild newspaper, which included energy bosses Miller and Sechin in a list with cabinet ministers, security officials and Kremlin aides. The preliminary list described to Reuters by European officials runs to five pages. It was drawn up by diplomats who have experience in Russia and was supplied to EU officials in Brussels, who will discuss the names and whittle the list down ahead of a foreign ministers' meeting on Monday. The 28-member European Union agreed this week on a framework for sanctions to punish Russia for its seizure of Ukraine's Crimea region, but has yet to finalize a list of targets who will be barred from visiting Europe and have assets frozen. European foreign ministers are expected to impose the sanctions and sign off on the target list on Monday, the day after a referendum in Ukraine's Crimea region on joining Russia. Washington also has similar sanctions and has yet to publish its target list. One EU official who has a copy of the list said it contained the names of generals and other people from the top echelons of Russia's military and political establishment. EU member states are discussing whether to start by sanctioning as many people as possible from the list in a preventative way, or else take a more cautious approach and add names from the list to the sanctions in several steps. Bild said the list would include at least 13 politicians and industry leaders A spokesman for Sechin said: "I hope that this all ends up being empty rhetoric. It's silly, petty and obvious sabotage of themselves. I think it will primarily affect Rosneft's business partners in the West in an extraordinary way." Others named by Bild include Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu, Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin, presidential administration chief Sergei Ivanov and the secretary of the National Security Council, Nikolai Patrushev. Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov declined to comment on the Bild report. A Gazprom spokesman declined to comment. (Reporting by Jan Strupczewski, Martin Santa, Alexandra Hudson, Alexei Anishchuk and Vladimir Soldatkin; Writing by Peter Graff; Editing by Giles Elgood) FREE AppDownload
The new economic results indicate that the slowdown in Chinese growth is quite widespread, hitting sectors such as retailing, manufacturing, housing, and investment.  Year-over-year production for January and February (combined to dilute the effect of the Lunar New Year) rose 8.6%, lower than expected, and the weakest since 2009.  Fixed asset investment was up 8.6%, the lowest since 2002.  Retail sales increased 11.8%, the slowest since February 2011.  In the real estate sector, residential and commercial property sales were down 3.7% with construction starts down 27.4%. The aforementioned corporate bond default was by a solar company, and was the first by a Chinese company in 17 years.  Further exposing the ongoing credit problems, another Chinese solar company had its bonds suspended from trading today by the Shanghai Exchange after reporting losses for the second consecutive year.  The default and suspension reflect an extremely important change of government policy to allow defaults after years of bailouts of risky customers by the government and state-owned banks. Under previous policy, investors assumed that they had an implicit guarantee that they would always be bailed out, and, as a result, corporate bonds outstanding soared tenfold since year-end 2007.  Since the loans were considered virtually risk-free, weak borrowers were able to borrow large amounts of money at relatively low rates.  That is now bound to change, as it seems clear that Chinese corporations will now find it more difficult to borrow and that their interest rates will be higher. At its recent annual economic policy meeting, Chinese officials set a goal of achieving 7.5% growth in the current year, down slightly from last year’s 7.7%.  However, in a carefully monitored Q and A session, Premier Li admitted that “this year’s challenges are severe.”  He acknowledged that defaults are likely after years of bailouts.  When asked about the official growth target of 7.5%, he stated that “We are not pre-occupied with GDP growth”, a tacit admission that the target may not be reached. The problem is that China is facing a dilemma it has not previously dealt with.  The nation is facing onerous credit and debt problems and serious imbalances in their economy that may be hard to manage without reducing growth.  Chinese authorities have recognized for some time that the economy was excessively dependent on export growth and heavy industry and that the domestic consumption sector was relatively weak.  Now it is trying to shift from exports and heavy industry to consumption-led growth, while, at the same time, trying to rein in overly excessive debt and credit, particularly in the so-called shadow banking system.  It is widely recognized that the change will benefit long-term growth and stability, but could be harmful in the short- term.  Therefore, for the first time, the government may find it exceedingly difficult to control their growth rate. Chinese leaders are well aware of the need to keep employment growing at a high enough rate to keep the populace in line and avoid rebellion.  Therefore, they cannot afford to let economic growth lag too badly, and, most likely, would be forced to turn on the credit spigot again if that should occur.  The problem is that this could create further credit problems and delay the implementation of the necessary economic reforms.  The key takeaway is that the Chinese government is no longer in complete control of both their growth rates and credit conditions, and that a hard landing has become more difficult to avoid. Another key aspect of the current situation is the severe slowdown in exports that reduces China’s need to buy massive quantities of raw materials, mostly from nations that are heavily dependent on the sale of such materials for their own economies. This is already evident in the substantial drops in the prices of commodities such as copper and iron ore.  Copper prices have declined below the $3 level for the first time since July 2010.  Therefore, the slowdown in Chinese growth will probably result in a slowdown in global growth as well, including the U.S.  In sum, we think that the economic and financial situation in China is negative not just for them, but for the rest of the world as well.  Although the consensus seems to believe that the U.S. is decoupled from these problems, we have heard that argument before, and it has never been valid.  At current levels, the U.S. stock market is priced for something close to perfection, and not for the problems we see ahead.     FREE AppDownload
Russia and Crimea are following the same roadmap that the United States and Texas followed when Texas officially left Mexico on March 2, 1836.  TX became an independent republic.  It subsequently joined the United States in 1845. How do you say “Remember the Alamo” in Russian? New Ukrainian political chief visits the White House. President O supports democracy. What else is new? Coincidentally, the US Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) announces a “test” sale of 5 million barrels. No comment is made publicly about the linkage of these two items. Strange timing, if truly coincidental.  Otherwise, it is a very weak signal to send.  Oil prices drop on SPR announcement, but international prices tied to Brent don’t change much. Libya, Nigeria, and geopolitics everywhere else in the oil patch are much more important to the Brent-based pricing mechanism than are US policy and the WTI-based mechanism. President O could really have made a big splash by announcing pipeline expansion, more and faster approvals of exploration, and an addition to US capacity in place. Five million barrels in a one-time sale is a smidge. (One note on language. When the Putin uses the word Ukraine, he does not include Crimea in its definition. When Sec. Kerry or President O uses the same word, they do. So their statements have different meanings.) The European Union’s response has been no more effective than the US’s in countering Russia’s ambitions. And it is the EU that is critical here. They passed on an early opportunity in Ukraine but for good reason. They saw the corruption in place and the misallocation of resources and did not want to throw $15 billion down a bottomless pit. Now they face a dilemma. They are cornered by events and are committing the $15 bn after the fact. They will end up paying more and getting less now that the Russian takeover of Crimea is a foregone conclusion. So, the EU gets less and pays more, and the US says more and does less. Putin already won this round. Crimea will become formally tied to Russian in some way. The US appears weak. The US Congress blusters and looks silly. For EU and US leaders, the best lessons from history that apply here come from Metternich (the father) and Machiavelli and Teddy Roosevelt as in “speak softly and carry a big stick.” It is a mistake to speak loudly and carry no stick. Stay tuned for an interesting weekend. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderHappy Pi Day! It's March 13, or 3/14. Those are the first three digits of Pi, the ratio that enables us to compute the circumference of a circle. Pi is just one of an infinite number of numbers. And there are infinitely many ways to combine and manipulate those numbers. Mathematicians often represent numbers in a line. Pick a point on the line, and this represents a number. At the end of the day, though, almost all of the numbers that we use are based on a handful of extremely important numbers that sit at the foundation of all of math. What follows are the eight numbers you actually need to build the number line, and to do just about anything quantitative. FREE AppDownload
The weekend poses risk in the form of the referendum in Crimea, where the choice is between leaving the Ukraine and joining Russia. The Crimean parliament has already approved independence. Of course, much of Europe, the US and Japan have warned that they do not recognize the referendum. China may be quiet on the issue, and strategically, why not, but from its own domestic interest, it could not accept the legitimacy of a referendum by one of its minority populations (e.g. Tibet or Taiwan) from seeking independence.  The next level of sanctions against Russia will likely be announced shortly after the referendum. Eastern and central European countries, like Poland and Hungary have expressed concern about the hardship they will be forced to bear.   At the same time, reports suggest a build-up of Russian forces on the Ukrainian border. While they are most likely for defensive purposes, many fear that Russia may expand its operations shortly. Meanwhile, US aid ($1 bln) is tied up in the Senate as it has become entangled in the debate over IMF reform. Ukraine reportedly has sought military assistance from the US, which has not directly refused, but has indicated not now. China's economic slowdown and the financial squeeze is also a cause of concern. The dollar finished at new highs not only for the week against the yuan but new highs since last summer, although there were higher intra-day moves last week. The economic slowdown, but especially the financial squeeze is having knock-on impact on metal prices, especially copper and to a lesser extent, iron ore. They were used for financial purposes, such as collateral. In addition, many wealth management products were tied to the mining industry. There are some reports suggesting that Chinese officials may take some formal action against such schemes. Some observers are linking China to the outsized $104.5 bln decline in the Federal Reserve's Treasury holdings in its custody account for foreign central banks. Custody holdings have trended lower this year, but the large, possibly record decline, is worth more attention than the market is giving it. First, it plays into market talk that China has stepped up the diversification of its reserves and could help explain the euro's persistent strength. While possible this seems unlikely given China's other pressing financial issues at the moment. Second, some may try to link this to Russia's recent threat. This would reflect almost half of Russia's dollar reserves and would seem significant.  However, Russia's trade and currency policy is tied to the dollar. It does not hold dollars as a favor to the US, but because it sees it in its national interest. If it is Russia, we wonder it would not be a sale of Treasuries as a transfer from the Fed's custodial account to commercial banks. In any event, regardless of who sold them and for what purposes, the point is that the trend decline in Treasuries being held for foreign accounts at the Federal Reserve has not coincided with high US yields. Even the sharp decline in holdings, in the latest reporting period, did not see Treasury yields rise, which is a testament to the breadth and depth of the market. It also means that a foreign country, such a Russia, ability to impact US policy by threatening to sell its Treasury holdings, rings hollow. For its part, the euro remains stubbornly resilient. The euro had already lost the upside momentum that had carried it near $1.40, but Draghi's comments, a not very thinly veiled threat, that the euro's strength was adversely impacting inflation and growth and that the ECB would respond. Words do not seem sufficient to break the euro bulls. The failure of the ECB to act last week saw the euro rise above the upper end of a five-month five-cent trading range (~$1.33-$1.38) and even now, the euro has not been pushed back into it. The euro has built of a bit of a short-term shelf near $1.3840. On the top side, look for the euro to be capped by the $1.3900-20 band. The Japanese yen is the strongest currency against the dollar this week, gaining about 1.6%. The Nikkei lost 6.2% this week with more a little more than half coming today. Yesterday's dollar's losses were extended marginally in Europe, but a very narrow trading range has been seen as the market seems to be waiting for US leadership. Resistance is seen in below JPY102. Support is offered by the trendline connecting the early-February and early-March lows. It is found near JPY101.40 today. The North American features the February US PPI and the University of Michigan consumer confidence. Neither report tends to have much impact on the markets, even when there are not other financial issues (China, Dow Industrials down four days in a row and closed below its 50-day moving average and with the major indices posting big outside down days) or heightened geopolitical tensions (Russia/Crimea)        Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tom MihalekA U.S. Airways plane with a collapsed nose is seen at Philadelphia International Airport March 13, 2014. The plane with 149 people on board that was about to take off from Philadelphia International Airport had its nose gear collapse on the runway on Thursday, but no one was injured in the incident, an airport spokeswoman said. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. Traders eyeing Crimea. The focus is on Ukraine's Crimea region, an area home to many ethnic Russians, which will hold a referendum over the weekend on declaring independence from Ukraine. The market angst over the recent conflict between Russia and Ukraine in recent days has stemmed largely from military developments in Crimea. "Much of Europe, the U.S. and Japan have warned that they do not recognize the referendum," says Marc Chandler, global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman. "The next level of sanctions against Russia will likely be announced shortly after the referendum. At the same time, reports suggest a build-up of Russian forces on the Ukrainian border. While they are most likely for defensive purposes, many fear that Russia may expand its operations shortly. Meanwhile, U.S. aid ($1 billion) is tied up in the Senate as it has become entangled in the debate over IMF reform. Ukraine reportedly has sought military assistance from the U.S., which has not directly refused, but has indicated not now." Markets are mixed. S&amp;P 500 futures and U.S. Treasury futures both point to a slightly positive open. The U.S. dollar is down another 0.4% against the Japanese yen today, trading just above ¥101.40. European indices are extending yesterday's losses — right now the Spanish IBEX 35 is down 1.0%. Overnight, Asian indices took a beating — the Japanese Nikkei 225 closed down 3.3%, the Hong Kong Hang Seng gave up 1.0%, and the Shanghai Composite lost 0.7%. "Yesterday’s Ukraine threat roller-coaster may not reverse today ahead of the Crimean election over the weekend," says David Keeble, head of fixed income strategy at Crédit Agricole. "The main unknowns are not the referendum result or that sanction threats will be displayed, but rather if violence erupts in Crimea, and whether the Russians instantly annex Crimea or play out a waiting game to achieve the same result in the future along with some legal niceties. It all suggests playing it cautious, which is what some clients were doing on Thursday — buying back their shorts." Emergency unemployment benefits back in play. Senators have proposed extending the emergency unemployment compensation program that expired at the end of 2013, but such a bill will be difficult to get through Congress. Chris Krueger, a Washington, D.C.-based policy analyst at Guggenheim Securities, has the details: "The compromise would retroactively restore for five months long-term unemployment benefits that expired on Dec. 28 (they would expire at the end of May). The bill would be paid for by a combination of: pension smoothing, PBGC reforms, extension of U.S. Customs fees, and a prohibition for millionaires and billionaires to receive benefits. The bill would also put into place certain reforms of the unemployment benefits program advocated for by Senate Republicans. The five Republicans who brokered the deal were all from high unemployment states: Sens. Heller (R-Nev.), Portman (R-OH), Murkowksi (R-Alaska), Kirk (R-Ill.), and Collins (R-Maine). If the compromise clears the Senate (we believe that it will), it will very likely not move in the House. The House GOP may pass their own bill to provide some relief to the long-term unemployed after feeling pressure from their Senate colleagues, but the legislation would likely be as foreign to Senate Democrats as this current compromise is to House Republicans." Custody holdings tank. In the week between March 5 and March 12, foreign central banks removed $104 billion of U.S. Treasuries that were being held in custodial accounts at the Federal Reserve. This is the largest weekly drop on record — the second-largest weekly drop was $32 billion, recorded amid the market turmoil of the summer of 2013. The leading theory is that Russia is likely trying to get ahead of any international sanctions that could be placed against it if the conflict with Ukraine escalates, and is therefore behind the large drop in holdings. "Given that the market has rallied through the course of the week, we do not believe that this represents selling by the central bank community," say Shyam Rajan and Priya Misra, interest rate strategists at BofA Merrill Lynch. "Instead, the drop can likely be attributed to a shift in custodians by one of the major central banks." Bank of Japan pleased with progress. The minutes of the Bank of Japan's February 17-18 meeting showed that monetary policymakers expected the economy and prices to continue improving in line with their forecasts. The minutes also revealed a consensus view that the consumption tax hike scheduled for April will not derail the economy. This line of thinking may hold the BoJ back from expanding its stimulus program in the coming months. Japanese industrial production rises. Japanese industrial output expanded by 3.8% from the previous month in January, marking an acceleration from December's 0.9% gain but failing to meet expectations for a 4% advance. The year-over-year rate of expansion in output accelerated to 10.3% from 7.1%. U.K. trade deficit widens. The U.K. posted a visible trade deficit (one that includes goods but not services) of £9.79 billion in January, up from £7.66 billion in December. The non-EU trade deficit swelled to £3.99 billion from £2.32 billion. Both numbers were larger than expected, and owed largely to a 4% drop in exports to the lowest level since June 2012. U.K construction output rises. U.K. construction output expanded by 1.8% from the previous month in January, besting expectations for a 1.5% gain. The year-over-year growth rate in output accelerated to 5.4% from 4.9%, exceeding expectations for a smaller acceleration to 5.2%.  Producer prices on deck. February U.S. producer prices data are released at 8:30 AM ET. Economists predict prices rose 0.2% from the previous month in February, matching January's pace of growth and leaving the year-over-year price rise unchanged from January at 1.2%. Excluding food and energy, prices are expected to have risen only 0.1% last month, but the year-over-year rate of change is expected to have received a boost to 1.4% in February from 1.3% in January. Consumer confidence to wrap things up. Preliminary results of the University of Michigan's monthly consumer confidence survey are released at 9:55 AM. Economists predict the report's headline index rose to 82 from February's 81.6 reading. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrea ComasTraders look at computer screens at Madrid's bourse April 12, 2012.Stifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz has a quick summary of what traders are talking about before the U.S. opening bell. Good Morning!   US Futures are slightly higher, but “feels” like (absent headlines) will be difficult for traders to get overly bullish ahead of this weekend’s Crimera vote.  To that end, John Kerry is scheduled to meet his Russian counterpart in London today – as the Russian Navy ups the stress by starting exercises in the Med.   One has to wonder how much risk-aversion may be due to Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 as well, as US officials acknowledge a “strengthening case of foul play.” - Many eyes are on the S&amp;P’s March 3 “panic low” of 1834, and the 50dma at 1829 as “key” support levels.   Russian markets lost 5% on the open to its lowest level since 2009 – it has lost nearly 20% in the last 3 weeks, and Russia’s 10YY is up 15bp this AM.   We continue to see weakness in Europe, with EU stocks on a 5week low - the DAX is off 30bp to 5M lows after being 1% lower early – The DAX has lost 7.25% month-to-date due to the country's close links with Eastern Europe and reliance on Russian gas imports, a huge move relative to the S&amp;P’s 70bp decline.    In Asia, the Nikkei was smacked for 3% as the Yen surged higher on the BOJ’s “tapering” and risk-aversion.   Hong Kong closes it’s worst week in 2 years, and China’s markets lost 70bp as the 4 largest lenders fell sharply over the week.   Emerging Markets are seeing their biggest decline since the June “Taper Tantrum,” but India continues in rally mode ahead of the elections.    The 10YY is flat, but a flight to safety has it 13bp lower for the week, and Bund Yields the lowest in 8 months.  The € is recovering from the smackdown yesterday on Draghi’s dovish comments – but the Yen is testing 2 week highs against the $ right now as the “Carry Trade” unwinds.    Overall the DXY is weaker, providing a tailwind for commodities - Gold is steady at a 6M high, as it has it’s longest weekly rally since 2011.  Copper is bouncing 1% off the $300 level, showing some alleviation of China Credit Stress.   The Oil complex is higher, as reports that OPEC is pumping above targets sparks thoughts of a production decline.   Natty gas is off 1% despite Congressional calls to open exports to alleviate Europe’s dependence on Russian Gas.    Scheduled Catalysts today include PPI at 8:30, University of Michigan Confidence at 9:55, and a small POMO at 11 FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMock Bitcoins are displayed on a table in an illustration picture taken in BerlinSINGAPORE (Reuters) - Criminals may already have made off with up to $500 million worth of bitcoins since the virtual currency launched in 2009 - and you can double that if it turns out they emptied Mt. Gox. Internet criminals, security experts say, are attracted to bitcoin because of its stratospheric rise in value, because it's easier to steal than real money, and because it's easier to trade with other criminal elements. But, they add, bitcoin will survive the damage. "It's just growing pains," says Keith Jarvis, a security researcher at Dell SecureWorks. "Bitcoin is large enough and has enough momentum behind it to survive any public relations damage from this (Mt. Gox) case or anything else." The fall of Mt Gox, the Tokyo-based exchange which filed for bankruptcy last month after saying it lost some 850,000 bitcoins to hackers, is certainly the virtual currency's biggest crisis. But data collated by Reuters from specialist bitcoin industry websites and internet forums shows that more than 730,000 bitcoins were already missing to theft, hacking, cyber-ransom payments and other apparently criminal pursuits before Mt. Gox's collapse. That's nearly 6 percent of all bitcoins, and doesn't include dozens, possibly hundreds, of unreported cases of individuals who have lost bitcoins from their computers or online exchanges to hackers. For sure, there's no way of telling who has these missing bitcoins, or whether they were converted to real money when the price was much lower. And of course some bitcoins may have been counted twice if criminals stole them from each other or they were put back into circulation and stolen again. But there's no question that bitcoins have attracted the attention of cyber-criminals - as a currency and an asset worth stealing. A study by Pat Litke and Joe Stewart of Dell SecureWorks showed that as the price of bitcoin soared beyond $1,000 last year, so did the number of viruses designed to steal bitcoins from wallets - programs that hold bitcoins on user's computers or smartphones. Of the 140 types of such software more than 100 appeared in the past year. Writing such viruses, says Stewart, is easy. "There's no sophistication involved in the storage of bitcoin in wallets. As for malware, it's some of the easiest stuff to write." Indeed, this cyber-pocket picking wasn't criminals' first foray into bitcoins. Initially, they focused on using their control of large networks of infected computers - called botnets - to make their own bitcoins. Bitcoins are created through a 'mining' process where a computer's resources are used to perform millions of calculations. For a while, says Kirill Levchenko, a researcher at the University of California, San Diego, criminals added malware to their botnets to turn infected computers into bitcoin miners. This triggered predictions of doom for bitcoin - that the criminals would take over the mining of bitcoin through botnets and bring the whole currency crashing down. But as bitcoins become harder to mine - according to an algorithm that slows down their production the more people try to create them - this approach has proven less profitable. In 2012-13, says Danny Huang, another researcher at the University of California, San Diego, they earned at least 4,500 bitcoins, a relatively small sum compared with the total produced. "Few botnets are mining bitcoins now," he said. Instead, they've turned to stealing them from wallets, or, more lucratively, from exchanges. According to data compiled last year by academics Tyler Moore and Nicholas Christin, of 40 exchanges tracked 18 had closed, with customer balances wiped out in many cases - not always, they point out, due to fraud. Since then, according to public reports, more than a dozen others have been hacked. Cyber-criminals have also made use of the ease with which bitcoins can be traded without any third party - such as a bank or online payments service like PayPal - to use it as at least one way of paying for services between themselves. "Bitcoin made it much easier for them, because they have to trust each other even less. Even complete strangers can cooperate," said Juraj Bednar, a bitcoin security expert in Slovakia. But while bitcoin has its advantages, it's not a perfect tool for the bad guys. Take, for example, ransomware. Viruses which encrypt users' data and then demand payment for a key to unlock it have become increasingly sophisticated, says Dell Secureworks' Jarvis. The most successful: CryptoLocker, which Jarvis believes is run by a Russian-speaking gang who are also behind a botnet called Gameover Zeus that targets financial websites. Bitcoin often appears on CryptoLocker as an option for victims to pay up. Its appeal, says Bednar, lies in the fact that it needs no third party for the transaction to work. But there have been problems. For one thing, the type of user to be infected by a virus wasn't likely to be the type who is technologically savvy enough to be familiar with bitcoin. Also, as bitcoin rose in value, it has become a more expensive option for the victim, forcing the criminals to lower their bitcoin ransom demands to match prevailing exchange rates. TRACING TRANSACTIONS Then there's bitcoin's transparency. All transactions are visible, and while they're just digits and letters, in theory they could be connected to an individual and the entire history of all the bitcoin's transactions traced. Italian computer engineer Michele Spagnuolo, for example, was able to trace a number of ransom payments for CryptoLocker. The gains have been impressive: he and academics from Politecnico di Milano speculate that up to 6,757 bitcoins - then worth around $6 million - could be linked to those behind CryptoLocker late last year. That estimate of their total takings, he says, could be very conservative. But the fact that such payments can be traced would raise a red flag for cyber-criminals, says Daniel Cohen of RSA, the security division of EMC Corp, even though there are online services that can "launder" bitcoins to hide their origin. "Sure, there are bitcoin laundering services, but still if I tie a wallet to an identity I can see every single movement," he said. And, ironically, the success that some criminals have had in stealing bitcoins has made it less appealing to the underworld. RSA's Cohen says his team monitoring underground forums has noticed criminals lately see bitcoin as "volatile, seizable and, with the recent thefts, unsafe." That's not to say bitcoin is out of the woods. While the protocols underlying bitcoin have proved themselves to work, the weak links have been the software containing the wallets, whether on exchanges or on individuals' computers. "The attacks on the exchanges did not in themselves indicate any particular weakness of bitcoin per se, but rather exploiting vulnerabilities within the exchanges," says Raj Samani of Intel Corp's internet security company McAfee. Such holes are being addressed, says Dell Secureworks' Stewart, pointing to such innovations as hardware wallets to replace software ones. "We're just going to have to get into that mode of thinking," he says. For now, bitcoin users remain a vulnerable target. That was illustrated when hackers breached Mt. Gox's servers and its owner's blog this week to post files purporting to be Mt. Gox's transactions in bitcoin stretching back to 2011. Amid the files lurked another surprise awaiting the unwary: a bitcoin-stealing virus. (Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
In the past week, we got the February tallies of Chinese exports, industrial production, retail sales, and fixed asset investment. All of the numbers were disappointing, and they all missed economists expectations by a wide margin. According to Bloomberg BRIEF economist Tom Orlik, Bank of America, UBS, and JP Morgan were among the big investment houses that slashed their GDP forecasts for China. Morgan Stanley's Rashique Rahman published this simple chart showing by how much the numbers missed expectations.  The points on the chart were computed by taking the China's reported percentage growth numbers and subtracting the consensus estimate among economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Any thing below the x-axis means the actually numbers were worse than expected. As you can see, the latest numbers totally caught economists by surprise. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Morgan StanleyTensions remain escalated on the Russia-Ukraine border. On Sunday, Crimean voters will be asked whether they want to join Russia. Meanwhile, western leaders are considering policy actions like sanctions against Russia if the country ends up annexing Crimea post-referendum. "We are cautious about the effectiveness of sanctions on Russia," say Morgan Stanley's Russia economics and strategy team. "Russia is a large country, with extensive resources, accounting in 2012 for 2.8% of global GDP, 4.7% of international merchandise trade and 13% of internationally traded oil. Typically, sanctions have been applied against much smaller countries, such as Iran, Iraq, Libya and North Korea, with significantly fewer resources." The analysts point to Russia's diversified trade partners. From Morgan Stanley: "Russian trade and investment are spread across multiple jurisdictions, which points to a lack of dependence on any one country. Moreover, commodities – for which it is generally easy to find an alternative buyer – dominate exports: energy exports alone account for 66% of the total. Moreover, most Russian investment abroad ($406bn USD, end 2012) and foreign investment in Russia ($496bn USD, end 2012) is structured through offshore financial centers, which may make imposition of sanctions more challenging, although we suspect that most of the assets owned by Russian foreign investors, and most of the ultimate beneficiaries of foreign investment in Russia, are in OECD countries." That being said, sanctions won't be ineffective. "We see two main reasons [why sanctions might have some impact]," they add. "First, Russian economic performance has weakened in recent years, with growth slowing from 4.3% in 2011 to 1.3% in 2013, and is set to weaken further in 2014, partly as a result of the higher rates and higher risk premia driven by the security crisis. Against this background, the authorities will want to minimize any negative impact on the economy. Second, measures targeted at influential Russians, such as visa bans and asset freezes, may be effective in increasing pressure on the authorities for a negotiated settlement." Economists seem to agree that Russia has done itself more harm than good with its aggression in the region. The ruble and stock market have been tumbling and GDP forecasts have been slashed. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Maréchal de Lattre de Tassigny Embankment and the Canal of La Peyrade from the Louis Pasteur Embankment. Sète, Hérault, France.Markets are down early in Europe's trading session. Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.2%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.4%. Germany's DAX is down 0.6%. Spain's IBEX is down 0.2%. This follows a 231 point sell-off in the the Dow Jones Industrial Average on Thursday. This has been a challenging week thanks to disappointing economic data out of China. "The much weaker-than-expected Jan-Feb activity data highlights the impossible task of pushing for reforms while maintaining stable growth in 2014," said Barclays' China economist Adam Steinberg. "The Jan-Feb data all missed expectations by a wide margin. We think this reflects the negative impact from the ongoing reforms - cutting overcapacity and controlling pollution, anti-graft and broadened austerity measures to curb public spending and grey income, regulating shadow bank lending and allowing credit defaults, and controlling local government debt." Later today, we'll get a preliminary March reading of U.S. consumer confidence from the University of Michigan. Economists estimate this index ticked up to 82.0 from 81.6 in February. FREE AppDownload
