One of the compelling aspects of Ta-Nehisi Coates' cover story for The Atlantic last month making the case for reparations is that he focuses more on housing inequality in the 20th century than slave labor in the 17th through 19th centuries. Indeed, that was the key to telling whether someone bothered to actually read the essay before commenting on it. As Slate's Ben Mathis-Lilley pointed out, Coates' narrow focus on the practice of redlining in Chicago "turns the issue of race in America into a pressing discussion about work, wealth, and theft rather than an unresolvable grudge-match about bygone guilt." ("Narrow" being a relative term for a 16,000-word essay.) Coates' story observed how difficult it is for black residents in Chicago to make and keep their homes. Now there's research to show how much harder African Americans struggle as homeowners. A new study demonstrates that, despite significant gains in residential equality, white households still have an advantage over black households when it comes to homeownership. Worse still, the changes in the market that led to the foreclosure crisis have essentially wiped out the gains made by black homeowners since the 1970s.  The report, which is the work of sociologists Gregory Sharp at Rice University and Matthew Hall at Cornell University, focuses on the racial dynamics of homeownership exit—i.e., when an owner becomes a renter. Even granting the shifts in the housing market both before and after the Fair Housing Act of 1968 (which prohibited housing discrimination based on race), the matter of homeownership exits remains understudied, according to Sharp and Hall. "This issue is especially salient in light of recent reports on the racially uneven impacts of the housing crisis, but more importantly because of the enormous advantages that homeownership confers—to wealth accumulation, accessibility to valuable public services and amenities, community engagement and civil life, and less exposure to violence and other social ills," the report reads.  For background, the report traces the persistent sources of racial discrimination in home lending even after the passage of the Fair Housing Act, leading to three more laws passed by Congress in quick succession: the Equal Credit Opportunity Act of 1974, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975, and the Community Reinvestment Act of 1975. (Read Coates's essay for a vivid sense of the abuse black residents suffered before these protections were passed into law.) Actually enforcing the laws proved difficult, until Congress passed the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, which expanded the definition of housing discrimination to ban interference, coercion, and intimidation by sellers while also boosting the role of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development in monitoring home sales. Yet the improvements in racial–residential equality of the 1980s and 1990s, accelerated by a few more changes in federal law—the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, which set minority homeownership goals for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, for example—coincided with the emergence of ever more complex financial products in the lending market. With them came the subprime-mortgage industry. "There is extensive evidence that black households were especially likely to sign these types of subprime, predatory, and otherwise exotic loans," the report by Sharp and Hall reads. "In 2000, African Americans were more than twice as likely as whites with similar incomes to sign subprime loans, and among lower-income blacks, more than half (56.3 percent) of home refinance loans were subprime."  This research builds on a blockbuster reporter released by HUD and the U.S. Treasury back in 2000, which demonstrated how mortgage lenders targeted black homeowners with subprime loans. The figures the feds revealed remain staggering. "In predominantly black neighborhoods, the high-cost subprime lending accounted for 51 percent of home loans in 1998—compared with only 9 percent in predominately white areas," the joint report shows. Even adjusting for income, racial discrimination is still evident in the subprime mortgage market. Black homeowners in high-income neighborhoods were twice as likely to have subprime mortgages as white homeowners in low-income neighborhoods. The HUD–Treasury report echoes one of the broader themes in Coates's feature. "From the 1930s through the 1960s, black people across the country were largely cut out of the legitimate home-mortgage market through means both legal and extralegal," Coates writes. A similar structure took root once again in the 1990s through the 2000s: Although blacks had gained greater access to credit, the quality of the credit itself came to be less than equal.    What the joint HUD–Treasury report did not demonstrate—and where the new research from Sharp and Hall picks up—is how racial discrimination drives black homeowners out of their homes, now more so than in the past. The study draws on longitudinal data from the Panel Study of Income Dynamics, a sample of some 5,000 families launched in 1968 and collected annually until 1997, and then biennially until 2009. Over four decades, that sample has grown to include more than 9,000 families and 70,000 individuals. The survey controlled for "trigger events" that increase the likelihood that homeowners will lose their homes, including divorce, death, or job loss. (And more mundane factors, such as when a kid leaves home for college.) Sharp and Hall also accounted for homeowners who developed disabilities.  The study finds that about six percent of the sample transitioned from homeowners to renters. But black homeowners experienced an exit rate 68.2 percent higher than white homeowners. Although racial differences in trigger events were "minimal," the report says, black homeowners were nevertheless more likely to "see their households shrink, to lose their jobs, and to suffer from substantial income losses" than white homeowners. So, even accounting for events that can lead to downward life trajectories, African Americans were much more likely to lose their status as homeowners—suggesting they are more vulnerable and subject to predatory, exploitative, and racially motivated lending practices.   "Compared to black homeowners, for example, white homeowners have higher rates of being coupled (married or cohabiting), have fewer children, and live in less-crowded housing units," the report reads. "However," the report later affirms, "blacks remain at a substantial disadvantage in accessing homeownership even when racial differences in socioeconomic resources and family characteristics are equalized."  Sharp and Hall demonstrate graphically how racial inequalities in both exit and ownership have persisted since 1968—and increased over the last decade. The trend lines indicate racial difference in the probability of being a homeowner and the probability of homeownership exit (by year of home purchase). "First, the adjusted racial disparity in the odds of being a homeowner is substantial and steady over the last forty years," Sharp and Hall write, "but perhaps more alarming is the slight uptick in the black disadvantage observed during the most recent decade. Second, this trend is juxtaposed against the significant widening of the racial gap in homeownership exit, a disparity that has continued to grow among owners who purchased homes in the 1990s or later."   The Great Recession had a disproportionate impact on black homeowners. Over the most recently observed two-year period (for which data are still incomplete), Sharp and Hall found that black homeowners who became renters in 2009 were three times more likely to have fallen behind on their mortgage payments that year. They are also 50 percent more likely to report anticipating falling behind on future loan payments—suggesting mortgage instruments that do not represent their best financial interests or could be predatory in nature. "The results also suggest that, contrary to expectations, racial differences in ownership have not converged over the last four decades," the report reads. "Indeed, the results suggest that the black disadvantage in attaining ownership intensified during the 2000s." Even given the stricter enforcement of housing discrimination laws—and granting the persistent but narrowing achievement gaps between black students and white students—black homeowners are not better off today than they were four decades ago. In terms of homeownership exits, they are worse off now. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adrees LatifFamily members watch as 11-year-old Mark takes aim with an AR-15 style assault rifle on the exhibit floor at the National Rifle Association (NRA)'s annual meeting in Houston, Texas on May 3, 2013.We've all heard the saying "Everything's bigger in Texas" — and we're here to show you that it's true. The Lone Star State is home to nearly 26.5 million people, or 8.4% of the total U.S. population. Most of this population is concentrated around cities including Houston, Dallas, and Austin. Texas contains a major portion of the U.S. economy. Its total gross domestic product is $1.43 trillion, which is approximately 8.5% of the entire U.S. GDP. Although Texas is primarily known for its oil, it is also the leader in wind power development, and has a large aerospace and aviation industry. Fifty-two Fortune 500 companies including ExxonMobil, AT&amp;T, and American Airlines are headquartered in Texas. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Wales_GibbonsFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. These Are The Three Most Overrated Risks In Your Portfolio (Morningstar) There are always going to be risks in your investment decisions, but choosing wisely between risk factors can help create a long-lasting and dependable portfolio. Morningstar's Christine Benz identifies the three most overrated risks: invading principal, losses in core-type bond funds, and international stock volatility. 1. Invading principal: "For investors who need a higher yield than 2.5% to 3%, the choice is to edge out on the risk spectrum to generate a higher yield or to tap capital to make up the shortfall. I'd argue that periodically tapping capital from appreciated assets--right now, that means stocks and lower-quality bond types--is preferable to venturing into higher-yield/higher-risk investments," Benz said.  2. Losses in core-type bond funds: "Investors are wise to not be complacent about the bond market. Even as declining bond yields--combined with fairly mild inflation--have made bonds a pretty tranquil investment over the past three decades, a reversal of those trends could spell losses for bond portfolios," Benz said. "But it's also a mistake to overestimate the impact of rising rates for the core-type bond funds that populate most investors' portfolios."  3. International stock volatility: "Many investors assume that investing overseas will bring greater risk to their portfolios. And it's true that the typical foreign fund is more volatile than its U.S.-focused counterpart," she said. "That said, foreign-stock funds vary dramatically in their volatility levels. Some lower-risk foreign-stock funds could reasonably serve as core holdings for risk-averse investors." How To Talk To Your Clients About The Realistic Retirement Expectations (Financial Planning) Miriam Rozen wrote in Financial Planning about the importance of sitting down with clients and discussing realistic expectations for retirement. This process will make retirement planning decisions much easier for the client and the advisor. Deena Katz, chairwoman of Evensky &amp; Katz / Foldes Financial Wealth Management of Miami tells Rozen that resetting expectations can be hard. "Her approach is blunt," writes Rozen. "But I tell them, ‘Do you want to eat less well, or sleep less well?’ ' With that not entirely rhetorical question, Katz walks the clients through the need to balance the risks they are willing to assume as investors against the amount of money they would actually need to afford the retirement lifestyle they picture," according to Rozen. These Tactics Will Help Clients Who Are Late To The Game Save For College (Wall Street Journal) For some advisors, clients may already be behind in saving for their children's college. By the time they hire a financial advisor, their kids may already be in high school, and fast approaching higher education. For those, Melissa Sotudeh from Halpern Financial recommended looking for financial aid opportunities, tax strategies, and subtle ways to cut costs. "Think about what the child's interests are. Many universities have cooperative education programs that lets students do an internship for a semester. I push clients in that direction, since work experience is invaluable and the child will actually earn money," she said. "Parents can utilize certain tax strategies if their child has an internship. If the student earns enough money, they might qualify for the American Opportunity Tax Credit, which provides up to $2,500 towards the cost of tuition and expenses." Robo-Advisor Assets Have Grown 37 Percent In The Last Three Months (Wealth Management) According to Corporate Insight, assets managed by robo-advisors have grown from $11.5 billion at the end of March to $15.7 billion. That's a 36.5% growth over three months, Diana Britton from Wealth Management reported. Some of the leading names include: Assetbuilder, Betterment, Covestor, FutureAdvisor, Personal Capital, SigFig, and Wealthfront. "All these new startups aren’t going to turn the world upside down tomorrow or this year," Grant Easterbook, an analyst at Corporate Insight, told Britton. "But look at the long-term trends here: Gradually baby boomers are retiring, and over time, firms that want to win new business will have to shift prospecting to more tech-savvy, Gen X and Gen Y clients." "If you think about the key tenets that make a good online-focused investment advice solution, it’s modern and user-friendly websites, low cost, low minimums, transparency on performance and fees. What Gen X and Y will likely want sounds a whole lot more like what these new guys are doing," he said. Traditional Advisors Can Learn These Six Lessons From New Robo-Advisors (InvestmentNews) Although the rise of robo-advisors poses a threat to traditional financial advice, Megan Graf from InvestmentNews wrote that there are six lessons advisors can learn from their new competitors. "The growth of online advisers so far shows that there's a service curve along which all sorts of businesses are possible. By scaling your size and streamlining your services, you can reach a pool of prospects untouched by your competitors. Short of building your own online platform, a traditional adviser can compartmentalize their services to build scale within a small business in a strategic way, and finally tap into the mass-affluent market. It's been waiting there all along," Graf said. These lessons include: competing in your preferred specialization, marketing at a larger scale, prioritizing online experience, calling less frequently, and creating client templates.  FREE AppDownload
Today's US June durable goods order report was somewhat disappointing. This stems from the weakness in non-defense shipments excluding aircraft (-1.0% after May's series was revised to -0.1% from +0.4%), which is used for GDP calculations.  It was sufficient to push the US 10-year bond yield back below 2.5.0% and cap the apparently rate-sensitive dollar-yen rate just below JPY102. The 1.4% rise in orders of the same (non-defense, excluding aircraft) was better than expected, but the May series was revised dramatically lower (to -1.2% from +0.7%). Nevertheless, durable goods shipments rose at a 4.1% annualized rate in Q2 after rising 2.2% in Q1, indicating they will likely add to GDP, even if not by as much as it had appeared. In addition, inventories or durable goods also rose to $26.7 bln in Q2 from $19.1 lbn in Q1. This is also a net positive for US Q2 GDP. So while US GDP estimates may be shaved, it is still likely to come in at 3% or just above. The top Great Graphic was tweeted by Ben Chu and is from Macrobond. It shows GDP figures for the G7 countries compared with the 2008 peak.  In Q2, the UK economy finally and just barely surpassed its pre-crisis peak.  This leave Italy as the only G7 country whose economy is still smaller.  TouchstoneBlogThe lower chart is from the Touchstone blog, which draws on IMF data.  It depicts a different measure of GDP--one that is adjusted for population--or GDP per capita.  By this measure, the UK's economy, like Italy and France, has not returned to pre-crisis levels.  Indeed, the French and Italian lines still have a negative slope. There is no "right" measure.  It depends on what the question one is trying to answer.  If it is about the size of the economy, the GDP chart on top offers the clearest answer.  However, if the question is about country's prosperity, the lower chart may be preferable.   Of course, it may be necessary to integrate distributional measures, as well, to get a better sense of how GDP growth is translated into living standards.         Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Suzanne PlunkettMaybe it was almost socially acceptable to behave like a bro when you were caressing a keg and singing Cornell's fight song ... maybe. But now it's time to grow up. Lucky for you, Business Insider is here to help you by turning your smartphone into an even more useful sidekick. Covering everything from getting organized to buying liquor, we've put together a list of the 17 apps that every gentleman needs in 2014.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rafael MarchanteMembers of Vila Franca forcados group perform during a bullfight at Campo Pequeno bullring in Lisbon.Stocks fell on Friday with shares of Visa weighing on the Dow and Amazon serving as the worst performer in the S&amp;P 500. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories on Friday: 1. The lone economic data point of the day was durable goods orders, which grew 0.7% in June, more than the 0.5% expected by economists. Nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft also jumped 1.4%, better than the 0.5% that was expected. However this metric in May was revised to -1.2% from an earlier report of 0.7% growth. Following the report, Millan Mulraine at TD Securities said, "The underlying tone of this report was disappointing." 2. After last night's reported earnings showed a wider than expected quarterly loss, Amazon shares took a beating, falling 10%. Amazon was the worst performer in the S&amp;P 500 on Friday. The online retailer also said that next quarter it could take a huge loss of $410 to $810 million, more than the $10 million that analysts were expecting.  3. Visa shares were the worst performer in the Dow, falling nearly 4% after last night reporting better than expected results but giving a full year revenue outlook that was disappointing. Because of the Dow's weighting formula, each 1-point decline in a Dow member takes 6.42 points off the index, so Visa's roughly 8-point decline took about 51 points off the blue-chip index. 4. CYNK Technology, the social-media company that has one employee, no reported revenue, no assets, and rose more than 25,000% in about three weeks, resumed trading Friday after a two-week halt by the SEC was lifted. It was an ugly day for the stock. CYNK opened down more than 86% and, after briefly rising to about $5 per share, the stock closed down 85% at $2.10 per share.  5. An under-the-radar earnings report out of trucking company Swift Transportation provided a curious bit of economic commentary. Swift said that it is battling "the challenging driver market." In short, the company can't get enough people to drive its trucks. The company said it sees "cost headwinds" into the second half of the year as it signaled it would need to pay more drivers to either retain current drivers or recruit new ones. Business Insider's Rob Wile also noted that the American Trucking Associated has previously warned the country is short 30,000 drivers, with that gap potentially climbing to 200,000 in the next decade. 6. Last night, President Obama sat down with CNBC's Steven Liesman for an interview, and among the topics discussed was "tax inversions," or mergers in which U.S. companies acquire foreign companies and shift their tax base to enjoy lower rates. Obama said that companies changing their mailing address to enjoy lower tax rates are "gaming the system" and "not doing right by the country — and the American people." Following Obama's comments, outspoken entrepreneur Mark Cuban took to Twitter, saying, "If I own stock in your company and you move offshore for tax reasons I'm selling your stock." Cuban also said that if a company is no longer paying taxes, citizens end up making up the difference in other ways.  Don't Miss: Wall Street's Brightest Minds Reveal The Most Important Charts In The World » FREE AppDownload
Dollar-cost averaging is probably the smartest and most-recommended way to invest in the stock market. This strategy involves buying equal dollar amounts of stocks periodically over an extended period of time. If prices fall, you will be getting more shares for the same amount of money. And when the price rallies, you will have spent less per share, on average. You won't hear too many financial advisors trash-talking dollar-cost averaging. But here's the thing: history says you're likely to get higher returns if you just throw all of your money into stocks all at once. AllianceBernstein's Seth Masters ran the numbers. From a new blog post: ...we conducted a historical analysis of the US stock market since 1926. This period encompasses more than 1,000 different entry points across a wide range of market environments, from the Great Depression to the bull markets of the 1980s and 1990s and to the global financial crisis in 2008. Statistically speaking, investing all at once has been the best strategy for maximizing returns (Display 1). The average stock market gain in all rolling 12-month periods since 1926 was 12.2%, while the average result of staying in cash was only 3.6%. Dollar-cost averaging with fixed monthly installments delivered average returns of 8.1% across all the rolling 12-month periods—much better than holding cash but more than 4% worse than investing immediately. That’s because stock markets tend to rise over time, so investing immediately wins on average. That last sentence is key to understanding this, so it bears repeating. "That’s because stock markets tend to rise over time, so investing immediately wins on average." But this type of all-in investing is not for the faint of heart, and Masters acknowledges this. "Dollar-cost averaging has a nonmonetary value, too:  It can help you sleep at night," he writes. "You might think of it as a kind of insurance against the regret you’d feel from a steep market drop right after you invested." So is one strategy better than the other? "In the long run, you’re likely to do best by jumping into the market with both feet," writes Masters. "If you’ve been stuck on the sidelines, dollar-cost averaging may help to overcome your market jitters." The answer to that question is debatable, and it strays away from a more important point. "Either way, the key to achieving your long-term financial objectives is to get to your strategic asset allocation and stay there." The AllianceBernstein Blog FREE AppDownload
Jonathan Ernst/ReutersEconomic refugees have traditionally lined up to get into America. Lately, they have been lining up to leave. In the past few months, half a dozen biggish companies have announced plans to merge with foreign partners and in the process move their corporate homes abroad.  The motive is simple: corporate taxes are lower in Ireland, Britain and, for that matter, almost everywhere else than they are in America. In Washington, DC, policymakers have reacted with indignation. Jack Lew, the treasury secretary, has questioned the companies' patriotism and called on Congress to outlaw such transactions. His fellow Democrats are eager to oblige, and some Republicans are willing to listen. The proposals are misguided. Tightening the rules on corporate "inversions", as these moves are called, does nothing to deal with the reason why so many firms want to leave: America has the rich world's most dysfunctional corporate-tax system. It needs fundamental reform, not new complications. America's corporate tax has two horrible flaws. The first is the tax rate, which at 35% is the highest among the 34 mostly rich-country members of the OECD. Yet it raises less revenue than the OECD average thanks to myriad loopholes and tax breaks aimed at everything from machinery investment to NASCAR race tracks. Last year these breaks cost $150 billion in forgone revenue, more than half of what America collected in total corporate taxes. The second flaw is that America levies tax on a company's income no matter where in the world it is earned. In contrast, every other large rich country taxes only income earned within its borders. Here, too, America's system is absurdly ineffective at collecting money. Firms do not have to pay tax on foreign profits until they bring them back home. Not surprisingly, many do not: American multinationals have some $2 trillion sitting on their foreign units' balance-sheets, and growing. All this imposes big costs on the economy. The high rate discourages investment and loopholes distort it, because decisions are driven by tax considerations rather than a project's economic merits. The tax rate companies actually pay varies wildly, depending on their type of business and the creativity of their lawyers: some pay close to zero, others the full 35%. Twenty years ago inversions were rare. But as other countries chopped their rates and America's stayed the same, the incentive to flee grew. Until a decade ago Bermuda and other tax havens were the destination of choice, until Congress banned inversions where less than 20% of the company changed hands. Democrats have proposed expanding that prohibition to any transaction where less than 50% of the company changes hands--so an American company that bought a smaller foreign firm could not reincorporate abroad if its original shareholders remained in charge. Such a ban would be at best a temporary palliative. An American company paying higher taxes than its foreign competitors has a powerful incentive to find a way around the rules. Consultants are already coming up with dodges in case this proposal becomes law. The real solution is to lower the corporate rate, eliminate tax breaks and move America from a worldwide system to a territorial one. Barack Obama has proposed a reform that cuts the rate to 28% but keeps the worldwide reach. Dave Camp, a Republican congressman, has plumped for 25%, the OECD average, and a shift to a territorial system, instead. It should be possible to bridge the differences. But both sides have tied the subject to other issues. Mr Obama insists that corporate-tax reform must also raise more money to spend on things like public infrastructure, which the Republicans oppose; they, in turn, want to package it with cuts in personal tax rates, which Mr Obama is loth to accept. Thus, nothing happens. The two sides should drop their conditions and hammer out a stand-alone corporate-tax reform that reduces the rate and broadens the base. Until then, expect the line-up of corporate migrants to grow. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Greenlight Capital CEO David Einhorn sent out his Q2 investor letter this week, and the big takeaway is about how low interest rates are impacting corporate acquisitions. In a nutshell: Low interest rates are transforming acquirers into bad shoppers. In Einhorn's view, acquirers are paying too much for the companies they're buying because they want to take advantage of these low rates. This has impacted Greenlight's performance on the short side of the fund's portfolio. Companies that Einhorn thinks are over-valued are simply being purchased for way too much, driving up their stock price and losing Greenlight money. "Companies we are short often have serious problems of which boards and management are probably aware," said the letter. "This makes them more eager than usual to sell at any sort of premium. The prospective buyers ought to discover these problems during due diligence, which should make them walk away. But in the current environment, debt financing is so inexpensive that buyers can pay premiums and have the deals be accretive to EPS, making them more willing to ignore any problems they discover." On pages 2-4 of the letter, Einhorn takes us through a sort of Acquisitions Hall of Shame — a list of the company's short positions that have been acquired in spite of their issues. Greenlight, for the record, is up 6.4% year to date compared to the S&amp;P, which has returned 5.2%. Check out the full letter below (via ValueWalk): Greenlight Capital Q2 2014 by ValueWalk  FREE AppDownload
Secret/Business Insider Wouldn't it be nice to put in six months of work and make $6 million? That just happened for the founders of Secret, a six-month-old anonymous social networking app that raised $25 million at an eye-popping $100 million valuation earlier this month. During the round of financing, investors let founders David Byttow and Chrys Bader-Wechseler sell restricted stock in exchange for $6 million in cash, which sources say they split.  When asked about the new-found millions, Secret pointed to its Form D filing, which seems to confirm the $6 million deal. The form shows a total offering of $30.9 million, of which $24.9 was sold for cash and the remaining $6 million sold (or will be sold) "in exchange for securities of the issuer."  Google +Secret cofounder David ByttowIt may seem shocking for such a young startup to net its founders a few million dollars without any sort of exit. Actually, these days it's almost normal. Allowing founders of hot startups to take money off the table has become a popular motivational tool in Silicon Valley. It encourages startups to think long term and as big as possible. It relieves some of the temptation to sell the company early, which could minimize return on investment.  The idea is to let founders breathe a little financial sigh of relief, but not give them enough that they start slacking off. Snapchat's founders, for example, took $10 million each during their latest round of financing. In Secret's case, $3 million after taxes boils down to about $2 million — hardly enough for the young ex-Googlers to throw in the towel (or even to afford a modest house in Silicon Valley). "I’m seeing that happen more and more often," one investor said of Byttow's and Bader-Wechseler's fundraising. "The founders are giving up a piece of the outcome they could have had. What you have to gauge as an investor giving them a deal like that is, will they be negatively motivated? As long as people are careful about those aspects, it can be fine to do. Every scenario is different. At a high level, I think it’s best to keep motivation with employees." SEC.govThe relevant part of Secret's Form D filing. FREE AppDownload
Jonathan Ernst/ReutersEconomic refugees have traditionally lined up to get into America. Lately, they have been lining up to leave. In the past few months, half a dozen biggish companies have announced plans to merge with foreign partners and in the process move their corporate homes abroad.  The motive is simple: corporate taxes are lower in Ireland, Britain and, for that matter, almost everywhere else than they are in America. In Washington, DC, policymakers have reacted with indignation. Jack Lew, the treasury secretary, has questioned the companies' patriotism and called on Congress to outlaw such transactions. His fellow Democrats are eager to oblige, and some Republicans are willing to listen. The proposals are misguided. Tightening the rules on corporate "inversions", as these moves are called, does nothing to deal with the reason why so many firms want to leave: America has the rich world's most dysfunctional corporate-tax system. It needs fundamental reform, not new complications. America's corporate tax has two horrible flaws. The first is the tax rate, which at 35% is the highest among the 34 mostly rich-country members of the OECD. Yet it raises less revenue than the OECD average thanks to myriad loopholes and tax breaks aimed at everything from machinery investment to NASCAR race tracks. Last year these breaks cost $150 billion in forgone revenue, more than half of what America collected in total corporate taxes. The second flaw is that America levies tax on a company's income no matter where in the world it is earned. In contrast, every other large rich country taxes only income earned within its borders. Here, too, America's system is absurdly ineffective at collecting money. Firms do not have to pay tax on foreign profits until they bring them back home. Not surprisingly, many do not: American multinationals have some $2 trillion sitting on their foreign units' balance-sheets, and growing. All this imposes big costs on the economy. The high rate discourages investment and loopholes distort it, because decisions are driven by tax considerations rather than a project's economic merits. The tax rate companies actually pay varies wildly, depending on their type of business and the creativity of their lawyers: some pay close to zero, others the full 35%. Twenty years ago inversions were rare. But as other countries chopped their rates and America's stayed the same, the incentive to flee grew. Until a decade ago Bermuda and other tax havens were the destination of choice, until Congress banned inversions where less than 20% of the company changed hands. Democrats have proposed expanding that prohibition to any transaction where less than 50% of the company changes hands--so an American company that bought a smaller foreign firm could not reincorporate abroad if its original shareholders remained in charge. Such a ban would be at best a temporary palliative. An American company paying higher taxes than its foreign competitors has a powerful incentive to find a way around the rules. Consultants are already coming up with dodges in case this proposal becomes law. The real solution is to lower the corporate rate, eliminate tax breaks and move America from a worldwide system to a territorial one. Barack Obama has proposed a reform that cuts the rate to 28% but keeps the worldwide reach. Dave Camp, a Republican congressman, has plumped for 25%, the OECD average, and a shift to a territorial system, instead. It should be possible to bridge the differences. But both sides have tied the subject to other issues. Mr Obama insists that corporate-tax reform must also raise more money to spend on things like public infrastructure, which the Republicans oppose; they, in turn, want to package it with cuts in personal tax rates, which Mr Obama is loth to accept. Thus, nothing happens. The two sides should drop their conditions and hammer out a stand-alone corporate-tax reform that reduces the rate and broadens the base. Until then, expect the line-up of corporate migrants to grow. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
YouTube/USA Food & VacationInvestors are going wild for El Pollo Loco, a chicken restaurant chain that debuted on the public market Friday. The company's shares surged an eye-popping 55% from its IPO price of $15 on the first day of trading. So what's so great about this chain that's been around for more than three decades?  For many investors, it resembles the massively successful Chipotle.  Like Chipotle, it's a fast casual chain that serves Mexican-style food in large portions. Its same-store sales growth rate is comparable to Chipotle's, and actually surpassed Chipotle's in 2012 and 2013, according to The Motley Fool's Nickey Friedman.  El Pollo Loco, which translates to "the crazy chicken," is also extremely popular. It recently won second place for best-tasting fast food chicken restaurant in the country behind Chick-fil-A in a Consumer Reports survey. The restaurant's first U.S. location opened in Los Angeles in 1980. It now has 401 restaurants, more than half of which are franchised. Most of the locations are in California and the rest are in Nevada, Texas, Arizona, and Utah.  The chain is known for its citrus flavored fire-grilled chicken, which is served in family-sized portions or as part of individual dishes such as burritos, bowls, salads and tortas. Appetizers include chicken nachos and chicken tortilla soup and there are more than a half dozen sides, such as refried beans, corn, broccoli, macaroni and cheese, mashed potatoes, french fries, and rice. The chicken is cooked over an open flame for about an hour, like in the photo below.  Facebook/El Pollo LocoAt the self-serve salsa bar, customers can ladle unlimited amounts of salsa, jalapenos and cilantro onto their dishes. Flickr/Al PavangkananThe avocado salsa, pictured on top of the Carne Asada Tostada below, is a customer favorite.  Facebook/El Pollo Loco El Pollo Loco says 47% of their sales come from bone-in chicken meals (like the one pictured below) while the rest come from their Mexican offerings, such as burritos and tostadas.   #closeup of @ElPolloLoco in #dtla for lunch earlier! #scbd pic.twitter.com/2fo2Mz015L FREE AppDownload
screengrab via GladiatorGoldman Sachs has downgraded stocks. "We downgrade to neutral over 3 months as a sell-off in bonds could lead to a temporary sell-off in equities," write Goldman Sachs' portfolio strategy team led by Anders Nielsen. "This makes the near-term risk/ reward less attractive despite our strong conviction that equities are the best positioned asset class over 12 months, where we remain overweight." Over the next three months, Goldman expects equities to return 1.8%, but over the next 12 months stocks still appear poised to return 10.5%. "Growth has improved substantially," they wrote. "Most of the acceleration we had expected is now behind us, but we expect growth to be sustained at current or slightly higher levels, with the US growing at around 3% through 2017. We think the likelihood of a rise in government bond yields has increased and see this as a key aspect of the near-term macro outlook." This outlook is a short-term view for Goldman, but shows the firm viewing the upcoming stretch leading us out of earnings and the summer as a potentially vulnerable time for the market. FREE AppDownload
Dominique GodboutWall Street lost a legend on Friday. Alan "Ace" Greenberg, the former Bear Stearns CEO, died after a battle with cancer. He was 86.  Greenberg, who could be described as "old school" on Wall Street, was famous for the quirky memos he would send his traders. These memos have been chronicled in his book "Memos From The Chairman." The most famous one is probably his "paper clip" memo from Aug. 9, 1985. After a profitable quarter, he told his traders that they would cut back on expenses by saving paper clips. (Note: the man Haimchinkel Malintz Anaynikal he refers to is a fictitious character he used in many of his memos to illustrate his points.) I was just shown the results for our first quarter. They were excellent. When mortals go through a prosperous period, it seems to be human nature for expenses to balloon. We are going to be the exception. I have just informed the purchasing department that they should no longer purchase paper clips. All of us receive documents every day with paper clips on them. If we save these paper clips, not only will we have enough for our own use, but we will also, in a short time, be awash in the little critters. Periodically, we will collect excess paper clips and sell them (since the cost to us is zero the Arbitrage Department tells me the return on capital will be above average). This action may seem a little petty, but anything we can do to make our people conscious of expenses is worthwhile.  In addition to the paper clip caper, we are also going to cut down on ordering the blue envelopes used for interoffice mail. These envelopes can be used over and over again. All of us are going to help our bottom line grow.  Bear Stearns is probably going to sell stock to the public, and there is one guarantee that I would like to give the potential buyers of our stock – they are going to get the fairest shake from us that management can give any public shareholder. This place is going to be run tight, and the reasons are not all altruistic. We are not going public for the perks. We are going public for a number of reasons, and one is that we want the stock to appreciate.  You have probably guessed by now that these thoughts are not original. They came from Haimchinkel Malintz Anaynikal's earlier works. His thoughts have not exactly steered us wrong so far. Let's stick with his theories till he lets us down.  Greenberg served as CEO of Bear from 1978 to 1993. He was the chairman from 1985 until 2001. The bank collapsed in 2008.  FREE AppDownload
Last night, Elon Musk, the Tesla Motors founder and real-life Tony Stark, joined Stephen Colbert to discuss what’s going on with his cars and rockets. He also demos a rocket that takes off and then lands in the exact same spot – a critical breakthrough for space travel that would lower the cost of missions dramatically. Check out all three videos below and then a special surprise! Part I:  Part II:  Mars discussion (web exclusive):  Wanna see something cool? Here’s Stephen interviewing Elon back in 2010. He’s trying to explain SpaceX and Tesla electric cars; it’s amazing how everything he said he would do actually worked out! "We have a sedan under development which is about half the price [of the roadster], and then the 3rd generation will be half again as low as that, so it may be under $30,000," Musk says. "That’s really our target in the long term, is to make mass-market electric cars."  Musk also talks about SpaceX's goal of carrying astronauts to the International Space Station. NASA has since chosen SpaceX as one of three private firms to do just that. They're still testing the equipment, but the first crew shuttle mission is likely to happen sometime next year. Check it out:  The Colbert Report FREE AppDownload
Photo Credit: Courtesy of Dewar's Dreaming of a wee dram of Scotch? There's no better place to drink the uisge beatha (Gaelic for "water of life") than in its birthplace. Travelers with a taste for single malts can take in spectacular, emerald-green scenery; mysterious peat bogs; and mist-capped mountains as they discover distilleries scattered from the Highlands to the Lowlands, from Glasgow to the ruggedly beautiful island of Islay. Get ready to bust out your tartan—we're taking you on a tour of Scotland's 10 best places to enjoy Scotch whisky. More from Fodor's: This article originally appeared at Fodor's.  Copyright 2014. Follow Fodor's on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipMainland Chinese visitors stand outside a Burberry store at Tsim Sha Tsui shopping district in Hong Kong January 18, 2013. PARIS (Reuters) - The outlook for the luxury goods industry darkened on Friday as poor results from industry leader LVMH showed how the strong euro and political protests in Hong Kong were major factors curbing spending by Chinese and Russian customers. Shares in LVMH, seen as setting the tone for the luxury goods industry, fell as much as 7.2 percent on Friday - the biggest one-day drop since 2009, dragging down companies in the sector such as Cartier-owner Richemont, down 3 percent and Gucci-owner Kering, which fell 3.7 percent. LVMH's trading update late on Thursday revealed a marked drop in business in Hong Kong, where pro-democracy protests have deterred Chinese visitors, as well as a drop in demand from elsewhere in China, and a much-worse-than-expected slump in Japan, boding ill for the sector. "We believe this sends a cold chill to investors who bought back into luxury in the spring in expectation of an upturn in demand from Chinese buyers," said JP Morgan Cazenove luxury goods analyst Melanie Flouquet. Sales growth in the luxury goods industry, which bounced back between 2010 and 2012 after the financial crisis, has been slowing in the past two years, hit by China's crackdown on corruption and conspicuous spending. Many luxury brands, such as Louis Vuitton, Gucci and some watchmakers, had invested heavily in new shops in China since the mid-2000s to entice middle and upper class buyers. China had been seen as the industry's main growth engine, helping make up for lackluster demand in Europe and Japan. But on Friday, LVMH's results cemented the view that buoyant demand from China would never return and the global luxury goods industry was entering a long period of modest growth. "Sentiment towards the industry may not change direction until trends in Asia stabilize," said Omar Saad, consumer goods analyst at New York broker ISI Group. On Thursday, LVMH published first-half sales and profits below expectations and said fewer tourists, particularly from China, were shopping in Hong Kong. The former British colony is where many leading luxury brands earn more than 10 percent of their global revenue. For Richemont, it represents about 16 percent of its sales and for Swatch Group, which on Tuesday expressed concern about future trading there, it is about 12 percent. Together, Hong Kong, Macao and mainland China represent more than a third of sales for most leading luxury brands. The industry downturn has hit watchmakers hardest as timepieces are a classic gift-for-favors item. "It will take a few months, if not a few quarters, for the situation to normalize," LVMH Chief Financial Office Jean-Jacques Guiony said on Thursday of the group's watch business in China. LVMH's watch business, which includes the Hublot, Zenith, Louis Vuitton and Tag Heuer brands, is much smaller than that of Swatch and Richemont. Adding to its woes, the world's No.1 luxury group said growth in sales from Louis Vuitton, its main cash cow, had dropped in China in the second quarter from the first, while revenues from Chinese tourists declined in major European markets such as France. The strong euro has made goods and services more expensive for tourists, and LVMH was the latest luxury group to complain that numbers of Chinese tourists in shopping hotspots such as Paris had dropped due to their fears of being mugged. Chinese tourism associations say their citizens are targeted in Paris because they are thought more likely to carry cash than other tourists. Russian tourists, the world's No.2 luxury goods buyers after the Chinese, have been traveling and spending less on luxury goods in Europe due to the Ukraine crisis and the fall in the rouble, according to several luxury brands including Gucci and leather goods maker Salvatore Ferragamo &lt;SFER.MI&gt;. But analysts said some of LVMH's grim news was specific to the group. Louis Vuitton, the source of more than half of LVMH's operating profit, has been struggling to counter a feeling among emerging market customers that it has become too ubiquitous. The brand's sales growth in the second quarter collapsed to zero from 9 percent the previous three months. Next week, all eyes will be on Gucci, which has seen revenue growth collapse in the past three years from over 10 percent to close to zero. Like Gucci, Louis Vuitton has been trying to win back customers and regain exclusivity by strengthening its higher-end offering with leather goods and smart designs. But analysts said its latest results showed such efforts could take longer than expected to pay off. (Additional reporting by Alexandre Boksenbaum-Granier in Paris; Editing by Andrew Callus and Giles Elgood) FREE AppDownload
El Pollo LocoShares of El Pollo Loco, the fire-grilled chicken specialists, were up as much as 55% as they made their NASDAQ debut Friday. The Costa Mesa, California-based firm had sold 7.1 million shares for $15 each in its IPO, according to a statement yesterday, after offering them for $13 to $15, Bloomberg said. Friday they were trading at more than $22. That already makes their market cap larger than Potbelly's, another fast-casual chain that has seen its share price decline 62% since its debut in October. Potbelly's market cap is now $340 million compared with Pollo Loco's $540 million. Bloomberg's broader quick-service restaurant index is down 1.1% this year. El Pollo Loco was founded in western Mexico in the late '70s. It now has hundreds of restaurants, mostly concentrated in the southwest but with some franchises elsewhere.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesIconic Wall Street banker Alan "Ace" Greenberg, the former Bear Stearns CEO and JPMorgan Chairman Emeritus,  passed away from a battle with cancer. He was 86. JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon and JPMorgan Asset Management CEO Mary Callan Erdoes sent the following note to employees:  Note from Jamie Dimon and Mary Callahan Erdoes to JPMC Employees Today we mourn the loss of a true industry icon, Ace Greenberg. It’s hard to imagine a financial services industry without Ace. In many respects, he epitomized the American dream, rising from a clerk to the corner office during his 65 years with the firm. Whether he was building Bear Stearns into an industry powerhouse or wowing the trading floor with his penchant for magic, Ace’s personality permeated everything he did. His intelligence and wit was only surpassed by his generosity and thoughtfulness.  J.P. Morgan is no doubt a better place for having had Ace as a part of it, and while there will never be another Ace Greenberg, the example he set will certainly live on through all of us that had the opportunity to learn from him. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family.   Jamie                                             Mary   FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Betsy WeberManagement professor Clay Christensen teaches a class at Harvard Business School.MBA students at top-tier business schools learn the critical accounting, marketing, and management skills required to run a successful business. One of the main ways they learn these skills is through case studies, a teaching method borrowed from the sciences and first applied to corporate analysis by Harvard Business School. Students are presented with some of the most difficult business situations in corporate history and then discuss how a company either triumphed spectacularly or failed miserably. We asked several professors from top business schools — including Laurence Capron of INSEAD, Tim Vogus of Vanderbilt University, Aaron Chatterji of Duke University, and Gautam Ahuja of the University of Michigan — to share the most important case studies they teach their students. We've highlighted the main takeaway from each. FREE AppDownload
APAlan "Ace" Greenberg, who served as CEO of Bear Stearns from 1978 to 1993, died today at the age of 86. The legendary trader, who started as a clerk at Bear in 1949, received high praise from Warren Buffett in the forward to his 1996 book: "Ace Greenberg does almost everything better than I do: bridge, magic tricks, dog training, arbitrage — all of the important things in life.” A bridge fanatic like Buffett, Greenberg famously hired a bunch of bridge players at Bear including future CEO Jimmy Cayne. After the firm's demise in March 2008, however, Greenberg blamed his former protegé for taking excessive risks while paying too much attention to bridge and smoking dope. Read more on the Wall Street legend here » FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockMiami has sun, sand, and sex, but it lacks one critical feature of the modern luxury economy: a place for ultra-wealthy seafarers to dock their shimmering mega-yachts. This is undoubtedly something that keeps the proud residents of South Florida awake at night — awake in the soft, humid night, after the final mojito has been downed and the last salsa danced in South Beach. So the city is doing something about it. The question is: Will the mega-yacht harbor be done in time for the 2015 Miami Yacht &amp; Brokerage Show? The show kicks off in mid-February, so the clock is ticking for the developer of the project, the Flagstone Property Group. But according to Miami Today, the firm has assured the City Commission that work has begun, the deadline will be met, and the mega-yachts with not be denied.Northrop & JohnsonHelp me, Miami. I can't wander the seas forever.In fact, the Harbor at Island Gardens — the port is part of a planned $1 billion residential, dining, retail, and entertainment mecca — will address a global dearth of mega-yacht slips not just in Miami, but on the planet.  The current torrid rate of mega-yacht construction outstrips the supply of watery high-end parking spots. And while it's amusing to ply the waves, literally unmoored and addressless for weeks or months, there comes a time when you want to pull into port. Which will cost you. More than $4,000 a day. As Charterworld reported back in February, the new marina will "accommodate 35 to 75 mega-yachts, superyachts and giga-yachts within a range of 80 to 480 feet." (If mega-yachts don't do it for you, giga-yachts the size of Navy frigates are where you turn). This is critical: when it comes to mega-yachts, you have to cater to the 300-foot-and-above-club. We reached out to the Yacht &amp; Brokerage Show organizers for a preview of mega-, super-, and giga-yachts to expect next year in Miami and will update when we know more. FREE AppDownload
BloombergThe New York Times reports that Alan "Ace" Greenberg, the former CEO of Bear Stearns, has died at age 86. His son Theodore told The Times that his father died of complications from cancer. Greenberg was at the helm of Bear Stearns when the 85-year-old bank collapsed in 2008 and was eventually sold to JP Morgan for $10 a share. He started at the firm as a clerk in the 1940s. His domination of the bank started in 1978, when he became became chief executive; he then became chairman in 1985 and chairman of the executive committee in 2001. Greenberg was known for his obsession with card games — he kept a deck at his desk — saving office supplies, and magic tricks (which he would perform for kids). He loved cigars and exotic travel that had him hunting big game and swimming with sharks. Born in Oklahoma City in 1927, Greenberg got to Wall Street when it was a different kind of place. He didn't have an Ivy League degree, but he was able to work his way up from the bottom at Bear Stearns — a firm known for being one of the scrappier places in the business — in a way that is basically impossible now. Back in 2011, former Bear Stearns analyst Lee Munson, now CEO of New Mexico-based hedge fund Portfolio LLC, told us Greenberg had a friendly demeanor and used to spend time every day walking up and down the aisles through the office saying hello everyone. Maybe it was for exercise, maybe it was just to let everyone know he was there, really there. "He was a great leader, a great example; he had incredible wisdom and experience. He was always very quick on the phone but everything he said was very meaningful," said Jason Ader, of SpringOwl Asset Management. Ader joined Bear as a gaming and casino analyst when was in his late 20s. He told Business Insider that one of his fondest memories of his time there was going to a heavyweight fight in Las Vegas with Greenberg. "For me it was one of the great moments, we talked just about the market and experiences ... when he led Bear Stearns, it was a great place," Ader said. "He was an iconic Wall Street leader and had a huge impact." From Fox Business News' Charlie Gasparino: "Legendary trader CEO magician and mensch Alan 'Ace' Greenberg died today after a bout with cancer that couldn't keep him from working to the end. RIP, my friend." FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderThis is it: the most important charts in the world. We asked dozens of our favorite analysts, economists, strategists, and portfolio managers on Wall Street and around the world to send us their most important charts. And the picture these charts paint about the state of investing around the world is fascinating. Some themes that arise are continued questions about the housing and credit markets in China, volatility — or the lack thereof — in global markets, and how we can get a sense of what happens when the Fed makes its next move. But three themes don’t adequately capture the array of topics covered in this collection.
A business unit of Citigroup will pay $5 million to settle civil charges that one of its private trading venues violated federal law by failing to protect its clients' confidential trading data, U.S. regulators said Friday. The Securities and Exchange Commission said that the unit, LavaFlow Inc, is settling the case without admitting or denying the charges. This marks the latest in a string of enforcement cases by the SEC in recent years targeting alternative trading systems, a type of trading platform that competes with traditional exchanges. The SEC said the case represents the largest-ever penalty imposed so far on an alternative trading system. FREE AppDownload
 Jim Chanos was on Bloomberg TV's Charlie Rose on Thursday night talking China — and so yes, as expected, it was dark. But there was a whole new political element to Chanos' negativity that we had not heard from him before. "The anti-corruption drive, which is something we've been focusing on for the last year and a half, since Xi Jinping has been in power, is actually much more than that," Chanos told Rose. "It now appears to us to be a far more serious effort to cleanse the party. And if you look at the people's daily overnight announcements — I mean, there is four or five headshots put up on Twitter and on their website, of people who have been taken away every night. I mean it's almost as if you're seeing a Soviet-style 1930s purge through a social media ... People are falling out of buildings. I mean I'm not exaggerating ..." Yes, you hear about the national politicians who get taken away, but the lower-level officials never make U.S. headlines, and they're getting taken all the time. It looks like this: Xia Xianlu, Xiangyang City Public Security chief, Hubei province, is under probe for serious violations pic.twitter.com/buGV2frBot Media reports +Rmb100million of assets found at home of Wu Changshun, Chief of Public Security Bureau of Tianjin City pic.twitter.com/DMkIm6ZY3I It's well known that Chanos thinks China's infrastructure and housing development has the country on a "treadmill to hell." Growth (the speed of the treadmill) has to remain at a healthy number like 7.5% of GDP, so even if there's not enough organic consumption (i.e. people to live in houses and use roads), development must continue. The dirty money that he's talking about, though, was real people paying for real things they were using with real cash — corrupt or not. To Chanos, Xi is doing this to consolidate his own power. He sees Xi as more of a Putin — one man leading the country — rather than one man leading a committee. "Although he [Xi] is a communist, and part of the Communist Party ... he is a nationalist," Chanos said. "And I think that two years ago, three years ago, we would have said he will be first among equals. I think it's very fair to say now he's first. And that he's going to be much more firm, much more aggressive, and much more muscular in the way he looks at the world." This isn't a new way to look at leadership in China. In fact, this idea of how the country should be governed has existed since the 1980s; it's called neo-authoritarianism. It argues that China needs a strongman who also believes in capitalism to really get China's economy in gear. Everyone else can sit down and enjoy the ride. Xiao Gongqin, a history professor at Shanghai Normal University started arguing this in the 1980s, and based it on Deng Xiaoping, an authoritarian economic reformer. So it's not like this idea doesn't have any fans. FREE AppDownload
born1945/flickrShares in Swift Transportation, the largest truckload carrier in North America, were down 14% Friday after management warned it was going to have to invest more to address a driver shortage. The Phoenix-based firm now says it's going to have to spend more on wages and training to hold onto and attract more drivers. ...We were constrained in the truckload and (central refrigerated systems)  segments by the challenging driver market. Our driver turnover and unseated truck count were higher than anticipated. Therefore, we sold more trucks in the second quarter to offset the impact of idle equipment, which drove additional gains on sale of equipment this period. After assessing the current and expected environment, we believe the best investment we can make at this time, for all of our stakeholders, is in our drivers. Our goal is to clear the path for our drivers by helping them overcome challenges, eliminate wait times and take home more money. It now sees "cost headwinds" going into the second half of the year. The American Trucking Association has warned the country is short 30,000 drivers, and that the gap could climb to 200,000 in the next decade. FREE AppDownload
Google FinanceMarkets are in the red early in the U.S. trading session. The Dow is down 158 points. The S&amp;P 500 is down 11.2 points. The Nasdaq is down 32.9 points. Leading the way down is Amazon.com, whch reported disappointing Q2 financial results on Thursday afternoon. Amazon had a Q2 net loss of $0.27 per share, which was much worse than the $0.15 net loss expected. Management also warned that it expected to book an operating loss of $410 million to $810 million in Q3 as it aggressively invests for growth. AMZN is down by around 11%. Visa is down 5% after their earnings announcement. Visa earned $2.17 per share in Q3, beating expectations fo $2.10. Total payments volume at the transactions company jumped 11% to $1.2 trillion during the period. Visa CEO Charlie Scharf said the company's earnings grew, "in the face of a continued, subdued global economy." Visa is a component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, and each 1 point move in a Dow stock is equal to a 6.42 point move in the Dow. This means that Visa's 10 point decline is hacking 64 points off the Dow. Another big loser in the wake of earnings is Starbucks, which is down by 2% this morning. Starbucks reported Q2 global comparable store sales grew by 6%, beating expectations for 5.1% growth. This helped earnings come in at $0.67 per share, which was a penny ahead of analysts' estimates. "Our Q3 results give us confidence in our ability to deliver on our full year fiscal 2014 targets and support the strong 2015 revenue and profit growth targets we introduced today, despite continued challenging economic and consumer headwinds in many of the global markets in which we operate," said Starbucks CFO Scott Maw. FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Paramount Pictures and 20th Century FoxElon Musk made another appearance on "The Colbert Report" last night and when asked by the host why Tesla had recently given away all its patents, Musk replied with an alarming analogy. "Why are you being the Edward Snowden of you?" Colbert inquired. "If we're all in a ship together," Musk said, "and the ship has some holes in it, and we're sort of bailing water out of it, and we have a great design for a bucket, then even if we're bailing out way better than everyone else, we should probably still share the bucket design." So what "ship" is Musk talking about here? Planet Earth? Or the electric car business? Maybe both. Obviously, Musk is worried about the fate of our Big Blue Marble. He's publicly stated that his quest to colonize Mars is all about "backing up the biosphere." But despite Tesla's impressive performance since its IPO in 2010, the rest of electric-car market isn't in such great shape. Better Place went bankrupt. CODA went bankrupt. Fisker went bankrupt. Aptera liquidated. Bright Automotive shut down. Wheego is still around, and outside the startup scene, there's the Nissan Leaf, the Honda Fit EV, and the Mitsubishi i-MiEV, as well as a spate of full-electric cars and plug-ins from other major manufacturers, but nothing that's selling at major volume or captivating the imagination like Tesla (a.k.a. "The Bucket"). It's enough to keep a visionary multibillionaire up at night. Or compel him to take the unprecedented step, for the auto industry, of open-sourcing all the tech that underlies his $28-billion market cap company. On a lighter note, we also learned that software upgrades to the Model S sedan will enable owners to do what grandmothers have been doing for decades: Name their cars. Musk of course has the upgrade already and has christened his personal Model S "Old Faithful." Colbert didn't say what he was going to name his Tesla, but we're thinking "Stephen" is a good bet.Shutterstock.comOld Faithful erupts in Yellowstone National Park. FREE AppDownload
Franklin RuttanThe old Adirondacks home of the famous financier J.P. Morgan is now on the market for $3.25 million. Built in 1895, the camp-style house was in Morgan's family for half a century. Located on Mohegan Lake, there are only two other private properties on the six-mile road to Camp Uncas. There's also a gate to keep unauthorized vehicles out. The house has five bedrooms, 3.5 bathrooms, and a total of about 4,000 square feet. According to the WSJ, there's also a 6-foot-long bathtub specifically to accommodate J.P. Morgan's height. The house also features a children's playhouse, a lean-to, a boat house with dock, and two guest cabins. The current owner, Howard Kirschenbaum, bought the vacation home in 1976 and has restored it over the years. The property is listed with Michael Franklin of Franklin Ruttan. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Revenge of the Nerds, screenshotYou remember that kid in elementary school, the one who would argue during a game of tag: “You said you have to tag the person. Well you only touched my clothes. That isn’t a person.” Remember that kid? That kid is Wall Street. So clever, so damned determined to win, they will argue and argue, finding whatever shortcomings a game has, and try to exploit it. To them, rules, and the words used to describe them, are there to manipulated. With enough cleverness, determination, and gumption, any game can be won – on a technicality if need be. For instance, there is a rule in the US that if you make a bet on stocks and win, and your bet lasts less than a year, then you have to pay a high tax rate of around 39% in capital gains taxes. If, however, your bet last more than a year, then you have to pay only 20% in long-term capital gains taxes. The tax law is structured to encourage long-term investments – which usually carry a higher risk that the money may be lost – with lower tax rates. Wall Street, who again, is that smart kid who can’t turn down a chance to win and show how dumb rules are, couldn’t resist a 19% savings. That is too much of an incentive not to game. But how do you turn a short-term bet into a long-term bet? Or more precisely, as a Senate panel is now investigating, if you are a hedge fund who makes a lot of short-term bets on stocks, some lasting less than a second, how do you turn all of those bets into one long-term bet? With complex financial products. More precisely, with complex financial products sold by, in this case, Deutsche Bank and Barclays. Even more precisely, complex financial products sold by Deutsche Bank and Barclays with arcane names like Maps and Colt. How these products work is far too confusing and confusing for the average investor, or more importantly, the average Wall Street regulator to easily figure out. I traded financial products on Wall Street for 20 years, and I had a hard time understanding the product. The result, and intention, though, is very clear. They are a financial service, sold by Wall Street banks, using lots of shell companies and lots of underlying financial products, to lower taxes for hedge funds by turning short term trades into long term trades. This was done a lot – like hundreds of billions of dollars a lot, according to the Senate Report, in some form or another, from 1998 until it was declared “abusive” by the IRS in 2010. The total amount of taxes not paid? The Senate Report estimate is “tax avoidance of more than $6bn”, but nobody really knows. It's complex. The $6bn is what the hedge funds saved on taxes. Those funds were the banks' customers. What did the Wall Street banks get, other than feeling really smart? For Deutsche Bank, according again to the Senate report, $570m in fees from the hedge funds, and for Barclays, $655m in fees. Lots of money, but that’s Wall Street. Here's the thing, though: most of Wall Street genuinely didn’t, and doesn’t, think there is anything wrong with this. Nor do many of the hedge funds. In fact, they've been fighting it out with the IRS for quite a few years now, refusing to say "uncle". There is a simple phrase I often heard on Wall Street trading floors about laws and regulations: “Shame on them for making such a stupid rule.” In that context, "them" is whoever you were trying to scam at the time, be it the IRS, be it a foreign government, be it silly regulators, or be it stubborn customers. Rules are made to be gamed, and games are played to be won. That is at the core of the culture of Wall Street. If you don’t understand that, you don’t understand Wall Street. In my twenty years on Wall Street I helped exploit (sorry, the word we used was "arbitrage") many bad rules, for the profit of my bank and our customers. It wasn’t considered shameful at all. Particularly clever schemes – and the Maps and Colt products are very clever – were rewarded with praise, career advancement, and most importantly, very big bonuses. None of them got a hearing from Senator Carl Levin's permanent subcommittee on investigations. Think about it. Masquerading a bunch of one-minute trades to look, for regulators, like one large three-year trade. To save 19% in taxes. That is a rule that is just too easy to abuse. That is a game that is too profitable not to play. The Senate can have all the hearings they want. Regulators can throw all the huge fines at banks they want. That isn’t going to change Wall Street’s behavior. That kid in elementary school who was never tagged, who never lost a bet. They always won. They didn’t care about being popular. Wall Street doesn’t care about being popular either. Wall Street is just playing a game. A game with huge payouts for winning. And Wall Street is winning. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
It happens much more often than we'd like. But why? A couple of scientists have formulated theories about why you feel like you're falling and then suddenly wake up. Here's what they think is going on. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
site.introbiz.com CYNK Technology, which was halted for trade by the SEC after rallying more than 25,000% in just a few days, fell more than 83% to $2.25 per share after resuming trade. CYNK is one of the most bizarre stock stories we've seen in a while. In just over two weeks of trading, shares went from about $0.05 to about $18, though the company appeared to have no revenue, no assets, and just one employee.  BI's Julia La Roche tracked down the man currently identified as CYNK CEO, Javier Romero, who is just one in a series of people who have served as the company's CEO, as well as its lone employee. La Roche and BI's Hunter Walker later spoke with John Kueber, a Nevada businessman who started CYNK in 2008 but later sold the company to a man named Kenneth Carter. Shares of CYNK have been halted since July 11, and with a limited number of shares changing hands — and considering how unclear it is who actually owns those shares — expect the stock to have a wild ride.  This is what trading in CYNK looks like in chart form. Ugly. Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
Kirby Lee-USA TODAY SportsPandora shares were down as much as 13% Friday. The Internet radio developer reported after the bell Thursday that user growth fell last quarter, and its advertising revenue also came in lower than expected. RBC Capital Markets is unfazed. In a note released after Pandora announced its earnings they wrote: Pandora has beat the upper end of its Revenue guidance in 11 out of the last 12 quarters, tho the upside this quarter was relatively modest. That reality and the recent rally in the stock provided the set-up for an expectations correction, which is how we view the 11% after-market selloff. Our long-term thesis remains unchanged, however. We continue to see Pandora executing well despite the presence of a strong competitive set. Solid usage metrics, the buildout of a local ad salesforce, and integration into mainstream radio ad-buying platforms have all combined to improve Mobile monetization, which gives P leverage against a very high, fixed-cost licensing structure. The company ended June with 76.4M active listeners, down 1% from last month but 7.5% higher year-over-year. Advertising revenue came in at $177 million, slightly below the consensus estimate for $178 million. Shares are trading around $29. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nacho DoceBrazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa (BRICS) have launched a $100 billion development bank, dubbed the New Development Bank (NDB).  The bank will be based in Shanghai and its first CEO will hail from India. The CEO is expected to keep term for five years, followed by one from Brazil and then Russia.  The bank will have $100 billion Contingency Reserve Arrangement. It will have $50 billion in capital to finance projects. The bank will primarily invest in infrastructure projects but it is also intended to protect the BRICS against global liquidity pressures. BRICS nations have long been trying to gain greater clout in the legacy of the Bretton Woods framework, namely the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank. Typically World Bank leaders tend to hail from the U.S., while leaders of the IMF come from Europe. The BRICS were visibly disappointed when Christine Lagarde became IMF chief in 2011 over Bank of Mexico governor Agustín Carstens.  Back then Carstens had argued that emerging markets were one of the first to recover from the global financial crisis "reflecting their sound economic policy and ability to handle crises" and that the IMF needed an "objective leader to serve the international community." In fact part of the reason the BRICS bank came into existence, is because the U.S. Congress hasn't been able to ratify IMF reforms and give emerging markets the voting rights they've been asking for. But not everyone is as certain about its success. Ian Bremmer, president of Eurasia Group told Business Insider, that the BRICS bank’s “financial architecture is not yet a viable alternative to the Bretton Woods institutions.” Bremmer pointed to the tensions between China and India. “India remains very concerned that china will try to use the bank to extend its influence through Asia,” he said. “These internal tensions will hamper coordination and execution as the sides quarrel over the allocation of resources.” He also argues that $100 billion isn’t enough to have a meaningful impact on any of the economies other than South Africa. “If the BRICS extend access to other, smaller countries, where the funds could have a more meaningful impact, it would give the bank a more significant role in the international financial system and potentially offer a viable alternative to the imf for small countries in need of support. this remains an important unanswered question,” Bremmer said. Jim O'Neill also thinks it has little relevance in the near term. But he argues that in the medium to long term it shows “independent commitment to emerging market countries from within emerging markets.” No doubt, there's a lot of kinks to be worked out and it will be interesting to see how rifts within the BRICS play out. And while this bank might not pose a threat to the World Bank and IMF just yet, it will put pressure on Western countries to start pushing through reforms and to recognize the greater role that the emerging markets now play in the global financial sphere. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Tony DejakMark Cuban isn't a fan of tax inversions, either. Last night, President Obama spoke with CNBC's Steve Liesman, and their first topic of conversation was the issue of tax inversions, or mergers where U.S.-based companies acquire foreign companies and move their tax base overseas to enjoy lower rates.  Obama said this strategy, among other things, "undermines people's confidence in how companies are thinking about their responsibilities to the country as a whole." Cuban took his rhetoric a step further: he said he's selling stock in companies that move for tax reasons. On Twitter this morning, Cuban fired off a series of tweets about how companies that move their tax base overseas to avoid paying taxes force existing taxpayers to make it up elsewhere.  If I own stock in your company and you move offshore for tax reasons I'm selling your stock. There are enough investment choices here If you talk to me as a shareholder and ask me to accept a higher PE so you can save jobs I'm open to it. The risk doesn't leave the system . @pointsnfigures no it doesn't. Shareholder value should increase my net worth. Reduced tax receipts get paid by me and you elsewhere When companies move off shore to save on taxes, you and I make up the tax shortfall elsewhere sell those stocks and they won't move Look at your portfolio holistically.A corp move may push up the stock. it may push up your taxes Taxes r forever. #costdontleavethesystem Cuban is one of the most outspoken and influential business voices around, and his comments are certain to get notice. The chances that these comments spur action in Congress, which is where any move to limit tax inversions would come from, are probably remote.  But the more people who are outspoken against tax inversions, the harder it might be for Congress and corporations to maintain the status quo.  FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderThis sign is in Amazon's main building. It tells you all you need to know about the company. After last night's earnings report, investors were fleeing Amazon on Friday morning.  The stock was down 11.2% to start the day.  Amazon's earnings report fit a familiar pattern: Revenue met expectations growing 23% on a year-over-year basis, but it had a $126 million loss, which was much worse than expected.  On top of that, it forecast a gargantuan loss of $410 million to $810 million for the next quarter. Analysts were only expecting a $10 million loss next quarter, according to Bloomberg terminal information.  For years Amazon has grown sales at the expense of the bottom line, and for years investors have been OK with it. It seems like their patience is currently running out.  Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsDurable goods orders climbed 0.7% in June, which was a bit higher than the 0.5% growth expected by economists. Nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft (core capex) — an indicator of business spending — jumped 1.4% versus expectations for 0.5% growth. However, is core capex growth in May was revised to -1.2% from an earlier estimated of +0.7%. "The underlying tone of this report was disappointing," said TD Securities' Millan Mulraine. "Outside of the big bounce in core orders in June, which reflects a rebound from the weakness in recent months, the weak performance in core capital goods shipments during the quarter suggests that this segment of the economy is unlikely to contribute much to economic activity this quarter." But not everyone is worried. "Looking ahead, June’s strong orders data and other survey evidence suggest that business investment will continue to grow at a decent rate in the second half of the year," said Capital Economics' Paul Dales. "This makes sense when some producers are pushing up against capacity constraints and when business loans are surging." Here is a breakdown of the items ordered: Census FREE AppDownload
APLast night, President Obama sat down for an interview with CNBC's Steve Liesman, and the first topic discussed: tax inversions. Obama is clearly not thrilled with the current state of affairs that, as we've highlighted recently, has seen multiple billion-dollar companies make acquisitions to move their tax base overseas.  Liesman asked Obama if moving your tax base is, "unpatriotic or un-American?" Obama declined to use that exact language, but didn't completely reject Liesman's characterization. From CNBC's transcript of the interview: STEVE LIESMAN: Let me dive right in and talk about this issue of tax inversion this issue of American companies going overseas to reduce their U.S. tax bill or get rid of it. I take it you're not calling it illegal. Are you saying it's unpatriotic or un-American? PRESIDENT OBAMA: What I'm saying is that companies thrive in the United States in part because they benefit from the best university system in the world, the best infrastructure — although I'd like to see us do a little better on infrastructure. You know, there are a whole range of benefits that have helped to build companies, create value, create profits. For you to continue to benefit from that entire architecture that helps you thrive, but move your technical address simply to avoid paying taxes is neither fair, nor is it something that's going to be good for the country over the long term. And this is basically taking advantage of tax provisions that are technically legal — but I think most people would say if you're doing business here, if you're basically still an American company, but you're simply changing your mailing address in order to avoid paying taxes then you're really not doing right by the country — and by the American people. Obama added in a subsequent answer that this kind of strategy "undermines people's confidence in how companies are thinking about their responsibilities to the country as a whole." Yesterday we highlighted this chart from Goldman Sachs, which shows how much pre-tax income, and potential tax revenue, is moving overseas due to inversion deals. Goldman Sachs It remains to be seen if anything happens in Congress — and this Bloomberg report from yesterday doesn't make any action from Capitol Hill seem imminent — but the glut of companies shifting their tax bases out of the U.S. clearly has the President's attention. FREE AppDownload
Brett LoGiurato/Business InsiderTony Fratto (far left) debates Tim Carney (right), with moderator Ben White.WASHINGTON, D.C. — Two of the most influential voices on opposite sides of what's sure to be one of the biggest spitting matches in Congress this fall held a fascinating debate Thursday night that provided insight into the issue's future. The debate, held at the American Enterprise Institute here in Washington, came over the future of the Export-Import Bank, which many conservatives in Congress are fighting to kill over the objections of the White House, most congressional Democrats, and many of the more establishment, business-friendly Republicans. Representing the former viewpoint at AEI was Tim Carney, a visiting fellow at AEI, columnist at The Washington Examiner, and one of the Ex-Im Bank's fiercest critics. Opposite Carney was Tony Fratto, the former Bush administration official who is one of the bank's biggest defenders. The bank provides direct loans, guarantees, and credit insurance to aid foreign purchasers in buying American-made goods. Its charter expires at the end of September, unless Congress acts to renew it. The need for its reauthorization has triggered a massive point of disagreement within the Republican Party, as the debate Thursday night displayed. "It's a limited, targeted program," Fratto said during his closing remarks. "It does good work in key markets." The Ex-Im Bank, which was formed as part of the New Deal, assists U.S. companies in their exports to provide them with an advantage against foreign companies, particularly if those foreign companies receive their own subsidies from their governments. Part of the assistance includes direct loans and loan guarantees to foreign buyers of U.S. goods and services, working capital guarantees, and export-credit insurance. Some of the biggest U.S. beneficiaries of the bank include companies like Boeing, General Electric, and Caterpillar. But supporters of the bank often point out it also benefits small businesses, including some in every congressional district. Around 60 other countries have similar export support from their governments, so supporters of the bank say its elimination would put U.S. companies at a disadvantage. In its latest annual report, the Ex-Im Bank said it was responsible for supporting up to 1.2 million jobs over the past five years. In 2013 alone, that number was 205,000, according to the bank.  As Fratto and Carney also bickered heavily over whether Ex-Im loans should be categorized as "subsidies," Fratto cited in the debate the bank's claim that it regularly turns a profit — it transferred more than $1 billion in revenue to the U.S. Treasury in fiscal-year 2013.  "My subsidy to AEI's 501(c)3 status," Fratto said, referring to the organization's tax exempt status, "is a greater subsidy than Ex-Im's direct loan program." "APPresident Obama last signed reauthorization of the bank's charter into law in 2012.They've had a negative subsidy on their direct-loan programs," he added, referring to the general profit-generating status of the bank. "We are really mis-prioritizing our concerns right now." Carney disputed those numbers, and he argued there were "moral, economic, and political" arguments against reauthorizing the bank's charter. He said the bank is like "Robin Hood in reverse," because he said taxpayers are bearing the risk of loans for large corporations.  As a political argument, he said it was a chance for the Tea Party movement to score its first major policy victory in Congress. He argued that winding down the Ex-Im Bank was the "best way" for the conservative movement to show it is serious about defending free markets. "Defense of free markets is often caricatured by the left as being, 'This is just a defense of big business of corporate America.' ... The best way to show that the defense of free markets is about free and open competition is for the leaders of free enterprise to stand up and fight against corporate welfare," Carney said. "And the best way to fight against corporate welfare today is to wind down the Export-Import Bank." Despite their disagreements over the substance of the bank, Fratto and Carney largely agreed on one thing — the politics of the bank have changed over the past month, and its charter is likely to be renewed, at least for a little while. The Ex-Im Bank has a number of high-profile opponents in the House of Representatives, most notably with the ascent of Rep. Kevin McCarthy (R-California) to majority leader. But Carney and other conservatives who attended Thursday night's debate have seen amped-up pressure from businesses and the groups that lobby on their behalf, like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. "To some exporters, it's a big deal — and they are lobbying hard to save it," Carney said, sounding almost resigned to the inevitability. "So none of you guys, despite how convinced you are about my arguments, ought to go out and bet on Ex-Im ending." For now, Fratto sees a short-term reauthorization — which probably, as some congressional Democrats have hinted, will be included in the continuing resolution that keeps the government funded and from shutting down.  He refused, at first, to even entertain the idea of the Ex-Im Bank's charter not being reauthorized on a five-year basis eventually. But when prodded, he cited Boeing as an example of how businesses would eventually be plummeted into a huge competitive disadvantage. "I think what you'd see is a slow, lengthy capture of the market by Airbus," he said.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures edged lower on Friday, weighed by weak results including those from Amazon, and ahead of data on durable goods. The S&amp;P 500 closed Thursday at a record high and was within 0.5 percent of hitting 2,000. Data on orders for long-lasting U.S. manufactured goods for June is due at 8:30 a.m. EDT. Amazon shares tumbled more than 10 percent in premarket trading after investment in new businesses cut into earnings and the company reported a much larger-than-expected loss in the second quarter. S&amp;P 500 e-mini futures were down 3 points and fair value - a formula that evaluates pricing by taking into account interest rates, dividends and time to expiration on the contract - indicated a lower open. Dow Jones industrial average e-mini futures fell 17 points and Nasdaq 100 e-mini futures lost 11 points. Visa &lt;V.N&gt; shares fell 2.6 percent in premarket trading after the world's largest credit and debit card company cut its revenue forecast for the year. Pandora Media &lt;P.N&gt; dropped 9 percent before the opening bell, after it forecast adjusted profit below analysts' estimates for the current quarter. On the upside, Baidu &lt;BIDU.O&gt; shares surged 8.7 percent in premarket trading after China’s biggest Internet search company blew past Wall Street's targets with a 34.1 percent jump in quarterly net profit, helped by a surge in mobile revenue. RF Micro Devices &lt;RFMD.O&gt; rose 6.3 percent in premarket trading after it forecast quarterly results above market expectations on higher demand for its chips that connect devices such as Apple's and Samsung's smartphones to networks.   (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos; Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
 We've all seen SpaceX's incredible footage of a rocket taking off and landing. (In case you haven't, check out the above.) CEO Elon Musk believes we should really be thinking about having all airplanes move like this — and have them be electric powered. This would make them more efficient in terms of fuel use. In an appearance on The Colbert Report with Stephen Colbert, Musk explained his vision (we've edited out Colbert's interjections):  Aircraft should be vertical takeoff and landing. Kind of like a Harrier, except that it's better to move the fan than it is to duct the air. I think the Harrier's a great plane, but I think there's a real opportunity to have a vertical take-off and landing supersonic jet. You'd use an electric motor to drive a fan. Traditional jet aircraft are mostly fan driven — like when you see a high-bypass jet engine on a triple-7, it looks huge. That’s because most of the propulsion is really coming from the fan. So there’s some value to having ducts, but it’s actually more efficient to have an open fan if you just care about efficiency per mile. But you can go faster if you have a ducted situation. The segment ended a bit cryptically, with Colbert asking, What's next? Musk replied, Well, what do you wish there was? Colbert then responded with this: I wish there weren't any cables. I wish that computers didn't have to be typed into, that the mouse and the keyboard are terrible, it's a terrible interface, that I could just have a relationship with the machine, that I could have a discussion of my needs and it would do it. I think cables on anything are terrible, not just communication, but charging cables, that I could walk into my house and things would charge, or I would have a subscription service to a charging system and anywhere I went in the United States there'd be a charge that would follow me around.  Musk responded: "OK, OK ... Yeah no, we'll do it." And Colbert ended with, "Elon Musk everybody, SpaceX, Tesla, and wireless charging." Musk himself interjected with some laughs throughout Colbert's part, so in no way can we say that this was an extremely oblique product introduction through Stephen Colbert.  But we also can't rule out that it's not happening. Here are the clips: The Colbert ReportGet More: Colbert Report Full Episodes,The Colbert Report on Facebook,Video Archive The Colbert ReportGet More: Colbert Report Full Episodes,The Colbert Report on Facebook,Video Archive   FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons“The possibility of loss or injury” – That’s the dictionary definition of the noun “risk.” However, while individual investors and finance professionals may agree on that basic definition of the word risk, they often think about asset riskiness very differently, and these differences can have real consequences for portfolios. Here are three ways in which individual investors and finance professionals differ in their risk thinking, as well as a look at how individual investors can potentially mitigate the negative impact these differences can have on portfolios: They measure risk differently. To measure risk, the finance industry focuses on an asset’s return volatility and correlation with other assets. Huh? Let me break down those somewhat complicated terms. Return volatility simply means how dispersed an asset’s returns are about that asset’s average return over a certain period of time, including to the upside and to the downside. An asset whose returns are more stable is considered less risky, while an asset whose returns are more volatile is considered more risky. For portfolios, professionals additionally focus on how correlated an asset’s returns are with the returns of other assets in a portfolio. The lower the correlation, the less a given asset moves with the other assets in the portfolio, and the more it can potentially help reduce the portfolio’s overall volatility or riskiness through diversification, and vice versa. Individual investors, however, tend to be loss averse – experiencing the pain from losses roughly twice as strongly as the pleasure from equal size gains. As such, it’s not surprising that they generally measure risk as the dollar loss on a given position, focusing their estimates around a reference point, usually the price at which a security was bought. In other words, risk for them tends to only encompass downside risk, and it’s measured in dollar, rather than percentage terms. In addition, when assessing risks, people tend to focus on individual security returns over a relatively short-time period rather than on how a given asset relates to the portfolio overall. This kind of thinking underestimates the riskiness of assets that tend to move along with other portfolio assets, and overestimates the riskiness of assets that provide diversification benefits, leading to misinformed portfolio risk budgeting. Their attitudes toward risk are determined differently. Modern finance theory usually starts with the assumption that investors’ risk preferences are relatively stable. In reality, however, researchers have found that individuals’ attitudes toward risk vary considerablywith environmental and demographic considerations. For instance, researchers have found that the source of funds being invested matters to risk preferences, with people more likely to invest money from a lottery into risky assets than money from an inheritance. The source of risk is also important; inflation, for example, doesn’t usually feel inherently risky to individual investors, as it doesn’t change the nominal sum invested. There are also demographic differences. Women tend to be more risk averse than men, although they get less so after marriage; for men, the opposite is true. Finally, how an investment opportunity is framed matters, with people often risk averse when it comes to achieving gains but willing to gamble to avoid losses.Yet, basing risk assessments and investment decisions on personal considerations, such as the source of funds, may result in portfolios inappropriate for the investor in question. They form expectations about risks differently. Finance professionals usually assume that an asset’s riskiness is known in advance, or can be estimated using past volatilities and correlations. In contrast, individuals’ risk expectations are sensitive to past personal experiences. For example, an individual who has experienced low stock market returns throughout his life tends to be more pessimistic about future returns and is less likely to invest in equities, viewing them as more risky than they perhaps are. Similarly, a better macroeconomic backdrop can lead people to expect both higher returns and lower volatility. Finally, a past loss on a given stock can deter people from purchasing it again in the future. Rather than estimate future returns and volatilities, an investor may focus on the negative emotions of disappointment and regret that the purchase is likely to prompt in him, and he may distance himself from these emotions by avoiding that security. Okay, now that we got these differences out of the way, here’s how individual investors can potentially mitigate their negative impact on portfolios: Work backwards from longer-term investment goals. Portfolio risk levels should reflect not just risk tolerance but also targeted outcomes. For instance, the higher the desired wealth or the lower the starting point, the more risk an investor ultimately needs to take on to meet his goals, taking into account that investor’s time horizon of course. So, rather than first focus on one’s current feelings about risk, investors should instead focus on how to achieve longer-term goals using diversified portfolio allocations. Sources: Studies linked to throughout the post. Nelli Oster, PhD, is a Director and Investment Strategist in BlackRock’s Multi-Asset Strategies Group. She holds a BSc (Hons) in Management Sciences from the London School of Economics and a PhD in Finance from the Stanford Graduate School of Business, where her dissertation focused on behavioral finance. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nir Elias An Israeli soldier prays in front of a tank at a military staging area near the border with the Gaza Strip July 24, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Rupert Murdoch Builds Up His Cash Position. "Britain's BSkyB has agreed to pay $9 billion to buy Rupert Murdoch's pay-TV companies in Germany and Italy, taking its hunt for growth into Europe by creating a media powerhouse with 20 million customers," reports Reuters' Kate Holton. "The deal adds to a flurry of consolidation in the global media sector and Fox is expected to use the proceeds to fuel its pursuit of Time Warner, which recently rejected Fox's initial $80 billion bid." $90-$95. "With this new cash, Fox could be in a position to raise its Time Warner offer beyond the $90-$95 range without threatening its debt rating," said Business Insider's Henry Blodget. Earlier this month, the New York Times reported that Time Warner had rejected an offer of $85 per share. Amazon.com's Losing Money. Amazon reported a Q2 net loss of $0.27 per share, which was much worse than the $0.15 net loss expected. Management also warned that it expected to book an operating loss of $410 million to $810 million in Q3 as it aggressively invests for growth. The stock is down by around 10% in premarket trading. Starbucks' Coffee Sales Are Hot. Starbucks reported Q2 global comparable store sales grew by 6%, beating expectations for 5.1% growth. This helped earnings come in at $0.67 per share, which was a penny ahead of analysts' estimates. "Our Q3 results give us confidence in our ability to deliver on our full year fiscal 2014 targets and support the strong 2015 revenue and profit growth targets we introduced today, despite continued challenging economic and consumer headwinds in many of the global markets in which we operate," said CFO Scott Maw. Visa Beats. Visa earned $2.17 per share in Q3, beating expectations fo $2.10. Total payments volume at the transactions company jumped 11% to $1.2 trillion during the period. Visa CEO Charlie Scharf said the company's earnings grew, "in the face of a continued, subdued global economy." German Confidence Falls. "German business confidence is down for a third month in a row amid ongoing concerns about the economic impact of the crises in Ukraine and Iraq," reported the AP. "The closely-watched Ifo Institute survey fell to 108 points in July from 109.7 points in June. Economists had widely been expecting a slight rise over June's figure." Japanese Inflation Cools. "Japan's core consumer inflation eased slightly in the year to June, highlighting the challenges the central bank faces in meeting its 2 percent inflation target sometime next year," reported Reuters' Leika Kihara. "The nationwide core consumer price index, which excludes volatile prices of fresh food but includes prices of oil products, rose 3.3 percent in June from a year earlier, government data showed on Friday, matching a median market forecast and slowing from a 3.4 percent gain in May." Russia Raises Rates. The Bank of Russia unexpectedly raised its benchmark interest rate to 8.0% from 7.5%. "Inflation deceleration in July 2014 has been slower than expected," they said. "At the same time, inflation risks have increased due to a combination of factors, including, inter alia, the aggravation of geopolitical tension and its potential impact on the ruble exchange rate dynamics, as well as potential changes in tax and tariff policy." Markets Are Mixed. U.S. futures are in the red with Dow futures down 28 points and S&amp;P futures down 3.9 points. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is down 0.1%, France's CAC 40 is down 0.6%, and Germany's DAX is down 0.5%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed up 1.1% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 0.3%. One Big Economic Report. We'll get the June durable goods orders report at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists estimate orders climbed 0.5% in July. Nondefense capital goods orders excluding aircraft is forecasted to have climbed by 0.5%. "Pullbacks in the volatile defense goods and civilian aircraft categories will probably restrain overall orders for a second month, but business surveys continue to point to improvement in core capital goods orders, including our MBSCI survey, which showed the highest capital spending plans of the year in June," said Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman. "The 0.5% rise we’re forecasting for nondefense capital goods ex aircraft orders would leave them up 15% annualized in the past four months after a winter weak patch." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexei Druzhinin/RIA Novosti/Kremlin MOSCOW (AP) — Having for months dismissed Western sanctions on Russia as toothless, business leaders here are now afraid that the crash of the Malaysian jetliner will bring about an international isolation that will cause serious and lasting economic damage. Throughout the Ukrainian crisis, U.S. and European sanctions had mainly targeted a handful of individuals, sparing economic ties. Then last week the U.S. imposed penalties on some of Russia's largest corporations. And when the airliner was shot down just a day later in Ukraine, allegedly by separatists with Moscow's support, concern grew in Russia that the sanctions would only get worse as President Vladimir Putin showed little sign of cooperation. "Over the past few months, there was a sense that Mr. Putin acted decisively, forcefully, and correctly, and that everybody else in the world would accommodate themselves to that reality and we'd get back to something like business as usual," said Bernard Sucher, a Moscow-based entrepreneur and board member of Aton, an independent investment bank. "Now we're talking about real fear." When Russia annexed Crimea in March, triggering a deep freeze in relations with the West, stock markets in Russia dropped but later rebounded as investors understood that the country's lucrative trade relations would remain largely unscathed. Europe, which is in frail economic health, dared not block energy imports from Russia or the trade in goods such as cars or heavy machinery. Oil companies like BP and ExxonMobil continued their operations in Russia, with some even signing new deals. The U.S. took a tougher stance, but until last week was also careful to limit sanctions to asset freezes on individuals who were perceived to have had a hand in supporting eastern Ukraine's insurgency. On July 16, the night before the Malaysia Airlines jet crash, Russian markets appeared to have fully recovered from the crisis in Ukraine, with the MICEX benchmark index adding roughly 23 percent since March 1. Then last week, the U.S. announced new sanctions that had investors in Russia fear a turn for the worst. The U.S. shut off its financial markets for a broad swath of defense companies as well as Russia's largest oil company, a gas producer, half-owned by a close Putin ally, and a major bank. The move offered investors a glimpse of what they had thought would never happen: serious international isolation of Russia's powerhouse corporations. According to Alexis Rodzianko, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Russia, those sanctions were the first to really pack a punch because they were "broader and more specific: they went beyond the symbolic." Rodzianko said anecdotal evidence suggests that in some cases investment decisions have been delayed "particularly when people were just considering coming in to the market." When the Malaysian airliner went down one day later, investors worried conditions would only get worse. The stock market has fallen 5 percent since Thursday last week. That is expected to see investors keep pulling money out of the country. They withdrew $74.6 billion in the first six months of the year, a figure forecast to reach $100 billion for the whole of 2014 — almost twice the $60 billion in withdrawals seen last year. Growth, meanwhile, is nose-diving. The International Monetary Fund this week slashed its forecast for 2014 from 1.3 percent to 0.2 percent. And the currency is unstable — Russia's central bank on Friday raised its key interest rate by half a point to 8 percent, saying the heightened geopolitical risks are putting pressure on the ruble. And yet, there is little public criticism — none at all from the billionaire oligarchs. Russia's biggest companies denied comment for this story. One spokesman said he was not authorized even to say a "no comment" for an article about sanctions. A person who had close ties to the government until last year told the Associated Press that it is "too risky to express concerns in public and even in closed door meetings with Putin." The person, who spoke only on condition of anonymity, said tycoons usually express their concerns to government officials who in turn communicate them to the president. That silence has been a hallmark of Putin's rule. In the early 2000s, he forged a deal with Russian businessmen in which the Kremlin offered its protection for the often murky deals that created the oligarchs' fortunes. In return, the tycoons promised to not meddle in government policy. The only man who broke this rule — Mikhail Khodorkovsky, once Russia's richest man — was punished with two sets of charges and spent ten years in prison before he was pardoned by Putin a month before the showcase Winter Olympics held in Russia. In public, Putin appears to be unfazed by the economic sanctions. In a speech Tuesday, he suggested Russia should accept to sacrifice economic growth for the sake of foreign policy objectives — a nightmare scenario for a business leader hoping to tap global markets. But analysts note that for all his belligerent rhetoric, the Russian leader has softened on some fronts in Ukraine. Though the first rounds of sanctions, which targeted Putin's billionaire friends, were perceived as a failure, they did work in the sense that Russia did not annex any other parts of Ukraine the way it did with Crimea, says Sergei Guriev, a prominent Russian economist now working at Sciences Po university in Paris. They also "forced the Russian government to recognize Ukrainian elections," he said. Putin seems to be in a balancing act, seeing how far he can pursue his geopolitical interest in Ukraine without getting hit too hard by Western sanctions. The U.S. and EU's level of tolerance may have dropped since the Malaysian plane's downing, however, increasing the risk of damage to Russia's economy. Russia's former long-time finance minister Alexei Kudrin blames a part of Russia's political elite for seeking Russia's isolation from the rest of the world, no matter the cost to businesses. "Business wants development, wants to invest, build new factories, trade. And businesses are really worried about what they hear on radio and television," Kudrin said in an interview with the Itar-TASS news agency. On Tuesday, EU governments targeted more Russian officials with economic sanctions and travel bans and said they would draw up more sweeping measures in coming days if Russia failed to use its influence over the rebels to ensure an independent investigation into the Malaysian plane disaster. New sanctions would target Russia's high-tech, energy and weapons industries, they said. Despite those warnings, however, it is unclear how far the 28-member bloc is willing to go, as it has a lot to lose economically. Defying calls from London and Washington to impose an arms embargo on Russia, France on Tuesday announced it would go ahead with the sale of a warship to Russia. The U.S. and EU are still playing something similar to "good cop, bad cop" with Russia, said Chris Weafer of the Moscow-based Macro-Advisory, but it remains to be seen whether the Malaysian plane crash will be a game changer. "Either the event will push Russia toward greater isolationism ... or it will mark some sort of end, or the start of the end, of the most dangerous phase in the conflict in eastern Ukraine." In the meantime, Russia's businesses will have to cope with the uncertainty. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason ReedRupert Murdoch, executive chairman of News Corporation.LONDON/PARIS (Reuters) - Britain's BSkyB &lt;BSY.L&gt; has agreed to pay $9 billion to buy Rupert Murdoch's pay-TV companies in Germany and Italy, taking its hunt for growth into Europe by creating a media powerhouse with 20 million customers. BSkyB, in which Murdoch's 21st Century Fox &lt;FOXA.O&gt; is also the largest shareholder, will pay for the deal using cash, debt, its stake in a TV channel and a placing of shares that represents around 10 percent of its issued share capital. The deal adds to a flurry of consolidation in the global media sector and Fox is expected to use the proceeds to fuel its pursuit of Time Warner &lt;TWX.N&gt;, which recently rejected Fox's initial $80 billion bid. BSkyB had flagged a possible deal for Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia in May. The price announced on Friday was slightly lower than expected by some analysts and the cost and revenue benefits laid out by BSkyB were greater than anticipated. BSkyB's shares still fell 3.4 percent, pulled lower by the plan to issue stock and suspend a share buy-back. "It is a bit of a step in the unknown for Sky," said Conor O'Shea, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets. "For the first time, it will go from UK-focused to European and be asked to prove that it can add value from being larger." O'Shea has a "buy" rating on BSkyB shares. Facing the toughest market conditions in its 25-year history, BSkyB has decided its future growth lies in creating a European pay-TV leader that will operate in Britain, Ireland, Germany, Austria and Italy. BSkyB dominates British pay-TV, offering its premium sports, movies and U.S. drama programming to more than 10 million homes. It hopes to apply the formula in Italy and Germany, where pay-TV is not yet as popular or as profitable. Of 97 million households in its markets, 66 million are yet to take pay-TV. "Sky is clearly taking the strategic view that Pay TV, already ingrained in the U.S. culture, will become prevalent in Europe," said Richard Hunter, Head of Equities at Hargreaves Lansdown. Fox owns 100 percent of Sky Italia, 57 percent of Sky Deutschland and 39 percent of BSkyB. BSkyB said it would pay 2.45 billion pounds ($4.2 billion) for Sky Italia and 2.9 billion pounds for Fox's 57 percent stake in Sky Deutschland. The payment to Fox for Sky Italia will be made up of cash and BSkyB's 21 percent stake in the National Geographic Channel, valued at around 382 million pounds. Fox said it would subscribe to the share issue to keep its stake in BSkyB stable, meaning it will take net proceeds from the deal of around $7.2 billion.               BIG ASPIRATIONS BSkyB is betting it can squeeze out costs on everything from set-top boxes to broadcasting rights via the expansion. It aimed to reap 200 million pounds of annual cost savings by the end of the second financial year after the deal is completed and pledged further savings later. The deal is not without risks, however, and it could take a while for the creation of a "Sky Europe" to pay off. Sky Italia, Italy's biggest pay-TV operator, has lost 220,000 customers since its peak in 2011 as the country's prolonged economic downturn led more people to ditch their monthly TV packages. In Germany, Sky Deutschland is growing strongly in terms of customer additions and revenue, helped by the appeal of its domestic and European soccer matches, but the percentage of those willing to pay for TV in Germany remains low - below 20 percent. And in Britain, BSkyB is facing tough competition from telecoms group BT &lt;BT.L&gt;, which is spending heavily to buy rights and lure customers. The deal also requires sacrifices of BSkyB and its shareholders. The company's credit rating is likely to be downgraded. It pledged to bring its debt ratio back down "in the medium-term" to two times earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA). As a result, the group said it would not resume share buybacks or do any further acquisitions until its leverage target was achieved. Under German takeover law, BSkyB will have to make an offer for the rest of Sky Deutschland. The offer will be at 6.75 euros per share, compared to the 6.66 euros Sky Deutschland closed at on Thursday. CFO Andrew Griffith told reporters the group's net debt to core earnings would be below 3 times if the German minorities do not take up the offer, and that it would be around 4 times if the German minorities did take up the offer. Analysts said that given the limited premium, they expected few Sky Deutschland shareholders to tender their stock.               (Reporting by Kate Holton; editing by Paul Sandle and Tom Pfeiffer) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRupert Murdoch, CEO of News Corporation, arrives for the third day of the Allen and Co. media conference in Sun ValleyLONDON (Reuters) - Rupert Murdoch's 21st Century Fox said on Friday it would renew a share buyback program using the proceeds from its partial exit from European pay-TV, regardless of any acquisitions the media group undertakes. The company made the pledge in a statement announcing the sale of Fox's Italian and German pay-TV units to BSkyB for $9 billion in cash and assets. "This transaction significantly enhances liquidity on our balance sheet to support our key operating principles including the consistent return of capital to shareholders," said the company in a statement. "For fiscal 2015 we will continue our share buyback program and will communicate the details of a renewed share buyback authorization upon the announcement of fiscal 2014 earnings results on Wednesday, August 6, 2014." In August 2013, Fox's board authorized a $4 billion share buyback over the next 12 months. Murdoch, chairman and CEO, added: "Our renewed authorization for our share buyback program will be executed regardless of any potential acquisition or investment activity by the Company." Fox recently made an unsolicited $80 billion bid for media conglomerate Time Warner, which was rejected by its management as too low. The 83 year-old mogul is expected to use the proceeds from his partial exit from Europe to fuel its pursuit of Time Warner, with some analysts expecting him to return with a higher bid. Fox owns 100 percent of Sky Italia, 57 percent of Sky Deutschland and 39 percent of BSkyB.   (Reporting by Leila Abboud and Kate Holton; Editing by David Holmes) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersChina's President Xi Jinping attends a meeting with Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro at Miraflores Palace in CaracasBEIJING (Reuters) - China investigated more than 25,000 people for corruption in the first six months of 2014, state media said on Friday, amid a nationwide crackdown on graft. Nearly 85 percent of the cases investigators pursued involved bribes of more than 50,000 yuan ($8,000) or embezzlement of 100,000 yuan, the official Xinhua news agency said, citing the country's top prosecutor, the Supreme People's Procuratorate (SPP). Such "major cases" were up nearly 14 percent over the corresponding period last year, Xinhua said. China's leadership under President Xi Jinping has presided over an anti-graft campaign to shore up a ruling mandate shaken by suspicion that officials waste taxpayer money or use their positions for personal advantage. Xi has said graft threatens the survival of the ruling Communist Party. China is also going after officials who have fled abroad with illicit funds, Xinhua said. In the first half of the year, 320 suspects in corruption cases were "seized and brought back to China". "The SPP will set up a leading work group to retrieve bribery funds from overseas, enhance its supervision over major cases, and build a database of information about fugitive officials," the news agency said. Xi has pledged to go after powerful "tigers" as well as lowly "flies" in the crackdown, which has netted several senior figures, including Xu Caihou, former vice chairman of the Central Military Commission. Whether the anti-corruption campaign will convince the public that the Party is serious is an open question. China has run such campaigns in the past to little permanent effect, and critics say only real transparency will have a lasting impact.   (Reporting by Michael Martina; Editing by Clarence Fernandez) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rebecca CookFOX LAKE Ill. (Reuters) - The news about deadly crashes linked to a faulty ignition switch, followed by wave upon wave of recalls, did not bode well for General Motors dealers earlier this year. It conjured visions of worried, frustrated drivers pouring onto lots like Raymond Chevrolet, outside of Chicago. But according to Robbie Long, service director for the dealer and nearby Ray Chevrolet, what looked like "great adversity" has turned into an opportunity. The hundreds of customers bringing old cars into the family-owned dealerships leave in clean cars with a bucket of goodies. Some drive home a newly purchased car. And the repairs, paid for by GM, are modestly profitable, dealers say, helping to pay general expenses as well as bringing in customers who might have been lost. "In many cases these are customers we haven't seen in a long time or have never met before," said Long. Although the script is not what the dealership would have written, GM is delivering sales and service prospects to her door. Certainly, there are dangers if the dealer doesn't give good service or if parts are backed up. Some cars are being called in for more than one problem, and Long says her dealers are careful to schedule only one visit per car. “People just don’t want to see us that often,” she said. But as of early July, the two dealerships run by brothers Ray and Mark Scarpelli are humming. Ray's sales were up 13 percent on the year and Mark's were up 20 percent. GM as a whole posted a 2.5 percent increase in sales in the first half of the year, just a step behind the industry average of 4.3 percent. Interviews by Reuters with dealers across the nation found similar attitudes, for GM, Chrysler and other brands, several of which have now announced multi-million car recalls. Don Lee, president of Lee Auto Malls in Maine which has 14 new-vehicle stores, mostly Chrysler and various Japanese brands, as well as GMC, said recalls provide "an opportunity to look over the customer’s car at no cost to them," which often leads to more repair business.     More importantly, he said recalls lead to more sales: he estimates that 15 percent of new car sales at his Chrysler stores come via the service department. GM this week said that it had sold 6,600 cars to customers who traded in vehicles with defective ignition switches. "Aside from the bad publicity, which is never fun, we welcome recalls," Lee said. The General Motors recall offers at least four opportunities for business: fixing the recalled part, a roughly $250 cost for the Chevrolet Cobalt ignition switch fix which led the recall wave; other service and repair work; selling new cars; and, for those dealers with loaner car fleets, providing transportation to some waiting customers, paid for by GM. Several factors have combined to turn what started off as a pure public relations disaster into a strong sales year for some GM dealers. Dealers say GM has responded well to the crisis, with Chief Executive Mary Barra publicly apologizing for failures and distancing the "New GM" which emerged from bankruptcy in 2009 from the "Old GM" which made many of the recalled cars. The automaker has also benefited from a growing economy, and the highest profile recalls, for ignition switches, mostly affect discontinued models.   And last but not least, auto recalls have become so common with 29 million cars called in globally by GM and millions more by other brands, that consumers are suffering from "recall fatigue" and are not paying attention, dealers say. "I think perhaps people worry less about the recalls than the newspapers do," said Herb Chambers, CEO of Herb Chambers Cos, the 14th largest U.S. auto dealership group with dealerships covering several brands in greater Boston.         NEW HIRES     Rummaging through a box in his office, Mark Scarpelli pulls out packages containing parts for recalls, including a simple-looking gray plastic sheaf with a piece of black foam. It is a fix for a seatbelt in the Chevy Traverse, a large SUV. In a comprehensive safety review that followed the Cobalt recall, GM found the Traverse seat belt connector could fatigue and separate over time, and it recalled the vehicles. The automaker pays the dealership for 45 minutes of labor to install the new part, said Scarpelli. AutoNation, the largest U.S. auto dealership group, had already planned to hire 400 additional auto technicians for its 273 franchised stores in 15 U.S. states. Because of the GM recall, it will hire "hundreds" more, said CEO Mike Jackson. However, while analysts had expected recalls by GM and other car companies to boost AutoNation sales and profits, Jackson said the overall financial impact of the GM recall on his business would be negligible. GM's legal liability from the recalls is unclear, although it took a $400 million charge this week, which could rise, to set up a victims fund. It has taken $2.5 billion in charges for recalls announced this year, which is an average of about $85 per vehicle recalled, although fixes vary in complexity and the labor needed to implement them. Many of the recalls involve adding a piece of plastic to a key. GM declined to discuss recall cost details. The company, which says it typically repairs 85 percent of cars within two years of a recall, also pays for campaigns to contact customers, such as sending a postcard every three months for two years to remind them their car is part of a recall, managing the fix, and rental cars.     Analysts say the largest share of the cost is labor. In the case of the Cobalt ignition switch recall, GM pays for 0.6 hour of labor for the ignition switch replacement, and a further 0.9 hour for a related lock cylinder and key replacement, according to Ray Huffines, owner of the Huffines Auto Group in Lewisville, Texas, near Dallas. Labor rates vary by dealer, but at $100 per hour, that would be $150, with another $89.68 for parts, he said, for a total $240. Dealers make a profit on the parts and technician labor, and the work helps pay for other service staff and overhead, Huffines said by email. A service manager at Raymond Chevrolet put the total cost of a Cobalt recall fix from his lot at $260 for GM. GM said the repair took 90 minutes and declined to comment on the cost. Huffines concluded, "Does the dealer lose money on recalls? Generally, no. Does the dealer make a very nice profit on recalls? Generally, no." The biggest cost to GM, Huffines said, was car rentals offered to ignition switch recall customers, which could be $1,000 to $2,500. GM said 83,000 cars had been loaned to customers. Dealers with their own fleets of service cars love the loaner car option. Mike Bowsher, co-chairman of the GM Dealers Executive Board and president of the Carl Black Automotive Group, based in the Atlanta area, said his four stores sold 10 cars in one week to people who came in for recall repairs. Some bought the loaner cars. Meanwhile, his parts and service business has set records three months running, thanks to the chance to upsell customers who might otherwise bypass the dealership for repair work. "I would have never had a shot at that," he said.   RECALLS, THE "NEW NORMAL" A massive recall by Toyota in 2009 and 2010 had an immediate effect on the Japanese auto maker's U.S. sales, in contrast to GM this year. GM's recalls have come at a time when the economy is healthier, and the company has benefited from the fact that the recalls linked to fatalities are from discontinued models, said Kelley Blue Book senior analyst Karl Brauer.     There may be a bigger issue, as well: recalls have become commonplace for almost every auto maker, turning into "white noise" for consumer, say analysts and dealers alike. Ray Scarpelli said that with all the other recalls from other automakers, “customers just see this as the new normal."   (Additional reporting by Tim McLaughlin and Jim Forsyth; editing By Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Ng Han GuanMcDonald's has suspended the sale of chicken nuggets in Hong Kong over food safety scares.Hello! Here's what people will be taking about on Friday. 1. The U.S. said on Thursday it had new evidence of Russia firing artillery across the border into Ukraine. A state department spokeswoman also said that Russia plans to “deliver heavier and more powerful multiple rocket launchers to the separatist forces in Ukraine."  2. A U.N. school in Gaza that was sheltering Palestinian refugees came under fire on Thursday, killing at least 15 people. Gazan authorities blame the Israeli military for the attack. Israel forces say the school was not an intentional target and "raised the possibility the compound was hit by Hamas rockets," the Associated Press says.  3. Protests in the West Bank erupted after Palestinian authorities called for "a day of rage" following the shelling of a U.N.-run school in Gaza that killed 15. At least two Palestinians have been killed in "one of the biggest clashes seen for several years," the Guardian says.  4. The wreckage of an Air Algerie operated plane carrying 116 people was found in Mali, officials confirmed. Flight AH 5017 from Burkina Faso to Algiers lost contact with controllers around 50 minutes after takeoff as pilots said they were encountering severe storms, the BBC reports.  5. Amazon posted a big loss for the second quarter despite increasing sales. The company reported a net loss of $126 million, compared to a net loss of $7 million in the same period last year. Sales increased 23% to $19.3 billion, in line with analysts' expectations.  6. McDonald's said it's suspending the sale of chicken nuggets and some other products in Hong Kong after the fast food chain's Chinese supplier was shut down by regulators over allegations it sold expired meat. McDonald's Japan said on Friday that it's also stopping sales of all chicken products that use meat from its Chinese supplier, Reuters reports.  7. Forensic experts say the body of billionaire Yoo Byung-un, head of the family that owned the operator of a South Korean ferry that sank, is too heavily decomposed to determine a cause of death. The tycoon disappeared after the ferry disaster in April and his body was found in a plum field last month. 8. Fox is planning to raise its takeover offer for Time Warner to $90-$95 per share, a source familiar with Fox's thinking told The Wall Street Journal. Time Warner rejected a bid from the Rupert Murdoch-owned company of $85 per share last week.  9. In an effort to curb pollution, China is thinking about placing a national cap on coal, a key contributor of carbon emissions, starting in 2016, The New York Times Reports. However, the Times warns that "coal use could keep rising for years" until stricter limits are enforced.  10. Montana Sen. John Walsh, the Democrat accused of plagiarizing a paper while at the U.S. Army War College, says post-traumatic stress disorder from his service in Iraq "may have been a factor," according to the Associated Press. "My head was not in a place very conducive to a classroom and an academic environment," he said. And finally... Southern California police are trying to figure out who is leaving porcelain dolls on the doorsteps of many residents in the beach city of of San Clemente. Concerned parents say the dolls resemble their daughters, Reuters reports.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople are reflected in mirrors at an entrance of a shopping complex in Tokyo TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's core consumer inflation eased slightly in the year to June, highlighting the challenges the central bank faces in meeting its 2 percent inflation target sometime next year. But the slowdown will come as no surprise to the Bank of Japan, which has said inflation will continue to slow to around 1 percent in coming months as an increase in import costs from a weak fen fades. The BOJ expects inflation to pick up again as a tight labor market lifts wages. The central bank is thus in no mood to consider expanding stimulus any time soon, although some analysts warn it may face pressure to act if the economic recovery loses momentum and fails to nudge up prices late this year. "Exports are weak and household spending - hit by the April sales tax hike - won't bounce back so strongly, which means the economy lacks a strong driver ahead," said Yoshiki Shinke, chief economist at Dai-ichi Life Research Institute. "The economy may not recover as strongly as expected, which will certainly affect price moves," he said, predicting that the BOJ may ease policy in April next year if inflation fails to approach 2 percent by then. The nationwide core consumer price index, which excludes volatile prices of fresh food but includes prices of oil products, rose 3.3 percent in June from a year earlier, government data showed on Friday, matching a median market forecast and slowing from a 3.4 percent gain in May. Excluding the impact of a sales tax hike implemented in April, core consumer inflation slowed to 1.3 percent in the year to June from 1.4 percent in May, largely because rises in energy costs moderated from last year's sharp increases. The government shared the BOJ's view that prices are rising moderately in its annual economic "white paper" on Friday, though it kept up pressure on the central bank to maintain its massive stimulus for some time as inflation remains well below its 2 percent target. "The government has not officially declared an end to deflation, so I think that it is too early to debate about an exit strategy (from the easy policy)," Economics Minister Akira Amari told reporters after the release of the CPI data. In one positive sign, core-core prices, which exclude both fresh food and energy, actually accelerated slightly, offering a hint of inflationary pressure in the economy. The data showed prices rose for nearly 90 percent of components making up core CPI, including television sets and personal computers, suggesting that companies feel more comfortable raising prices with household spending holding up for now. "There are signs the current slowdown in inflation will bottom out in the first half of next fiscal year," said Shuji Tonouchi, senior fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities. "The BOJ can still argue that prices are on track and that inflation will accelerate again." Core-core CPI, which is similar to core consumer prices in the United States, rose 2.3 percent in the year to June, more than a 2.2 percent annual rise in the previous month. The BOJ has stressed that Japan is on track to meet its 2 percent inflation target as improvements in the economy allow more firms to raise prices and boost wages. "The conquest of deflation in Japan is now in sight," BOJ Deputy Governor Hiroshi Nakaso said on Wednesday, signaling his confidence for a sustained recovery. But many analysts still doubt whether inflation will accelerate as quickly as the BOJ projects, given that the boost to prices from the weak yen is fading. All of the economists polled in a Reuters poll forecast the BOJ would miss its 2 percent inflation target, but expectations that the central bank would ease this year are receding given its optimism Japan is emerging from deflation. The economic growth projection of private-sector analysts, at 0.7 percent for the current fiscal year through March, is also more bearish than the BOJ's 1.0 percent forecast. While the BOJ is set to maintain its scenario of a moderate recovery ahead, an unexpected fall in May machinery orders and a slump in exports in June exports cloud the outlook for the world's third-largest economy. The BOJ argues that tighter labor markets will nudge up wages and support prices, but it is uncertain whether companies will raise wages enough to make up for the loss of household spending power from the tax hike and inflation. The BOJ has estimated that the sales tax hike - to 8 percent from 5 percent on April 1 - would add 1.7 percentage points to annual consumer inflation in April, and 2.0 points from the following month. The internal affairs ministry does not provide official estimates. The BOJ has stood pat on monetary policy since deploying an intense burst of stimulus in April last year, when it pledged to double base money via aggressive asset purchases to accelerate inflation in two years and end Japan's decades of deflation. (Additional reporting by Stanley White; Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA customer is seen through the windows of a McDonald's store in Hong KongHONG KONG (Reuters) - McDonald's Corp said it has suspended sales of its chicken nuggets and other items in Hong Kong after it acknowledged it had imported products from Shanghai Husi Food, the company at the center of a food safety scare in China. McDonald's said in a statement late on Thursday it had imported certain products from Shanghai Husi between July last year to June this year, although no food items from the Shanghai supplier remained in stock. Hong Kong said on Thursday it had suspended, with immediate effect, all imports from the U.S.-owned Chinese supplier at the center of the scare. (Reporting By Anne Marie Roantree and Donny Kwok; Editing by Paul Tait) FREE AppDownload
