REUTERS/ Christian HartmannIt’s been five years since the global financial crisis, and the stock market has made a remarkable recovery. The S&amp;P 500 rose 125 percent and is now at an all-time high. The bull market has been great for many of us who kept investing through the difficult years. Financial downturns can actually be good learning experiences. If we encounter a crisis early in our investing journey, we have plenty of time to recover and learn from our mistakes. A recent study from Fidelity found that American households have made huge strides in their personal finance habits. Many investors have taken the following steps to secure their finances further: Investors increased their retirement contributions over the last 5 years, which means they are likely to be more prepared for retirement. Many households have reduced their personal debt over the last few years. They also started or increased their emergency fund. Unexpected events will have less of an impact on your life if you have adequate savings to cushion the blow. Many investors sold stocks during the downturn and shifted to bonds. Of course, it’s difficult to know when to get back in and a lot of people missed part of that 125 percent S&amp;P 500 gain. Investors need to examine their risk tolerance to figure out a plan they can stick with over the long term. Many investors lost a lot of money during the financial crisis, but the long-term lessons we learned are invaluable. There will be another financial crisis in the future, and we need to apply these lessons to avoid losing even more money next time. It’s much better to go through these financial crises when you are young rather than when you are getting ready to retire. For younger investors, the financial crisis was a boon. It provided an opportunity to buy stocks at bargain basement prices. Even if your portfolio lost 50 percent of its value, it is still a small amount in the grand scheme of things when you’re young. Young people didn't have a huge amount of money to lose. When you’re starting out, it’s more important to increase your saving rate and to learn how to invest for the long term. It’s also good to go through a big correction so you can see how the stock market recovers. You can learn from this experience and be more prepared for the next downturn. The downturn was an opportunity to figure out your risk tolerance and your target asset allocation. Many investors thought they could handle a stock market drop. However, when the S&amp;P 500 dropped 50 percent, they really couldn’t handle it. If you set your risk tolerance correctly, then you should be able to stick to your asset allocation plan and ride out the down years. Once you have a long-term plan and a good asset allocation target, you just need to stick with it and rebalance occasionally. Of course, we all change as we get older and you will need to reassess your risk tolerance every 5 years or so. Most of us will become more conservative and our portfolio needs to reflect that. Even if you don’t follow the stock market, a personal financial crisis can be a good learning experience. If you lose a job, you will learn to cut costs and keep some emergency funds for the future. If you lose a house to foreclosure, then you will know not to buy too much house next time. Losing a well-paying job can be difficult, but you will learn how to live a moderate lifestyle and avoid overspending. These financial setbacks can be tough, but if you have an open mind you will learn from your experience.  This article originally appeared at U.S. News & World Report.  Copyright 2014. Follow U.S. News & World Report on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Craps can seem intimidating but it really isn’t that hard to play. In fact, you only need to understand a few bets to get great odds and play like a pro. The most important bet to understand is the “pass line” bet. This bet is made by putting your chips on the pass line before the “come out roll”. If the shooter rolls a 7 or 11, this bet pays even money. If the shooter “craps out” by rolling a 2, 3 or 12 you lose. But if the shooter rolls any other number, that number becomes the “box point” and you win your bet if that same number is rolled again before the shooter “sevens out”. The house edge on a pass line bet is only 1.41%. The “don’t pass” bet is the opposite bet and has an even smaller house edge. But stay away from this bet unless you want to make enemies at the table. Unless of course you are playing online. Once the point has been established you can “take odds”. This is an additional bet that the box point will be rolled before a 7. This is the single best bet on the casino floor because it pays true odds – meaning the house has no edge. Because of this casinos will limit how much you can wager here. Many casinos allow what is called 3-4-5x odds. Which means you can bet three times as much as your pass line bet on a 4 or 10, four times your pass line bet on a 5 or 9 and five times on a 6 or 8. If you play craps by always making a pass line bet and maxing out the odds, the house edge is only 0.374%. There is no place on the table for this bet. You make this bet by placing your chips behind your pass line bet after the point is established. Once you have mastered this strategy you can extend it to include “come” bets. This is exactly like a pass line bet except that you can make this bet before any roll other than the come out roll. And the next roll becomes the come out roll for your come bet. To make a come bet you will place your chips on the come line before the roll. You can take odds on the come bet just as you can on the pass line bet and the math is exactly the same. After the point is established, toss your chips to the dealer and say “odds on the 6” or whatever the point is. The dealer will move your chips to the point.   You can ignore the rest of the table. These bets are fun but the house has a higher edge. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
But their payouts fell a little shy of the maximum bonuses set aside for them, according to the bonus plans Salesforce.com disclosed last spring. Salesforce.com declined comment on why the bonuses were a little short. The company turned in a healthy year of growth, and cash bonuses for top executives during such a year are certainly justifiable. The stock performed during the fiscal year as well, rising from around $43 at the beginning of 2013 to about $57 by the end of the fiscal year. Note that the company also posted a year-end loss of $232.2 million, caused in large part because it spent $2.2 billion on sales and marketing. If it were to trim that budget, it could easily be profitable, but possibly at the expense of revenue growth, Michael Cusumano, a professor at MIT’s Sloan School of Management, told The Information. More recently, investors have not been enthralled with these results, despite the fact that Salesforce increased revenue guidance for its next fiscal year by $100 million. This year, the stock slid from a 52-year high of $67 just before it released earnings to just over $54 on Friday, down about 19%. FREE AppDownload
The big story in U.S. markets right now is the NASDAQ decline. The index fell 2.6% on Friday, and it's been persistently weak over the last several days. What's really going on is that big "momentum" names are getting drubbed, and many of these (Tesla, Netflix, FB, etc.) are traded on the NASDAQ. The NASDAQ is also where a lot of biotech stocks trade, and the biotechs have been getting hammered. So what's the story? All you have to do is look at Egypt. Here's a one-year chart of the the biotech ETF IBB (green line) vs. the Egyptian stock market (orange line), via Bloomberg. For a year, they've roughly moved together. They rose last spring, fell in June, rallied hard in February, jumped in March, and then tumbled hard. Is there an intrinsic connection between biotech stocks and the Egyptian market? Of course not. Both just represent risky areas of the global marketplace that soak up cash in the good times, and then tumble when people get tense. There's no "story" that's worth telling about what's going on. Nothing specific has happened in tech or biotech or anywhere else. But things always go in waves, and the tides have come back out, leaving certain areas dry once again. That's the story to watch, and it's much bigger than any one industry. Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
Companies have been shoveling hundreds of billions of dollars of cash back to shareholders in the form of share buybacks. This trend has sparked outrage among those who believe companies could do better by the economy — and even shareholders — by reinvesting that cash into growth projects. The critics might have you believe that almost every company in the market is partaking in what would be a massive buyout of stocks. Goldman Sachs' Stuart Kaiser offers some context. "Over the past decade S&amp;P 500 companies have completed gross buybacks totaling 3% of market cap per year on average with 85% of companies engaging in some amount of buyback," wrote Kaiser in a new research note to clients. "That rate of buybacks is nearly double the 1.5% annual pace during the previous ten years from 1994 – 2004. At the sector level the largest gross buybacks have been in Information Technology, Industrials, Health Care, and Consumer Discretionary companies." Here's Kaiser's research charted. Goldman Sachs Keep in mind the chart above only communicates share volumes. Because the S&amp;P 500 rose 30% in 2013, corporations actually increased the money spent on buybacks by a massive amount. "S&amp;P 500 companies repurchased $476 bn of equity in 2013 representing 19% growth vs. 2012," said Kaiser. "We forecast nearly $600 bn of buyback activity in 2014 for 23% growth this year." Share buybacks mean lower share counts, which should inflate earnings per share (EPS) — all things being equal. But lower share counts have actually been a relatively small driver of EPS growth. JP Morgan Funds' David Kelly illustrated this earlier this week in his Q2 Guide To The Markets. The tiny brown bars show how changing share counts have helped EPS growth. JP Morgan Funds FREE AppDownload
ClevelendFed / YouTubeSandra PianaltoEarlier this week, Federal Reserve Governor Jeremy Stein unexpectedly announced his resignation from the Fed's Board of Governors effective May 28. This will open up a seat on the Federal Open Market Committee, the group responsible for determining the direction of monetary policy including setting interest rates. It's worth noting that Cleveland Fed President Sandra Pianalto will also be resigning in May. Both Stein and Pianalto were among the more neutral members of the FOMC: they were neither particularly hawkish nor particularly dovish. This matters because their replacements could potentially shift the FOMC in a more hawkish or dovish direction, which could have material implications for monetary policy. "Cleveland Fed President Pianalto, who announced her intention to resign some time ago, is set to be replaced by the head of the Philadelphia Fed's research department, Loretta Mester," said UBS's Drew Matus in a note to clients this week. "Although we know little about Ms. Mester, it would seem unlikely that her views differ too substantially from that of President Plosser. As such, until shown otherwise, we are assuming she will result in a hawkish shift in the Fed as of June 1." However, Matus believes that the remaining Fed doves should be able to maintain the current balance. "Her arrival will roughly coincide with Stein's departure and, taking her place alongside voting hawks Plosser and Fisher they will represent a power bloc equal in size to the Governors," added Matus. "While this may make divining Fed intentions more difficult, it should not result in a change in policy given that the unaligned voters are doves, Presidents Dudley and Kocherlakota." UBS FREE AppDownload
BIIIt's no longer a question of when and how mobile will emerge as a payments platform. The habit of paying for things on smartphones and tablets is already ingrained in modern consumer society, particularly among young demographics. In the same way digital payments companies like PayPal helped usher in the PC-based e-commerce explosion, mobile-focused companies are exploring how to make these transactions easier, for shoppers and merchants, at physical stores and online.  In a recent report from BI Intelligence, we put numbers to the trends and explain why mobile transaction volume is growing so explosively. A significant portion of card-powered e-commerce transactions take place on tablet or smartphone devices. Tablets and smartphones are also powering card-based transactions at physical stores through apps, scannable QR codes, and attachable card readers that transform devices into cash registers. Access The Full Report And Data By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt; The report answers the main questions surrounding this rapidly growing industry:  The report is full of charts and data that can be easily downloaded and put to use. In full, the report: For full access to the report on Mobile Payments And Transactions sign up for a free trial subscription today. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric ThayerThe NASDAQ MarketSite in New York's Times Square.It’s increasingly rare to find a privately held, family-controlled business with a household name--especially in the technology sector. In fact, just today, TrueCar, a competitor in our space, filed to go public. So I often get the question: When is Edmunds going public? With 2013 being the most active year of IPO deal flow since 2000, and 2014 poised for an equally strong showing, it’s certainly easy to get caught up in the allure of going public. Yet there are a host of oft-forgotten advantages that come with the decision to remain a private company, not least of which includes avoiding the high costs and time associated with regulatory compliance. But beyond this, the most critical benefit of staying private is the facilitation of a true focus on long-term goals. It’s no secret that Wall Street has become increasingly myopic. When public companies are often judged by their most recent earnings “beat” or “miss,” we shouldn’t be surprised that corporate management teams can get caught up in this short-termism and lose sight of the long-term strategic plan. By eschewing public scrutiny and realizing that many of these short-term market players have no vested long-term interest, private organizations can preserve their focus on what is truly best for the organization’s overall success. For instance, had Edmunds.com been forced to address the market’s expectations during the 2008/2009 contraction in our industry, we almost certainly would have had to gut our organization to slash costs. However, our executive team had a firm belief that the financial crisis would be temporary, and as a private company, we were able to take a calculated risk to maintain our workforce. With no one looking over our shoulder, Edmunds weathered the storm and bounced back rapidly when the economy turned. We were able to keep our 400+ staff intact and have since grown to nearly 600 strong. Similarly, remaining private and nimble enabled us to swiftly make multi-million dollar investments in the infrastructure to support a new sales initiative whose success depends upon an implementation over many years. We were able to make these long-term investments without worrying about what effects they might have on near-term publicly reported earnings. At the end of the day, the idea that going public is the be-all and end-all for a successful company is antiquated. For many companies, there’s much to gain from a thoughtful decision to stay private. After all, we are all in it, or should be in it, for the long-term. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBy Angela Moon NEW YORK (Reuters) - After their worst week in several years, high-flying stocks that defied gravity throughout 2013 look like they're in for more punishment. The reason: Despite the plunge, they still look overvalued. Familiar names such as Netflix, Facebook and Tesla Motors, along with a number of biotechnology and cloud-computing stocks, have been pummeled in the last month. Some stocks are down more than 20 percent over that period, falling into their own bear market, and yet their valuations still far exceed those of the broader U.S. stock indexes. Wall Street defines a bear market as a drop of 20 percent or more from a recent peak. Facebook Inc &lt;FB.O&gt;, for example, has fallen nearly 22 percent from an intraday record reached less than a month ago. The stock was still up nearly 3.8 percent for the year at Friday's close. Among biotech names, Alexion Pharmaceuticals &lt;ALXN.O&gt; has declined 23 percent from a February 25 intraday high, and yet the stock on Friday was still up 7 percent for the year. Facebook still traded on Friday at a price-to-sales ratio of nearly 20, making it the most expensive in the S&amp;P 500, which has an overall price-to-sales ratio of 1.7. The other companies with expensive valuations read like a Who's Who of so-called momentum stocks, including Regeneron &lt;REGN.O&gt;, Alexion, TripAdvisor and Vertex Pharmaceuticals &lt;VRTX.O&gt;. "There's value somewhere, but since these things aren't being traded off typical valuations, you can't go by those metrics, and it's more about when do you find that stability," said Mike O'Rourke, chief market strategist at JonesTrading in Stamford, Connecticut. The price-to-sales ratio is the way to value a stock by looking at its market capitalization in comparison to its sales over a 12-month period. The declines have come at a time when investors overall are seeing a general improvement in economic figures, including Friday's nonfarm payrolls data, which showed strong job gains in March and more people moving into the labor force. On Friday, the Nasdaq lost more than 100 points even though the S&amp;P 500 briefly touched another intraday record. TEPID EARNINGS FORECAST Expectations for earnings have come down for the first quarter, but investors are hoping for an improved outlook for most of the S&amp;P 500. That may cause the rotation away from hyper-growth to steady growth to continue. Earnings season begins next week with reports from Bed Bath &amp; Beyond &lt;BBBY.O&gt;, Wells Fargo &amp; Co &lt;WFC.N&gt; and JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt;. First-quarter S&amp;P 500 companies' earnings are projected to have increased just 1.2 percent from a year ago, Thomson Reuters data showed. The forecast is down sharply from the start of the year, when growth was estimated at 6.5 percent. "I'm not concerned about this spilling over to the broader market. We've been in a trading range, finding resistance at record levels, so this isn't cause for alarm," said David Joy, chief market strategist at Ameriprise Financial in Boston, where he helps oversee $703 billion in assets under management. "I think there are bargains to be found, just not in the names that are getting hit. Financials are attractive here, as are industrials. The more mature tech names, especially on the software side, look valuable," he said. The interest in speculative plays hasn't entirely eroded. Four different companies made their debuts on U.S. exchanges on Friday, and all four ended their first day higher, with the most notable being online food delivery service GrubHub Inc &lt;GRUB.N&gt;, which shot up 31 percent. However, for those concerned that the selling in biotech, Internet retail and other trading-crowd favorites will spill over to the rest of the market, Friday was a bit worrisome. The S&amp;P 500 gave up early gains to end the day down 1.25 percent. "If the weakness here cascades into other sectors, that would indicate a fundamental shift in the market. If things keep rolling over, you might want to seek protection or examine your fundamentals," said Michael Matousek, head trader at U.S. Global Investors Inc in San Antonio, which manages about $1.3 billion. OVERSUPPLY Since stocks like Netflix carry valuations far above most of the market, some investors are reluctant to buy them now. "For momentum stocks to work, you need people to believe they can go higher," said Kim Forrest, senior equity research analyst at Fort Pitt Capital Group in Pittsburgh. O'Rourke pointed out that while many of these stocks are actually still up for 2014 on an absolute basis, buyers this year are underwater, based on the shares' volume-weighted average price (VWAP). The VWAP is a measure of the average cost of a stock for a particular period. Facebook, for instance, had gained 9 percent in 2014 as of Thursday's close. Going into Friday, investors who bought the stock this year were on average down 6 percent on a VWAP basis. "They bought at the wrong time, based upon where the shares are now," he said. "This also means there is a high likelihood there will be overhead supply when the shares rally as investors seek to unwind the losing trades." In the options market, investors used the opportunity to exercise some caution. Amazon.com &lt;AMZN.O&gt; attracted trading volume at more than two-and-a-half-times the recent daily average volume. The most active option contracts were put options expiring next week that protect against the stock falling below $320, suggesting some hedging against losses. Options trading volume for TripAdvisor &lt;TRIP.O&gt; surged to nearly three times the recent average. Put options outpaced calls, with 8,841 calls and 9,832 puts traded on Friday. (Wall St Week Ahead runs every Friday. Questions or comment can be e-mailed to angela.moon(at)thomsonreuters.com) (Editing by Jan Paschal) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Philippe WojazerInequality continues to be a major issue in the world. And it has manifested very clearly within the the stock market. Check out S&amp;P's Global Luxury Index, which consists of 80 large publicly traded companies "engaged in the production or distribution of luxury goods or the provision of luxury services." Names include Daimler, Diageo, Nike, LVMH-Moet, Richemont, BMW, Las Vegas Sands, and Pernod-Ricard. In the last five years, the luxury index has delivered 31% in average annual returns. That compares to more modest, albeit impressive, 21% returns in the S&amp;P 500. So, what's going on here? Jeff Gundlach would blame the Fed's easy monetary policy, which he argues have benefited the rich more than the poor. "Obviously, QE has something to do with wealth effects spilling into luxury retail," said Gundlach in a March 11 webcast. Here's the chart from RBC Capital's Jonathan Golub. RBC Capital Markets FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe facade of the U.S. Federal Reserve building is reflected on wet marble during the early morning hours in WashingtonBy Richard Leong (Reuters) - More Wall Street economists now believe the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates in the first half of 2015, as evidence builds that the U.S. economy has regained some momentum lost during an unusually rough winter, a survey showed on Friday. Eight of 18 U.S. primary dealers said they expected the U.S. central bank to increase its policy rate by the end of June next year, according to a poll conducted by Reuters among the Wall Street's top 22 firms that do business directly with the Fed. A Reuters poll done three weeks earlier showed only four primary dealers anticipated a rate hike by the first half of 2015 despite comments from Fed Chair Janet Yellen that suggested increases might come sooner. Friday's solid March jobs report concluded a busy week of economic data that indicated the economy has thawed along with much of the country, where shoppers were reluctant to leave their homes and companies kept a lid on payrolls. U.S. employers hired 192,000 workers last month, fewer than the 200,000 projected by economists polled by Reuters, the U.S. Labor Department said. It upwardly adjusted its January and February payrolls figures by a combined 37,000. Another key job measure, the monthly unemployment rate, held at 6.7 percent. Economists had expected a fall to 6.6 percent. "The Fed will be very happy with this type of jobs report," said Jacob Oubina, senior economist at RBC Capital Markets in New York. Last month, the Fed as expected scrapped its use of a 6.5 percent household unemployment rate as a barrier before raising interest rates. The jobless rate is currently just 6.7 percent and is likely to drop through 6.5 percent before long. Instead, the Fed will rely on a number of labor-market indicators, inflation figures and "readings on financial developments" to determine when to increase rates. Ten of the 17 Wall Street firms expected the first rate move would be an increase to 0.50 percent from the current zero to 0.25 percent range, which has been in effect since December 2008. The rest of the primary dealers said they anticipated the Fed would eliminate the near-zero target range prior to actually raising rates by a quarter point. Short-term interest rates futures rallied on the jobs figures, which were good but not better than expected. The federal funds contract for April 2015 delivery implies traders scaled back their expectations of a rate hike a year from now to 42 percent from 50 percent late on Thursday, according to CME FedWatch, which calculates traders' view of changes in the Fed's rate policy. While traders speculate on the timing of the first Fed rate increase, which would be the first one since June 2006, economists at major Wall Street firms reckoned the central bank will end its third round of quantitative easing by year-end. While the overall March payrolls report was positive, some analysts pointed out the naggingly high level of part-time workers and sluggish wage growth as worrisome factors that support the view the labor recovery is still fragile. This should keep Fed policy-makers from making any rapid changes in their current timing in paring stimulus and in raising borrowing costs, economists said. These factors "suggest the Fed need not be in a hurry to tighten policy," JPMorgan economist Michael Feroli wrote in a research note. Since December, the Fed has reduced its monthly purchases, with current plans for $55 billion in bond purchases in April, down from $85 billion in December. Twelve of 16 primary dealers polled expected the central bank to stop reinvesting the proceeds from maturing bonds it owns by the end of 2015. The other four forecast the Fed will end its reinvestment in first quarter of 2016. (Reporting by Getrude Chavez-Dreyfuss, Karen Brettell, Luciana Lopez, Karen Brettell, Sam Forgione, Michael Connor in New York; Deepti Govind and Ishaan Gera in Bangalore; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
CNBCBrad KatsuyamaNEW YORK (Reuters) - The upstart stock trading venue featured in Michael Lewis' book "Flash Boys: A Wall Street Revolt," may apply to become a fully registered stock exchange sooner than planned, IEX Group Inc's chief executive said on Friday. "Flash Boys" hit the stands on Monday and unleashed a fierce debate over the fairness of the U.S. stock market, which the book characterized as rigged in favor of high-speed traders who use their advantages to bilk the system for billions. The book also thrust IEX, and its CEO, Brad Katsuyama, former head of electronic trading at a unit of Royal Bank of Canada, in New York, into the spotlight. "We've been getting interest from corporate clients about listings and I think that definitely increases our interest in looking at becoming an exchange earlier than thought," Katsuyama said in an interview. He would not specify a time frame. IEX is currently registered as an Alternative Trading System (ATS), or what is commonly called a "dark pool." Dark pools are more lightly regulated than public stock exchanges, allowing them to pick who gets to trade inside of them. Investors remain anonymous, stock orders are not displayed, and the rules can be kept secret. IEX does not quite fit that mould. It offers all brokers access, its subscribers are listed on its website, and out of 45 active ATSs, it is the only one to make its rules public. The company has said it planned to become an exchange once it hits 5 percent of U.S. stock volume, which would make it more financially viable to take on the costs of the additional regulatory burden of being an exchange. Since the release of Lewis' book, IEX's trade volume has doubled to as much as 24 million shares a day, or around half-a-percent of U.S. stock volume. That might seem like a drop in the bucket, but it makes it bigger, on any given day, than four of the 13 public U.S. stock exchanges. If it were to become a stock exchange, IEX could challenge the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq OMX Group for corporate listings. The last exchange to attempt to do that was BATS Global Markets in May 2012, but it experienced a software problem during its market debut on its own exchange and pulled the IPO. It currently only lists exchange traded products. ICE OFFERED TO BUY IEX There may have been an easier route to becoming an exchange. In "Flash Boys," Lewis said IntercontinentalExchange Group, which bought NYSE Euronext last year for $12 billion, offered to buy IEX before it even opened, but Katsuyama turned down the offer. ICE declined comment. ICE Chief Executive Officer Jeff Sprecher, has been a vocal critic of the overall stock market, saying it is too complicated and rife with conflicts of interest. Katsuyama would not comment on whether ICE had tried to buy his company. But he did say: "We're very aligned in philosophy and I have only good things to say about Jeff." Around 2006-2007 when high-frequency trading began to flourish, Katsuyama found himself suddenly unable to place a large order for the stock price he saw quoted on his screen. This prompted him and his team to take a critical look at the structure of the market. What followed led to the opening in November of IEX, which stands for Investors' Exchange. IEX developed an electronic speed bump to take away any advantages of high-speed traders. It does not pay rebates to entice order flow. It has only four order types versus hundreds at some exchanges, and it is owned by fund companies and individual investors, not by banks or brokers. "You can build a fair market where computers, floor traders, retail and institutional, they can all be a part of the same trading eco-system," Katsuyama said. "You want the market to be random and you want people's investing or trading abilities to determine who wins and loses, not some loophole or inefficiency in the market structure." (Reporting by John McCrank; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
There are three basic forces that drive earnings per share growth: revenue, profit margins, and share counts. Fattening profit margins have enabled corporations to book record earnings despite weak sales growth. Because sales have been weak, corporate managers have been reluctant to invest in business. Instead, they've been shoveling cash back to shareholders in the form of dividends and share buybacks. Despite the falling share counts, the amount of earnings per share growth driven by buybacks has actually been relatively small. The biggest driver of earnings growth in recent years has clearly been profit margin expansion. David Kelly and his team at JP Morgan Asset Management illustrate this phenomenon with the gray bars in this chart, which comes from the firm's Q2 Guide To The Markets. JP Morgan Asset Management
Note: I added President Carter. Important: There are many differences between these periods. Overall employment was smaller in the '80s, so a different comparison might be to look at the percentage change. Of course the participation rate was increasing in the '80s (younger population and women joining the labor force), and the participation rate is declining now. But these graphs give an overview of employment changes. The first graph shows the change in private-sector payroll jobs from when each president took office until the end of their term(s). President George H.W. Bush only served one term, and President Obama is just starting the second year of his second term. Mr. G.W. Bush (red) took office following the bursting of the stock market bubble, and left during the bursting of the housing bubble. Mr. Obama (blue) took office during the financial crisis and great recession. There was also a significant recession in the early '80s right after Mr. Reagan (yellow) took office. There was a recession toward the end of President G.H.W. Bush (purple) term, and Mr Clinton (light blue) served for eight years without a recession. Calculated Risk The first graph is for private employment only. The employment recovery during Mr. G.W. Bush's (red) first term was very sluggish, and private employment was down 841,000 jobs at the end of his first term. At the end of Mr. Bush's second term, private employment was collapsing, and there were net 462,000 private sector jobs lost during Mr. Bush's two terms. Private sector employment increased slightly under President G.H.W. Bush (purple), with 1,510,000 private sector jobs added. Private sector employment increased by 20,955,000 under President Clinton (light blue), by 14,717,000 under President Reagan (yellow), and 9,041,000 under President Carter (dashed green). There were only 1,998,000 more private sector jobs at the end of Mr. Obama's first term. Just over one year into Mr. Obama's second term, there are now 4,690,000 more private sector jobs than when he initially took office. A big difference between the presidencies has been public sector employment. Note the bumps in public sector employment due to the decennial Census in 1980, 1990, 2000, and 2010. Calculated Risk The public sector grew during Mr. Carter's term (up 1,304,000), during Mr. Reagan's terms (up 1,414,000), during Mr. G.H.W. Bush's term (up 1,127,000), during Mr. Clinton's terms (up 1,934,000), and during Mr. G.W. Bush's terms (up 1,744,000 jobs). However the public sector has declined significantly since Mr. Obama took office (down 738,000 jobs). These job losses have mostly been at the state and local level, but more recently at the Federal level. This has been a significant drag on overall employment. Looking forward, I expect the economy to continue to expand for the next few years, so I don't expect a sharp decline in private employment as happened at the end of Mr. Bush's 2nd term (In 2005 and 2006 I was warning of a coming recession due to the bursting of the housing bubble). A big question is when the public sector layoffs will end. It appears the cutbacks are mostly over at the state and local levels, but there are ongoing cutbacks at the Federal level. Right now I'm expecting some increase in public employment in 2014. FREE AppDownload
At $45,000 a night, the Ty Warner Penthouse in the Four Seasons Hotel in New York City is the most expensive hotel room in North America. So, what do you get for this (non-negotiable) price? For starters, you're 700 feet above Manhattan and have a one-of-a-kind 360-degree view of the city. You also get a personal butler who will tend to your every need, a chauffeur who will drive you anywhere in a Rolls Royce, and a $65,000 bed with 22-karat gold woven throughout the bedspread. Take our tour of the Ty Warner Penthouse to see why it's one of the most expensive hotel rooms in the world. Produced by Will Wei. Additional Camera by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI VIDEO: On Facebook
I have never met Mr. Stein in person, nor have I spoken to him on the phone. Also, I am far from an expert on his considerable work at Harvard and MIT, prior to him joining the Fed. But I have followed closely, and been impressed, by the perspectives he has brought to the institution during his two-year tenure. As described officially, Mr. Stein has taken a lead role in the Fed’s work on regulation and supervision. In practice, he has also come across as bringing to the table a comprehensive understanding of financial developments – one that combines practical market and theoretical economic assessments with insights from both the efficient market literature and behavioral finance. Mr. Stein will be best remembered for pointing out the risks that the Fed’s current policies potentially pose for financial stability, market functioning and the real economy. Moreover, in his notable February 2013 speech, he reminded us that: “One of the most difficult jobs that central banks face is in dealing with episodes of credit market overheating that pose a potential threat to financial stability. As compared with inflation or unemployment, measurement is much harder, so even recognizing the extent of the problem in real time is a major challenge. Moreover, the supervisory and regulatory tools that we have, while helpful, are far from perfect.” Well-regarded Fed watchers were quick to point out yesterday that Mr. Stein’s absence may emboldened the doves on the FOMC. This could well be the case. If so, it would marginally reinforce the markets’ already-considerable appetite for down-in-quality trades, yield, and several other risk spread compression trades.  But there may be a bigger issue here. With the departure of Mr. Stein, the Fed risks losing part of the internal cognitive diversity that – I believe strongly – is valuable for navigating the particularly unusual and complex policy outlook that it (and the country/global economy) faces. Fortunately, some (though not all) of the loss would be offset as soon as Stanley Fischer – an even more-highly respected, well rounded and accomplished economist – finally completes his Senate nomination process. In the meantime, Fed officials would be well advised to use the next few weeks to become even keener students of Mr. Stein’s perspectives and insights. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alex WongU.S. Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel (L) shakes hands with Japan's Defense Minister Itsunori Onodera TOKYO (Reuters) - U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said he welcomed the possibility of Japan giving its military a greater role by allowing it to come to the aid of allies under attack. The comment in an interview with Japan's main financial newspaper, the Nikkei, came ahead of a trip to Japan this weekend and represents the clearest U.S. support yet for Tokyo's effort to bolster its military as it faces off against a more assertive China. "We welcome Japan's efforts to play a more proactive role in the alliance, including by re-examining the interpretation of its constitution relating to the right of collective self-defense," Hagel said in a written response to the Nikkei. Hagel visits China, suspicious of Japan's military intentions and where memories of Japan's past militarism run deep, after Tokyo. Japan has been locked into a security pact for more than half a century that commits the United States to defend Japan should it come under attack. Japan's Self-Defense Forces, however, are not allowed to aid U.S. ships or other military units that are fired upon. Adopting a policy of collective self-defense is a cornerstone of hawkish Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's policy to bolster the military. His critics say doing so would weaken constraint on using the defense force. In its postwar pacifist constitution, written by the United States, Japan renounced the right to wage war. Clear backing for collective self-defense by the United States, which is discussing with Japan ways to update their security pact, may help assuage concern in Tokyo that Washington will favor China as its economic power grows. Hagel's visit to Japan comes ahead of a planned trip to Tokyo by President Barack Obama later this month. Japan eased its weapons export restrictions on Tuesday in the first major overhaul of arms transfer policy in nearly half a century in a move that alarmed China. It came as Sino-Japanese ties have been chilled due to a territorial dispute over a group of East China Sea islets and Abe's visit in December to Tokyo's Yasukuni Shrine, seen by critics as a symbol of Japan's wartime aggression. (Reporting by Tim Kelly; Editing by Nick Macfie) FREE AppDownload
