Popular satirical news website 'The Onion" has hired a financial adviser for a possible sale, according to Bloomberg. They're apparently working with investment bank GCA Savvian. Bloomberg reached out to Steve Hannah, "The Onion's" chief executive officer who wouldn't comment on the situation. As Bloomberg notes, "The Onion" was founded as a magazine by students from the University of Wisconsin at Madison in 1988. Eventually they moved to digital-only, and their satirical news content is spread across several websites and YouTube channels. A fund manager, David Schafer, bought the company in 2003.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople pass a branch of The Royal Bank of Scotland in central London(Reuters) - Royal Bank of Scotland Plc's securities unit will now  exit its U.S. mortgage trading business after originally planning to shrink it by two-thirds. Exiting mortgage backed-security, commercial real estate and commercial mortgage-bond sales and trading "is a necessary part of repositioning our US business," an RBS spokesman said in an emailed statement. RBS said in May it will eliminate hundreds of jobs in the United States over the course of two years to help reduce assets ahead of new rules by the U.S. Federal Reserve. The largest foreign banks, with $50 billion or more in U.S. assets, need to set up an intermediate holding company subject to the same capital, risk management and liquidity standards as U.S. banks, the Fed said in February. "We have made significant progress against our goals and are well ahead of plan," the RBS spokesman added. "We continually evaluate all aspects of our business on a regular basis to ensure we are strategically positioned to deliver optimal results to our clients and shareholders." The company plans to retain its non-mortgage asset backed securities team.  (Reporting by Ankush Sharma in Bangalore. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesMichael BloombergFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers.  Bloomberg: I Don't Believe In Robo Advisers (Ria Biz)  Robo-advisers have arrived, and there's an on-going debate over whether or not investors should incorporate them into their firms. Already many big financial groups such as Charles Schwab and Fidelity Investments have added robo-advisers. But not everyone sees value in them. "I don't believe in automation for client service. When a client calls, it is a unique opportunity for us to interface with you, find out how things are going, and sell you another product," Michael Bloomberg said. In fact, his namesake firm recently terminated its own robo-advisory product. Holding Gold In Yen Terms Actually Has A Positive Effect On Your Portfolio (Advisor Perspectives) "The strong trend in correlation between gold and the dollar and gold and the yen have driven the outperformance of gold in yen versus gold in dollars while at the same time resulting in lower realized volatility for the investor," writes Ade Odunsi.  The current market has seen "strongly negative and falling correlation" between the yen and the USDX, but a "strongly positive and rising correlation between" gold and the YEN/USD FX rate, writes Odunsi. "This suggests a strong three way relationship whereby the dollar also impacted the yen with the weakening versus the dollar even as the gold price fell." In simple terms, what happens from an investor's point of view is that the negative performance of the gold in dollars "was largely offset by the positive performance of the dollar versus the yen." Society’s Money Taboo Needs To Change (Investment News) Advisers need to change the way they work with couples: instead of meeting with spouses individually, advisers should hold joint meetings so they can resolve financial decisions together. Right now, there is a cultural taboo about discussing finances together. 80% of spouses admit that they hide financial purchases from their spouses because they are afraid that it will cause a domestic problem. But advisers can help alleviate these issues with restructured meetings. “The byproduct of this revolution would be healthier couples and stronger families. Advisers would benefit as well as they would increase client loyalty, retain more assets and be the next generation’s logical choice as their trusted adviser,” writes Kathleen Burns Kingsbury. Wells Fargo Just Swooped Up A Nearly $1 Billion Team From JP Morgan (The Wall Street Journal) Wells Fargo just acquired the Reed, Gates, Strait Wealth Management Group team from JP Morgan’s private bank. The team manages nearly $1 billion in assets. “The team, which focuses on high-net-worth clients, managed more than $972 million in combined assets and deposits and had $5.95 million in revenue, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman said,” according to Michael Wursthorn. Wells Fargo also nabbed four advisers from Ameriprise Financial Services and Merrill Lynch last month. Even Middle Class Couples Need To Consider Long Term Care (Financial Planning) "41% of middle class people between 56 and 62 face high risks of not being able to pay for basic living expenses and health costs in their later years" and "one-third of men and two-thirds of women aged 65 and up will need to enter a nursing facility at some point in their lives," according to Financial Planning. As a result, it makes sense for middle class couples to consider Long Term Care policies. Although many LTC policies are seeing rising costs and shrinking benefits, there are some policies available that pay almost $300 per day — significantly higher than the standard $150 per day. FREE AppDownload
HerbalifePedro CardosoNEW YORK/SAO PAULO (Reuters) - A director of U.S. nutrition company Herbalife is among 12 people charged in a years-old Brazilian embezzlement case that has never been mentioned in Herbalife public disclosures, according to court documents and company filings. Herbalife has become one of America's most closely-watched companies after billionaire investors William Ackman and Carl Icahn squared off with enormous bets on its future, with Ackman betting on its demise and Icahn on its success. Prosecutors in Brazil charged current Herbalife board member Pedro Cardoso with money laundering in 2008 for allegedly participating in an embezzlement scheme a decade earlier that siphoned 26.7 million Brazilian reais ($10.4 million) from the state government in Espirito Santo. The 8th Criminal Court of Vitoria ordered bailiffs to serve him with a subpoena in 2010, but they did not locate him and the case remains open, according to court filings and a court source. According to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's rules on disclosure, companies must report legal proceedings that are material to evaluating the integrity of a director. Herbalife has not made the information about Cardoso's case public, according to proxy statements it has filed since 2009 when Cardoso joined the company's board. Cardoso said in a statement dated this week emailed to Reuters by an Herbalife official that the lawsuit was a private matter dating back to 1998 which had no bearing on his work for the company, and that he was unaware he was being sought in the case. "I have received no official notification of any kind with regards to this matter," he said. Herbalife declined requests for additional comment. The SEC declined to comment. AP Images The company is under investigation by the SEC, the Federal Trade Commission, and the Federal Bureau of Investigations after billionaire Ackman began publicly accusing it of running a pyramid scheme that targets minorities, a charge Herbalife vehemently denies. After Ackman announced a $1 billion short bet against the company in December 2012, other prominent Wall Street investors took the opposite side of Ackman's position, including Carl Icahn who has since become Herbalife's biggest shareholder. Herbalife stock has tumbled 51 percent this year on weaker-than-expected earnings and guidance. Cardoso is a member of Herbalife's Chairman's Club of top distributors and has been a board member since 2009. According to the court, Jose Carlos Gratz, who was president of the Assembleia Legislativa do Espírito Santo (ALES) led a criminal operation that stole public funds by pretending to allocate donations to community centers, schools and hospitals. Instead the money was used to pay for private events that had no public interest. Gratz has been sentenced to prison time but remains free while pursuing an appeal. He said in a statement posted on a personal blog that his signatures on checks issued by the local legislature were forged.    Prosecutors say Cardoso was part of the embezzlement scheme because a firm in which he was a partner cashed an ALES check for 6,000 Brazilian reais that was signed by Gratz in 1999, according to the court documents. If found guilty by a judge, he could face anything from a fine to up to 10 years in prison, a court official in Vitoria informed Reuters in a written statement. The court official said authorities have been unable to find Cardoso because he has moved several times without notifying the court as required by law. Brazil's judicial system has a reputation for being disorganized and it is common for court cases to languish for years without being resolved. (1 US dollar=2.5773 Brazilian reais) (Editing by Richard Valdmanis; Editing by Alden Bentley) FREE AppDownload
There's a huge change going on in the tech industry that will create a whole new crop of winners and losers: cloud computing. Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella recently declared that Microsoft was already in with the winners. "We absolutely caught the trend ... it's no longer up for debate, whether we get the cloud," he said. One reason he gave to back up his claim: Microsoft's cloud business is on track to be a $4.5 billion business. But sources tell Business Insider that this $4.5 billion number isn't as straightforward as it seems. The $4-billion-mark is a major milestone for cloud computing companies. In its last fiscal year, which ended in June, Microsoft had $2.8 billion in cloud revenue. Pure cloud company Salesforce.com just hit over $4 billion in revenues in its last fiscal year and expects to hit $5.3 billion at the end of its current fiscal year. It took it 15 years and a major acquisition, marketing automation company Exact Target. Cloud market leader Amazon is on track to generate over $4 billion in revenue this year, too. Amazon doesn't release its cloud revenues, but its "other" segment, which includes its cloud Amazon Web Services, had $1.4 billion in revenues, most of which come from AWS. But our sources say that Microsoft is getting to that number by giving away cloud services for free or at a steep discount as part of bigger enterprise contracts, even to customers who aren't yet using those cloud services. MicrosoftAs one former Microsoft employee told Business Insider, "What Microsoft is doing is claiming a certain percentage of their Enterprise Agreements — these are renewals of their big licensing agreements — as cloud revenue. They bundle the 'rights' to use Azure or Office 365 as part of their overall agreement. The dirty secret is that very few customers are actually taking Microsoft up on using Azure in any meaningful way." In other words, when an enterprise signs a new contract to buy software like Windows, Microsoft's database and Microsoft Office, the salesperson may toss in free (or almost free) access to Microsoft's cloud Azure (which includes a cloud version of the database) and Microsoft's online version of Office, Office 365. Microsoft then assigns a percentage of that contract as cloud revenue. It's a little like giving you a free toaster when you sign up for a checking account, then claiming toaster sales are going crazy. Cynthia Farren has seen this sort of contract negotiation tactic happen first hand. Farren is a consultant who makes her living helping enterprise navigate Microsoft's complex software licensing agreements. (In geek speak, she's a "software asset management consultant." Software license agreements from companies like IBM, SAP, Oracle, and Microsoft are so tricky and expensive there's a whole industry of consultants that helps companies negotiate them.) Cynthia FarrenCynthia Farren"Since early in the days of Microsoft’s venture into cloud computing we have often heard of and seen examples of cloud services getting added to customer’s Enterprise Agreements at heavily discounted rates or an overall discount making the addition of the cloud services have a net zero dollar impact on the agreement," Farren tells Business Insider. She adds: "I have also heard some Microsoft sales folks go so far as to boast that all of the EAs [enterprise agreements] they manage have some cloud services on them but have also explained that not all of them have implemented those services yet." To decode that a little: she's saying that some Microsoft salespeople claim that all of their customers have access to Microsoft's cloud, even when they aren't using it yet. There's a brilliance to this: Build it and they will come. If it costs the enterprise nothing to have access to Azure or Office 365, they'll try it out, and hopefully like it enough to pay full price during the next contract negotiation. "In all fairness, I have seen an increase in the number of customers actually moving to Office 365, Azure, and Dynamics Online," Farren says. Microsoft has used similar tactics in the past, such as including licenses to less-popular server products in a bundle with licenses to products that had higher demand. Eventually, companies would come around and start using the products they've already partly paid for. On the other hand, Farren says she's "jaded" when she hears Microsoft report the number of cloud users or its revenue numbers. "What I would really like to know is how many of their total number of users have ever been activated. I’d really like to see a more transparent way of reporting the numbers (such as active users, etc)," she says. While getting existing Microsoft customers to try Microsoft’s cloud is huge, it’s not the whole battle. Microsoft also needs to win over new customers. Google“Most of the hot new companies don't use Microsoft,” the former employee tells us. “These are the most important companies for growth of the cloud. Amazon and Google dominate share in these new high growth companies.” Microsoft tells us that this is changing and that the company is really starting to win over startups to its cloud. In the last earnings call with analysts Nadella said that 40% of Azure revenue now comes from start-ups and independent software vendors (ISVs). Then again, Microsoft doesn't report how much revenue Azure brings in. The closest number we have is the total annual cloud revenue Microsoft reported in July (its fiscal year ends in June). It said then that total cloud revenue for the year was $2.8 billion. That included all of its cloud services: Azure, Office 365 and its Salesforce.com competitor, Dynamics. Microsoft reported total revenue of $87 billion. The other danger to the plan is profit margins. For the next few years, and maybe decades, Microsoft will have to invest billions into its cloud infrastructure to support cloud customers and engage in a price war with Amazon and Google. Unlike before, Microsoft can't just hand over the software to the customer and be done with it. “You have to remember that in the past Microsoft has had gross margins in the 90% range for Office and Windows. There is no way to sustain that type of monopoly pricing in cloud when competing against Amazon and Google," our source says. Microsoft won't need ridiculously high margins if it captures a growing slice of the growing cloud computing pie. It will make money aplenty from that. The cloud computing is going nuts right now, growing at around 30% a year and is expected to generate $121 billion next year, predicts market research firm Markets and Markets. A spokesperson also tells us that Microsoft's cloud growth is not yet coming at the expense of its high-margin on-premise products like SQL Server, System Center and Windows Server. Revenue grew for all of those classic softare products last quarter. A spokesperson says this indicates "that the company is not just shifting revenue." Microsoft also raised prices on all of these products and said that its enterprise cutomers are buying more licenses for each of them as their data centers grow. And that indicates that companies are not yet ditching Microsoft's high-margin software products for the cloud. They are using more technology of every kind, both the cloud and traditional software. Profit margins on the cloud will eventually be sorted out for Microsoft, and all the cloud vendors. Even if enterprises pay less for each service, over time they'll be buying a lot of cloud services, including some premium high-margin services. Flickr/n.bhupinderMicrosoft CEO Satya Nadella Fancy new features that you can only get from the cloud versions of Microsoft software will convince more companies to try Microsoft’s cloud, according to a new report from Forrester Research on Thursday. "Under Nadella’s mandate, commercial product development teams are focused on driving innovation into the cloud versions of its properties first (on-premises [software] second). And its sales engines are all rewarded for pushing as much cloud into each enterprise license agreement as possible," Forrester says. Forrester boldly predicts that, "Microsoft will make more profit from cloud than from [traditional] on-premises [software]." And it thinks this will happen in 2015. But, as our sources point out, first Microsoft needs to get companies to pay for these cloud services, not just try them out for free. Microsoft says that this is already starting to happen. Nadella told analysts in October that 60 percent of Azure customers are starting to use what the company calls 'premium services,' like data analytics or the Enterprise Mobility Suite, which helps IT departments manage mobile devices. Microsoft hasn't, however, disclosed how many Azure cutomers it has, although it did say that it is currently signing up 8,000 a accounts a week. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/ Larry BusaccaDan Loeb.Activist investor Daniel Loeb, who is known for his infamous pen and scathing letters to company CEOs, has released his first-ever mini documentary taking on Dow Chemical.  The film, which is called "Broken Promises", is a "narrative detailing how Dow has fallen behind due to poor strategic decision-making by a Management team and Board best known for their track record of broken promises to shareholders," according to a press release.  Loeb's $17 billion Third Point's last held 22,000,000 shares of Dow Chemical, according to the most recent 13F data for the second quarter ended June 30. Third Point's new 13F filing should come this week. At the bottom of the video posted on Vimeo, Third Point said it intends to file a proxy statement with the SEC. "In connection with their intended proxy solicitation, Third Point LLC and certain of its affiliates intend to file a proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) to solicit stockholders of The Dow Chemical Company (the “Company”)." Of course, no official decisions have been made yet in regards to a proxy, according to a source familiar. In addition to the video, Third Point has launched a new website (value-dow.com). The hedge fund has also hired Raymond J. Milchovich, the former CEO of Foster Wheeler AG, and R. "Steve" Miller, the current chairman of AIG, as advisers. Third Point said that they "each have significant expertise in corporate turnarounds and operational management, skillsets Dow desperately needs to move forward." Meanwhile, the window for nominations to Dow's board opens at the end of this month.  Here's the video:   FREE AppDownload
You are what you read, so you'd better choose wisely. For a little help, each year The Financial Times sifts through dozens of new business books. Along with its partner McKinsey (and previously Goldman Sachs) it gives an annual "Business Book of the Year" award to honor the créme de la créme of business writing. This year, "Capital in the Twenty-First Century" by Thomas Pitketty took home the title, but not without some stiff competition. You can check out the short list of finalists here. Throughout the last decade this award has collectively brought together some of the greatest and most influential business books out there. Here are the winners: 2014: "Capital in the Twenty-First Century"  By Thomas Piketty 2013: "The Everything Store"By Brad Stone 2012: "Private Empire: Exxon Mobile and American Power"By Steve Coll 2011: "Poor Economics: A Radical Rethinking of the Way to Fight Global Poverty"By Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo 2010: "Fault Lines: How Hidden Fractures Still Threaten the World Economy"By Raghuram Rajan 2009: "Lords of Finance: The Bankers Who Broke The World"By Liaquat Ahamed 2008: "When Markets Collide: Investment Strategies for the Age of Global Economic Change"By Mohammed El-Erian 2007: "The Last Tycoons: The Secret History of Lazard Frères &amp; Co."By William Cohan 2006: "China Shakes The World: A Titan's Rise and Troubled Future — and the Challenge for America"By James Kynge 2005: "The World is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-First Century"By Thomas L. Friedman See more great business books over at The Financial Times. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingWarren BuffettWarren Buffett, the billionaire "Oracle of Omaha" continues to be involved in some of the biggest investment plays in the world. Buffett is undoubtedly the most successful investor in history. His investment philosophy is no secret, and he has repeatedly shared bits and pieces of it through a lifetime of quips and memorable quotes. His brilliance is timeless, and we find ourselves referring back to them over and over again. We compiled a few of Buffett's best quotes from his TV appearances, newspaper op-eds, magazine interviews, and of course his annual letters. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPedestrians walk past the Bank of England in the City of LondonBy Jamie McGeever LONDON (Reuters) - An independent report into the Bank of England's role in the global currency market has raised questions about the relationship between commercial bank dealers and brokers for the first time since regulators began investigating trading practices. The report of an inquiry led by commercial lawyer Lord Anthony Grabiner shows how an unidentified trader raised a range of concerns with the British central bank three years ago, including over the role of brokers in deals struck at the "London fix". Investigations by international regulators into the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign exchange market have focused on the daily fix, the one-minute window at 4:00 pm when global benchmark currency rates are set. Grabiner's report was published on Wednesday, the same day that British and U.S. authorities fined six of the world's biggest banks a total of $4.3 billion for failing to prevent their traders sharing clients' order information and attempting to manipulate the market. Included in the 57-page report are transcripts of a telephone conversation in October 2011 when the bank trader expressed his worries to the Bank of England's then chief currency dealer Martin Mallett. Mallett was fired on Tuesday for undisclosed "serious misconduct" relating to the Bank's "internal policies", the BoE said, although it added that this was unrelated to the global investigation. Mallett did not respond to a Reuters request for comment. In the call, the trader spoke of his concern that banks were not only executing transactions at the fix for their clients but also a large number of speculative deals on their own behalf through brokers, suggesting that these may not be "genuine". "I'm sure a lot of them are being made up and washed around," the trader said. "Why would they do that?" asked Mallett. "To create brokerage, but also, to, you know, some of these banks want to build a book and try and bully the fix," the trader said. In his report, which was commissioned by the Bank of England's oversight committee, Grabiner said the trader's explanation of his concern had been unclear, but noted "there is nothing necessarily improper about speculative trading". Grabiner also said he believed the trader's remark on attempts to "bully the fix" referred to altering the exchange rate at the fix. It was for failing to prevent manipulation of the fix that the regulators imposed their fines on Wednesday, including $1.77 billion in penalties that Britain's Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) slapped on five commercial banks. However, Grabiner concluded there was no evidence that any Bank of England official had been involved in unlawful or improper behavior. Banks' use of brokers to match buyers and sellers in foreign exchange dealing for brokerage fees is a normal, legal practice.  But it is unclear why bank traders would voluntarily want to "create brokerage" - incur unnecessary brokers' fees - as the trader alluded to in the conversation with Mallett. Mark Garnier, a Conservative member of the British parliamentary committee charged with overseeing finance, said the most likely explanation is that traders give brokers business in return for potentially useful market intelligence. "It's the kind of back-scratching stuff that goes on all the time. You could say that's the way the world works, but when you look at it from the outside, you ask yourself, 'what the hell is going on here?'," said Garnier, himself a former City financier.  COVERING THE TRAIL While the banks have agreed to pay the penalties, they have not admitted any liability, and no individual or institution has been charged with any wrongdoing. In its own conclusions, the FCA said top traders routinely shared supposedly confidential information on their clients' orders in electronic chatrooms. This came to light in transcripts of their conversations, which the FCA published this week. Other transcripts of chatroom conversations in 2011 and 2012, read to Reuters by one source familiar with the investigation, show that even when the traders could match the client orders with each other, they would put the deals through brokers rather than trading directly. In one exchange from February 2012, one trader asked another to decide who to give the brokerage business to. "Which bookie? Your choice," he said. Again it is unclear why the dealers were willing to pay a broker for bringing a buyer and seller together, when they had already done this themselves. However, one consequence of putting these trades through brokers was to hide the fact that they originated from the chatroom conversations in which the traders at rival banks shared client order information. The deals would appear to have been arranged by the broker, not by the traders themselves. "One reason you do it through a broker is to make it look like normal business, disguise the transaction and make it look less irregular," said Professor Mark Taylor, Dean of Warwick Business School and a former foreign exchange trader. "It does sound murky. There is no reason to do it," he said. The FCA declined comment, as did the Wholesale Market Brokers' Association, an umbrella organization for the broking industry.  (Reporting by Jamie McGeever, additional reporting by Arno Schuetze in Frankfurt; editing by David Stamp) FREE AppDownload
flickr/IFPRIStocks went nowhere, but the Dow still made a record high on Thursday in a session that saw the averages rally early before selling off to trade nearly unchanged. The big story on Thursday, however, was oil, which continued its recent tumble, falling below $75 for the first time since 2011.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. Crude oil got completely slammed. Again. West Texas Intermediate crude fell more than 3.5% on Thursday to well below $75 a barrel, its lowest level since 2011. WTI crude is now down about 30% from its highs earlier this summer, and in a note to clients economists at Capital Economics wrote that they expect Brent crude prices (which are used as the global benchmark and are currently around $78), to fall to $70 a barrel by 2016, four years earlier than the firm had expected.  2. The latest report on weekly jobless claims showed claims rose about 12,000 last week to 290,000, though this level is still near 13-year lows. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said that, "absent any shove from tighter policy, claims can remain close to their current trend for an extended period."  3. The BLS also released its latest Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey, or JOLTS report, which showed there were slightly fewer job openings in September than in August, though job openings are still near multi-year highs. The biggest piece of data from the report, however, was the quits rate, which showed a 2% quit rate from workers in September, up from 1.8% the previous month. The report showed 2.8 million workers left their job during September, which a number of Wall Street economists took as a positive sign for the labor market, with the idea being that workers are more likely to leave their job if they are confident they can find another one.  4. New York Stock Exchange legend Art Cashin highlighted comments from hedge fund manager Paul Singer in his morning note on Thursday, including Singer's recent commentary that "There is a current set of delusions that is powerful and dangerous: that monetary debasement can be infinitely pursued without consequences." The New York Times' Paul Krugman isn't so sure.  5. Warren Buffett is buying batteries. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway announced on Thursday that it would acquire the Duracell brand from Procter &amp; Gamble, with P&amp;G getting $4.7 billion worth of its own shares currently held by Berkshire. The deal is expected to close in the second half of next year.  6. DreamWorks Animation shares gained more than 10% on Thursday after reports from both Deadline.com and The New York Times said the company is in talks with Hasbro regarding a potential deal. But Business Insider's Kirsten Acuna, highlighting comments from analysts at Sterne Agee, reported that some in the investment community don't think the deal makes any sense. Hasbro shares fell more than 4% following the news.  7. Twitter shares fell more than 5% on Thursday, retracing most of their gains from Wednesday, as S&amp;P assigned the company's debt a 'BB-' rating, which is considered "speculative grade" or "junk" by the bond market.  8. Apple shares gained more than 1% on Thursday, rising to a new all-time high and pushing its market cap to its highest-ever level of $663.2 billion.  9. Alibaba disclosed that it plans to sell debt to US investors, in a deal that Bloomberg said could be worth $8 billion.  10. Baker Hughes shares exploded higher late in the day Thursday after a report from The Wall Street Journal said Halliburton is in talks to acquire its oil-field services rival. The report made no mention of a potential price, but shares of Baker Hughes, which were halted for volatility after the news, logged gains of more than 15%.  Don't Miss: Traders Are 'Scared As Hell' About What's Happening In Venezuela » FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe Hughes Tool Company's oil drill manufacturing plant in downtown Houston, 1915.There may be an energy mega-deal in the works. "Halliburton Co. is in talks to buy Baker Hughes Inc., according to people familiar with the matter," reports the Wall Street Journal's Dana Mattioli, Liz Hoffman and Dana Cimilluca. "Talks between the two oil-field-services companies are moving quickly, and they could reach an agreement soon, said two of the people." The Journal's report made no mention of a price. However, Baker Hughes shares got as high as $61.78, or 21% after news crossed the wires. Halliburton is an energy industry behemoth with a market cap of $48 billion. Baker Hughes carries a market cap of around $22 billion. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThis is what S&P thinks of Twitter's debt.Twitter shares are down more than 5% in afternoon trade on Thursday, giving up almost all of their gains from yesterday, after the company received a "junk" rating from credit agency S&amp;P. S&amp;P gave Twitter a 'BB-' corporate credit rating and said the company's outlook is stable. Any rating from S&amp;P under 'BBB-' is considered "speculative grade," otherwise known in the bond world as "junk." Thursday's tumble in Twitter comes after the stock gained more than 7% on Wednesday after the company held an analyst day, at which the company' CFO made what Business Insider's Jay Yarow called a "wild" revenue projection, among other things. In its rating, S&amp;P analyst Andy Liu said, "The unsolicited 'BB-' corporate credit rating incorporates our assumption of healthy growth in monthly active users and revenues, the possibility of positive discretionary cash flow in 2016, and ongoing minimal debt leverage." S&amp;P added that Twitter is investing very aggressively in growth. Depending on the level of business reinvestment, Twitter may not generate positive discretionary cash flow until 2016. S&amp;P's rating on Thursday was a "unsolicited" rating, meaning it was initiated by S&amp;P and may be based only on publicly available information and may not have included cooperation from the company. Here's the full release from S&amp;P:   CHICAGO (Standard &amp; Poor's) Nov. 13, 2014--Standard &amp; Poor's Ratings Services said today that it assigned its unsolicited 'BB-' corporate credit rating to San Francisco-based social networking company Twitter Inc. The outlook is stable. At the same time, we assigned our unsolicited 'BB-' issue-level rating and unsolicited '3' recovery rating to the company's $1.8 billion convertible notes, which comprise $900 million 0.25% convertible notes due 2019 and $900 million 1% convertible notes due 2021. The '3' recovery rating indicates our expectation for meaningful recovery (50%-70%) of principal for debtholders in the event of a payment default.   Twitter will use proceeds from debt issuance for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and operating needs. As of Sept. 30, 2014, the company had about $3.6 billion in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. The $3.6 billion included net proceeds from the convertible notes offering.   "The unsolicited 'BB-' corporate credit rating incorporates our assumption of healthy growth in monthly active users and revenues, the possibility of positive discretionary cash flow in 2016, and ongoing minimal debt leverage," said Standard &amp; Poor's credit analyst Andy Liu. The company is investing very aggressively in growth. Depending on the level of business reinvestment, Twitter may not generate positive discretionary cash flow until 2016.   "The stable outlook reflects our expectation that Twitter will continue to experience very strong growth and not encounter a significant increase in competitive pressure," said Mr. Liu. We expect the company to experience very high growth over the next two to three years as it expands internationally and grows revenue as well as to maintain meaningful cash balances to offset negative discretionary cash flow and offset volatility. We do not expect it to pursue shareholder return activities such as share buybacks and dividends.   We could raise the rating if Twitter broadens its revenue sources through international expansion and new product launches, maintains its market position, continues to improve its profitability, and achieves positive and sustained discretionary cash flow in excess of $100 million in 2016.   We could lower the rating if Twitter is unable to achieve positive discretionary cash flow and if there is a marked deceleration in revenue growth or if revenue actually contracts. This could indicate that the business model may be facing significant risks, which could cause us to revise our "fair" business risk profile assessment. A sizable acquisition that significantly depletes the company's cash balances could also result in a downgrade.                					                                                                                                                                            facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        google+                                                                        email                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                email                                                                                        share                                                                         share                                                                         tweet                                                                         share                                                                         email                                                                                        Share on Facebook                                                                         Share on Twitter                                                                         Share on Linkedin                                                                         Share on Google Plus                                                                         email                                                            Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                    _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                        Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						0																								All Comments						5									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        Twitter Is Junk, Says S&P    Twitter Is Junk, Says S&P        Twitter shares are down more than 5% in... FREE AppDownload
John Moore/GettyThere were 123,109 foreclosure filings on homes during October, according to RealtyTrac. Filings were down 8% year-on-year, but up 15% from the previous month – the highest such increase since March 2010. Foreclosure filings include notices on defaults, scheduled auctions and bank repossessions.   Banks mostly suspend foreclosures during the holidays, so there's usually an uptick in foreclosures in October, averaging 8%, said Daren Blomquist, vice president of RealtyTrac. "But the sheer magnitude of the increase this year demonstrates there is more than just a seasonal pattern at work," Blomquist said in a press release. "Distressed properties that have been in a holding pattern for years are finally being cleared for landing at the foreclosure auction." Foreclosure auctions totaled 59,869 properties last month, up 24% from September and the highest level since May 2013. Miami, Orlando, and Tampa were the metros with the highest foreclosure rates. We drew on RealtyTrac's report to highlight the 14 states with the highest foreclosure rates last month. Note: The states are ranked by foreclosure rate, i.e., one in every X homes received a foreclosure filing. FREE AppDownload
Societe Generale's Albert Edwards says investors should be paying more attention to the yen/dollar chart. To the right, you'll see his chart, which goes back to 1986. In a note to clients Thursday, Edwards forecasts that the yen will plunge to ¥145 per dollar by the end of March. He sees ¥120 as the key resistance level that may be crossed soon, plunging the yen to levels last seen in 2002:  "The yen is set to follow the US dollar DXY trade-weighted index by crashing through multi-decade resistance - around ¥120. It seems entirely plausible to me that once we break ¥120, we could see a very quick ¥25 move to ¥145, forcing commensurate devaluations across the whole Asian region and sending a tidal wave of deflation westwards." Edwards writes that the "tidal wave of deflation" will first hit China, which has already seen a streak of falling producer prices.  "After a record 32 successive months of deflation at the producer price level, China has suffered as much PPI deflation over the past three years as it did in the immediate aftermath of the 1997 Asian crisis. Do investors really think China can cope with a devaluation of the yen from here? They simply can<U+0092>t tolerate this and they won<U+0092>t. They will devalue." On Tuesday, the yen tumbled to a seven-year low against the dollar, trading near ¥115.7. It traded near this level on Thursday. The yen fell sharply late October after the Bank of Japan surprised financial markets by announcing an additional round of stimulus measures that will see its balance sheet expanding by 80 trillion yen a year. And a report earlier this week that Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe is planning to call for a snap election pushed the currency to a seven-year low. The vote could shore up political support for Abe while also signaling to investors that dovish economic policy will continue. In September, Edwards wrote that he saw the yen threatening to cross ¥120, and then depreciating so much that it throws Western economies into a recession. Even though that hasn't happened yet, here's why Edwards says Japan will lose what he calls "this phase of currency wars:" "I simply think Japan will lose control of the situation given the quantity of QE being spewed into the markets and unless the US, the eurozone, or indeed Korea, is prepared to come remotely close to Japan<U+0092>s rate of QE, jawboning currency stability will do very little."  FREE AppDownload
Bull markets are based on climbing the proverbial "wall of worry," and this cycle has been no different. We have consistently argued over the past five years that the current bull market could be one of the biggest of our careers. Both investors and corporations continue to act conservatively because of the uncertainty caused by a litany of issues. Uncertainty is typically the engine of bull markets. Here’s a subjective list of fifty concerns in this cycle’s "wall of worry." Admittedly, we have grouped contradictory fears together to add a bit of humor, but we are not at all passing judgment on any particular concern. However, the list is long and has been relatively fruitless. One has to wonder when investors will grow tired of being so scared. 1) Corporate profits growth isn’t sustainable. 2) Profit margins will fall. 3) Corporate taxes are too high. 4) Corporate taxes are too low. 5) The stock market is extremely overvalued. 6) Buybacks are the only factor supporting the stock market. 7) Small businesses can’t grow. 8) Employment is abnormally weak. 9) Wage pressures will cause inflation. 10) There’s too much regulation. 11) There’s too little regulation. 12) The government is too big. 13) The government isn’t doing enough. 14) The government won’t support energy investment. 15) Capex growth is anemic except within the energy sector. 16) The ECB is too loose to benefit the PIIGs. 17) The ECB is too tight and is fueling deflation. 18) Corporations are too uncertain to hire and invest. 19) Corporate profits are an unsustainably large proportion of GDP. 20) Monetary policy has been impotent. 21) The economy can’t survive without QE. 22) The US has too much debt. 23) The US budget deficit is too large. 24) The US is de-basing the dollar. 25) The strong dollar will hurt earnings. 26) The Fed’s policies will cause inflation. 27) Deflation is spreading around the world. 28) Treasuries are in a bubble and have disconnected from the economy. 29) Low rates are forecasting economic weakness. 30) Invaders. a. Terrorism b. Immigration c. Ebola <U+FFFC> 31) The separation of wealth is historically wide. 32) The owners of capital are being targeted. 33) Pensions will bankrupt municipalities. 34) Public employee unions are being targeted. 35) There’s too much uncertainty to take risk. 36) Investors are taking too much risk. 37) Developed economies will suffer in the "new normal." 38) Expectations for the emerging markets are too optimistic. 39) China credit markets are an accident waiting to happen. 40) Geopolitics. a. Iraq b. Iran c. ISIS d. Al Qaeda e. Syria f. Israel/Palestine g. North Korea h. Argentina default i. Brazil election j. Russia/Crimea k. Russia/Ukraine l. Russia/NATO m. Japan tsunami n. China/Japan o. China/Taiwan p. China/Hong Kong 41) High oil prices will hurt the consumer. 42) Low oil prices reflect the weakness in the economy. 43) Housing will be a drag on the economy. 44) Housing is in another bubble. 45) Bond spreads are too wide. 46) Credit downgrades will be numerous. 47) Bond spreads are too narrow. 48) Sentiment is overly optimistic. 49) Derivatives are dangerous. 50) Hedging downside risk is critical. This article originally appeared at Richard Bernstein Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
ReutersBottles showing the barrel aging process are seen at the Jack Daniel's distillery in Lynchburg, Tennessee May 10, 2011.Whiskey is not white, it is brown. That, to me, is part of its appeal. It is very clear that you are not drinking vodka when you drink whiskey, and vodka is for people who can't drink. At least, that's what I'm told. I've also recently been told that there's this thing called "white whiskey." It is whiskey, but it is not brown. I had to investigate. A quick search on the internet will tell you that liquor geeks are definitely talking about this stuff. It's being stocked at bars in Brooklyn and craft distillers are giving it a shot. Some of the big brands are stepping in too. Jim Beam has a Jacob's Ghost White Whiskey, and Pam Wiznitzer, a bartender at NYC's premier bar The Dead Rabbit, said that Makers Mark has a white whiskey, but it's not available in retail. So what the heck is white whiskey? To understand that, you've got to understand one simple thing about whiskey. It's aged in barrels. That's what gives it its color and flavor. White whiskey is not aged. "New Yorkers upstate were drinking things similar to white whiskey back in the mid 1800s," says Zach Tirone, General Manager of The LCL: Bar &amp; Kitchen in NYC. "This is what Coppersea Distillery tries to emulate with their Raw Rye Whiskey... Back in the 1800s you had a lot of farmers in upstate New York that might turn their unsold grain into raw whiskey but might not necessarily have the time, effort, or means to age it properly, so a raw white whiskey, usually with a rye base was known to be drank occasionally." There are two kinds of white whiskey. There's the completely unaged stuff, sometimes called "white dog" or (simply) moonshine. Then there's a group of more flavor driven whiskeys — that's where Jim Beam's Jacob's Ghost falls. They have a little something more added to them for taste. Tirone carries Death's Door White Whiskey and Tuttletown Hudson Corn Whiskey at LCL. They don't make a cocktail with it, customers just sip it neat.  Business Insider"The Gander downtown does a good drink with it but that's the last good one I've had in a while," said Tirone. The fact that good cocktails in this space are lacking isn't that surprising. Over the course of all this reporting Business Insider picked up a bottle of the Jim Beam Jacob's Ghost. That bottle is still pretty full. But one white whiskey, we thought, should not be allowed to represent all of them. So we headed to The Gander to try their cocktail, the Cold Toddy. It's made with Earl Grey, honey, lemon, Amaro Montenegro, dandelion &amp; BurdockBitters, and White Rye Whiskey. “I was pretty vehemently against the category," said The Gander's co-manager Jordan Lari. Then he found a product he liked — Coppersea's White Rye Whiskey. It took him about five minutes to design a cocktail with it. Coppersea was "specifically crafting a product that is good, that just happens to be white whiskey," said Lari. That's what got him on board. Because here's the deal — with craft distilleries being all the rage now, and cocktail culture on the upswing, every company that makes liquor is constantly coming up with new ways to get a bigger piece of the action. For one thing, that means big companies are marketing some of their brands as having a smaller, craft liquor vibe. It also means tapping into the biggest part of the liquor market — the vodka part. Clear liquors dominate sales, and in making a clear liquor, distillers think they can get Sorority girls who swear by vodka-sodas, moms who brunch and other clear liquor drinkers to try something new. "I was thinking maybe the Cosmo-drinking people would go for the white rye," said Lari. "The data seems to suggest that it’s happening." Full disclosure, his cocktail — the Cold Toddy — was solid. But it didn't give you that warm hug feeling whiskey gives you. That said, sometimes you don't need a hug. FREE AppDownload
Ray Dalio has been called "Wall Street's Oddest Duck" for his highly unusual approach to management, but no one has ever questioned his brilliance. He turned his company Bridgewater Associates into the world's largest hedge fund, with $160 billion in assets, and amassed a personal fortune estimated at around $15.2 billion. Dalio runs Bridgewater according to the theory of "radical transparency," which means that all meetings and interviews are recorded and archived, and any level of employee is encouraged to criticize another if necessary. Every Bridgewater employee is given a copy of the 123-page manual he wrote on leadership. It includes a section in which Dalio outlines the habits he believes took him from a lower-middle class childhood to one of the most powerful people in finance. We've summarized them below: Dalio writes that he hated school as a boy because he could not find practical applications for things he was forced to memorize. He decided that he wanted to be successful, requiring him to be motivated. And to be motivated, he had to work for himself. He started delivering newspapers, mowing lawns, and caddying, and at the age of 12 he made his first investment in the stock market. "All the work I ever did was just what I needed to do to get what I wanted. Since I always had the prerogative to not strive for what I wanted, I never felt forced to do anything," Dalio writes. When he started investing as a kid, he began cutting out coupons from issues of Fortune magazine that could be mailed in for annual reports for Fortune 500 companies. He gathered as many as possible and took an amateur shot at figuring out the market. It's the same attitude he's taken toward managing his employees. At this point, he's used to Bridgewater being called cultish and weird, but he's consistently responded by saying that the employees who work there naturally fit into the firm's unique culture. And it's certainly been working for them. Dalio says that as a novice investor, he started the habit of asking the opinion of anyone he deemed a somewhat savvy investor — his stockbroker, the people he caddied for, and even his barber. "I never cared much about others' conclusions — only for the reasoning that led to these conclusions," he writes. "That reasoning had to make sense to me. Through this process, I improved my chances of being right, and I learned a lot from a lot of great people." Dalio has grown Bridgewater so tremendously because he lowers his risk as much as possible before making a decision. "Sometimes when I know that I don't know which way the coin is going to flip, I try to position myself so that it won't have an impact on me either way. In other words, I don't make an inadvertent bet. I try to limit my bets to the limited number of things I am confident in," he writes. A major portion of Dalio's manual is dedicated to decision-making and analysis of results. He says that learning to appreciate failure early on was very valuable for him: I learned that each mistake was probably a reflection of something that I was (or others were) doing wrong, so if I could figure out what that was, I could learn how to be more effective. I learned that wrestling with my problems, mistakes, and weaknesses was the training that strengthened me. Also, I learned that it was the pain of this wrestling that made me and those around me appreciate our successes. You can check out all 123 pages of Dalio's principles at Bridgewater's site. FREE AppDownload
Nobel prize-winning economist Joe Stiglitz has a new NBER paper out that comes to a worrying conclusion — the robots really are coming for your job. In economic theory innovation should make workers more efficient — they can produce more for less — but it comes at the cost of lower skilled jobs as fewer people are required to produce the same amount of output. However, (again in theory) the gains made by workers who remain in employment should be greater than the losses incurred by those who lose their jobs and their gains help drive more skilled job creation in other industries. Unfortunately theory doesn't always fit neatly when confronted by reality. And Stiglitz claims this is exactly what has happened with innovation. As he puts it (emphasis added): "The statement that such skill-biased innovation could be welfare enhancing is usually taken to mean that the gains of the skilled workers are more than sufficient to compensate the losses of the unskilled workers. But while the skilled workers could compensate the unskilled workers, such compensation seldom occurs." Stiglitz argues that truly disruptive innovations, of the kind that drove the Industrial Revolution, require widespread economic restructuring to allow those who are being pushed out of an industry to locate alternatives. Sadly, he says, "markets often do not manage such restructurings well" leading to long periods of high unemployment and increased inequality. The economist claims that these market failures helped create the conditions for the Great Depression. Banks and businesses failed to anticipate the collapse of rural workers' incomes driven by technological changes in the farming sector in the 1920s. The legacy of this was a debt overhang that prevented these workers from moving to cities in order to gain new skills and ultimately caused a crash in demand. AP ImagesJoseph StiglitzIf left unchecked, the decline in manufacturing during the present era could be having a similarly worrying impact. Worse, without government introducing policy to counteract the impact of labour-saving innovation low income workers could end up being worse off "even in the longer run" with lower wages and higher unemployment concentrated among some of the most vulnerable groups in society. Indeed this may help explain why wages of low-skilled workers in the US have stagnated for more than 40 years. For more than a century the Luddites, who believed that modern machines would lead to unemployment and impoverishment, have been held up as an example of how small-minded traditionalists hold up social and economic progress. In short, Stiglitz's message is that they were in fact right. FREE AppDownload
Aspen versus Vail: It's one of the oldest destination rivalries of all time. And while fans of each will claim that their chosen locale far outshines the other in numerous ways, the two Colorado ski towns are most likely so often at odds with one another because they are actually quite similar. Both have amazing slopes. Both attract a celebrity clientele. Both are home to wonderful restaurants and shops.  But we can't help but get in on the "which is best" debate ourselves, so we decided to stage a little face-off between Aspen and Vail in order to finally put this argument to rest (after all, we are the experts, so our opinion should count for something). In order to dub an overall winner, we matched the two ski destinations off in the following categories: skiing, history, price, celebrity status, getting there and around, dining, and nightlife. Let the games begin, and the victor be declared!! This is perhaps the most important category of all because, well, duh. Although certainly not the only reason visitors flock to Vail and Aspen (some avoid it altogether), skiing is the main attraction in both. So let's take a look at the mountains, shall we? Vail and Aspen similarly call the Colorado Rocky Mountains home, but the common thread stops there. While Aspen boasts four mountains, Vail has but one. But as we all know, less is often more -- and this proves to be true here. Because while Vail may have just one mountain, it is massive and the entirety of Aspen's slopes could be crammed onto Vail's sole mountain multiple times over. Plus, true skiers prefer Vail's slopes to Aspen's because they are decidedly more challenging (and that's a fact). Courtesy of Oyster  Aspen will always win this battle because it actually has some history. While Vail was built as a ski resort in 1962, and became incorporated four years later, Aspen began as a mining camp in the 1880s. The Panic of 1893 prompted the town's decline, but the development of nearby Aspen Mountain into a ski destination revitalized the area and turned Aspen into a ski resort of its own. History buffs can take a walking tour, catch a show at the historic Wheeler Opera House, or even book a stay in an historic hotel -- like Hotel Jerome.  Courtesy of Oyster  If you're looking for a budget ski vacation, don't look at Aspen...and don't look at Vail. Both are pricey destinations, whereas mountains in locales such as Vermont and Park City allow for a little more stretching of your dollar. But between the two, Vail offers the better deal. On average, hotel rooms in and near Vail are slightly less expensive than those found in Aspen, as are its restaurants and shops. Our favorite value hotels in Vail include Marriott's Streamside and Austria Haus Hotel, which offers guests free access to The Lodge at Vail's numerous pools.  U.S. Ski Team/Flickr If you visit Aspen or Vail sometime during peak season (November through March), your chances of spotting a celeb are pretty high. While plenty of stars have homes in other ski destinations (Tom Cruise and Jerry Seinfeld in Telluride, Sandra Bullock in Jackson Hole), these two certainly take home the prize for the highest number of celebrity residents -- with Aspen narrowly beating out Vail. Vail may be Jessica Biel's hometown, where Lindsey Vonn trains, and the site of one of Michael Bloomberg's many homes, but Vail has slightly more star power; Jack Nicholson, Kevin Costner, Robert Wagner, Goldie Hawn and Kurt Russell, Antonio Banderas, and Charlie Sheen all own residences here.  Jeffrey Beall/Flickr Heated. Sidewalks. No. Joke. Both Vail and Aspen have invested in snowmelt systems, which is great since they quickly clear snow and slippery ice from pedestrian pathways. Both ski towns also have relatively reliable and inexpensive transportation options. But Vail has our vote as being the more easily navigable city, as well as the one that's easier to reach. Many travelers to Aspen and Vail choose to fly into Denver, as it's the closest major airport and is often much cheaper. While it takes about three hours to reach Vail from Denver, it takes four or more from Aspen, and there are fewer public bus options from Denver to Aspen than to Vail. Plus, while Vail may be able one square mile larger than Aspen, it has about 2,000 fewer residences, many (slightly) fewer crowds and clogged sidewalks than what you'll find in Aspen.  Courtesy of Oyster  In order to cater to their well-heeled visitors' refined palates, Vail and Aspen are chock-a-block with gourmet, fine-dining options -- whether they be on the mountain for a delicious ski-in/ski-out lunch or on Main Street for a classy apres-ski, multi-course extravaganza. Craving Nobu? You'll find an outpost in both destinations. And Top Chef and Iron Chef vet Kelly Liken runs her self-named restaurant in Vail, which has attracted national attention and garnered numerous awards. But Aspen is Colorado's foodie mecca. Ajax Tavern is not only known for its use of fresh, local ingredients, but also its ability to draw a celeb chef clientele; Mario Batali is often spotted here. Plus, the famed Chefs Club, which features a rotation of renowned chefs, rolled out its (very successful) trial run in Aspen, and an outpost of David Burke Kitchen is opening there this winter.  Arvind Grover/Flickr  It's neck-and-neck. Each destination has been dubbed champion of three categories, so it's down to the nightlife to determine the victor of our Aspen versus Vail face-off. Both locales have plenty of spots to grab an apres-ski cocktail or dance the night away till the early hours, and this one is more subjective than the others, because it depends on your partying-it-up style. But we prefer the more low-key approach to the nightlife in Vail. While you can sip a fancy craft cocktail with the best of 'em in Aspen, fellow patrons may turn up their noses if you arrive fresh off the mountain, still in your ski boots. But in Vail, this is de rigueur and many skiers -- tourists and locals alike -- prefer to rock their ski gear all night rather than miss the hour or two at the bars that they'd need to spend changing.  FREE AppDownload
Brendan McMahon, 55, is a senior partner at PwC who has cycled all of his life, racing competitively from the age of fourteen, well before starting his career in finance. But if he has had a head start, C-suite cyclists are enthusiastically starting to catch up. He recently took part in the Haute Route Pyrénées, dubbed 'the endurance ride for hedge-funders', a professional-standard cycling race where participants cover over 800km in a week and climb more than 20,000m. Thirty years ago someone like McMahon was a rarity in the Haute Route Pyrénées; today the story is rather different. At this year's race he met 'entrepreneurs, people from Silicon Valley, technology investors, bankers, accountants, litigation lawyers'. There has been, he says, 'a very significant shift in the people who are cycling'. HotChillee, a company that organises a large number of 'professional events for amateurs', confirms McMahon's observation. The demographic of their rider is an 'HNW male A-type, between 35-55 years' and their key sectors are 'banking and finance, technology, media, legal and sport'; most are business owners or executive level. The huge increase in CEOs and MDs taking part in such events cannot simply be put down to hundreds of simultaneous midlife crises. No, the reasons are much broader, from a traditional motivator such as showing off to newer spurs such as networking, raising money for charity and even honing your boardroom skills. While recreational cycling can be as cheap as you want, executives getting ready for competitions can indulge expensive tastes. According to HotChillee, these riders 'typically spend over £4,000 a year on cycling, will ride ten-plus events a year of which three are international events' and will purchase a new bike every two to three years. The Pinarello Rokh will set you back £2,695, while a Dogma F8 — the model used by Team Sky, including Chris Froome — will cost £7,000-£11,000. It's not yet the same outlay as a sportscar, but I've heard of a surgeon spending £2,500 on wheels alone and lawyers flying to America to have frames custom-built by companies like Parlee, which will fit your bike to you just as a tailor would your new suit. For this, prices go north of £10,000. Add to that the gadgets and kit and you have a whole other world of spending opportunity. Companies like Rapha produce high-end clothing in a mix of technical fabrics and high-quality merino wool to help you look the part both when racing and when cycling in the city. Training for these races need no longer consume your every spare hour either. Thanks to developments in sport science, days of training can be replaced with high-intensity sessions focusing on power, allowing those who are time-poor to train around work. You don't even need to be in premium shape when you start as it's a low-impact sport, nor do you need to book courts or find teammates, so you can cycle however, wherever and whenever you feel. The Wattbike — essentially a sophisticated exercise bike — is a great example. It has been developed in association with British Cycling and allows at-home riders to replicate the exact setup of their racing bikes and the feel of cycling on the road indoors. You would expect this sort of high-level technology (even a basic model will set you back £1,695) to be used mainly by professionals but, says Tom Crampton, marketing manager at Wattbike UK, the majority of sales come from the 'in-home market'. In fact, their target demographic is the 'London City boy' between the ages of 35 and 55 with high levels of disposable income but little time. Andrew Hawes, MD of wine shipper Mentzendorff &amp; Co, took up cycling again in his forties as for him it provided 'the perfect balance to the demands of a young family and quickly developing career'. Getting out on the bike is also a great release — a way to clear your head and work through the problems of the day. Training first thing in the morning, as many do, has the added benefit of kickstarting your metabolism and releasing endorphins that boost your energy for the next four hours and, studies have shown, dramatically improve your performance in the office. Cycling also allows you to take the key characteristics that help you succeed in the workplace — discipline, ambition and determination — out of the office. Pushing yourself that bit further and never being satisfied that you have reached your peak are what top-level business is all about; cycling is a natural extension, only with great scenery and fresh air rather than drab office furniture and air-conditioning. But you can't do a Grand Tour alone. "Cycling is quite unique in being a team sport played by individuals," says Hawes. It fosters a supportive network — you may well be competing on performance-tracking app Strava to get better times than your colleagues, but you need a team around you for motivation, to support you when you're tired by sheltering you within the peloton and for conversation over the traditional coffee stops. This collegiate atmosphere lends itself to networking. Brendan McMahon says he has broadened his business network as a result of cycling and he puts that down to the fact that the people he meets at races are 'like-minded, both professionally and from a sports perspective'. Cycling is now the common factor in many client meetings and a mutual appreciation of the sport can be the starting point of business relationships. Flickr/lam_chihangWhile recreational cycling can be as cheap as you want, executives getting ready for competitions can indulge expensive tastes. It is also a hobby that fosters collaboration and trust. As McMahon says, 'If I'm going down a mountain at 50-60mph and I'm six inches away from somebody's back wheel, I need to trust that that individual knows what they are doing.' This just doesn't happen on a golf course. In addition to helping your business, cycling can help more broadly: 10 per cent of cyclists, according to Mintel, have taken part in a sponsored cycle ride. For many in the City, cycling for a cause can be a great philanthropic outlet. Lawrence Dallaglio, former England rugby captain and founder of the biennial Dallaglio Cycle Slam, cycles for this reason — and to keep himself active now he is no longer on the field. His Cycle Slam attracts headline sponsorship from Citibank, Bollinger and Virgin Media and this year they are on target to raise seven figures yet again. Everyone who signs up commits to raising a minimum of £3,000 for the chosen causes and while the Cycle Slam is open to everyone of all abilities and professions, Dallaglio does notice that 'there is undoubtedly a group of C-suite, very driven people who take part'. Everyone I have spoken to, from McMahon (who rides to raise money for Room to Read) to Hawes and Dallaglio (who ride for the Dallaglio Foundation's causes), comments on the sense of achievement cycling gives them. This feeling is the reason Dallaglio chose cycling for his fundraising event, and he prizes its teamwork aspect too: "It must be great to climb Everest and stand at the top and look out over the amazing view, but it is much greater when you climb Everest with other people and you can hold hands on the top. You get that shared sense of achievement, and that is where the Cycle Slam was born." Perhaps for some, cycling started as a midlife crisis — men turning to a low-impact sport as an escape from work, an excuse to go on a trip to France and show off in Lycra — but it isn't that any more. It has become a popular part of business communication, networking and conversation, boosting efficiency and driving ambition and philanthropy along the way. Time to gear up. FREE AppDownload
The sharp, greater-than-20% drop in crude oil prices from its highs in June reflects dramatic changes in the marginal supply of oil, shifting expectations for demand and, critically, a change in the outlook for monetary policy. The resulting stronger dollar is weakening its equivalent measure in the price of oil. As my colleague Russ Koesterich points out in a recent post, this trend has produced some unexpected winners.  Today, I’m going to go a step further to explore why oil prices have declined and what this means for the economy.  The Reasons Behind the Decline The drop in crude oil prices can be attributed to three simple reasons— demand, supply and the dollar. On the demand side, a downgrade in the IMF’s global growth forecast for 2015 in early October coincided with continued eurozone weakness, punctuated by very weak German manufacturing data for August and an un-anchoring of long-term inflation expectations. Furthermore, the latest economic data from Japan showed an economy struggling to cope with the consumption tax implemented in April, with a large drop in GDP and consumer spending. And over the summer, China oil consumption disappointed, even above that expected along with its declining growth. On the supply side, the long-run U.S. shale oil renaissance has helped propel U.S. crude oil production from a low of about 5 million barrels per day in the mid-2000s to a 30-year high of about 8.7 million barrels per day. This structural trend intersected a series of positive supply developments over the last three months, including airstrikes against ISIS, the re-opening of Libyan ports, the fading of risks surrounding Russian oil supply and increasing Iranian shipments. Finally, Saudi Arabia signaled that it would no longer act as the marginal producer of oil, and instead committed to maintaining market share. Another important relationship is that with the dollar. Commodities such as oil are dollar denominated and oil can be viewed as another store of value, much like gold or FX. As the dollar strengthens, the value of oil relative to the dollar falls. The correlation between changes in the U.S. dollar and oil prices has been quite strong historically (see chart below), and indeed, the fall in crude oil prices has coincided with the strength of the dollar, strength that reflects stronger relative U.S. economic performance. US Dollar vs. Brent Crude Oil Prices BlackRock  Economic Impact  On net, the winners from lower oil prices outweigh the losers. In particular, the largest beneficiaries to growth are from consumption, as lower gas prices free up more disposable income for, say, holiday shopping. With a $30 drop in oil prices since August, this would add an estimated 0.2% to 0.5% to GDP from personal consumption. The impact will be felt most by the lowest income households where the additional income will have a disproportionate impact. Estimates of about a 10% decrease in capital expenditures as the energy sector reassesses economic feasibility of projects would only create a drag of about 0.1% on GDP. However, for investments in specific energy-related sectors (or emerging markets where energy or other commodity related investment represents a larger percentage of exposures), greater care will need to be exercised in looking at the specific sectoral impact. In high yield bonds, for example, significant new investments have been made in shale gas and oil investments. Such growth in investments, fueled by debt and reflected in the significant rise in the energy sector weightings, as well as the number of new issuers, could represent significant sources of future risk. That risk, of course, depends on where oil prices ultimately stabilize. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian Snyder(Reuters) - Dallas Federal Reserve President Richard Fisher, one of the U.S. central bank's most ardent policy hawks, will retire on March 19, the regional Fed bank said on Thursday. The bank's board of directors has hired Heidrick &amp; Struggles to conduct a search for his replacement. Fisher, 65, is required by Fed rules to retire by next April. He is a voter on policy this year, but will not vote next year.   (Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
Alibaba will be issuing debt. In filings with the SEC on Thursday, the Chinese e-commerce giant disclosed plans to issue senior debt to US investors in order to refinance its existing credit facilities. A report from Bloomberg's Sridhar Natarajan and Zijing Wu, citing two people familiar with the deal, Alibaba is planning to raise up to $8 billion in the offering. Ratings agencies Fitch and S&amp;P both assigned 'A+' ratings to Alibaba's corporate credit rating. S&amp;P cited the company's "dominant market position in e-commerce in China and the company's minimal financial leverage." Fitch also described Alibaba's market position as "dominant" and said, "The large size and potential for sustainable growth in China's online shopping market help mitigate Alibaba's limited geographical diversification." This planned offering comes about two months after the company made its debut on the New York Stock Exchange in the largest IPO in NYSE history.  Natarajan and Wu reported that Morgan Stanley, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, and JPMorgan will manage the offering.  Singles Day in China was earlier this week, which is similar to the Black Friday or Cyber Monday shopping holidays in the US, and Alibaba announced that it pulled in a record $9.3 billion in sales, a record for the company. Last year, Alibaba's Singles Day sales totaled $5.8 billion.  Earlier on Thursday, Alibaba shares were trading at a record high, just below $120, but in afternoon trade were down about 2% to $115.75.  FREE AppDownload
 McDonald's has been losing market share.  The fast-food giant's sales are declining as Americans choose fast-casual options like Chipotle Mexican Grill and Panera Bread.  The changing attitude of US consumers is one of the greatest challenges for McDonald's, CEO Don Thompson said in a call with investors. "Customers want to personalize their meals with locally relevant ingredients. They also want to enjoy eating in a contemporary inviting atmosphere. And they want choices; choices in how they order, choices in what they order and how they’re served," Thompson said.  This experience perfectly describes Chipotle, which offers antibiotic-free meats and complete customization of food.  "These things make up the McDonald’s experience of the future, and we‘re building the future today," Thompson said.  McDonald's has been testing a build-your-own burger concept, with toppings like jalapenos and bacon. The company is also letting franchisees tailor their offerings to accommodate customers in different regions.  In a new series of videos, McDonald's shows how items like its hamburgers and McRib are made. Finally, McDonald's is remodeling restaurants for a more modern feel.  Chipotle CEO Steve Ells recently criticized fast-food companies, saying they were out of touch with American consumers.  "Despite offering dollar menus and frequent discounts, many of these chains also scored poorly in terms of value," Ells said. "The bottom-line customer wants delicious food, served quickly and in interactive format, and they are increasingly unwilling to compromise." Chipotle InstagramChipotle's inherent customization appeals to consumers. Ells said that his chain also ranked highly among millennials and teens, which bodes well for the chain's future.  "They are more concerned with how food is raised and prepared than previous generations and are willing to seek out and pay a little more for something they recognize as better, better tasting, better for the environment, and better for their well being," he said.     FREE AppDownload
 The digital taxi service Uber is raising money again, which means that people are once again gawping at the company's valuation. The previous round, last summer, was a $1.2 billion deal that valued the company at $18.2 billion (post-money). The new valuation will probably be far higher. Most observers view that valuation as a sign of obvious insanity — further confirmation of "a new tech bubble." Based on what I am hearing about the company's financial performance, most of these observers, respectfully, don't know what they're talking about. Uber's new investors could obviously lose money, just like any investors. But for two reasons, the investment is probably a more reasonable bet than it might initially appear. First, the new Uber investors will almost certainly buy preferred stock, not common stock — a point that private-market valuation gawpers often miss. When you buy preferred stock, your downside is usually limited. Preferred investors are higher in the capital structure than common investors (thus the "preferred"), so in a liquidity event, they usually get all their money back, even if the company sells for a much lower valuation than the one at which they invested. In many cases, including, possibly, this one, preferred investors also get a guaranteed return. For Uber's most recent round of investors to lose money, for example, Uber would most likely have to sell for a valuation of less than $1.2 billion, more than 90% below the $18.2 billion valuation of the deal. Things would have to go horribly, catastrophically wrong for that to happen. Second, and more important, Uber's financial performance may easily justify the $18.2 billion valuation of the previous round and a much higher one in this round. What I'm hearing is that Uber's gross revenue is expected to hit a run rate of about $10 billion by the end of next year. $10 billion! Uber keeps 20% of gross revenue and gives the rest to its drivers. So $10 billion of gross revenue would equate to $2 billion of net revenue. Uber's revenue growth rate, meanwhile, is about 300% this year, and it is expected to be another 300% again next year.  Very few companies in history have grown at that rate at that scale. And that brings us to valuation. If Uber is on track for a run rate of $2 billion of net revenue by the end of next year, the $18 billion valuation from last summer would be about 10 times forward net revenue. Ten times revenue isn't a low revenue multiple, certainly, but it's also not a sky-high one. Especially for a company that has few costs other than software development, training, marketing, and lobbying (the latter to stop taxi organizations and local governments from banning it). There's no reason to think that Uber couldn't eventually have a profit margin of 20%, 30%, or even more. And with that kind of profit margin, a 10X revenue multiple on a fast-growing revenue stream is perfectly reasonable. To put the 10X multiple in context, it's in the same range as the forward multiples for some other hot tech stocks. Facebook is trading at about 10X projected 2015 revenue. LinkedIn is trading at about 8X. This is a point that Uber CEO Travis Kalanick made last summer in The Wall Street Journal, that Uber's deal was actually priced below the multiples of comparable public-market companies. Kalanick also recently said that Uber's revenue was doubling every six months. Even if Uber's revenue growth suddenly slowed, so it doubled only once a year, or once every two years, the $18 billion valuation wouldn't seem extreme. And then there's another statistic that I've heard. Most of Uber's revenue comes from fewer than 10 cities. Why is that startling? Because Uber is now operating in more than 46 countries and 150 cities. If Uber were operating mature businesses in all of those cities, and were unable to generate much revenue in them, this statistic might be cause for concern. But the Uber operations in the vast majority of those cities are relatively new. And if Uber is generating most of its ~$10 billion of gross revenue from a handful of cities, imagine how big the company will be when the operations in the 150-plus other cities really kick in. Not to mention the operations in all the other cities Uber will most likely launch in the next several years. (In San Francisco, Uber's first city, the company is now doing several hundred million dollars in revenue. Kalanick has not specified whether this is gross revenue or net revenue, but either way, it's impressive. San Francisco is a relatively small city. I have also heard that Uber's market penetration in San Francisco is 25% of smartphone users. It seems reasonable to think that the penetration will eventually be much higher — perhaps 50% or 75% of smartphone users.) Yes, you say. But taxi companies hate Uber. And they're busy trying to shut it down in some cities. Yes, taxi companies are fighting Uber. But so far, Kalanick told The Wall Street Journal last summer, Uber has been shut down in only one city. And given how much Uber users love Uber — as evidenced by the company's supernatural growth rate — it seems safe to say that it won't be easy for many more cities to shut Uber down. (A dozen or two? Maybe. But that would still leave 125-plus cities). And all this revenue, of course, is coming from Uber's taxi business. Uber recently launched a delivery business. We don't yet know how successful that new business will be, but if it is even a fraction as successful as the taxi business, it will create another massive new revenue stream.  Then there's one last startling fact. Kalanick said last summer that Uber was growing even faster than it was last year, when everyone was ridiculing the $3 billion valuation that Uber's prior round of investors paid. In other words, far from slowing, Uber's revenues are accelerating. So, to recap (and add a few new tidbits), here's what I'm hearing about Uber: * Gross revenue is expected to hit a run rate of $10 billion by the end of next year. This would be an increase of 300% over this year, which itself is an increase of 300% over last year. * Most of the company's current revenue is coming from a handful of cities. * The company is operating in more than 150 cities, so as these cities develop, revenue should grow at a prodigious rate for years. * The average-rides-per-Uber-user-per-month are considerably higher than early investors expected. Thus, the revenue-per-user is higher than expected. * Even the company's most mature markets, like San Francisco, are only partially penetrated. * The company believes it has an opportunity to disrupt the massive rental car market, develop delivery services, and launch other businesses based on its existing infrastructure. * Investors expect Uber to go public at a valuation of $50 billion to $100 billion in a few years. From 2004 to 2012, industry observers ridiculed every successive increase in Facebook's private-market valuation. They dismissed its investors as stupid and declared the price the investors paid as proof of a new tech bubble. And they did the same with Twitter's valuations, and Google's valuations, as well as the valuations of many other internet companies. And yet, in the end, many of these valuations proved cheap. If Uber's numbers are close to what I'm hearing they are, Uber's $18 billion valuation last summer, and the valuation of the new round now, may end up looking quite reasonable. SEE ALSO: No, Really, Uber Could Be A $100 Billion Company   FREE AppDownload
Melia Robinson/BIPhillips Exeter is the best private high school in America.Prestigious Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire is the best private high school in America, according to a new ranking from school data site Niche. Exeter, which has around 1,000 students, scored particularly high marks for its teachers and academics. Niche combined community reviews and hard data to compile its private school ranking. The site ranks over 100,000 schools based on 27 million reviews from more than 300,000 students and parents, who rated schools in areas like academics, teachers, student culture and diversity, and resources and facilities, among others. FREE AppDownload
WILLISTON N.D. (Reuters) - Falling oil prices have spooked Wall Street and even parts of Texas. But in North Dakota's booming oil patch, the crude-fueled party carries on. Since June, the price of crude oil has fallen 30 percent to about $75 a barrel, raising fears that oil production would slow across the United States. But you wouldn't know it here. The state's economy remains the fastest growing in the nation, thanks to more than 1 million barrels of oil produced each day. Billions of investment dollars continue to flow to new wells, apartments and shopping centers, a bet that development of the state's prolific Bakken shale formation, which the U.S. government believes could hold more than 7 billion barrels of oil, will abide. "The oil price drop is a topic of discussion here," said Joel Lundeen, an owner of The Bakken Club, a $5,000 initiation fee dining establishment in Williston, the de facto capital of the state's oil boom "But people aren't freaking out." One reason: The price of oil would have to fall considerably before a major impact. While analyst projections vary widely - some focus on costs to continue drilling; others to build new pipeline - state officials consider $42 per barrel the price at which most production would cease. That's about $35 below the current price for benchmark American crude, a level many are betting won't be reached due to insatiable global energy appetite. Simply put: community leaders and industry executives are confident - despite two previous oil busts - that the oil and natural gas buried miles underground here will remain profitable to extract for years to come. That confidence reveals itself in a number of ways. In the industry, Schlumberger NV &lt;slb.n&gt;, the world's largest oilfield service provider, is inking a two-year lease for 45 Williston apartments. The company, which drills and hydraulically fractures wells for Statoil &lt;stl.ol&gt; and others, opted against a back-out clause for this latest employee housing deal, agreeing to pay the full lease even if it pares down its North Dakota workforce.(Each apartment's cost? More than $2,000 per month.) Continental Resources Inc &lt;clr.n&gt;, the state's largest oil producer, decided earlier this month to stop hedging the price of oil, a surprising bet that the sharp decline in crude oil prices will reverse course. Photo by Andrew Burton/Getty ImagesShale workers in Williston, NDAs for development, Williston is slathered in cocoa-colored dirt from dozens of construction projects. City officials plan to spend $1.04 billion through 2020 on a new airport, high school, roads and water-treatment plants. Menards, a Midwest rival to Home Depot Inc &lt;hd.n&gt;, is building a mega-hardware store. KKR &lt;kkr.n&gt;, Brutger Equities and dozens of other firms are building massive residential construction projects filled with scores of single-family homes, condos and apartments. More than 15,000 housing units - on top of the roughly 25,000 in the city today - will need to be built in the next six years to accommodate a population that is expected to almost double, according to North Dakota State University. Consumer spending? No evidence of any cutting-back. Some examples: At Eleven, a popular Williston restaurant and speakeasy, a hodgepodge of diners sporting outfits ranging from Carhartt to Calvin Klein still jostle most nights for a $47 plate of grass-fed bison or the $49 stuffed lobster. Want a $40 haircut? It's a two-week wait. There are some reasons to be cautious about the area's economic prospects. North Dakota's two previous oil busts, in the 1950s and 1970s, left Williston with more than $25 million in debt that it wasn't able to repay until 2001. The oil price dip has also led some North Dakota producers not to spend as much on new wells next year. One North Dakota oilfield executive, granted anonymity to speak freely, expressed concern the state's breakneck growth is too tenuously tied to oil price fluctuations. "Its something I think about a lot," he said.   But it's hard to find skeptics. For Williston and vicinity, it's full speed ahead. More than 35,000 oil wells are still expected to be drilled in North Dakota by 2030, bringing the total to 50,000. "Even at current prices or below," said John Hess, CEO of Hess Corp &lt;hes.n&gt;, one of the state's largest oil producers. "there are still many areas for attractive investment in the Bakken." (Reporting by Ernest Scheyder; Editing by Hank Gilman) FREE AppDownload
Wal-Mart executives say lower gas prices may lift consumer confidence going into the critical holiday shopping season.  "Consumer confidence is reasonable out there, and there is no doubt that lower gas prices are giving us a benefit," Wal-Mart US President and CEO Greg Foran said in a call with reporters on Thursday.  Foran made the remark after Wal-Mart reported its first quarter of positive same-store sales growth in the US in two years. Traffic remained weak for the period, however, falling 0.7% at US stores. Foran said the company is "cautiously optimistic" going into the fourth quarter. "We expect this holiday season to be highly competitive, and we’re mindful that the entertainment business, which comprises a larger percentage of overall Q4 sales, is up against continued deflation and a lack of new product innovation," he said in a call with analysts Thursday. "We’ll continue to see pressures to the bottom line as we balance wage leverage with higher customer service standards." Retailers have been slow to rebound from the recession and as America's largest retailer, Wal-Mart can offer some key insights into the state of the US consumer. But lower gas prices, which are now under $3 for a majority of the country, are likely temporary. Wal-Mart narrowed its guidance for the year to earnings of $4.92 to $5.02 per share, down from its August projection of $4.90 to $5.15 profit per share. For the quarter ended Oct. 31, Wal-Mart's revenues increased 2.9% to $119 billion — topping analysts' expectations of $118.35 billion — compared to the same period last year. The company's quarterly profit fell to $3.71 billion, or $1.15 per share, from $3.74 billion, or $1.14 per share the previous year. Analysts had expected earnings of $1.12 per share for the quarter.  FREE AppDownload
Crude oil is falling. Again, or still, depending on how you look at it. In afternoon trade on Thursday, crude oil prices were down almost another 2.8% to below $75 a barrel, another multiyear low for the commodity, which is now down about 30% from its highs hit this summer. Earlier on Thursday, oil tumbled below $76 for the first time since 2011. As the price of oil has declined, analysts have begun talking about what the breakeven price is for some oil producers, particularly in the US, as the recent rebound in capital spending has come in large part from increased investment from US energy companies.  Wood Mackenzie has estimated that the US will start to see supply disruptions if prices breach the $70 level, and in a recent note to clients, economists at Capital Economics expect oil to hit this level by the end of 2016, four years earlier than the firm had previously expected.  On the other hand, many have argued that declining oil prices will be a boon for US consumers, especially ahead of the holiday shopping season, as consumers will now be forced to spend less money on gas and will potentially spend more money on discretionary items.  Here's the chart of oil's decline over the past couple of weeks.  FinViz FREE AppDownload
BIIBanking institutions are in a race to provide the newest online and mobile features to their users, as retail banking branches lose their relevance fast. Capturing the attention of younger adults — and, in particular, millennials — when they're first choosing their bank can lead to a long-term market advantage. BI Intelligence been closely tracking evolving trends in the payments industry, and how mobile is one of the biggest disruptive threats to legacy businesses, including merchant service providers, payment terminal providers, big financial institutions, and credit and debit card companies. Businesses are evolving their services and acquiring startup competitors to stay ahead of the curve. For full access to our findings sign up for a free trial. Consider: BII Access All Our Downloadable Charts On The Payments Industry By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today&gt;&gt; BIITake Wells Fargo as an example. The bank now has over 13.1 million mobile banking customers. That's up 285% from 3.4 million four years ago in the second quarter of 2010. That's why banks are putting a lot of money into building out their mobile banking capabilities. BI Intelligence estimates that global mobile banking investment will grow at a compound annual growth rate of 15% through 2018, when investment will reach $3.34 billion. Take a look at the chart at below for a look at how investment in mobile banking is expected to ramp up. BI Intelligence is a subscription tech research service, providing analysis and reporting on the latest trends disrupting the payments industry. For full access to our library of downloadable charts, sign up for a free trial. BII   FREE AppDownload
All together, JPMorgan Chase has an over 200-year history.  As we've reported before, it played an indirect role in killing America's first Secretary of the Treasury, winning World War I, contributing to the 2008 financial crisis, and helping avert a more catastrophic financial disaster.  Naturally, people who work for a firm of such influence get paid quite well — judging by the self-reported salary and bonus numbers on Glassdoor, the job reviewing site.  As is the case with other big banks, bonuses can be gigantic at JPMorgan. For instance, the investment banking vice president salary is reported as $172,902, while bonuses nearly double the annual compensation to a sizeable $337,121.  According to Glassdoor, here's the combined compensation — annual salary and bonus — for 15 positions at JPMorgan, in ascending order:  FREE AppDownload
Tequila is the Champagne of Mexico.  Seriously, Mexican law actually states that no liquor can be labeled tequila unless it comes from the western state of Jalisco (or select districts of other Mexican states). And, like sparkling wines, tequilas come in all varieties and price ranges. With the help of the connoisseurs at FindTheBest, we compiled a list of the world's top tequilas. Their rankings are based on reviews from the San Francisco World Spirits Competition, the International Wine and Spirit Competition, Wine Magazine Enthusiast, the Beverage Testing Institute, and Tequila.net. So get your shot glass out and get ready for a toast. With El Ultimo Agave Tequila Añejo you can get the full añejo — "aged" — tequila experience: it is aged 12 months to create a more complex flavor. But it costs just $1.30 per shot ($22 per bottle) — about 45 percent cheaper than the average tequila. This golden-brown añejo, aged 24 months in a white oak casket, smells of spice and vanilla but tastes of sweet agave and caramel. It won Double Gold this year at the San Francisco World Spirits Competition. The El Mirage, Arizona, family behind 3 Amigos grows and distills its own blue Weber agave in Mexico before importing it to the US for sale. Silvery-colored El Grado Blanco is hand bottled directly after distillation. Minty and fruity aromas complement the strong Agave taste. Manufacturers El Grado select each agave plant, grown in Los Altos, Jalisco, at peak maturity to maximize the sugary agave flavor. This plata is one of the pricier tequilas on our list, but one or two shots might get you where you want to go — its alcohol content is 50 percent. A long minty finish will leave your mouth feeling soft and warm. Corrido harvests its blue agave plants in the volcanic soil of Jalisco's highlands. The plants are high in sugar content, which adds a floral nature to their sweet tequila. In traditional fashion, the agave is slow-cooked and twice distilled in copper pots. Definitely a good choice if you like your tequila clear and fruity. Manana Añejo will warm you up on a cold day. At first sip, it tastes fruity and oaky. That's followed by a dry, full body and a long, warm finish. No wonder it was a Double Gold winner at the 2012 San Francisco World Spirits Competition. Experts describe this golden añejo as soft and silky, with notes of crème brûlée and caramelized nuts. It's aged 18 months in an American Oak barrel. Try it with a good cigar. Twenty-four months in an American Oak casket lends this añejo its deep amber color. It has a clear bright taste and a fruity and nutty finish. And it comes from the highlands of Jalisco, one of the best places in the world for growing agave. The Herencia Blanco appears transparent, but its taste is more than apparent: herbal with strong citrus notes. Experts describe this blanco as round and satiny with a smooth full body. The Marquez de Valencia is a reposado — "rested" — tequila, aged 10 months in a white oak cask. The straw-colored drink smells of wood and berries and tastes like the perfect dessert: caramel, vanilla, and a chocolatey aftertaste. Production is limited, so grab a bottle if you ever come across it. Aged nine months in French and American Oak, the Reposado is the newest addition to Riazul's portfolio. Its flavor is complex — a mixture of oak, citrus, fruit, and chocolate. If you like Riazul's reposado, you'll probably like its better-known blanco, the Premium Silver. Extracted by a shredder and twice distilled in stainless steel, the blanco has an earthy aroma. Its minty agave leaves your mouth warm with a mild chocolate aftertaste. Riazul calls it "the choice of tequila purists who seek the unmasked agave character." The Trago Silver has a thin mouth feel and a clean, sweet taste. It's the perfect base for your mojito or margarita. And it's a three-time San Francisco World Spirits Competition winner. This is a small-batch, traditionally crafted tequila, made by renowned distillers Leopoldo Solis Tinoco and Gabriel Espindola Martinez. Soft, silky scents of vanilla, dried fruit, and pepper give way to a long, warm, spicey finish. Twice distilled in copper, the Gran Dovejo is then aged nine months in oak barrels, leaving it a bright golden hue. This honey-flavored añejo with hints of vanilla, fruit, and spices is aged for 24 months — longer than any other in its class, according to Riazul. Its French oak barrels are made from wood found in Burgundy's Citeaux forests. Coppery-golden-hued, this tequila has an aroma of caramel and almond. At first sip it is sweet, followed by a buttery, cinnamon finish. Riazul's reposado and blanco made our list, but the añejo is the cream of the tequila crop. FREE AppDownload
US workers are quitting their jobs like crazy. On Thursday, the latest JOLTS report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics showed that the quit rate for US workers rose to 2% in September, with total job quits rising to 2.8 million, a six-year high. And the read-through on quits is this: Workers will quit their job if they are more confident they can find another one. Late last month, the Fed ended its quantitative easing program, starting the countdown to the Fed's first interest rate hike since the financial crisis.  In a note following that announcement, Chris Rupkey, chief financial economist at MUFG, wrote that the Fed's statement implied it had "capitulated" and become willing to acknowledge that there was real strength in the economy and the labor market, despite inflation that remains below the Fed's 2% target.  And in an email following Thursday's JOLTS report, Rupkey reiterated this stance, writing: Fed Chair Yellen has famously pointed to the Quits Rate also in these Jolts data. If you feel secure enough to quit your job then the economy must be pretty good. Well, the Quits Rate jumped in September to 2.8 million people from 2.5 million in August. The number of Quitters out there in the economy, you know who you are, is just the same now as it was back in 2004 when the Fed started normalizing interest rates. Torsten Slok, chief international economist at Deutsche Bank, also circulated a chart following the report that highlighted not only the quits rate, but Yellen's prior emphasis on this figure.  Slok's chart shows the quit rate moving back to precrisis levels, and Slok argues that this chart is the catalyst the Fed needs to begin raising rates. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
ReutersFew countries have changed in the past few decades as much as China. What used to be a mainly rural, under-developed country is now by one measure the world's largest economy, one whose cities are growing at a massive rate. Little remains of its not-so-distant past. A group of Reuters photographers have matched up pictures from China in the 1980s and 1990s with the latest photos from the country of today. The results are staggering.
Courtesy of TheranosElizabeth Holmes' company, Theranos, is revolutionizing the standard blood test.Age, as they say, ain't nothing but a number, and that's especially true when it comes to how much a person can achieve at a young age. We found the most inspiring innovators, entrepreneurs, and activists under the age of 40 around the world. These people disrupt industries — spanning finance, tech, sports, entertainment, media, science, food, and retail — with their revolutionary new companies, products, and ideas. In 2015, this incredible group of individuals will be worth watching.  FREE AppDownload
Camille Fournier is used to people asking about diversity in her field. The former Goldman Sachs VP of Technology is now CTO of Rent The Runway, a dress and accessories rental shop that's reportedly mulling a new fundraise at a ~$750 million valuation. Business Insider sat down with Fournier to discuss her career, how she got into programming, the difference between being a CTO and a head of engineering, and how she keeps the brogrammers out of her company. Here's a lightly edited Q&amp;A. Business Insider: Tell me about your early career and how you went from Goldman Sachs to a startup. Camille Fournier: I was at Goldman for a long time. I worked at Microsoft in Seattle for a year and a half before that. I was 22 and didn’t know what I wanted to do with my life, so I did what people do when they don't know what they want: I went to grad school and got a Masters [in computer science]. Then I decided I wanted to live in New York. One of my best friends from college moved to work for Google and I got connected with Goldman. That ended up being great job and great team. I was working in credit risk software and big data before the term "big data" existed. I got to do a lot of fun work there over 6.5 years. Toward the end I realized I wanted a bigger leadership opportunity. BI: Why'd you pick Rent the Runway and how'd you become its CTO? CF: I had been vaguely looking [for a new job] when a friend from college, who was at Rent the Runway, grabbed me. I thought, "Is renting dresses going to be interesting or challenging?" Then I met CEO Jenn Hyman. I made her come to my coffee shop. I remember she was perched on this tiny stool. She’s one of most intense people I’ve ever met.  I talked to a lot of members of executive team and was impressed by the business. I love that it’s female cofounders. I thought everyone seemed really smart — but the tech when I joined 3 years ago was a disaster. I have confidence that I can fix tech disasters so I joined as director of engineering. I came 2 years in...I was employee #99 or something. It was less than 100 people but barely less. I didn’t expect 3 years later I’d be CTO. My team is 55 people now and was 12 people then. It’s been a wild ride. In the interim, I got pregnant, married and had a baby.Flickr/K-ideasJennifer Hyman and Jenny Fleiss co-founded Rent the Runway in 2009. BI: You became CTO, got married and had a baby all in the same time frame? How'd you juggle everything? CF: I’m sort of grateful it all happened then. Jenny, the RTR cofounder, had a baby right after I joined and she's having second one soon. There are a lot of parents on staff. It’s not easy but it's a good company to have a child at. I never felt anyone had any doubt I’d come back [from maternity leave] or that I'd have a place to come back to. I felt if I can do that then I can do anything and survive. BI: How'd you decide to major in computer science? CF: I’ve always been a bit of a nerd. I’m a stereotypical tech story in that I liked math and science. But I also enjoyed English literature and music. My grandmother said to me, "You should go to school for computer science. I’m looking at U.S. News and World Report and it says it's where all the jobs will be. You can do this, so you should do this." My parents said, "We know you love literature and music but you also love money. So perhaps you should go into a field where you can make money." I’m certain if I had a family where they were like, "Girls don’t do tech," I’d be a miserable lawyer or something. BI: Did you grow up writing code?  CF: I didn’t code very much growing up. In high school I tried it and did some summer programs around it. I don’t spend my free time creating cool side projects although I know people who do and I’m envious of that. I’m not one of those people. I don’t have that type of creativity. I’m like, "Give me a really hard problem that needs to be solved. I’ll fix it and make it better." I don’t like being given a total blank slate but that’s an area I’m becoming more confident in.  BI: How long did it take for you to master programming if you didn't grow up doing it much? CF: I didn’t master it until my late 20s. I have a high standard of mastery. I consider true fluency and mastery when, if you give me any problem, the thing between me and solving it won’t be me, it will be some external factor, like finding information from someone else, but it won’t be my own abilities. I did not achieve that until my mid-to-late 20s. I think people can become programmers fairly quickly. I’ve worked with people who spent a year learning it and did good work. But very few pick it up and are true masters soon after. You have a million mistakes you’ll have to make, there are a million languages to learn, and then you’ll make those million mistakes in a bunch of different ways. You have to learn from all your mistakes. BI: I assume you get asked about your career and gender a lot. Do you find that insulting? Or is there a diversity in tech issue that needs to be addressed? CF: Yes [I get asked that a lot]. But there is an issue. In startups, we’re just recreating stereotypes of 50 years ago. Tech is so heavily biased towards one type of person. It’s a shame I think. In NYC, the finance industry and big companies like Google really try very hard to grow female talent. But what’s lacking is in startup world, there are so few female founders. I'm not saying female CTOs couldn’t be successful with male CEOs, but I love working with an executive team that has a lot of women. I feel like I don’t have to pretend to be someone I’m not. Otherwise, you have to sort of speak the male language in a particular way.  It’s a shame that there are few female CTOs. 70% of RTR's executive team is women. BI: A lot of startups have been criticized for having a "brogrammer" culture. Have you had to deal with that? CF: I don’t think RTR has ever been a brogrammer culture, but we’ve had different cultures on the team during the time I’ve been there. When you have a female CTO, you’re never going to have a whole company culture of brogrammers but you can have pockets of it. Our tech team is diverse, not just in terms of gender but in terms of background and I actually think that’s really valuable. Being able to recruit a diverse team means we have a more resilient culture with greater strength and variety of ideas. Yes, we have a Kegerator in the office and we’ll drink beers on Fridays and share work we've done during the week, but that’s not a segue to everyone heading to bar [and being brogrammery]. It's a chance to get together and celebrate our work. BI: You said you worried RTR wouldn't be a big enough challenge for you as a tech executive. Is it? CF: I think RTR is a very challenging business. It’s not an obvious business but it’s a really challenging tech business. We have a huge logistics side of it. Everything we ship out has to come back [to our warehouse]. Very few companies that work in that world. There are giant companies that do but at a startup size, very few. We’re moving to a warehouse in Secaucus that's 160,000 square feet. We have one of the world's largest dry cleaners in our warehouse.  There are giant bins of UPS envelopes that all look the same. We have to have all the software to scan the packages and decide, "I don’t need to open this box because I don’t need to ship it back out today, but I do need to open this one because the dress needs to be cleaned, inspected and sent back out." That’s a hugely complex piece of technology we’ve had to build. I think when the company was founded they knew there’d be a lot of tech involved but nowhere near the scale it really is. This is not a typical e-commerce business. We are a weird commerce-travel hybrid with the date- and time-based challenges of travel. Flickr/O'Reilly ConferenceRent The Runway CTO Camille Fournier presenting at the Velocity New York 2014 conference. BI: What's the difference between a CTO and a Head of Engineering?  CF: I think you can not be a C-level executive if you're not thinking about business strategy. My goal is to understand the broadest scope of future opportunities for business and build our tech with that in mind. It’s very easy for an engineer to only build tech that enables one specific thing. I’m trying to enable many things. You have to realize that, hey, all the software we’ve built, we could build a marketplace for it if we wanted to. It wouldn't happen overnight, but we have the tech in place to do it. There's a strategy element to being a CTO. You have to think about the future. For RTR's future, that might be thinking 2-5 years out. To be CTO of Amazon, you have to think more like 10-15 years. The head of engineering is focused on just the operational aspect, focused on the here and now. Do we have the right people in the right places to make sure they’re doing their best jobs?  BI: At a startup, it must be tempting to be short-sighted when you code something because there's pressure to move quickly. CF: When I joined, the joke was that Jenny would come over and stand behind an engineer and say, "Can you do this over?" She'd stand over his shoulder and he’d do it. You have to break that habit. When you don’t have that many features you’re supporting, it can seem ok, but things that work in that scale don’t work when you have a big team and a lot of people relying on you. You have to be more thoughtful.  FREE AppDownload
Connected devices and the Internet of Things are all the rage these days. Companies of all types are pumping out new products and technologies at breakneck speed in hopes of cashing in on this fast-growing market. By 2019, the Internet of Things, or IoT, market will more than double the size of the smartphone, PC, tablet, connected car, and wearable markets combined, according to Business Insider. So how can investors grab a piece of the action? Below, Fool contributors explain why Google, General Electric, and Intel are three of the best stocks to invest in the Internet of Things. Tim Brugger: Leading the way in the explosion of the Internet of Things, according to industry pundits, will be the advent of the "smart home." Already, consumers can control some basic household functions via connected devices, including remotely operating lights and monitoring security devices, but that's just the tip of what will become a giant iceberg. And Google is positioning itself as the smart-home IoT provider to beat. Google made a $3.2 billion splash when it acquired smart home device manufacturer Nest earlier this year. Nest is a leading provider of thermostats that "learn" based on user behavior, as well as high-end smoke and CO2 detectors, which are both areas expected to lead the way in smart-home growth over the next five years. Smart homes will make up over a quarter of IoT revenue by 2019, according to a recent report, climbing to an estimated $490 billion in annual sales. And Nest is just one of several arrows in Google's IoT quiver. In June, Google -- via Nest -- bought cloud-based smart security camera maker Dropcam, and followed that up with last month's deal for Revolv. Revolv, in particular, separates Google from the smart-home masses by addressing one of the budding industry's biggest challenges: a way for multiple smart devices within a home to "talk" to each other. Smart homes will lead the way in IoT adoption over the next several years, and Google is positioned to dominate. IoT in general, and smart homes in particular, will soon light a fire under Google's languishing stock price. BI Intelligence Anders Bylund: When looking for great investments in The Next Big Thing (tm), century-old companies with an industrial past rarely come to mind. But when thinking about the Internet of Things megatrend, it would be crazy to ignore good old General Electric. The GE you see today is a far cry from the heavy-industry giant your grandfather grew up with. Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesGE Chairman and CEO Jeffrey Immelt.Yes, GE has a tight focus on industrial operations, with a long-term goal to reap 75% of its earnings from this sector. Today, only 60% of GE's earnings arrive from its industrial side, with the remainder piped in via banking division GE Capital. But heavy machinery has changed over the last 100 years. General Electric makes a selling point out of the sensor-packed nature of its industrial designs. Whether you're buying airplane engines, giant gas turbines, or fully functional railroad locomotives, GE's models are likely to collect more data about every operational detail than the competition does. Analyzing these huge data flows can unlock hidden patterns and support actionable business decisions. GE's airplane parts deliver so much granular data that a deep analysis can shave maintenance cycles off from some carrier routes while suggesting cost-saving adjustments to planes on more stressful itineraries. These adjustments make for better operation, lower overall maintenance costs, and a more attractive outcome for the airline -- which means more orders from plane builders. GEThis data collection is powered by thousands of sensors tied together by wireless networks. It's how GE is turning the Internet of Things into a real business advantage. The company has started a software division to support these hardware bits, and even coined its own term for this particular niche. The Internet of Things -- sorry, I mean the Industrial Internet -- will help General Electric stay relevant in the new era of modern industry. And it still looks like a great investment for the very long term. Tamara Walsh: Intel might have been late to the mobile revolution, but it won't miss out on the more recent connected devices phenomenon that is the Internet of Things. The chipmaker is deploying products and technologies that help connect items like wearable devices and vehicles to the Internet in a fast and seamless way. The IoT universe can be broken into four distinct categories: things (that are connected to the Internet), gateways, network and cloud, and services. From tiny wireless modems to data center management, Intel is uniquely positioned to dominate this burgeoning market. For example, the tech giant has designed special processors and chipsets intended to power wearables and other Internet of Things devices. Intel could also capitalize on this market through back-end tech such as its Intel Edison mini technology-based computer, which features built-in wireless that is housed in an SD card form factor. Moreover, the power and relatively small size of these chips and processors should help position Intel as a leader in the IoT space. Protecting important data will be a key focus as more devices are connected to the IoT. With innovative solutions already in the works, Intel could take the lead in this area as well. Thanks to Intel's purchase of McAfee in 2011, the company already offers a broad range of security products designed with the IoT market in mind. Some of these include McAfee Endpoint Encryption and McAfee Embedded Control, which can be deployed on connected devices, gateways, and network and cloud infrastructure. Ultimately, this multichannel approach proves Intel has what it takes to become a key player in the Internet of Things space. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonDo you check your phone for market updates before getting out of bed? Are you parked in front of a Bloomberg terminal before your morning coffee?  If you nodded "yes" to either of the above questions, we'd like to hear from you.  Individual Investors: Tell us more how you make your investment decisions. Are you optimistic about the markets in the coming year? Financial Advisors: What are the top challenges and risks your clients face? Are you evolving your practice to meet the needs of younger investors?  Institutional Investors: How many assets do you currently manage? What's the biggest issue in the markets right now?  Click here to take our survey. All we need is 5 minutes of your time.  Thanks in advance for your candid answers.  FREE AppDownload
Rumours are circling that Wall Street's least favorite politician could get a promotion today, says Politico's Manu Raju and John Bresnahan. Senate minority leader Harry Reid (NV) is in private talks with Elizabeth Warren ahead of closed-door leadership elections set for this afternoon. Everyone already expects that Reid, Dick Durbin (IL), Chuck Shumer (NY), and Patty Murray (WA) will take the top leadership positions in the new Senate minority. But now pundits are saying a new post could be created for the Massachussetts populist. No one knows much about the potential new position, but any promotion for Warren would help define the now-minority Democrats' new attitude as an increasingly left-wing caucus. It could also signal a shift toward heightened partisanship, Politico reported. We'll find out. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA trader works on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - The U.S. stock exchanges have posted online details about the management of data processors that have sparked embarrassing trading glitches and accusations of shoddy disclosure by releasing minutes from an oversight meeting for the first time. Two committees made up of representatives from 14 exchanges and brokerage watchdog the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) recently published a two-page summary of a general session meeting of the committees on Oct. 22. Critics, most notably the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA), a lobby for banks, brokerages and asset managers, have urged better governance of the committees, which oversee several securities information processors (SIPs). The SIPs provide the latest sale price and quotations for stocks and options, a critical but little-noticed role in the daily functioning of the stock market until a three-hour trading halt in Nasdaq stocks in August 2013. That outage, and several others, made SIP reliability a key concern for the Securities and Exchange Commission. Nasdaq OMX Group Inc agreed to improve operational metrics after winning a bid to manage the SIP for Nasdaq-listed stocks last week. The contract also provides reliability guidelines that were lacking in the past. But the months-long selection process, which appeared mired in a stalemate, drew criticism because of a dearth of details. A Nasdaq spokesman said the information was posted Oct. 31, while an announcement by the Consolidated Tape Association (CTA), which oversees stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange and an affiliate exchange, said the minutes went up Nov. 4. The CTA said the posting was part of "an effort to provide the industry with more detailed information that improves transparency and serves as a useful informational tool." The online posting noted the names of five people who form an advisory committee, including a representative from Thomson Reuters Corp. But the names of the representatives from the exchanges were omitted, as was the SEC's representative. A picture of the advisory committee members also was posted. The posting highlighted agenda items typical of the committees' quarterly meetings, such as data on SIP performance and a review of system subscribers, information that has been published online for several years. The summary also indicated reports on disaster recovery operations for the exchanges' data centers, and quarterly testing dates. The last test was Sept. 27, and the next Dec. 6. There was no immediate comment from SIFMA.     (Reporting by Herbert Lash) FREE AppDownload
Venezuelan investors are abandoning ship en masse after the government indicated that it would not take immediate measures to stop the country from sinking deeper into chaos. "I am scared as hell," one Latin American bond trader said. "Default [is] likely within 12 months; the oil price collapse [is] just adding to a completely dysfunctional political and financial situation." The signal to head for the exits was so subtle that you would have missed it if you were not paying close attention. This week the Venezuelan government reiterated that it would not devalue its currency, giving it more bolivars for every dollar. It does not want to do that because the country already has the highest inflation rate in the world, at 64%. The official exchange rate is 6.3 bolivars per dollar, but the black-market rate sits at 113.62 bolivars to the dollar. "We've told investors to count on Venezuela, to trust us," Finance Minister Rodolfo Marco Torres said in an interview this week. Investors did exactly the opposite. They are abandoning Venezuela at a stunning rate. The country's debt maturing in 2027 has fallen to a six-year low of 55.1 cents, according to Bloomberg, down 14% in a month. Pantheon Economics This is, in part, due to a global economic shift. Oil makes up 95% of Venezuela's exports, and the commodity has gotten absolutely crushed in the past month — down 28%. Some accuse Saudi Arabia of keeping the price low to compete with the world's burgeoning natural gas industry — an allegation the Kingdom and OPEC have categorically denied. In the meantime, Venezuela is already suffering from food shortages. A lot of that food — along with other household goods — is imported, and without the cash from oil, the government will not be able to subsidize those imports, according to a report by the research firm Stratfor. REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsPeople line up to buy food at a supermarket in San Cristobal, about 410 miles (660 km) southwest of Caracas, on Feb. 27. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and Pope Francis called on Wednesday for an end to violence in Venezuela that has killed at least 13 people and urged politicians to take the lead in calming the nation's worst unrest in a decade. "Default is the end game," the bond trader said. "Bonds trade down into the 20 cents on the dollar, then restructuring etc. but the default could cause political unrest." President Nicolas Maduro lacks the charisma of his predecessor, the late Hugo Chavez. His approval rating hovers around 30%, though the country remains more evenly divided about his socialist party.  What this economic strain could do is take us back to February, when hundreds of thousands marched through the streets of Caracas and other cities all over Venezuela, with the government engaging in a campaign isolating or imprisoning opposition leaders like Harvard-educated politician Leopoldo Lopez (who still sits in jail awaiting his day in court). Back then the lines to get into government supermarkets were long. They will only get longer. The people will get angrier. Maduro will run out of time. But that does not mean he will let go of power. At least, not without a fight. ReutersLeopoldo Lopez turns himself in to Venezuelan authorities in February 2014.   FREE AppDownload
Taylor Swift is doing the music business wrong.  In an interview published this week, Time asked her why she left Spotify. This is what she had to say (emphasis ours):  Well, they can still listen to my music if they get it on iTunes. I’m always up for trying something. And I tried it and I didn’t like the way it felt. I think there should be an inherent value placed on art. I didn’t see that happening, perception-wise, when I put my music on Spotify. Everybody’s complaining about how music sales are shrinking, but nobody’s changing the way they’re doing things. They keep running towards streaming, which is, for the most part, what has been shrinking the numbers of paid album sales. With Beats Music and Rhapsody you have to pay for a premium package in order to access my albums. And that places a perception of value on what I’ve created. On Spotify, they don’t have any settings, or any kind of qualifications for who gets what music. I think that people should feel that there is a value to what musicians have created, and that’s that. I wrote about this in July, I wrote an op-ed piece in the Wall Street Journal. This shouldn’t be news right now. It should have been news in July when I went out and stood up and said I’m against it. And so this is really kind of an old story. This is just wrong (and I say that as a HUGE Taylor fan!). What she seems to be saying is that it doesn't matter who pays what. It matters that every consumer feels like they are paying for her music every time they play it. This seems to be what her defenders are saying, as well. It seems weird to make a business decision based on a feeling. Particularly since Spotify pays the artist for plays, even on the free version of its service (it's a very small fee per stream, and even smaller on the free version of the service, but it exists and it is paid for by free service users having to listen to ads). This is basically exactly like radio, albeit with smaller licensing fees. There are a couple of things here: First, the artist does get paid per listen, so why does it matter if the consumer "feels" like they are paying for the music? (When I pay for Spotify premium, I "feel" like I'm paying for the ads to go away, not for the songs.) Second, when you buy an album, you're basically paying $10 for that first listen. Past that, it's free. The artist doesn't get extra money from the person who listens to the song 1 million times versus the person who only listens to it 10 times. When I go home to my parents' house and pick up my old Britney Spears CD and play it for nostalgic reasons, I definitely don't "feel" like I'm paying for that experience. I (okay, my mom) paid for that CD over a decade ago. That $10 is long gone. ReutersTaylor Swift performs during her "Red" tour in May 2014.Regardless of what silly things Taylor Swift says publicly, though, there's a real question about the viability of streaming as a music revenue stream. Can an artist make more selling albums than on streaming? The quick answer, right now and in the past, is probably yes — particularly for huge stars like Taylor Swift. But streaming is here to stay whether some major artists decide to pull their albums or not. In the current digital climate, it has replaced illegal downloads, not paid album sales.  Switching gears a little bit here, I really wonder why we as consumers care about how much Taylor makes on album sales. She's making money either way. Streaming is unambiguously better for the consumer. I listen to 10x more music now that I have Spotify, because I can afford to. As a result, I probably also pay for more live show tickets. Roughly as much of my money is going to artists as it was when CDs reigned. But I get a better experience. The best thing I've seen on this is the interview Marc Andreessen did with Kevin Roose a few weeks ago: With Spotify, too, we as consumers have more choice than we’ve ever had, but the producers are feeling a squeeze. Part of what worries me about your vision of the future is that it’s treating people as if they’re only consumers and not producers. No, no, no, no, no. It’s treating people as consumers and producers. The same technology makes people better producers. Are you a better producer today than you would have been without all these new technologies? Yes, but am I compensated properly if I’m a musician whose song gets a million hits and he gets a check for $6? That’s when we get down into the sticky situation, which is, is our work actually worth what we think it is? And what’s the answer? The answer is, it depends. You look at most of the successful authors now, and they’re doing paid speaking. For musicians, the live-touring business grew four times in the last 15 years. So as digital music has taken reproduction down, as the reproduced version has become abundant, the live experience has become scarce. So touring revenues are way up.  The music industry is changing. But in a way that's really great for consumers, and not clearly all that bad for artists like Taylor Swift. FREE AppDownload
The Federal Reserve and its central bank peers around the world unleashed unprecedented amounts of monetary stimulus in an effort to pull the economy out of the financial crisis. While growth remains anemic, we are no longer in crisis mode. So you could argue that the monetary policy worked. More recently, the European and Japanese economies have slowed substantially, and the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan have responded by cranking up stimulus again. But veteran trader Art Cashin of UBS and his peers worry that not only is this unsustainable, it's actually destabilizing. In his morning note Thursday, Cashin takes a page out of hedge fund manager Paul Singer's letter to investors. Emphasis added: Best Not To Look Behind That Curtain — As mentioned in earlier Comments, Paul Singer of Elliot Associates put out a recent letter to investors, which is being widely cited and discussed around Wall Street. Here is a brief but telling paragraph from the letter: There is a current set of delusions that is powerful and dangerous: that monetary debasement can be infinitely pursued without consequences; that the financial system is now solid and sound; that the low volatility and high prices of stocks, high-end real estate and bonds are real; that bonds are a safe haven; and that large financial institutions which get into trouble in the future can be unwound in a much safer way than they could be in 2008. We have discussed each of these elements in the pages of this report and previous ones in an attempt to reveal the fallacy and unsustainability of such beliefs. But, as stated above, they will only enter the history books as mass delusions if they are unmasked in the future as unjustifiable and erroneous beliefs at the time they were held. We think that test will be met, perhaps soon. That's about as eloquent a putdown of central bank policy as I've ever seen. Mr. Singer seems quite sure that this will end badly — probably very badly. To be clear, this is not the consensus. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jorge Silva  Job openings fell slightly in September, to 4.73 million from a revised 4.85 million in August, according to the latest JOLTS report from the BLS.  Expectations were for the report to show job openings fall slightly in September, to 4.8 million from 4.84 million in August. August's report showed job openings were at roughly a 13-year high.  In a note to clients following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro wrote, "note that the quit rate, one of [Federal Reserve Chair Janet] Yellen's favored indicators, rose to a six-year high of 2% from 1.8%." Many will argue this shows strength in the labor market, as workers are less likely to quit their jobs if they don't think they will be able to get another one.  Thursday's report also showed that total job separations increased to 4.79 million in September from 4.53 million the prior month, while hires also rose to 5.03 million from 4.74 million the prior month. The latest JOLTS report follows the latest report on initial jobless claims, which showed claims rose slightly last week to 290,000. Initial claims remain near multiyear lows, however.  The JOLTS report has been a bigger focus in the market since Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen mentioned that the report was one of her favorite labor market indicators.  Here's the chart showing the rise in quits. FRED And the chart showing total job openings, which are still near multiyear highs.  FRED   FREE AppDownload
If you wash your hair every day, stop. For model-like healthy hair, everyone should lessen their shampoo-use, but particularly men. That's according to the people cutting your hair — your barbers. Most hair professionals agree that you should wash you hair at most every two to three days. Some barbers, like Van Cappizzano of Ball and Buck in Boston, even advocate abstaining from shampoo altogether.  That's because most shampoos can be damaging to hair when used excessively. They contain sulfates and other chemicals that strip hair of the oils it needs to stay healthy, shiny, and soft.  "Don't think of your hair as a chalkboard," Cappizzano told us, meaning you shouldn't be wiping it clean every morning when you step in the shower. Instead, he says you should think of it more like a "plant" that needs nutrition and attention. Lessening your use of shampoo will take care of frizz, make it easier to use hair product, lessen breakage, and generally make your hair look healthy and vibrant. And for those who can't imagine not taking a shower every day, don't worry — we're not taking about abstaining from wetting your hair. In fact, you should be wetting your hair and exfoliating your scalp by rubbing it and scratching it every time you take a hot shower. This gets rid of dead skin flakes, dirt, and excess oils that may have built up from the last time you showered. Just refrain from always using the sudsy stuff. FREE AppDownload
The evidence continues to mount that the U.S. economy’s tepid recovery is finally turning more robust. Growth figures are solid, the unemployment rate continues to drop, and wages are starting to increase—albeit very slowly. Still, it wouldn’t hurt to have some insurance, especially when other developed economies are on shaky ground. Say, for example, a tax cut? It wouldn’t hurt, but in this gridlocked political environment, it’s also a non-starter. Enter the price of crude. Brent has been trending steadily downward since its high of $115 per barrel in June, and it currently sits at $85 per barrel. West Texas Intermediate has followed suit, dropping from $108 per barrel in June to $78 per barrel as of early November. Nor do the trends appear likely to reverse anytime soon. Thanks in part to U.S. shale production, growth in supply from non-OPEC countries is exceeding global demand growth by as much as 1 million barrels a day. OPEC doesn’t appear to be in a hurry to cut production, and last week Saudi Arabia unexpectedly reduced the cost of crude it sells to the U.S. Coming at it from a demand perspective, oil prices have surely been constrained by sluggish growth in Europe and China. Altogether, Credit Suisse expects the price of oil to keep falling, and lowered its forecasts for Brent from $98 per barrel to $92 for the fourth quarter, and predicts an average of $87 a barrel for the first quarter of next year. For American drivers, this means celebration at the pump. On November 10, the average price of regular unleaded gasoline had fallen for 46 consecutive days, and on November 1 it dropped below $3 per gallon for the first time since 2010, according to the American Automobile Association. If oil prices follow the bank’s forecasts, nominal consumer spending on energy will fall from 3.2 percent in June of this year to 2.5 percent by March 2015, giving consumers an effective tax cut of about $80 billion, according to a report by Credit Suisse analysts James Sweeney and Jay Feldman. That would be the lightest aggregate gasoline bill for U.S. households in more than a decade. It would be especially positive for lower-income Americans: spending on gasoline accounts for 13 percent of pre-tax income in the lowest quintile of U.S. households, compared with 2.5 percent in the highest quintile. The extra cash may also spur more holiday cheer, fueling greater consumer demand as Thanksgiving approaches. That’s especially the case since more Americans are earning a paycheck: the U.S. unemployment rate fell to 5.8 percent in October, the lowest level since 2008. Credit Suisse says lower energy costs have already helped consumer confidence, which rose 5.5 points in October to 94.5, the highest level in seven years. Chain-store sales also increased 0.6 percent last month, according to the International Council of Shopping Centers. And while a prolonged period of low prices may put a damper on new investment in the U.S. oil industry, it’s unlikely to curtail job growth since only 0.6 percent of American jobs are in energy extraction. And what of broader consumer prices? If oil stays low, headline inflation could slow to 1 percent by the end of the first quarter of next year and to as low as 0.5 percent in the second quarter, according to Credit Suisse. That might even persuade the Federal Reserve to postpone its highly anticipated interest rate hike, currently expected by Credit Suisse in June 2015—which would amount to yet another plus for economic growth. FREE AppDownload
DreamWorks AnimationDreamWorks Animation's "Shrek"Last night, Deadline and the New York Times reported that Hasbro is in talks with DreamWorks Animation to acquire the company. In pre-market on Thursday, shares of DreamWorks were up as much as 20% following the news. In a report late Wednesday, Deadline said that DreamWorks CEO Jeffrey Katzenberg is seeking a deal that values the company at about $35 per share, a more than 50% increase from the $22.37 that DreamWorks shares closed at on Wednesday. On Thursday morning, DreamWorks shares were trading just below $27. Hasbro shares, meanwhile, were down about 2%.  The latest reports regarding a potential deal with Hasbro follow reports in late September that said Japanese conglomerate SoftBank was looking to acquire DreamWorks Animation, though those talks eventually broke down. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThat's according to the guys over at Capital Economics — they had been expecting a drop in the oil price, but they didn't think it would fall to $80 per barrel (as it did Wednesday and Thursday) until 2016. So they're accelerating their forecasts and suggesting the world will "soon be awash with oil," cutting the per-barrel Brent Crude price to just $70 (£44.4) by the end of 2016, four years earlier than they previously anticipated.  Here's the basis of their bullish case:  Though they're forecasting $75 per barrel by the end of 2015 and $70 by the end of 2016, they add: "Given the current negative sentiment in the market, it is clearly possible that $70 could be hit much sooner ... we believe that lower oil prices are here to stay."  FREE AppDownload
APInitial jobless claims rose slightly to 290,000 last week. Expectations were for the report to show claims rise slightly, to 280,000 from 278,000 a week ago.  Last week's number wasn't revised. The four-week moving average of claims also rose, to 285,000 from 279,000 last week. Last week's report also showed the four-week moving average of initial claims fell to 279,000, its lowest level since April 2000.  Despite the increases in both initial claims and four-week moving average of claims, jobless claims still remain at multi-year lows. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro wrote that, "we see no reason to expect the trend in claims to start moving higher anytime soon; absent a shove from tighter policy, claims can remain close to their current trend for an extended period." FREE AppDownload
APInitial jobless claims rose slightly to 290,000 last week. Expectations were for the report to show claims rise slightly, to 280,000 from 278,000 a week ago.  Last week's number wasn't revised. The four-week moving average of claims also rose, to 285,000 from 279,000 last week. Last week's report also showed the four-week moving average of initial claims fell to 279,000, its lowest level since April 2000.  Despite the increases in both initial claims and four-week moving average of claims, jobless claims still remain at multi-year lows. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro wrote that, "we see no reason to expect the trend in claims to start moving higher anytime soon; absent a shove from tighter policy, claims can remain close to their current trend for an extended period." FREE AppDownload
Although you've probably never heard the name, Paul Marcarelli is one of the most recognizable commercial actors of our time. Often referred to as "The Verizon Guy" or "Test Man," Marcarelli has appeared in hundreds of ads and promotions for Verizon, and he is best known for his "Can you hear me now?" catchphrase. The actor, who's been under contract with Verizon since 2001, still works with the telecom giant from time to time. He tells us about his time as "The Verizon Guy," how he got the job, and what he's up to now.  Produced by Will Wei. Additional camera by Devan Joseph. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Thomson ReutersReynor and Peltz pose during a news conference for the movie "Transformers: Age of Extinction" in Tokyo(Reuters) - Viacom Inc , owner of the Paramount movie studio and cable network MTV and Comedy Central, reported stronger-than-expected profit and revenue due to higher affiliate fees and the box-office success of movies such as "Transformers: Age of Extinction". Revenue in Viacom's movie business, the company's second biggest, rose 12 percent in the fourth quarter, also helped by the strong performance of "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles". A boost in affiliate fees - rates Viacom charges from cable and satellite TV operators and mobile operators for carrying its programs - drove up revenue by 8.3 percent to $2.66 billion. Total revenue rose 9.3 percent to $3.99 billion, beating the average analyst estimate of $3.90 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom fell 9.1 percent to $732 million. Earnings, however, rose to $1.72 per share from $1.69 per share due to Viacom's share repurchase program. Excluding items, the company earned $1.71 per share in the fourth-quarter ended Sept. 30, above the average analyst estimate of $1.68 per share. Viacom's shares closed at $69.25 on the Nasdaq on Wednesday.  (Reporting By Lehar Maan in Bangalore; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
Wealth inequality in the US is at near record levels according to a new study by academics. Over the past three decades, the share of household wealth owned by the top 0.1% has increased from 7% to 22%. For the bottom 90% of families, a combination of rising debt, the collapse of the value of their assets during the financial crisis, and stagnant real wages have led to the erosion of wealth. The share of wealth owned by the top 0.1% is almost the same as the share owned by the bottom 90% The research by Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman [pdf] illustrates the evolution of wealth inequality over the last century. The chart shows how the top 0.1% of families now own roughly the same share of wealth as the bottom 90%. The picture actually improved in the aftermath of the 1930s Great Depression, with wealth inequality falling through to the late 1970s. It then started to rise again, with the share of total household wealth owned by the top 0.1% rising to 22% in 2012 from 7% in the late 1970s. The top 0.1% includes 160,000 families with total net assets of more than $20m (£13m) in 2012. In contrast, the share of total US wealth owned by the bottom 90% of families fell from a peak of 36% in the mid-1980s, to 23% in 2012 - just one percentage point above the top 0.1%. via The Guardian Average wealth of families in the bottom 90% and the top 1% of the wealth distribution, in constant 2010 US dollars, 1946-2012 Photograph: Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman The growing indebtedness of most Americans is the main reason behind the erosion of the wealth share of the bottom 90%, according to the report’s authors. Many middle-class families own their homes and have pensions, but too many have higher mortgage repayments, higher credit card bills, and higher student loans to service. The average wealth of bottom 90% jumped during the stock market boom of the late 1990s and the housing bubble of the early 2000s. But it then collapsed during and after the most recent financial crisis. Since then, there has been no recovery in the wealth of the middle class and the poor, the authors say. The average wealth of the bottom 90% of families is equal to $80,000 in 2012— the same level as in 1986. In contrast, the average wealth for the top 1% more than tripled between 1980 and 2012. via The Guardian Among the nine G20 countries with sufficient data (featured in the graph above), the richest 1% of people (by income) have increased their income share significantly since 1980, according to Oxfam. In Australia, for example, the top 1% earned 4.8% of the country’s income in 1980. That had risen to more than 9% by 2010. Oxfam says that in the time that Australia has held the G20 presidency (between 2013 and 2014) the total wealth in the G20 increased by $17tn but the richest 1% of people in the G20 captured $6.2tn of this wealth – 36% of the total increase. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Berkshire Hathaway just announced it would acquire the Duracell brand of batteries from Procter &amp; Gamble. P&amp;G will receive $4.7 billion worth of P&amp;G shares currently owned by Berkshire Hathaway.* "I have always been impressed by Duracell, as a consumer and as a long-term investor in P&amp;G and Gillette," Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett said. "Duracell is a leading global brand with top-quality products, and it will fit well within Berkshire Hathaway." The deal is expected to close in the second half of 2015. "We thank the Duracell employees for their many contributions to the business," P&amp;G CEO A.G. Lafley said. "They’ve made Duracell the global market leader in the battery category. I’m confident this new ownership structure will provide strong support for Duracell’s future growth plans." NOTE: An earlier version of this post said the deal valued Duracell at $6.4 billion. That statement has been removed. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ivan AlvaradoA child plays next to "Personnes," a sculpture made with used clothes, at the Fine Arts Museum in Santiago on Wednesday. Good morning! Here are some of the major news stories moving markets.  The Saudi Oil Minister Seems Comfortable With Lower Prices. Minister Ali al-Naimi denied that the OPEC cartel nations were engaged in a price war, saying that the market set prices, according to the Financial Times. Oil Prices Slide Again. Brent crude dropped to as low as $79.35 a barrel, the lowest level since September 2010. Stock Markets Are Up. US futures are in the green, with Dow futures up 45 points and S&amp;P futures up 6 points. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.3%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.4%, and Germany's DAX is up 0.7%. Japan's Nikkei closed up 1.1%, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 0.3%. Wal-Mart Beats And Then Warns. Wal-Mart earned $1.15 per share in Q3, beating expectations for $1.12. Q3 comparable store sales climbed 0.5% at Wal-Mart's US stores. However, Q4 earnings will be a bit light. "Our earnings per share guidance assumes several important factors, including the economic conditions in several of our largest markets, and a highly promotional holiday season," CFO Charles Holley said. "As a reminder, our full year EPS guidance includes the four factors we discussed last quarter, which were higher US healthcare costs, incremental investments in e-commerce, ongoing investments in Sam's Club, and our effective tax rate." Cisco CFO Quits. Cisco Systems reported Q3 revenue and earnings that beat expectations. Shares rallied after the report. In its announcement, Cisco said CFO Frank Calderoni would be leaving at the end of the year. Hasbro Is Reportedly In Talks About Buying DreamWorks Animation. Deadline reports that DreamWorks and Hasbro are in talks to create a combined family entertainment company that would be called DreamWorks-Hasbro. The deal is reportedly at least 60 days away from being finalized. A Senior Japanese Lawmaker Says Prime Minister Shinzo Abe Has Decided To Call An Election. "It looks like Shinzo Abe has finally made up his mind, and it's fair to consider that he decided to go to the people," said Tadamori Oshima, a former deputy chief of Abe's party. German Inflation Came In As Expected. Prices rose by 0.8% in the year to October, with more European inflation data out later this morning. China Is Set To Lift Its Aid to Pacific Nations. Chinese President Xi Jinping will offer a broad aid package to Pacific island nations at a summit in Fiji next week, a foreign ministry official said Thursday, adding that there was also room to work with six island states not invited because of ties to Taiwan.  Keystone Pipeline May Finally Pass US Congress Next Week. The US Congress will vote in coming days on whether to approve construction of the much-delayed Keystone XL oil pipeline, a project Republicans say is step one in their plan for enhanced US energy production. FREE AppDownload
YouTube screenshotWal-Mart Q3 financial results were a bit better than what analysts were expecting. However, Q4 guidance was a bit weak. Comparable store sales in Wal-Mart's US stores climbed by 0.5% during Q3. Earnings improved to $1.15 per share, which was higher than the $1.12 forecast by analysts. "We're investing in key areas of our business, including wages in our US stores and in e-commerce and mobile capabilities," CEO Doug McMillon said. "Being the price leader is an ongoing priority for us and a commitment to customers. As with every year, that is even more important during the holiday season. We have some things in our favor this fourth quarter, including lower fuel prices in the US and other key markets, and we're set to deliver for customers during this time." However, Q4 guidance was a bit weak. Management expects to earn $1.46 to $1.56 per share, which compares to analysts' forecast for $1.57. "Our earnings per share guidance assumes several important factors, including the economic conditions in several of our largest markets, and a highly promotional holiday season," CFO Charles Holley said. "As a reminder, our full year EPS guidance includes the four factors we discussed last quarter, which were higher US healthcare costs, incremental investments in e-commerce, ongoing investments in Sam's Club, and our effective tax rate." FREE AppDownload
YouTube screenshotWal-Mart Q3 financial results were a bit better than what analysts were expecting. However, Q4 guidance was a bit weak. Comparable store sales in Wal-Mart's US stores climbed by 0.5% during Q3. Earnings improved to $1.15 per share, which was higher than the $1.12 forecast by analysts. "We're investing in key areas of our business, including wages in our US stores and in e-commerce and mobile capabilities," CEO Doug McMillon said. "Being the price leader is an ongoing priority for us and a commitment to customers. As with every year, that is even more important during the holiday season. We have some things in our favor this fourth quarter, including lower fuel prices in the US and other key markets, and we're set to deliver for customers during this time." However, Q4 guidance was a bit weak. Management expects to earn $1.46 to $1.56 per share, which compares to analysts' forecast for $1.57. "Our earnings per share guidance assumes several important factors, including the economic conditions in several of our largest markets, and a highly promotional holiday season," CFO Charles Holley said. "As a reminder, our full year EPS guidance includes the four factors we discussed last quarter, which were higher US healthcare costs, incremental investments in e-commerce, ongoing investments in Sam's Club, and our effective tax rate." FREE AppDownload
According to Legatum Institute's Prosperity Index, sub-Saharan Africa accounts for many of the least prosperous nations of the world. The rest come from countries rocked by revolution and/or war. The annual index measures 142 countries based on 89 different economic analysis variables that measure success in industry, education, health, freedom, opportunity, and social capital.  The nations were ranked into the following 4 color-coded groupings: Legatum Institute 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						Legatum Institute/Amanda Macias/Business Insider				Of the 30 nations finishing dead last, 23 of those were African nations. Central African Republic was the last country on the list and Botswana (75th) was the highest ranked country within the sub-Saharan Africa region.  Egypt, which reverted from a fledgling democracy back to military dictatorship this year, joined war-torn countries Pakistan, Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Yemen on the bottom of the list. Meanwhile, for the sixth year in a row, Norway is the most prosperous nation in the world and is followed another 18 European nations in the highest tier.  Russia is the lowest ranking country within Europe and Venezuela has dropped the most of any country on the list to the 100th position. Here are the 30 least prosperous nations (and the full report):  Legatum Institute FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesWASHINGTON (AP) — U.S. banking giant Morgan Stanley helped a Chinese company, Tianhe Chemicals, sell $654 million in stock in a June public offering. But The Associated Press identified significant discrepancies in publicly accessible financial records and statements Tianhe made to investors. Such discrepancies highlight Morgan Stanley's roles shepherding then promoting then defending Tianhe — which one of its investment funds partially owns — before and after the chemical company became a major international stock offering. If Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. LLC and its fellow underwriters, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and UBS AG, failed adequately to vet Tianhe, the banks could be subject to reputational and legal concerns. The controversy surrounding Tianhe (pronounced TYEN'-huh) carries special significance as China's financial markets are opening to the world and increasingly becoming part of U.S. stock portfolios largely through pension and mutual funds. Investors unable to conduct their own, on-the-ground research of Chinese companies rely on investment banks like Morgan Stanley to act as gatekeepers, preventing problematic companies from listing. Tianhe Chemicals Group Ltd. manufactures lubricants and sophisticated chemicals used to fight fires and toughen touchscreens. The AP began its review of the company after allegations arose about the firm from a shadowy investment research group tied to people betting against Tianhe's stock. The group said the company had vastly overstated the size and profitability of its business. Tianhe rejected the claims, and Morgan Stanley said it stands "resolutely behind Tiahne's world-class management team," but Tianhe's shares have fallen 39 percent since then. Research in the U.S., Hong Kong, Shanghai and Tianhe's hometown of Jinzhou over two months suggests investor concerns were warranted. Public records, commercial business data and site visits by the AP largely corroborated key claims by Anonymous Analytics, the group that targeted Tianhe, and uncovered additional information the group did not. The discrepancies involve basic matters such as Tianhe's profitability, relationships with customers and even the company's origins. REUTERS/Carlos BarriaA receptionist sits at a Morgan Stanley office which was visited by Chinese investigators in Shanghai, September 4, 2014. Picture taken September 4, 2014.  Among AP's findings: —Tianhe revenues cited in commercial business data from government and public sources were reported as a fraction of the revenues the company reported to foreign investors, $106 million in 2012, not $684 million. The AP purchased the financial data on Tianhe's subsidiaries from vendors who also perform due-diligence work for the U.S. Commerce Department. Tianhe disputed the accuracy of this information, and allowed the AP to review local regulatory filings reflecting the higher revenue figures. —Commercial business data and records from a state-owned financial institution identify a Tianhe predecessor as the property of Chinese government organizations, although the company's founders said they own it. The difference matters because the older company transferred key assets to a current Tianhe subsidiary for "nil consideration" in 2009, and Chinese law requires government property to be sold at a "reasonably determined" price. A case manager for China Great Wall Asset Management Corp., a state-owned financial institution, confirmed that the government's records show the predecessor was state-owned as recently as late 2013. Tianhe said the information was "very outdated" but declined to allow the AP to review regulatory files to settle the question. —Tianhe's financial filings indicate one principal customer, Shanghai Xidatong International Trading Co. Ltd., has bought as much as $100 million in chemicals each year. Business data purchased by AP said that company's annual revenues in 2012 were less than $6 million, and the company's net worth was minus $900,000 at the end of 2012. Its chief executive, Zhang Silang, declined to answer questions from AP. Shanghai Xidatong's registered office is an unoccupied room containing broken furniture and old mattresses in a dilapidated apartment building. It conducts its business out of two other offices, both prominently labeled with signs for other chemical companies. Morgan Stanley, which declined to discuss the AP's findings, twice conducted due-diligence investigations into the company — once before the investment made by the bank's private equity fund and again before the company's public offering. Tianhe told the AP the bank spent more than $2 million on its vetting investigations. Tianhe Chief Financial Officer Joseph Lee, a former Morgan Stanley banker, said the private equity team had closely scrutinized Tianhe. "They took a long time and also spent quite a bit of money," he said. In response to AP's inquiries, Tianhe executives provided AP limited access to confidential documents in Hong Kong and Jinzhou. In Hong Kong, the company twice allowed an AP reporter to inspect its Deloitte-audited financial statements and other records on the condition that she could not take notes or communicate with co-workers over an unmonitored phone line while viewing the files. It videotaped her the entire time. In Jinzhou, the company persuaded local government officials over their objections to allow AP to inspect and copy some of its own corporate records but not others. After a two-year debate over penalties facing banks for allowing fraudulent companies to sell shares, Hong Kong's Securities and Futures Commission said in August that it will not hesitate to rely on criminal statutes to prosecute banks. One reason regulators adopted harsh standards for underwriters is that, in the event of fraud, obtaining recourse against mainland Chinese companies can be difficult or impossible, said Philippe Espinasse, a Hong Kong-based former investment banker and author of several books about IPOs. The listing system relies on banks to vet professionally a company's promises, outlined in a document known as its prospectus, he said. "The one document you should rely on is the prospectus, because that's been vetted by a whole bunch of parties that supposedly know what they're doing," he says. ___ Associated Press writers Erika Kinetz in Shanghai, Joe McDonald in Beijing, and Bernard Condon and Jon Fahey in New York contributed to this report. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Hasbro is in talks to acquire DreamWorks Animation, according to a report from Deadline.com. Deadline reports that DreamWorks and Hasbro are in talks to create a combined family entertainment company that would be called DreamWorks-Hasbro, and says the deal is at least 60 days away from being finalized. DreamWorks currently has a market cap of about $1.9 billion and is the studio responsible for producing animated films including, "Shrek", "Madagascar", and "How to Train Your Dragon." Deadline's report said DreamWorks CEO Jeffrey Katzenberg is looking for Hasbro to pay $35 a share for the company, which would be more than a 50% from the $22.37 that DreamWorks shares closed at on Wednesday. The New York Times, citing a person briefed on the matter, is also reporting that Hasbro and DreamWorks are in talks regarding a deal. That report said only that Katzenberg is seeking a deal worth more than $30 a share.  These reports come about six weeks after The Wall Street Journal reported that Japanese conglomerate SoftBank was in talks to acquire DreamWorks, though the Journal later reported that these talks cooled for reasons that weren't known at the time.  The Times' report on Wednesday also said it isn't clear why those talks broke down. Deadline also reported that in a separate deal, DreamWorks is looking to form a joint venture with The Hearst Corporation involving its AwesomenessTV arm.  DreamWorks acquired AwesomenessTV for more than $100 million in May 2013. AwesomenessTV operates a network of YouTube channels.  Deadline broke the news after 8:00 pm ET, which is when stocks no longer trade in the after hours, but shares of DreamWorks are likely to rise sharply on Thursday following the news.  You can read Deadline's report here, and The New York Times report here.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of female labourers collecting wheat at a warehouse of Punjab State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited on the outskirts of the northern Indian city of AmritsarNEW DELHI (Reuters) - India has reached an agreement with the United States on public stockpiling of food, its trade minister said on Thursday, paving the way for the implementation of a global trade facilitation deal that has been stalled for months. "India and the United States have resolved their differences on public stockholding of food," Nirmala Sithamaran said. "This opens the way for implementation of the WTO trade facilitation deal." The proposals will be reviewed by the World Trade Organization's General Council, she added, expressing the hope that approval would clear the way for India to sign a protocol enabling implementation of the trade accord. (Reporting by Manoj Kumar; Writing by Douglas Busvine; editing by Malini Menon) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gustau NacarinoWe've got inflation figures for Europe's four biggest economies this morning, we'll update this post as they roll out: Italian inflation rose to 0.1%, up from September's -0.2%, and ending a four-month run of very mild deflation. Spain's inflation figures rose a little: prices are still in decline, down by 0.1% in the year to October, but that's not as bad as September's 0.2%, which analysts had expected to see repeated. France's inflation for October came in at 0.5%, it's marginally higher than the 0.4% recorded in September, but still way below the 2% target at the ECB. Germany's consumer price index officially came in at 0.8% on the second estimate, as expected. Prices were down 0.3% from September to October. Just as a reminder, here's how the situation stands at the moment in Europe: inflation is down to very nearly zero. Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA worker cleans an apartment block in BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - Growth in China real estate investment slowed further in the first 10 months of 2014, but property sales showed some signs of improvement, indicating Beijing's efforts to boost the sector may be starting to have an effect. Property investment, which affects more than 40 other sectors from cement to furniture, grew at its slowest pace in over five years between January to October, rising 12.4 percent in that period from a year ago, the National Bureau of Statistics(NBS) said on Thursday. That compared with an annual increase of 12.5 percent in the first nine months and marked the slowest pace of growth since July 2009. "The easing of property investment growth has continued to drag on China's broad economy," said Du Zhengzheng, an economist at China Development Bank Securities in Beijing. "We expect the trend will continue in coming months even though sales picked up." The NBS data showed property sales dropped 1.6 percent in October in terms of floor space, easing substantially from a 10.3 percent drop in September. That came after Beijing announced fresh steps in late-September to support the sluggish property market, including mortgage rates and downpayment levels for some home buyers.[ID:nL3N0RV3IG] The NBS data also showed mortgage loans to home buyers dropped 4.3 percent in the first 10 months of 2014, easing from the drop of 4.9 percent in the January-September period, as banks quickened their mortgage approvals and started to provide preferential rates to some home buyers. Still, analysts doubted whether the government moves in late September would stem the slide in the property market as a glut of unsold homes hangs over the market. Many see the sector remaining weak well into 2015. Moody's investors Service said on Wednesday that the outlook for China's property industry remains negative as it expected property sales would continue to decline in 2015 on high inventory levels and tight liquidity. As the sector accounts for more than 15 percent of China's annual economic output, the prolonged cooling of the housing market poses the biggest risk to the world's second-largest economy, even as Beijing tries to stimulate overall growth, economists said. A private survey showed home prices in China dropped for a sixth consecutive month in October, pointing to a persistent property downturn.[ID:nL4N0SQ781]   (Reporting By Xiaoyi Shao and Koh Gui Qing; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
