REUTERS/Rick WilkingNEW YORK (Reuters) - Short seller Carson Block, the founder of research firm Muddy Waters LLC who has exposed accounting problems at a slew of Chinese companies, said on Thursday that he is seriously considering launching a hedge fund investment firm. "We are more so than ever very seriously considering becoming a fund manager, but it would not be the same sort of Muddy Waters 8,000-page reports," Block said in an interview. "When you're running a fund management business, it takes a lot of resources to put those out." Block said his hedge fund firm would combine activism with long-short strategies but with an emphasis toward betting against companies. Block became a rising star in the $3 trillion hedge fund industry after he publicly challenged the accounting practices of a series of Chinese companies that trade on North American stock exchanges, and then successfully bet against them by using his own money to short their stocks. Block said his Muddy Waters firm, which consists of fewer than 10 employees, specializes in producing short-selling research that he distributes free of charge. The firm makes money by trading its principals' own capital, meaning Block puts his dollars behind his work. "There have been companies that we felt would be good shorts, but they wouldn't really make good Muddy Waters activist report material, so we didn't short them, and we missed some opportunities there," Block said. "So I think by having money under management, it would enable us to have more resources so that we could spend the right amount of time also managing that non-activist book and capitalizing on those opportunities," he added. "Every time I've thought about it in the past, I've thought well, there are a lot of headaches with that, and I'm not accountable to anybody but myself at present, and that's a pretty strong allure, but there are arguments in favor of going toward a model where we're more resembling an activist hedge fund as well." He said if he decided to launch a hedge fund, he would seek to raise more than $200 million in outside money. To date, Block's most prominent takedown is of Sino-Forest Corp [SCLC.UL], whose shares slumped 74 percent before the Chinese tree plantation operator eventually filed for bankruptcy protection in March 2012. The collapse forced hedge fund king John Paulson to book $105 million in losses on the stock. Paulson's firm also was sued by a prominent Miami investor, who claimed Paulson failed to conduct proper due diligence on Sino-Forest. Paulson used to be based in Hong Kong but fully relocated to California after receiving death threats.        (Reporting by Jennifer Ablan and Sam Forgione; Editing by Diane Craft and Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo on a Wells Fargo bank building is seen in downtown San DiegoNEW YORK (Reuters) - Wells Fargo &lt;WFC.N&gt; is closing down its alternative trading system, or "dark pool," due to decreased customer demand, the company said on Thursday. The San Francisco-based bank will still offer its clients a full suite of electronic trading tools to help them execute orders, but will stop offering access to the company's dark pool on Friday, a spokeswoman from the bank told Reuters.      "Our products are customized to fit client trading objectives and the products we offer are aligned with client demand. Effective October 17, our product suite no longer includes the Wells Fargo Liquidity Crosser," the bank said in a statement. Dark pools are electronic broker-run electronic trading venues, and every big bank has one. They allow investors to trade shares anonymously and only make trading data available after a trade happens, reducing the chance that others in the market will catch wind of the buyer's or seller's intentions and move the price against them. The move by Wells Fargo comes as regulatory scrutiny over dark pools has intensified over concerns about the lack of transparency in the trading venues. Several regulators have ongoing probes into dark pool operators and New York's attorney general has launched a lawsuit accusing Barclays PLC of securities fraud for activities related to its dark pool. Wells Fargo said the closure of its dark pool was not due to increased regulatory scrutiny, but rather a lack of demand. Wells Fargo's dark pool ranks 32nd out of 41 alternative trading systems tracked by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority in terms of volume. For the week of Sept. 22, the Wells pool traded just under 7 million shares. By comparison, Credit Suisse's dark pool, at the top of the list, traded just under 350 million shares. With over 40 dark pools competing for much of the same order flow along with 11 U.S. stock exchanges, critics say the venues add to the fragmentation of the market, which increases complexity and costs for market participants. Wells Fargo said it would still be routing orders to other dark pools for any customer that wishes it to do so. (Reporting by John McCrank; Editing by Chris Reese and Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
Wal-Mart on FlickrHugh Jackman, the most trusted celeb in Australia. 1. The trouble with 2010 Grange. Australia’s leading wine writer, James Halliday, says the vintage is “destined to join a pantheon of the greatest Granges” and “worth every dollar” of its $785 price tag. Our own Simon Thomsen got to try it and wasn’t surprised at all to find it delicious… until he went back for a second glass. That came from a different bottle and it was unsettlingly different from the first glass. There’s more here on why all Granges aren’t the same – even those from the same vintage. Our advice to to buy it by the dozen. 2. In Asia yesterday, the Chinese new loans data looked solid, printing 857 billion yuan against expectations of just 730 billion. But it was nonetheless a down day for the region, with the Shanghai exchange off 0.74% to 2,356, the Hang Seng off 1.03% and the Nikkei, which hates USDJPY at 106 and change, falling 2.23%. Currencies consolidated the lows of this week, with USDJPY making a low overnight of 105.49 but it is back above 106 now. Likewise, euro fell to 1.2704 but is back at 1.2814 and the Aussie dollar tested 0.8684 but has recovered solidly to 0.8764 this morning. GBP is at 1.6059. On the data front, there is little to rival price action itself as the key driver into the week’s close. Housing start data in the US will be important tonight and the Chinese MNI sentiment indicator today is a big one for Asia. 3. China’s banks are waiting for the fall. Its banking system has piled up the most bad loans it’s had since the financial crisis, and the banks themselves are preparing for the moment those debts collapse. Especially in corporate and property sectors, things are looking dire. Leverage is up to levels not seen since 2006, and short- and long-term lending just keeps climbing. The Bank of China has been the first to blink – it just sold $US6.5 billion to offshore investors in an effort to create a capital cushion. 4. The ACCC goes after Coles again. The competition watchdog alleges that Coles had something called “perfect profit days” when it would demand additional payments from suppliers to fill revenue gaps and ensure the profit Coles wanted to make on those goods was achieved. It says it has internal company emails that show Coles pursued payments for “waste” on goods after it had accepted them, and “markdowns” it had imposed which were outside the control of suppliers. Coles denies the ACCC’s claims. 5. The even newer iPads. iPad launches don’t quite generate the same buzz as iPhone launches, but there’s a couple of small updates which make the new versions worth a look. The iPad Air 2 is thinner and more powerful than its predecessors, with a better camera. Tim Cook promises it can deliver “console-level” graphics for games. And both new models have Touch ID and will support Apple Pay, which top investor Marc Andreessen says has everyone freaking out over its cleverness. 6. Today in Ebola news. “Clipboard Guy” became a social media sensation, after he was photographed aiding 29-year-old Ebola patient Amber Vinson onto a plane while not wearing a hazmat suit. Apparently, someone has to take the risk to ensure everyone else is protected, so he’s a bit of a hero. But CNN’s Sanjay Gupta shows why even wearing a hazmat suit is not guarantee against the virus, by using chocolate sauce instead of actual Ebola. And here’s the definitive explanation of why it’s so, well, viral. 7. Our most trusted celebs. Repucom, a sports marketing research company, has created the only international index for celebrity evaluation to find out how Australian celebrities rate in terms of awareness, appeal, influence, trust and other attributes. From a pool of 300 Aussie celebs, Repucom asked an online consumer panel of 500 people aged 16 to 69 years to choose their favourites. Here they are, and how they rate out of a score of 100. 8. A comet is just going to scrape by Mars. Comet Siding Spring will come within 140,000km of the Red Planet on Sunday, and it’s got astronomers the world over very excited. Not because it’s a near-miss, but because it’s a leftover from the Oort Cloud, which means it’s made up from the stuff that formed out solar system 4.6 billion years ago. OK, so there’s also the chance it might nick one of the several Mars orbiters as well… 9. This week’s most controversial Kickstarter project. Age your scotch by three years in 24 hours? It sounds too good to be true, especially when it also means you’ll get a much less intense hangover after drinking the result. But a few whiskey enthusiasts are sure that they’ve invented an oak stick which, when dunked in your J&amp;B overnight, allows the whiskey to filter in and out of the wood while removing toxins, adding flavour, and colouring. One expert says it just makes your scotch taste like wood, but surely it’s worth a shot? 10. Happy Boss Day. The US celebrates this every October 16, but it barely raises a whimper in Australia. It is, however, a great excuse to hit Dilbert creator Scott Adams up for permission to run his favourite strips about the Pointy-Haired Boss. He gave BI US these 10 gems, including this: Have a great weekend. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Coldwell Banker Residential Real EstateMiami’s new most expensive mansion is a gorgeous historical property selling for $65 million. Known as La Brisa, the home is in the heart of Coconut Grove, aka “the original Miami,” with a 13,800-square-foot residence, two-bedroom guest house, and 6.9 acres of land. The nine-bedroom residence also has picturesque views of Biscayne Bay and the Atlantic Ocean, over 3,000 square feet of outdoor living space, a pool, a spa, and a private port constructed by the current (anonymous) owner that can accommodate a 70-foot yacht. Coconut Grove has long attracted famous inhabitants, and is the oldest continuously inhabited neighborhood in Miami. The La Brisa mansion in particular has been owned in the past by Kirk Munroe, an author of children’s novels and books about Florida, and Henry Field, a grand-nephew of the founder of the Marshall Field’s department store chain. William P.D. Pierce with Coldwell Banker Residential Real Estate’s Miami Beach office has the listing.
Joerg Koch/Getty Images Barbie sales are still tumbling.Barbie dolls are losing favor with kids.  Sales of Mattel's signature doll dropped a whopping 21% last quarter, reports Matt Townsend at Bloomberg News. Revenue has declined more than 10% for the last four quarters.  Mattel executives highlighted a few reasons that the iconic dolls are declining in popularity in an earnings call with investors.  They also hinted at the future of Barbie, which CEO Bryan Stockton said is "still the number one dollar brand in the world" thanks to an empire of books, movies, clothing, and games.  Here's why fewer girls are buying the dolls.  The popularity of tablets, smartphones, and games is taking market share from Barbie dolls, Townsend writes. As kids increasingly spend their allowances on technology, plastic dolls aren't as exciting.  To deal with this shift, Mattel has been offering a variety of Barbie apps, computer games, and movies. The brand also sells a Barbie digital "makeover mirror" which allows girls to apply make-up to a Barbie doll's face.   Kohl'sBarbie's makeover mirror. Monter High dolls are "cannibalizing" Barbie sales as girls opt for the edgier toys, company executives said last year.  Mattel created Monster High in 2010, and sales have been skyrocketing ever since they hit shelves. The dolls are inspired by famous monsters like Dracula, the Mummy, Medusa, and Frankenstein's monster, and retail for around $20 each (compared with around $10 for Barbie).  Monster High is "all about celebrating your differences," company execs said on the call, adding that the franchise appeals to both younger and older girls.  ReutersMonster High dolls are taking market share from Barbie. CEO Stockton said that the dolls needed a makeover to appeal to young girls.  "The dolls look better this year than they did last year," Stockton said.  While he didn't elaborate on details, the new dolls appear to have thicker, glossier hair and bigger eyes than the dolls offered last year.  The proportions also appear to be more similar to Monster High dolls, with a bigger head and smaller body. It's unclear whether this makeover will have an impact on sales. Toys R UsMattel says it made over Barbie dolls this year. FREE AppDownload
Ian Waldie/Getty ImagesAdvanced Micro Devices just announced it will cut staff by 7% and take $70 million in charges, and now the stock is tanking. In after hours trade on Thursday, shares of AMD were down about 6%.  Along with its third quarter earnings, AMD announced that it will reduce its workforce by 7% in a move that it expects to complete by the end of the year, which the company says will save it $9 million this year and $85 million in 2015.  This move will results in a restructuring and impairment charge of $57 million in the fourth quarter and $13 million in the first half of next year. In the third quarter, AMD reported gross margin of 35%, flat compared to the prior quarter, with earnings per share coming in at $0.03 against expectations for $0.04 on revenue of $1.43 billion against expectations for $1.47 billion.  In its earnings statement, AMD CEO Lisa Su said, "Our Enterprise, Embedded and Semi-Custom segment results were strong; however, performance in our Computing and Graphics segment was mixed based on challenging market conditions that require us to take further steps to evolve and strengthen the financial performance of this business. Our top priority is to deliver leadership technologies and products as we continue to transform AMD." Thursday's announcement from AMD follows news from semiconductor peer Microchip, which last week said, "We believe that another industry correction has begun and that this correction will be seen more broadly across the industry in the near future." In a note to clients following that announcement, analysts at Citi said that the "industry correction" Microchip CEO Steve Sanghi was referring to, "occurs whenever demand drops off for a moderate period of time and can occur during economic expansion or contraction. Inventory corrections typically last 2-3 quarters with a step-down in demand and reduced visibility." Following that warning from Microchip, the semiconductor space saw widespread weakness last Friday. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Charles PlatiauOil is plunging, with WTI crude dipping below $80 per barrel on Thursday morning for the first time since June 2012. But will the Canadian economy plummet along with it? That’s unlikely. At the very least, it’s safe to say that any negative effects of the drop-off in black gold won’t be felt immediately. One reason for this: while tumbling crude prices are both a function of weak demand growth and supply, the latter has been playing the larger role in pushing the price to multi-year lows. “The geopolitical risk premium that contributed to oil’s rally earlier in the year did not affect supply in a meaningfully negative way,” says Randall Bartlett, senior economist at TD Bank. “As such, there was little justification for those levels in the first place.” From an export perspective, real GDP is dependent upon oil shipments as opposed to the nominal value of what we get for our crude sales. Virtually all of Canada’s oil exports go to the United States, and judging by the fragility of the global economy, Canadians should be very thankful we’re hitched to this wagon. Unless growth in U.S. shale is significant enough to displace America’s thirst for Canadian crude in volume terms, there’s no reason to expect real oil exports will take a hit. Moreover, plunging crude serves as a form of stimulus for consumers by freeing up cash that would otherwise be dedicated to gas. For over-extended Canadian households, this is welcome relief that may continue to prop up retail sales in the months to come. But the far bigger story is the impact on U.S. demand. Lower crude has been accompanied by a lower Canadian dollar. As such, we have a dream scenario for long-struggling non-commodity exporters in Canada. Firm U.S. demand, with consumers having more disposable income due to lower prices at the pump, coupled with a lower Canadian dollar that effectively puts our goods on sale, is just what the doctor ordered for Central Canada. Increased sales might even lead to an expansion of capacity in these non-commodity segments, as unit labour costs relative to the United States improve in light of our petrocurrency’s decline. But after all that, I must admit that, yes: a falling oil price is indeed a net negative for Canada’s economy, with a bit of a lag. And historically speaking, it’s not a particularly large one. “Real GDP is not all that sensitive to in-quarter changes in oil prices, but it does have an impact – and that impact is negative,” says TD’s Bartlett. So, with respect to The Globe and Mail’s David Parkinson, Canadians shouldn’t panic about the crash in crude – at least, not yet. It’s not the fall in oil we’ve seen that should be worrisome, but rather the danger that prices stay at this level for a prolonged period of time or sink lower. Companies considering investments in Canada’s oil patch aren’t wholly focused on the spot price of oil when it comes to making a decision; they’re looking at what the average price is likely to be over the next decade or so. Nevertheless, the $80 per barrel level is a particularly important one: the International Energy Agency estimates that a quarter of new Canadian projects simply aren’t viable at such a level. “The effects [of lower oil prices] are likely to be quite nonlinear, because if you look at in situ investment in the oil sands, the break-evens for a lot of those projects seem to be about $80 per barrel,” said CIBC economist Peter Buchanan. “Once you start moving below that level, you would then start to see significant cancellations or delays in these projects.” The economist noted that there are some reasons to think that oil prices will recoup these losses over the medium term, which would make this discussion irrelevant. For one, he expects the global economy to pick up steam next year, and demand to rise along with it. In addition, Buchanan thinks production in two key regions won’t necessarily be as high as some forecast. Russia needs a ton of investment to keep production in its aging fields from declining, he says, and the investment environment in Iraq is not too friendly at the present time, to say the least. If oil prices fail to recover, however, the vast amount of capital spending in Canada’s oil patch means that any slowdown will show up in GDP, and would be very difficult to offset. “Another thing to remember is how enormous investment in resource extraction is – it’s many times more than one auto plant or what capital outlays have been in manufacturing in recent years,” Buchanan said. “So certainly, even a modest softening in energy investment would pose challenges to the Bank of Canada’s hopes of a rotation into business investment along with exports helping to support the economy going forward.” But above all else, Canada’s economic fortunes are closely tied to those of the United States, which is in the process of moving from being described as the ‘cleanest dirty shirt’ of global economic powerhouses into ‘finely tailored tuxedo’ territory. In plain terms: things are looking up for our neighbours to the south, and that bodes well for Canada. Over the past 30 years, Canadian economic growth has been positive in 95 percent of the quarters in which the U.S. economy expanded. Time to breathe a sigh of relief. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Justin SullivanApple announced some new iPads today. They look great. They're probably the best tablets on the market.  But, it seems like the best isn't good enough any more.  Apple sold 13.3 million iPads in the June quarter, which was a 9.9% drop on a year-over-year basis. On trailing twelve month basis, iPad sales are basically flat.  As the iPad business has stalled, sentiment around the iPad has become negative. Almost comically so.  For instance, Brian Fitzgerald, a deputy editor of The Wall Street Journal's tech section said on Twitter, "This launch is about the iPad's viability."  Ahead of the iPad event, Farhad Manjoo at The New York Times wrote, "What’s the point of an iPad? Who needs a tablet in this era of big phones and ultraportable laptops? ... Those are the tough questions Apple has to answer."  Apple didn't answer those questions today. Not in any satisfactory way.  And so, if people were negative going into the event, we expect that will only increase.  Business Insider Apple announced the iPad Air 2, which is a new version of the iPad Air, which came out last year. It's 18% thinner. It has a new chip, which makes it faster. It now comes in gold. It also announced the iPad Mini 3, but it didn't spend any time talking about the iPad Mini 3. All the stage time was spent talking about the iPad Air 2. The iPad Mini 3 looks like it barely got any upgrades, which is weird because Apple CEO Tim Cook said that the iPad Mini has 100% customer satisfaction.  The iPad Mini is a popular product, but with Apple releasing the iPhone 6 Plus, maybe it thinks the iPad Mini is not going to be as popular in the next twelve months. The 6 Plus has a 5.5-inch screen. The Mini has a 7.9-inch screen. If you have one, you don't really need the other.  Apple also kept all the older models of the iPad in rotation, giving it a pretty diverse line. The original, non-retina iPad Mini starts at $249, and the iPad Air Mini 2 starts at $499. So, Apple has a lot of price points for a lot of people. Apple/Screenshot Perhaps this diverse line of prices will drive sales. The iPad Air is great device at $399. And the iPad Mini 2 at $299 is also a great device.  But coming into the event, the concern wasn't about the quality of the product. It wasn't even about the price of the iPad. The concern is about whether or not people even need iPads. And why exactly the iPad had stalled. Apple didn't answer either of those questions. It obliquely responded to people concerned about the fact that the iPad is flat by saying the iPad had sold more units than any other Apple product in its first four years. It also flashed a chart showing iPad sales beating other PC makers.  Business Insider The idea is that the iPad business is better than people think. But that's not terribly convincing. It doesn't address the lack of growth for the iPad. The sales decline is startling since this was heralded as the next major computing platform. It was believed to be the next major business for Apple after the iPhone. Instead, it's in decline after just four years on the market.  BII As for why people need iPads, Apple's on-stage demonstrations were weirdly off-key. Apple's SVP of Marketing Phil Schiller decided to show people how great the iPad Air 2 is as a camera. Apple also demonstrated photo and video editing apps.  The iPad Air 2 looks like it's a great camera, but it's not better than the iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus, which are easier to carry. The iPad Air 2 looks better for editing photos, but that's not really a killer app to breath life back into the iPad line.  So, where does this leave the iPad? Pretty much where we started. People that were worried about the product have no reason to be less worried about it.  FREE AppDownload
FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Online Portfolios Can Help Advisors Leverage Their Time (Investment News) "Rather than fight the rise of machines, I embrace it," writes Charles Sizemore. "By posting my portfolios online — and by posting regular commentary on my blog and via social media — I help establish both while building name recognition." Online portfolios can help advisors save a lot of time. Sometimes, taking on smaller clients ends up being "a money-losing proposition" because there is more paperwork and time involved than the eventual payout. Instead, advisors can direct these smaller clients to basic, pre-designed online portfolios. By doing that, advisors can "leverage their time and focus on higher value-added aspects of building a practice" and also add on more higher-worth clients.  A Former Wells Fargo Compliance Officer Has Been Charged With Altering Documents (The Wall Street Journal) The SEC charged a former Wells Fargo compliance officer, Judy Wolf, with altering her own review of an investment after it was suspected of insider trading.  "Ms. Wolf didn't find anything wrong with the investment. But when the SEC charged the broker with insider trading in 2012, she went back and reworked the document to make it look like she had done a more extensive examination before submitting it to regulators who later flagged the changes," reports Matthias Rieker.  "...her conduct was inconsistent with what the SEC expects of compliance professionals and what the law requires," Daniel M. Hawke, the chief of the SEC Enforcement Division's Market Abuse Unit said. ETFs Are Easy To Use And Are Less Expensive Than Mutual Funds (BlackRock Blog) ETFs are fairly similar to mutual funds, and use both stocks and bonds in their portfolios. "Both vehicles have their uses: actively managed mutual funds generally seek to outperform a market or index, while most ETFs aim to track an index as closely as possible. ETFs are required to disclose their holdings daily, meaning you always know what you are invested in," writes Heather Pelant. However, ETFs tend to have lower annual expenses than actively managed mutual funds and are more tax efficient.  Additionally, ETFs are "easy to use" because they can be bought and sold like stocks, writes Pelant. "But just because they're easy to trade doesn't mean you have to; they make sense for both long and short term investments," she adds. Long Term Care Policies Aren't The Best Option For Most (Financial Planning) For most clients, it no longer makes any financial sense to get a long term care policy. The average costs for long term care insurance increase greatly as retirees get older. At age 60, the average person pays $1,936 per year and that number sharply increased to $7,291 per year at age 75.  Despite the steep cost, these policies pay only $150 per day for up to three years, and many clients can afford to pay these fees by themselves. In other words, it is not worth to pay for expensive Long Term Care policies with rising premiums and diminishing benefits. Additionally, it does not make sense for clients that qualify for medicaid to pay for long term care policies. Earnings Season Will Be Critical For Market Sectors With Significant Overseas Exposure (Charles Schwab) Charles Schwab analysts will be paying attention to US companies that have major overseas exposure during this earnings season. The energy, materials, industrials and IT markets have the largest shares of foreign exposure. Since September 18, companies in these sectors have been the worst performers on the S&amp;P 500. The "slowdown in demand from Europe and China has been weighing on exporters", and the decline in commodities prices is "acting as a drag on energy and materials producers," writes Jeffrey Kleintrop.  "The economic slowdown overseas may weigh on earnings growth of US companies with significant foreign sales," concludes Kleintrop. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Philimon BulawayoStocks went nowhere on Thursday despite opening lower again as markets in Europe were notably weak again ahead of the US open. Bond yields in Germany continued to power lower while yields in Greece rose the most in two years. US stocks finished the day little changed, though each of the averages were down more than 1% at their lows. The small-cap Russell 2000, for the fourth straight day, outperformed the major stock indexes and gained 1.4% on Thursday. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. On Thursday, St. Louis Federal Reserve president James Bullard moved markets after saying the FOMC should consider pausing the taper of its QE program; the Fed is currently on track to finish this program later this month. Speaking in an interview on Bloomberg TV, Bullard said that in the face of declining inflation expectations, this is something that the Fed should at least think about, and these comments sent stocks rallying off their lowest levels and jump-started the averages to begin meaningfully shaving their losses.  2. On Thursday, analysts at Credit Suisse noted that following recent market developments, including worries over global growth and declining inflation expectations, the market has pushed back its expectations for the Fed's first rate hike to the fourth quarter of 2015, the latest these expectations have been since May 2013. 3. The weekly report on initial jobless claims came in far better than expectations, as claims fell to 264,000 from 287,000 a week ago, the lowest level since April 15, 2000. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics said, "In one word: Spectacular... Whether claims can be sustained at such a low level — an all-time low, as a share of employment — is debatable...but this is a clear signal of real strength in the labor market." 4. Industrial production data from the Federal Reserve showed that production rose 1% month-over-month in September, better than the 0.4% expected by economists. This also showed an increase of 3.2% on an annualized basis for the third quarter. "This was a very encouraging report, and the strong performance in the manufacturing sector will go some way in allaying fears about weakening momentum in this sector," TD Securities' Millan Mulraine said following the report.  5. The National Association of Homebuilders' Market Index unexpectedly fell to 54 in October from 59 in September. Expectations were for the reading to be unchanged at 59. Following the report, David Crowe, NAHB chief economist, said, "After the HMI posted a nine-year high in September, it’s not surprising to see the number drop in October. However, historically low mortgage interest rates, steady job gains, and significant pent up demand all point to continued growth of the housing market." 6. The Philadelphia Federal Reserve's latest manufacturing report came in better than expected, showing a reading of 20.7 against expectations for a decline to 19.8 from last month's 22.5. 7. Netflix shares got smoked on Thursday, falling about 19% after the streaming internet video company last night reported third quarter subscriber growth that missed expectations and gave a fourth quarter earnings outlook that disappointed. Following the report, Morgan Stanley analyst Benjamin Swinburne wrote in a note to clients that, "We are disappointed Netflix fell short of its 3Q guidance in both the US and internationally. However, stepping back from the miss, we see points of light particularly in the context of shares trading [at around $330.]" The steep drop in Netflix shares may have cost Carl Icahn up to $200 million. 8. Goldman Sachs was the latest of the big US banks to report earnings, reporting earnings per share of $4.57 against expectations for earnings of $3.21. "The combination of improving economic conditions in the US and a strong global franchise continued to drive client activity across our diverse set of businesses," CEO Lloyd Blankfein said. In the third quarter, investment banking revenue at the firm rose 26%.  9. Warren Buffett has begun reducing his stake in Tesco, the UK retail chain that has seen ten senior executives either been asked to leave the firm or resign since the company acknowledged it overstated profits by $316 million. Buffett has trimmed his stake to less than 3% of the company, down from a stake of almost 4% at the beginning of the month. Don't Miss: These 10 Forces Could Rattle Markets Between Now And The End Of The Year » FREE AppDownload
APFounder and CEO Larry Page Google just released its Q3 earnings, delivering a miss on the bottom line and only a slight beat on the top.  Here are the numbers: Stock is down ~3% after hours. One of the main things investors were paying attention to were paid clicks and cost per click. Paid clicks rose only 17% year-over-year versus estimates of 22%. CPC decreased approximately 2% year-over-year over the third quarter of 2013, but remained constant from last quarter. A decrease in CPC was expected, which is why analysts wanted to see better paid click growth. The 2% decline is actually better than some analysts (predicting ~5%) had hoped for, but the continued decline, coupled with the less-than-expected growth in paid clicks, disappointed investors overall.    Here's Google's chart of its paid clicks year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter: Google One surprise on the earnings call was the announcement that Omid Kordestani — referred to as Google's interim chief business officer since last quarter when Nikesh Arora stepped down — would be staying in his role on a more-permanent basis.  Google sites revenues increased 20% year-over-year, in line with analyst predictions, while network revenues increased 9% year-over-year. Other revenues increased 50% year-over-year — making the "other" category about 11% of the total revenues. Analysts were hoping to see this category to grow above 10% of the total this quarter, with growth driven by the Google Play store, so that's in line with those expectations.  Google doesn't break out specific Google Play revenue, but on the earnings call CFO Patrick Pichette confirmed that Google Play was one of the main drivers of "other" revenue growth, though hardware and its Google For Work offerings saw strong growth as well. (Google rebranded Google Enterprise as Google For Work in early September.)   International revenues remain 58% of Google's total revenues, same as last quarter and up 2% year-over-year. Here's a look at Google's historic revenues: Google Another thing investors expressed concern about on the earnings call was Google's increase in operating and capital expenditures — from $4.58 billion in Q2 to $6.10 billion in the third quarter and from $5.08 billion to $5.99 billion, respectively. On the call, Pichette and Kordestani pointed toward Google's continued investment in data centers and real estate, and highlighted that the third quarter was big for hiring college graduates, especially engineering talent. Google's headcount has risen to 55,030 full-time employees, up significantly from 52,069 last quarter.  Google also stressed the success of two of its other advertising intiatives on the call: its product listing ads (PLAs) and Google Preferred, its way of pairing advertisers with the top YouTube content. Kordestani says Google Preferred has nearly sold out. He also said Google would continue to invest in the success of its home-grown YouTube talent, like Bethany Mota and Michelle Phan.  Here's the whole release (and keep scrolling to see our live-blog of the earnings call underneath): Google Inc. reported consolidated revenues of $16.52 billion for the quarter ended September 30, 2014, an increase of 20% compared to the third quarter of 2013. Google Inc. reports advertising revenues, consistent with GAAP, on a gross basis without deducting traffic acquisition costs (TAC). In the third quarter of 2014, TAC totaled $3.35 billion, or 23% of advertising revenues. Operating income, operating margin, net income, and earnings per share (EPS) are reported on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis. The non-GAAP measures, as well as free cash flow, an alternative non-GAAP measure of liquidity, are described below and are reconciled to the corresponding GAAP measures at the end of this release. On January 29, 2014, we entered into an agreement with Lenovo Group Limited providing for the disposition of the Motorola Mobile business. Financial results of Motorola Mobile are presented as "Net income (loss) from discontinued operations" on the Consolidated Statements of Income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2014; and assets and liabilities of Motorola Mobile to be disposed of are presented as "Assets held for sale" and "Liabilities held for sale", respectively, on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2014. On April 2, 2014, we issued shares of Class C capital stock as a dividend to our stockholders. Except for the number of authorized shares and par value, all references to share and per share amounts have been retroactively restated for all prior periods shown to reflect the stock split, which was effected in the form of a stock dividend. Revenues and other information - Google Inc. revenues for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 were $16.52 billion, representing a 20% increase over third quarter of 2013 revenues of $13.75 billion. International Revenues - Our revenues from outside of the United States totaled $9.55 billion, representing 58% of total revenues in the third quarter of 2014, compared to 58% in the second quarter of 2014 and 56% in the third quarter of 2013. Foreign Exchange Impact on Revenues - Excluding gains related to our foreign exchange risk management program, had foreign exchange rates remained constant from the second quarter of 2014 through the third quarter of 2014, our revenues in the third quarter of 2014 would have been $66 million higher. Excluding gains related to our foreign exchange risk management program, had foreign exchange rates remained constant from the third quarter of 2013 through the third quarter of 2014, our revenues in the third quarter of 2014 would have been $106 million lower. Reconciliations of our non-GAAP international revenues excluding the impact of foreign exchange and hedging to GAAP international revenues are included at the end of this release. Paid Clicks - Aggregate paid clicks, which include clicks related to ads served on Google sites and the sites of our Network members, increased approximately 17% over the third quarter of 2013 and increased approximately 2% over the second quarter of 2014. Sites paid clicks, which include clicks related to ads we serve on Google owned and operated properties across different geographies and form factors including search, YouTube engagement ads like TrueView, and other owned and operated properties like Maps and Finance, increased approximately 24% over the third quarter of 2013 and increased approximately 4% over the second quarter of 2014. Network paid clicks, which include clicks related to ads served on non-Google properties participating in our AdSense for Search, AdSense for Content, and AdMob businesses, increased approximately 2% over the third quarter of 2013 and decreased approximately 4% over the second quarter of 2014. Cost-Per-Click - Average cost-per-click, which includes clicks related to ads served on Google sites and the sites of our Network members, decreased approximately 2% over the third quarter of 2013 and remained constant from the second quarter of 2014. Cost-per-click for Google sites decreased approximately 4% over the third quarter of 2013 and decreased approximately 1% over the second quarter of 2014. Network cost-per-click decreased approximately 4% over the third quarter of 2013 and increased approximately 2% over the second quarter of 2014. TAC - Traffic acquisition costs, the portion of revenues shared with Google's partners, increased to $3.35 billion in the third quarter of 2014, compared to $2.97 billion in the third quarter of 2013. TAC as a percentage of advertising revenues was 23% in the third quarter of 2014, compared to 24% in the third quarter of 2013. The majority of TAC is related to amounts ultimately paid to our Network members, which totaled $2.42 billion in the third quarter of 2014. TAC also includes amounts ultimately paid to certain distribution partners and others who direct traffic to our website, which totaled $927 million in the third quarter of 2014. Other Cost of Revenues - Other cost of revenues, which is comprised primarily of data centers operational expenses, hardware inventory costs, amortization and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets, and content acquisition costs, increased to $3.35 billion, or 20% of revenues, in the third quarter of 2014, compared to $2.44 billion, or 18% of revenues, in the third quarter of 2013. Operating Expenses - Operating expenses, other than cost of revenues, were $6.10 billion in the third quarter of 2014, or 37% of revenues, compared to $4.58 billion in the third quarter of 2013, or 33% of revenues. Depreciation and Loss on Disposal of Property and Equipment, Amortization Expenses, and Impairment of Intangibles and Other Assets - Depreciation and loss on disposal of property and equipment and amortization and impairment of intangibles and other assets were $1.55 billion for the third quarter of 2014, of which $1.52 billion was related to Google, compared to $974 million in the third quarter of 2013. Of the $1.52 billion, $109 million was related to amortization of Motorola intangibles, which Google will retain subsequent to the disposal of Motorola Mobile. Stock-Based Compensation (SBC) - In the third quarter of 2014, the total charge related to SBC was $1,255 million compared to $856 million in the third quarter of 2013. We currently estimate SBC charges for grants made to employees prior to September 30, 2014 to be approximately $4.16 billion for 2014. This estimate does not include expenses to be recognized related to employee stock awards that are granted after September 30, 2014. Operating Income - GAAP operating income in the third quarter of 2014 was $3.72 billion, or 23% of revenues. This compares to GAAP operating income of $3.76 billion, or 27% of revenues, in the third quarter of 2013. Non-GAAP operating income in the third quarter of 2014 was $5.36 billion, or 32% of revenues. This compares to non-GAAP operating income of $4.62 billion, or 34% of revenues, in the third quarter of 2013. Interest and Other Income, Net - Interest and other income, net, was $133 million in the third quarter of 2014, compared to $14 million in the third quarter of 2013. Income Taxes - Our effective tax rate was 22% for the third quarter of 2014, which includes the effect of the impairment charge of $378 million (discussed above) that is not deductible for income tax purposes. Net Loss from Discontinued Operations - Net loss from discontinued operations in the third quarter of 2014 was $185 million, compared to $193 million in the third quarter of 2013. Net loss from discontinued operations in the third quarter of 2014 included a pre-tax adjustment of $26 million related to the release of the deferral of certain revenue for the Motorola Mobile segment. Had we presented Motorola Mobile as an operating segment, the Motorola Mobile segment revenue for the third quarter of 2014 would have been $1.69 billion, $26 million lower than what was included in net loss from discontinued operations. Net Income - GAAP consolidated net income in the third quarter of 2014 was $2.81 billion, compared to $2.97 billion in the third quarter of 2013. Non-GAAP consolidated net income was $4.37 billion in the third quarter of 2014, compared to $3.82 billion in the third quarter of 2013. GAAP EPS in the third quarter of 2014 was $4.09 on 688 million diluted shares outstanding, compared to $4.38 in the third quarter of 2013 on 678 million diluted shares outstanding. Non-GAAP EPS in the third quarter of 2014 was $6.35, compared to $5.63 in the third quarter of 2013. Cash Flow and Capital Expenditures - Net cash provided by operating activities in the third quarter of 2014 totaled $5.99 billion, compared to $5.08 billion in the third quarter of 2013. In the third quarter of 2014, capital expenditures were $2.42 billion, the majority of which was for data-center construction, production equipment, and real estate purchases. Free cash flow, an alternative non-GAAP measure of liquidity, is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. In the third quarter of 2014, free cash flow was $3.58 billion compared to $2.79 billion in the third quarter of 2013. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures. A reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities, the GAAP measure of liquidity, is included at the end of this release. Cash - As of September 30, 2014, cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $62.16 billion, which excludes cash classified as held for sale, compared to $58.72 billion as of December 31, 2013. Headcount - On a worldwide basis, we employed 55,030 full-time employees (51,564 in Google and 3,466 in Motorola Mobile) as of September 30, 2014, compared to 52,069 full-time employees (48,584 in Google and 3,485 in Motorola Mobile) as of June 30, 2014.     FREE AppDownload
Finviz.comA chart of cocoa futures The Ebola outbreak in West Africa threatens to disrupt the world's chocolate supply.  There's no need to panic quite yet, but there could be a problem if the disease spreads to the Ivory Coast from Liberia, Guinea, or Sierra Leone. Wikimedia CommonsA map of West Africa At a press conference in Switzerland Thursday, the CEO of Nestlé, Paul Bulcke, said the company is on "high alert" for Ebola-related disruptions, according to Bloomberg. There are no Nestlé factories in the three countries where the outbreak is concentrated, but neighboring Ivory Coast supplies 40% of the world's cocoa supply. Ghana, just to the east, is where the company's central and West African unit is headed.  Bulcke also said he expects a rough fourth quarter for the company (in part, but not entirely because of, Ebola in West Africa). Nestlé donated 100,000 Swiss francs to help fight Ebola earlier this week, as part of a larger $600,000 donation by the World Cocoa Foundation, which also includes companies like Hershey, Mars, and Ghirardelli. Cocoa prices have risen a little over 15% since October of last year. They spiked in September, ostensibly over Ebola fears, but have since came back down to early September levels. NPR's Gregory Warner had the foresight to ask the major question this brings up for consumers: should you stock up on chocolate bars now? George Edward, head of group research for the pan-African Ecobank, told him, theoretically yes, but practically no — chocolate goes bad too quickly to be able to stock up on it. You may just have to pay more for your daily fix. FREE AppDownload
There's no shortage of risks out there that could be blamed for recent market volatility. Growth is slowing, prices are deflating, geopolitical turmoil is elevated, and Ebola is spreading. Those are the market drivers that have manifested. Deutsche Bank highlighted 10 forces that could move markets between now and the end of the year. From the firm's "House View" report: Deutsche Bank
Thomson ReutersFile photo of the Goldman Sachs stall on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange(Reuters) - Goldman Sachs Group &lt;GS.N&gt; is in discussions to acquire IndexIQ, a Rye Brook, New York-based exchange-traded fund provider, according to three sources familiar with the situation. The deal, if finalized, would enable Goldman to introduce passively managed and actively managed exchange traded funds within months.  A Goldman Sachs Asset Management spokeswoman declined to comment. A call and email to Adam Patti, the chief executive of IndexIQ, was not immediately returned. The acquisition could be announced within the next few weeks, according to two of the sources. All of the sources wished to remain anonymous because they are not permitted to speak to the media. Two of the sources spoke on Thursday and one on Wednesday.  The valuation of the deal could not be determined.   In September, Goldman sought permission from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to introduce a series of actively managed ETFs. However, if Goldman were to buy IndexIQ it would not need regulatory approval because IndexIQ already has it from regulators.  IndexIQ, which has $1.2 billion in ETF assets under management, offers a series of alternative investment strategies, and would fit well into Goldman Sachs Asset Management, which caters to high net worth investors, said David Nadig, chief investment officer of ETF research firm ETF.com.  The firm was the first to launch an ETF that replicates hedge fund strategies, Nadig said. The $870 million IQ Hedge Multi-Strategy Tracker ETF is the firm's biggest most popular product. It appears that Goldman is preparing to be a strong player in the ETF space, Nadig said. In July the firm moved Michael Crinieri from the trading division to the investment division in order to launch a business that will sponsor ETFs and sell them to retail clients through third parties.  The deal for IndexIQ, if finalized, would mark the second time this month that a firm acquired an ETF provider to break into the $1.9 trillion U.S. exchange traded fund market.  On Monday, Janus Capital Group &lt;JNS.N&gt; announced that it is acquiring VS Holdings Inc, the parent of VelocityShares, allowing the Denver-based asset manager to enter the ETF sector  and launch both actively and passively managed ETFs.  "Clearly we are in a bit of a consolidation mode and we are starting to see some of these younger firms that have been around for a short period of time but have had decent success get bought," Nadig said.               (Reporting by Jessica Toonkel; editing by Diane Craft and Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
Volatility has picked up in recent weeks. The sell-off in the stock market has put the S&amp;P 500 basically flat for the year. Meanwhile, abundant supply thanks to the US shale boom and weakening demand due to slowing economic activity has caused oil prices to plummet. From Deutsche Bank's House View, here's the year-to-date performance of every major financial asset in the world. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Deutsche Bank just released its latest chartbook summing up the firm's house view on the markets and economy. In its deck, Deutsche Bank includes a chart that pulls financial and economic headlines from around the world, giving a great overview of what has happened over the last month. In the last month, we've seen the markets top out with the S&amp;P 500 falling about 9%, Scotland vote 'No' on independence, protests in Hong Kong come and go, and economic news out of Europe continue to show weakness.  Pretty busy.  Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
BettermentBetterment founder and CEO Jon Stein.The term "robo-adviser," which can be traced back to 2002, isn't usually meant as a compliment. It refers to online automated investment platforms, which use algorithms to manage investors' money automatically, rather than assigning a human adviser to actively manage each client's investments.  By calling companies that practice this investment method "robo-advisers," critics insinuate that they're something foreign, something unwelcome, something not human. Betterment is one of the most well-known and biggest robo-advisers. So, how do they feel about the term? When we asked founder and CEO Jon Stein, he said: I personally love the term robo-adviser because I think it helps to popularize our segment. If you think back five years ago, we were really a voice in the wilderness. We were saying, "Everyone is going to be using automated investment services someday." And nobody was really listening, nobody really believed us.  Now that there’s a term to describe the industry, there’s more of a hook there that people can grab onto. I think that it has helped to kind of give us a place in the consumer’s mind.  Stein's opinion is decidedly different from that of Wealthfront president and CEO Adam Nash, who also leads a company closely associated with the name "robo-adviser." However, Stein and Nash do agree on one point: "Robo-adviser" doesn't accurately represent what goes on behind the scenes. "The term itself is amusing, because of course we have a lot of live advisers here," says Stein. "We've always had advisers on the team, from day one. We've always found value in adviser relationships." FREE AppDownload
Mirka23/FlickrFun awaits behind this door ...Sick of meeting friends at crowded bars blasting top 20 hits every weekend? We definitely were.  That's why we searched for the best places to indulge in hand crafted cocktails, listen to an eclectic mix of music, and enjoy intimate conversations.  We've compiled this list of the best speakeasies and hidden lounges in NYC and we're sharing it with you! Click through to find where you'll be heading this weekend. Click here to see the best hidden bars in NYC right now &gt; FREE AppDownload
JD Lasica/Socialmedia.biz On Wednesday the company reported subscriber growth in the third quarter that was much lower than expected. It also lowered its expectations for the fourth quarter. Netflix added 2 million international subscribers versus expectations of 2.36 million and 975,000 domestic streaming subscribers versus expectations of 1.33 million. To get a true grasp of how brutal this is, check out the stock's five-day chart. Yahoo Finance Netflix CEO Reed Hastings blamed the subscriber drop-off on a $1 price increase the company instituted back this spring. "Our best sense is it's an effect of our price increase back in May," Hastings said Wednesday night in an interview with CNBC. "With a little bit higher prices, you get a little bit fewer subscribers. So that's our sense of it. But we can't be 100% sure. We had so much benefit from Orange in Q2 and the early Q3, but that's what we think." Netflix was also hurt by the announcement that HBO would create its own online streaming subscriber service. For Netflix it means a juggernaut is entering the game. HBO is bigger internationally than Netflix. Netflix has 53 million members worldwide to HBO's 120 million. Analysts up and down Wall Street are cutting their expectations to match Netflix's numbers.  Even the most bullish analysts, like Raymond James' Aaron Kessler and Justin Patterson, are guiding down dramatically for next year (while still sounding optimistic). "Netflix guided 4Q14 EPS to $0.44 vs. our and the consensus prior estimates of $0.95 and $0.86, respectively, primarily due to higher international expansion costs. We note that Netflix remains optimistic on recent international launches, citing healthy viewing hours in France and Germany ... For 2014, our revenue estimate increases by 0.3% and our GAAP EPS estimate decreases by 11%. For 2015, our revenue estimate decreases by 1.7% (slower sub growth assumptions), while our GAAP EPS estimate declines by 30% (due largely to expectations for higher international costs)."  FREE AppDownload
Courtesy Tesla MotorsWorth the wait?Morgan Stanley auto analyst Adam Jonas published a note Thursday in which he cautioned that the forthcoming Tesla Model X SUV — due to arrive next year — could be delayed. It won't be delayed by a lot, just pushed back from the second quarter of 2015 to the third. A litany of reasons for a possible delay follows: it's nothing unusual in the auto industry; no one has really seen any Model X prototypes being tested in the wild; the unveiling of the all-wheel-drive Model SD suggests that Tesla needed a media event to make up for not having the Model X ready for mid-2015; and the Model X could be good enough to be worth waiting for. Jonas then predicts that the Model X could be priced higher than the Model S, which would of course be a boon for the carmaker, as the Model S is already a $100,000 car. What Jonas doesn't suggest as a justification for a Model S delay is the Musk's desire to avoid the experience of the Model S rollout. The Model S took the auto world by storm, but it was Tesla's first all-Tesla vehicle, designed and engineered from the ground up by the company. There were problems and glitches, as there will be with the first generation of any new car, much less a very forward-looking luxury electric vehicle striving to define an entire market, if not the future. Tesla addressed the problems and now says that it knows how to fix everything that's wrong with early production Model S's. Being a good Silicon Valley entrepreneur, Musk understands that failures are fine as long as you learn from them. So IF the Model X is delayed, and IF it's because Tesla is working hard to make it mostly perfect, then Musk will have done exactly what he needs to do to make the SUV not just a automotive success but a tech triumph, as well. FREE AppDownload
Kickstarter What is the difference between top shelf whiskey and well-whiskey? Time and oak. A few whiskey enthusiasts from Portland, Oregon asked what is seemingly a very simple question, and came up with a product that they claim will allow customers to customize their whiskey experience in a mere 24 hours.  Their Kickstarter campaign, which has already raised $100,000 more than the original goal, is for a product called Whiskey Elements, which is basically a wooden laser etched stick that replicates the effects of aging whiskey for three years in just 24 hours.  The thing that makes top shelf whiskey have that smooth delicious taste is the process — high quality whiskey is aged in wooden barrels for ten to twenty years, and this aging method allows the whiskey to filter in and out of the wood while removing toxins, adding flavor, and coloring.  Bottom shelf whiskey, on the other hand, is usually aged for less than three years and has a bunch of artificial flavors and food coloring added.  The idea is that you put the wooden stick into a decanter of whiskey and through a complicated process that Time and Oak calls “accelerated transpiration through capillary action,” you can rapidly age your whiskey in just 24 hours and have a much smoother drink the next day.  Kickstarter Whiskey Elements says it can work with any and all whiskey, and you can even customize which flavor you want, including oaky, vanilla, maple, smokey, or peaty.  Bonus: This all natural process filters out the toxin acetaldehyde, which is responsible for those particularly nasty hangovers that greet you the morning after a regretful night spent drinking bottom shelf whiskey.  But not everyone is excited about this new product. “If people want to buy a bottle of unambitious whiskey and muck around with it, that is obviously their right,” Diageo’s Nick Morgan told The Spirits Business. “But isn’t the danger that you will still end up with a young, one-dimensional drink but one that now just tastes of wood?” Well, the Kickstarter campaign already has 3,163 backers who are willing to give it a shot.    Kickstarter For more information check out the Kickstarter page here.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersChris McKay, PotashCorp load-out supervisor at the Cory Mine, examines potash inside one of the storage facilities near SaskatoonBy Rod Nickel (Reuters) - U.S. farmers are cutting back on spreading fertilizer this autumn in response to a drop in crop prices to multi-year lows and a delayed harvest, dealers say, warning of a pullback that will be felt from grain markets to Canadian potash mines. Ten of 12 U.S. farm retail companies surveyed by Reuters say  fertilizer sales this autumn are lower than they were last year. The dealers, which span the country's main growing areas, sell fertilizer, seed and chemicals. Reductions in fertilizer use of an estimated 10 to 50 percent by volume could hit profits of producers such as Potash Corp of Saskatchewan  and Mosaic Co  since U.S. buyers typically pay a premium for some fertilizers such as potash. Lower fertilizer use in the world's biggest corn-growing country could also point to smaller yields and reduced U.S. corn production in 2015, depending on weather and the size of the planted area. Some U.S. dealers say there is still time for fertilizer sales to recover to last year's levels once farmers complete the harvest. But others fear a slump that could stretch into 2015 as low crop prices push purchases out of reach. "We're having customer after customer telling us they're having trouble with their banks," said Randy Stephens, president of Texas-based SureGrow Ag Products. He sees farmers cutting back by as much as 50 percent on autumn fertilizer usage. Farmers also face dwindling credit availability based on projections that prices for next year's crops will remain weak, he said. Chicago nearby corn futures  earlier this month touched their lowest price since 2009 on expectations for the biggest harvest ever. Dealers said farmers are likely to cut back on all three major nutrients - potash, phosphate and nitrogen - but especially potash and phosphate, which are not typically applied every year. Joe Dillier, director of plant food at Growmark, a cooperative organization that spans 30 states, said fertilizer orders have been "non-existent". But he expects a sales drop of only 10 percent as big yielding crops strip the soil of nutrients. Farmers apply fertilizer from late October into early December, depending on the region, once the harvest is complete. The U.S. Department of Agriculture said on Oct. 14 that only 24 percent of corn was harvested, compared with the normal pace of 43 percent. While corn, wheat and soybean prices fall, wholesale prices for granular potash and granular urea in the U.S. corn belt were up 7 and 13 percent year over year as of Oct. 10, according to data posted by Mosaic. "There's going to be some cutbacks because (crop) prices are poor and inputs are too high," said Ralph Price, agronomy manager at Meadowland Farmers Co-op in Lamberton, Minnesota, who expects orders to fall 20 percent this fall. Not all dealers are so bearish. The reduction in sales is likely to be modest because farmers will have good cash flow after the harvest, said Bill Wolf, president of the plant nutrient group at Andersons Inc .  CUTTING BACK RISKY Fertilizer producers have acknowledged the possibility of a demand drop-off, but emphasize that farmers risk smaller crops and profits by cutting back. "This was a gigantic crop produced in the U.S. With that, there was a lot of phosphate and potash taken out of the soil,"  Mosaic Chief Executive Jim Prokopanko said in a Sept. 30 interview. "That has to be replenished." Agrium Inc , which produces fertilizer and operates North America's biggest farm retail network, expects a normal fall application season, depending on when harvest wraps up,  spokesman Richard Downey said. Mosaic recently cut phosphate production due to rising costs, and Agrium warned its final two quarters of 2014 would miss profit expectations. Potash Corp will be the first North American fertilizer company to report third-quarter results, on Oct. 23. Analysts expect earnings similar to those of a year earlier, when the potash market was reeling from diving prices. "We see the pressure of lower grain prices building (and) that should slowly erode nutrient prices and share value," Cowen Securities analyst Charles Neivert said in a note on Oct. 10. A possible shift in planted acres next year from corn to soybeans, a crop that uses less fertilizer, may also crimp demand. When sales to farmers dry up, retail dealers usually stock less inventory from wholesalers, a group that includes CF Industries Holdings Inc  and Koch Industries Inc [KCHIN.UL]. But with huge crops backing up the transportation of many commodities, some dealers are buying supplies when they can. "I've never seen a year where you can't get product into our places and then once you get it here, you don't know if you can sell it to anybody," said Meadowland's Price.  (Reporting by Rod Nickel in Winnipeg, Manitoba; Editing by Jeffrey Hodgson; and Peter Galloway) FREE AppDownload
Things got really crazy in the bond market on Wednesday. The yield on the US 10-year bond fell to as low as 1.86% at one point during the morning, and overall the yield declined as much as 33 basis points, or 0.33%. Priya Misra at Bank of America Merrill Lynch notes that this was largest single-day fall in yields since the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy in September 2008.  Stocks were also all over the place on Wednesday, with the Dow falling as much as 460 points before paring its losses to about 180. But another side-effect of the action on Wednesday was the change in the market's expectations for the Federal Reserve's first interest rate hike. At one point on Wednesday, headlines from Reuters said that traders had pushed expectations out as far as the first quarter of 2016.  In a note on Thursday, analysts at Credit Suisse wrote that, "The extent of hike-expectations repricing amid the recent risk-off rally in rates has been striking." "The rally has not simply been a flight-to-quality bid to longer-dated Treasuries, but instead a wholesale reconsideration of Fed hike expectations spurred on, in part, by the Fed’s overt acknowledgment – first in the minutes and most recently by Vice President Fischer – that weak global growth might alter the path of the Fed’s removal of accommodation." This chart from Credit Suisse shows how traders have moved their expectations for the beginning of the Fed's tightening cycle from the second quarter of 2015 to well into the fourth quarter of next year, the latest these expectations have been since May 2013. Credit Suisse FREE AppDownload
Eugena Ossi/Governor's OfficeMassachusetts Governor Deval Patrick participates in a service project at the Greater Boston Food Bank.Every year, the US throws away one-third of all the food it produces — wasting 133 billion pounds of food. And 10% of that food is lost at the grocery stores, restaurants, and vendors that sell it. Last week, we headed to major grocery retailers in the New York City area with a couple of “dumpster divers” and saw the food waste first-hand. Many wondered why that food doesn't get to those who need it, namely the 49 million Americans who don't have access to enough food to be healthy. Patty Larson, the executive director of the "food rescue" group Food Finders explained to us why good food doesn't get to the hungry. The first reason is liability. Many vendors mistakenly believe they'll get sued for providing food that gets somebody sick, even if they think that food is safe. The vendors may decide giving away their leftovers isn't worth the legal risk. What these vendors may not know (or fully understand) is that in 1996, Congress passed the Bill Emerson Good Samaritan Food Donation Act, thus protecting good faith food donors from civil and criminal liability. The law specifically protects individuals, corporations, wholesalers, caterers, farmers, restaurateurs, and others from liability for donating food in good faith. “People are always so worried about someone getting sick, but its never been an issue for us,” said Larson.  The second issue is logistics. Stores often don’t have the space to store leftover food while they are waiting for agencies to pick it up. And food banks may not have the capacity to transport or properly store the food if it's highly perishable. Even worse, many stores don’t even know they should be donating their leftover food or where to donate it. Organizations like Feeding America and Food Finders try to make it easier for vendors to donate food by acting as middlemen between food vendors like grocery stores, produce markets, restaurants, and hotels and food providers like food pantries, soup kitchens, and shelters.  Feeding America alone feeds 46 million Americans every year through its associated food banks and other organizations. Feeding America is the largest network of food banks of its kind. Food Finders, on the other hand, works locally in Los Angeles and Orange County, California to provide food to 270 agencies in the area. Both Food Finders and Feeding America have partnerships with major grocery chains like Wal-Mart, Target, Kroger, and Trader Joe’s.Flickr/WalmartThe amount of food going to waste has started to change in recent years thanks to the efforts of Feeding America, Food Finders, and others. Both organizations have extensive outreach efforts to educate vendors on what is still safe to eat (and therefore safe to give away) and what opportunities they have to give food to those that need it. These outreach efforts have been working. In just the past 10 years, Feeding America has doubled the amount of food it receives from vendors from 1.9 billion pounds of food per year to 4 billion pounds.Flickr/State FarmThe Houston Food Bank is the nation's largest Feeding America food bank. The types of donations have changed, as well. In the past, donations were almost exclusively canned goods or bakery items. Now grocery stores are increasingly donating perishables like produce, meat, and dairy that are still safe to eat even though they're no longer at "peak freshness." Feeding America’s network of food banks have responded to the change in donations by increasing freezer and refrigeration space. The organization has spent millions of dollars on refrigerated trucks to transport the new donations safely, says Ross Fraser, director of media relations for Feeding America. There is still more work to be done to educate retailers. Larson says she receives the most resistance from hotels and restaurants, many of which are misinformed on liability issues and have trouble implementing a regular system to save their wasted food.  And if our adventures in “dumpster-diving” were any indication, there is a lot of good food that major retailers let through the cracks.Business Insider/Harrison Jacobs
ReutersPeople watch a daytime color-smoke explosive show over the Huangpu River at the Bund, in Shanghai.Chinese banks are seeing the writing on the wall in terms of the debt they've accumulated, and they are taking measures to protect themselves. The Bank of China is planning the biggest sale of shares ever — $6.5 billion to offshore investors, Bloomberg says. It's all in an effort to create a capital cushion.  China's banking system has piled up the most bad loans of any time since the financial crisis, and the banks are preparing for the moment those debts collapse. Especially in corporate and property sectors, things are looking dire. Let's tackle the corporate sector first. Last month, Morgan Stanley released a report saying China's corporates took on 5.4 times more leverage than ever before in the first half of 2014, bringing leverage up to levels unseen since 2006. And it hasn't stopped. Short-term lending to corporates rose to $26.8 billion in September from $11.2 billion in August. Long-term lending hit a four-month high of $45.9 billion in September, up from $39.3 billion in August. Societe GeneraleThis lending comes amid a big effort to cut costs among Chinese companies. They know a cash crunch is coming as the PBOC maintains that it will not take major measures to stimulate the economy. Meanwhile, profit margins have been thinning for some time, and China's producer-price index has deflated 6.7% in the past 36 months. To Societe Generale analyst Wei Yao, this just adds fuel to China's debt fire. "China’s debt problem lies with thecorporate sector, and so PPI deflation can cause more damage to debt dynamics than CPI deflation. The cure should be capacity consolidation and debt restructuring, rather thananother stimulus package targeted to boost investment demand," she wrote in a recent note. In terms of the property sector, that debt restructuring could be coming regardless of whether the government initiates it. Last week the industry was rocked when the $20 billion development company Agile Property Holdings canceled a $360 million share offering. Then the company's chairman, billionaire Chen Zhuolin, disappeared. Zhuolin has since been found and placed under house arrest. His family has pledged to support the company as it struggles with debt repayments. But that — coupled with the March collapse of Zhejiang Xingrun Real Estate Co. under $571 million in debt — has investors spooked. Regulations around financing home purchases have been loosened a bit, but not on a large scale, and analysts think the measures that have been taken may not be felt until early next year. So banks have plenty of reason to worry right now, and they aren't the only ones. Chinese foreign reserves declined more than ever before in the third quarter. It's a sign that investors are seeing slowing economic data — like September's awful industrial production flashback to 2008 — and moving their money elsewhere. FREE AppDownload
Lake Compounce/Facebook Stocks have gone green. Near 1:30 pm ET, the Dow was up 32 points, the S&amp;P 500 was up 8 points, and the Nasdaq was up 19 points.. After St. Louis Fed president James Bullard said on Bloomberg TV earlier this morning that the Fed should consider pausing its tapering of QE at its next meeting, markets rallied with the S&amp;P 500 briefly turning positive. It's still been a rocky day for stocks, as the market opened lower with the Dow down 190 points, the S&amp;P 500 down 25 points, and the Nasdaq down 32 points at their lows. US stocks initially took their lead from stocks in Europe, which were selling off again. Greek stocks, which got totally destroyed Wednesday, were down another 2% Thursday. Meanwhile, Italian stocks were down over 3%, on top of a 4% decline Wednesday, and German stocks were down 1.4%, stocks in London were off 1.5%, and stocks in France were down 1.9%.  European stocks closed off their worst levels, with Germany's DAX closing up 0.1% and all of the other major European indexes paring their losses into the close. There was also a bit of a freak-out on the bond side of things, with Greek 10-year interest rates surging as high as 9%. On the flip side, the German 10-year yield has hit a record low of 0.718%. US 10-year yields were still trading at about 2% after spiking to as low as 1.86% on Wednesday morning. Oil is weak again, hanging just above $80 a barrel. After weaker-than-expected economic data from the US on Wednesday, Thursday morning saw the weekly report on initial jobless claims come in at a 14-year low, as claims fell to 264,000. Industrial production data came in better than expected, with production jumping 1% month-over-month in September, better than the 0.4% increase expected by economists.  In stocks news, shares of Netflix were getting crushed, falling more than 20% at the market open after the company reported Wednesday night that third-quarter subscriber growth had missed expectations and gave a fourth-quarter earnings outlook that disappointed. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Eduardo MunozTORONTO (Reuters) - Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman said on Thursday his lawyers have seen documents that he said show Allergan's board knowingly misled investors as part of a defensive strategy to stave off prospective buyer Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc. Ackman said he had not yet reviewed the documents himself, and did not give any copies of them to reporters, whom he was speaking to on the sidelines of a conference. Reuters could not independently verify his claim. Allergan representatives were not immediately available for comment. Ackman told reporters in Toronto: "We believe they put those statements out, that they knew that they were false at the time they made them, and we have found evidence to that effect, that this was a conscious takeover defense strategy to malign Valeant and the company." In September, Valeant Chief Executive Officer Michael Pearson wrote to Allergan alleging that it was making “baseless attacks" about his company. Allergan Chief Executive David Pyott and lead independent director Michael Gallagher said at the time that the company relied on its knowledge of Valeant and of the industry to express concerns about Valeant's business model.   (Reporting by Alastair Sharp and Allison Martell; Editing by Jeffrey Hodgson and Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Wikicommons(Reuters) - A recovery in eBay Inc's core e-commerce business will take longer than expected and any gains for investors would have to come from the separation of its PayPal unit, analysts said, a day after the company trimmed its full-year revenue forecast. The stock fell as much as 7.8 percent to $46.34 on Thursday, its lowest in two years. At least 16 brokerages cut their price target on eBay's shares by as much as $7 to a low of $48. "We believe the pending spin-off of PayPal will help to unlock shareholder value as investors are able to value each business," BMO Capital Markets analysts wrote in a note. The brokerage cut its price target on the stock to $58 from $64 but reiterated its "outperform" rating. The company is preparing to spin off its fast-growing PayPal payments unit in 2015, after calls for a split from activist shareholder Carl Icahn. The business accounted for 41 percent of eBay's total revenue in 2013. A split can free up PayPal to build partnerships with e-commerce rivals and seize market share from payment startups like Stripe, backed by several PayPal founders, and technology behemoths like Apple Inc, which unveiled its own mobile payments initiative last month. The planned spin-off also highlights slowing growth in the company's marketplaces business, which allows buyers and sellers to come together through its website and mobile applications. It grew less than what some analysts had forecast, with the weakness expected to continue in the near term. "We think 'worse performance means better' as we've seen in other activist situations, as buybacks ... and possible asset divestitures could increasingly surface as a catalyst for shares," Deutsche Bank analysts wrote. The brokerage cut its price target to $53 from $57 and maintained its "hold" rating on the stock. EBay cut its full-year revenue outlook to $17.85-$17.95 billion from $18-$18.3 billion and forecast fourth-quarter revenue of less than $5 billion, falling short of the average analyst estimate of $5.2 billion. "Despite our belief that management will invest in eBay Marketplace, we believe that it will be fundamentally difficult for Marketplace to rebound to near-eCommerce growth rates," Piper Jaffray analysts wrote. The brokerage cut its price target on the stock to $57 from $62 and maintained its "neutral" rating. RBC Capital cut its rating to "sector perform" from "outperform" and lowered its price targets on the stock to $55 from $62. Up to Wednesday's close, eBay's shares had dropped more than 7 percent this year. (Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
YouTube/BloombergBill FleckensteinBill Fleckenstein thinks the market is going lower, and the simple reason is that the Fed is walking away. "There is no way on Earth that the S&amp;P is going to stay near 2,000 without the Fed printing money," Fleckenstein told King World News.  "[The Fed] tried to exit from QE1 and QE2 and it failed and the market tanked. Does anybody really think that they can print $1.5 trillion over the space of a year and a half, and then stop and not have the markets go down?" On September 19, the S&amp;P 500 hit an all-time intraday high of 2,018.66 that it hasn't yet regained, falling about 9% over the last several weeks. Fleckenstein, who earlier this week told Reuters that shorting stocks has, "felt like putting on an old, comfortable leather jacket," has been more vocal in recent weeks about the Fed's policies and its impending QE exit. The Fed has said that at the end of this month, it will end its QE program.  Fleckenstein said that the market "has to collapse" until the Fed starts another QE program. "Will the Fed make their move at 1,750, 1,700, 1,650? I don't know. But there will be a place where the market going down will weaken the economy in the same way the market going up helped the economy, even though most of the capital gets misallocated, and the Fed will ride to the rescue. From there it will get very interesting because the question becomes: Will the Fed be behind the curve like they were in 2008 because they didn't understand the situation? Probably." Earlier on Thursday we highlighted similar comments from Bob Janjuah of Nomura, also a long-time stock market bear, who sees the end of QE creating a messy and ugly period for the stock market that could send the S&amp;P 500 to 1,600. On Thursday, stocks were having another volatile session, though nothing quite like what we've seen the last few days.  Near noon, each of the major indexes were little changed. FREE AppDownload
BELGRADE (Reuters) - Russia will reduce gas supplies to Europe if Ukraine steals from the transit pipeline to cover its own needs, Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Thursday, adding that he was "hopeful" it would not come to that. Russia cut off supply to Ukraine on June 16 over what gas exporter Gazprom said were billions of euros in unpaid bills. Without Russian flows, there is concern that Ukraine might have to siphon off gas from flows transiting the country en route to Europe this winter. "I can reassure you that there will be no crisis that could be blamed on Russian participants in energy cooperation," Putin told reporters during a visit to Serbia. But, he said, "there are big transit risks." "If we see that our Ukrainian partners, just like in 2008, begin removing gas without permission from the export pipeline system, we, just like in 2008, will consecutively reduce the stolen volume at the cost of supplies." Russia is Europe's biggest gas supplier, meeting around a third of the region's demand. The European Union gets about half of the Russian gas it uses via Ukraine. The stand-off over pricing is the third in a decade between Moscow and Kiev, though this time tensions are higher in the wake of Russia's annexation of Ukraine's Crimea region and fighting in the east of the former Soviet republic between Ukrainian government forces and pro-Russian separatists. REUTERS  (Reporting by Alexei Anishchuk; Writing by Matt Robinson; Editing by Gareth Jones) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian SnyderJames Bullard His concern was tumbling inflation expectations. The Fed is currently in the process of tapering and ending its third round of quantitative easing, a monetary stimulus program involving the purschase of Treasury and mortgage-backed bonds. Bullard was basically echoing the concerns of San Francisco Fed President John Williams, who suggested the Fed may have to increase its asset purchase program. "If we really get a sustained, disinflationary forecast ... then I think moving back to additional asset purchases in a situation like that should be something we should seriously consider," Williams told Reuters. By inflation expectations, Bullard seems to be referring to breakeven rates, which are inflation expectations implied by the bond market.  FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/Andrew Burton (Reuters) - Delta Air Lines beat Wall Street analysts' expectations, with a quarterly profit of $1.20 per share, versus an anticipated $1.18.  Overall quarterly profit fell 74 percent to $357 million, partly due to a jump in operating expenses, including the elimination of debt. Operating revenue increased 6.6 percent rise to $11.18 billion in the third quarter ended Sept. 30, helped by strong U.S. business and leisure travel. Traffic increased 3.7 percent. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Strelka Institute for Media, Architecture and DesignI’m not an investing guru, but I love learning about investments and was crazy enough to take the CFA exams. Among my friends, several of whom don’t share my passion for finance, this makes me their go-to source for advice. The conversation usually goes as follows: Friend: "I want to start investing. Any stocks you recommend?" Me: "Whoa, back up. If you’ve got the time horizon and the ability and willingness to handle the risk, I don’t recommend individual stocks for you. I recommend buying the market." Friend: "Huh? What does that mean?" This article answers these questions with the most basic explanation possible. Many readers with a foundational knowledge of finance may find these steps rudimentary, but the underlying concepts are complex, and I’ve hyperlinked to many of my favorite articles. Flickr / Kate HiscockInvesting in the market means you have a whole basket of eggs — er, stocks. First, let’s define "the market." My friend mistakenly believed that buying a stock meant he was now invested in "the market" — but this is incorrect. Think of investing in the market as purchasing a whole basket of stocks all mixed together. For simplicity, "the market" usually means the S&amp;P 500 (the 500 largest company stocks you can buy). There are other definitions, but this is the simplest. Buying "the market" means you own the whole basket of stocks, and buying this basket has given a return of 9.55% per year on average. Pretty impressive. "OK" says my friend, "I’ll agree that I should buy the market. But how?" The best way is through an exchange-traded fund (ETF). An ETF is essentially a basket of stocks that you can buy just like any individual stock. Many also suggest buying index funds (which are very closely related) — but I recommend ETFs for several reasons — primarily because they are cheaper. There are hundreds of ETFs to choose from (and you can buy ETFs for bonds, foreign stocks, and other asset classes), but some of the most recommended ETFs for US stocks are VTI, VOO, VTV, and VOE (all four are Vanguard funds). Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesLet your investments do the work for you. "OK. You’ve convinced me on sticking with ETFs … but there’s also this IPO coming, and I want some shares! Can’t I beat the market?" Although there may be times where buying individual stocks is wise, to "know-nothing" investors like my friends, I don’t recommend it. Think of it this way. There are two types of investors: passive and active. Passive investors buy the market — they don’t try to beat the market. In other words, they follow steps one and two. Active investors try to beat the market. Any time you choose an individual stock or most mutual funds, you are entering the "active" arena — an arena filled with professional money managers who spend their entire day studying the stocks you are just casually buying. The problem with trying to beat the market is that it is a zero-sum game. Meaning, if you are going to win, someone else must lose. Another concept foreign to my friend was that every time he buys a stock he is buying it from an actual person who isn’t trying to give my friend a deal. People who sell no longer view their stock as an investment worth holding, so they choose to sell it, and lucky for them, there are many "know-nothing" investors willing to buy it. Sometimes purchasing individual stocks pays off ("but I bought the Tesla IPO and I made a killing!") — but when it does, it’s luck. For the average "know-nothing" investor, individual stocks, especially IPOs, are a losing game. Turns out, the other "active" investors are pretty good. The worst example I’ve seen of this is a friend who was ecstatic to get Facebook IPO shares, panicked and sold the shares three weeks later when the stock dropped, and then missed the ensuing rally (which is still ongoing). When passive investors try to go active, they commonly buy high and sell low.These steps aren’t foolproof, but they are simple and straightforward — and surprisingly enough, following these three steps actually allows the average know-nothing, passive investor to outperform the average active investor. Yes, that’s correct — if you follow these steps, you actually beat those active professional investors, on average. This is one of the great investing paradoxes. In fact, a famous bet made between Warren Buffett and a New York hedge fund, Protégé Partners, epitomizes this point. Buffett essentially put his money on the passive investor to beat the active investor, and with four years remaining on a 10-year bet, he is in very good shape. I’ll add that the recommendations I’ve laid out here mirror what Buffett and Charlie Munger recommend for "know-nothing" investors who ask them the same question. As Charlie says: "Our standard prescription for the know-nothing investor with a long-term time horizon is a no-load index fund." (Very similar to the ETFs I describe in No. 2). Sounds like solid advice to me. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaA labourer takes a break as she works at an upside-down house under construction at Fengjing Ancient Town, Jinshan District, south of Shanghai, March 17, 2014.The NAHB Housing Market Index unexpectedly fell to 54 in October from 59 in September. Economists estimated this measure of homebuilder sentiment would be unchanged at 59. “While there was a dip this month, builders are still positive about the housing market,” NAHB Chief Economist David Crowe said. “After the HMI posted a nine-year high in September, it’s not surprising to see the number drop in October. However, historically low mortgage interest rates, steady job gains, and significant pent up demand all point to continued growth of the housing market.” FREE AppDownload
Jim Rogash/Getty ImagesThe Philly Fed manufacturing index beat expectations. The report's headline index came in at 20.7, beating expectations for a decline to 19.8 from 22.5 last month.  The latest report also showed that labor market indicators suggested "some moderation" from last month. In last month's report, which came in slightly below expectations, the labor market conditions index rose to its highest level since May 2011.  Thursday's report also showed that future manufacturing conditions fell from higher readings but still reflects general optimism about the next six months. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brian SnyderCameron and Tyler Winklevoss Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, of Facebook infamy, are big Bitcoin supporters who reportedly own 1% of all available Bitcoins. Their investment firm Winklevoss Capital backs a number of bitcoin-related startups and exchanges, such as BitInstant. On Wednesday the brothers launched an app, WinkDex, that helps users monitor the average price of a bitcoin in real time. Users can also calculate Bitcoins to USD instantly, and see historical charts. WinkDex uses a formula to calculate the actual price Bitcoin is trading at instead of the mid-point of the bid, Tyler Winklevoss explained on app discovery site, Product Hunt. The app pulls from multiple data sources, including Bitstamp, Bitfinex, BTCE, CampBX and LocalBTC. The price WinkDex displays is calculated based on volume of only the top three exchanges. The app doesn't currently have price alerts or notifications, although Winklevoss says that's in the pipeline. Here are some screenshots. WinkDexWinkDex FREE AppDownload
CNBCBob JanjuahLast time we heard from Nomura's uber-bear Bob Janjuah, he said stocks were going to rise until the VIX, or volatility index, closed below 10.  That didn't happen, but stocks are selling off, and Janjuah has some thoughts on why it looks like the S&amp;P 500 could be headed to 1,600. Janjuah noted, as others have, that 1,905 was serving as major support for the S&amp;P 500, and below that level the index might not find meaningful support until 1,770.  But Janjuah is also looking at another factor that could be weighing on stocks: the end of QE. "I want to remind readers of a message that may be buried in the past: When QE1 ended the S&amp;P 500 fell just under 20% in a roughly three-month period before the QE2 recovery. When the QE2 ended the S&amp;P 500 fell about 20% in a three-month period before the next Fed-inspired bounce (aided by the ECB). QE3 is ending this month. The S&amp;P 500 peaked in the low 2000s in Aug/Sept. So, -20% and three months would take us to 1600 by late November. This is clearly not a scientific analysis, but it may provide some food for thought." In his latest note, Janjuah also writes that his prior view that through a strong US dollar, the US would important deflation its economy isn't strong enough to handle has played out and adds, that, "much of the evidence I see points to the fact that the US consumer is neither willing and/or able to lever up to support or boost its consumption." "I think markets are now collectively having to consider what I think is the reality," Janjuah writes, "that annual trend global growth is converging down at around 2.5%, well short of the pre-crisis levels of over 4%." But Janjuah's comments about the end of QE are a refrain that has become a little more common this month, as the S&amp;P 500 has fallen about 9% from its September 19 highs.  The recent market sell off has been blamed on a number of things: the falling price of oil, softening economic data from Europe, and falling bond yields, among other things, but it's also hard to tell the chickens from the eggs.  In short, no one knows exactly why stocks are going lower, and where they might be headed. So Janjuah's comments are just something to keep in mind, as after three volatile sessions this week, stocks were set to open lower on Thursday. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCustomers are seen at a Wal-Mart market in Miami, FloridaWal-Mart Stores Inc plans to improve opportunities for its employees so that in the future there will no longer be a few thousand workers on its payroll making minimum wage, the chief executive of the world's top retailer said on Wednesday. The act of upgrading minimum wage positions would be largely a symbolic move for Wal-Mart. Currently only about 6,000 workers make the minimum out of its U.S. workforce of 1.3 million. Wal-Mart says its average full-time hourly wage is $12.92, compared with the federal minimum wage of $7.25. But the comments from CEO Douglas McMillon could draw some attention amid the contentious national debate over proposals to raise the minimum wage. Wal-Mart is the largest private employer in the U.S. and a prime target of labor activists who say it doesn't pay workers a living wage. "We only have a few thousand associates in the U.S., less than 6,000 of our 1.3 million associates in the U.S., that currently make a minimum wage and it is our intention over time that we will be in a situation where we don't pay minimum wage at all," McMillon told reporters on Wednesday when asked about the issue following an investor conference. McMillon said the move would be part of a larger effort to "invest in its associate base". It could also look at using promotions and bonus payments to improve opportunities for workers, he said. He didn't disclose further details. OUR Walmart, a workers' group that's been pushing for the retailer to pay higher wages, is organizing two rallies on Thursday - one in New York and one in Washington D.C. - to put a spotlight on the issue, a spokeswoman for the group said. (Reporting by Nathan Layne in Rogers, Arkansas; Editing by Ryan Woo) FREE AppDownload
Federal ReserveIndustrial production climbed 1.0% month-over-month in September, which was stronger than the 0.4% expected by economists. The increase represented a 3.2% annualized rate in Q3, "In September, manufacturing output moved up 0.5%, while the indexes for mining and for utilities climbed 1.8% and 3.9%, respectively," the Federal Reserve noted. "This was a very encouraging report, and the strong performance in the manufacturing sector will go some way in allaying fears about weakening momentum in this sector," TD Securities' Millan Mulraine said. Capacity utilization increased to a 6-year high of 79.3% from 78.7%. "The two obvious implications are that producers will soon need to invest in more equipment to boost production further and that dwindling spare capacity will eventually put upward pressure on prices," Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth said. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe plunge in the price of crude oil should be a positive for the S&amp;P 500 Transportation index. However, in addition to using diesel fuel to power their locomotives, the railroad industry has enjoyed a booming business in transporting crude oil produced by shale drillers. Drillers might have to stop their operations if they turn unprofitable at lower oil prices. On the other hand, the plunge in gasoline prices is a big positive for consumers. The nearby futures price of gasoline is down 30% since this year’s peak during the summer. Retail sales of gasoline totaled $535 billion during September at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. So a 30% drop in the price would provide a $161 billion windfall to consumers. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Early Halloween. (1) Trick or treat? (2) From nothing to fear to plenty of fear. (3) Bears are hiding in the correction camp. (4) Sentiment takes a dive. (5) Cheap oil is good for consumers, but not so good for railroads. (6) Airline stocks have been contaminated. (7) Meet Obama’s Ebola “czarina.” (8) The commodity super-cycle was the bubble this time. (9) Lots of blank bullets. (10) Retail sales don’t add up. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
ReutersCarl Icahn has lost $200 million on Netflix stock since Wednesday, when the company's stock plunged 27% in after-hour trading. It all fell apart when Netflix reported subscriber growth in its third-quarter earnings report that was lower than expected. Then it cut its growth expectations for the fourth quarter. It didn't help either that HBO chose Wednesday to announce that it would launch a streaming-only content service by next year. Icahn owns almost 1.8 million shares of Netflix, according to government filings dating back to Jun. 30. This could all be much worse for Icahn. He sold off a lot of Netflix stock last October, making $647 million and cutting his stake in half. "It's sort of an Icahn rule," he said in an interview after the sale, "when you make 5x your money, it doesn't mean you're not a long termer ... you take some chips off the table ... The model of Netflix is an excellent one and it's very hard to compete ... it took me 20 minutes to say, this is going to be one of greats of all time." Icahn isn't the largest holder of the stock, either. That's Coatue Management, a hedge fund helmed by Philippe Laffont. Coatue holds over two million shares of Netflix. Netflix added two million international subscribers vs. expectations of 2.36 million and 975,000 domestic streaming subscriptions vs. expectations of 1.33 million. In the chart below, you can see how Netflix's new estimation of subscriber growth for the next quarter diverges even farther from the rest of Wall Street's estimates (from Estimize).  The company's guidance looks as if it's falling off a cliff.  Estimize  Hastings told CNBC's Julie Boostein that he believed the decline in subscriber growth was due to a $1 price increase back in May. "Our best sense is it's an effect of our price increase back in May," Hastings said. "With a little bit higher prices, you get a little bit fewer subscribers. So that's our sense of it. But we can't be 100% sure. We had so much benefit from Orange in Q2 and the early Q3, but that's what we think." Hastings said that the news about HBO was "exciting" and that though it would be a big competitor for the long term, customers would most likely subscribe to both HBO and Netflix. HBO's price point for its service has not been announced. Either way, it's important to keep in mind that HBO is bigger internationally than Netflix. Netflix has 53 million members worldwide to HBO's 120 million. That's a part of the story that could have investors spooked for a while. FREE AppDownload
TBIInitial weekly unemployment claims plunged to 264,000 from 287,000 a week ago. "This is the lowest level for initial claims since April 15, 2000, when it was 259,000," the Department of Labor noted. This was also much lower than the 290,000 expected by economists. "In one word: Spectacular," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson said. "Whether claims can be sustained at such a low level - an all-time low, as a share of payroll employment - is debatable, given that the prior trend was about 295K, but this is a clear signal of real strength in the labor market." This brought the four-week moving average down to 283,500, the lowest level since June 10, 2000. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonJonesTrading's Dave Lutz has what traders are talking about right now: Good Morning!   Global equities reversed hard around 5am when EU inflation (5Y lows) and results from a sloppy Spanish auction were published – Right now US futures are off sharply, NDX losing 1.6% as EBAY and NFLX implode – NDX futures are taking out yesterday’s lows, while S&amp;P is testing – Of note, smallcaps are outperforming slightly again.   We’ve already had 450k S&amp;P futures trading this morning, double yesterday’s run rate at this time (and yesterday was a record volume day) - US bank stocks suffered their worst one-day fall in almost two years- a good deal of that pain in the banks as the 3M/5Y yield curve continues to flatten, and it’s flattening sharply again this AM.    Over in Europe, the DAX is off 1.8% in double normal volume – so maybe starting to see Euro capitulation taking hold – while PIIGS markets under sharp pressure again, Spain and Italy off 3% - while Greece is slightly outperforming.   Over in Asia, Tokyo's Nikkei lost 2.28% as the Yen continues its upward climb, while Shanghai retreated 70bp despite upbeat Chinese bank lending data.   Aussie was the only major global market in the green, propelled by a late day rally in their banks.    The US 10YY is falling under 2% again, off 13bp as Europeans and Asian grasp for paper, and smaller budget deficits in the US reduce supply at Auctions.     We will look for a turnaround in yields again when European Credit markets close near 12pmET.   HY staged an impressive rally in heavy volume yesterday – HY23 down 50c on the week only.   I hear Mortgage Bonds have been doing very well.    5Y Breakevens took on the infamous “Waterfall Pattern” yesterday, as inflation expectations collapsed - Greece out 1% to bunds.  Another crowded trade getting hit.  The market is hunting out crowded trades and making people PAY - Commodities are under sharp pressure again, with WTI falling 2%+, setting off stops as it breaks $80 to the downside, while Brent falls to another 4Y+ low into contract expiry - .   Industrial metals like Copper are under pressure as well, Copper off 1.5%.  Gold is in the red as well, sparked by profit-taking to meet margin calls elsewhere.      Scheduled Catalysts today include Fed's Plosser speaking on the Economic Outlook at 8am, Weekly Jobless Claims at 8:30 - Fed's Lockhart to Speak at 9, Industrial Production at 9:15 – at 10 we get Philadelphia Fed, NAHB Housing Market Index, and Fed's Kocherlakota speaking on Monetary Policy.  There is a very small POMO scheduled for 11, and Fed's Bullard Speaks on U.S. Demographics at 1.   Notable Earnings today –BAX, BBT, BHI, BX, DAL, DHR, GS, TSM, (pre-market);  AMD, GOOG, QLGC, SLB, SNDK, XLNX (post market).   AAPL is also holding a rollout of its new iPad line today. FREE AppDownload
APSen. Marco Rubio.Fourteen Republican senators have written a letter to House Speaker John Boehner that sets the stage for a budget showdown ahead of a government-funding deadline in December. The possibility has started to ruffle feathers in Washington weeks before the midterm elections and sparked fears of a government shutdown. In the letter, which was spearheaded by Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Florida), the senators urged Boehner to prohibit any "unappropriated and unauthorized funds" from going toward a risk-corridor program of the Affordable Care Act. It could open the door to a replay of last year, when bickering over the healthcare law led to the first federal government shutdown in 17 years.  A Senate Democratic leadership aide who spoke to Business Insider suggested Rubio, who is expected to launch a White House bid in 2016, was trying to compete with another likely presidential hopeful, Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), who was widely seen as the architect of the latest shutdown. "The Rubio strategy seems like he’s trying out-Cruz his probable 2016 primary challenger," the aide said. "I’m not going to predict whether it will succeed, because Republicans have done crazier things." The stopgap spending bill needs to be passed by Dec. 11 to avert a shutdown and keep the government funded.  Republicans have charged the risk-corridor program could serve as a potential "bailout" for insurance companies. The "risk corridors" in question aim to make it easier for insurance companies to transition to the new healthcare system, largely by making it less financially risky for them to sell new insurance plans on the government exchanges established by the Affordable Care Act.  The risk corridors are a temporary program scheduled to expire in 2016. Until then, the risk corridors are set up for the government to compensate insurance companies that have bigger costs than they expected while transitioning to the new system. This provision is designed to protect insurers that see an especially unhealthy pool of customers and end up with higher claims than they predicted.  This program exists because, under Obamacare's unprecedented overhaul of the federal healthcare system, insurers' cost of providing health insurance to an expansive new slate of customers was hard to predict. The Department of Health and Human Services has said the risk-corridor program's payments are "user fees" and the administration has the authority to oversee the program and its funds. But a recent decision from the non-partisan Government Accountability Office, which the Republican senators pointed to in their letter, held the funds for the risk-corridor program must be appropriated by Congress. Because of the decision, some Republicans who oppose the risk corridors think the best way to prevent them is to block their funding in the stopgap spending bill. This forces Democrats to either abandon the program or face the prospect of another shutdown if the stopgap bill is unable to pass. "Without that appropriation, any money spent to cover insurance company losses under the risk corridor program would be unlawful," the senators wrote in their letter to Boehner, adding: "Unfortunately, President Obama and his administration have exhibited their intent to disregard the law and ignore the Constitution."APSen. Ted Cruz. "We must act to protect Congress' power of the purse and prohibit the Obama administration from dispersing unlawful risk corridor payments providing for an Obamacare taxpayer bailout," the senators wrote. A consensus is emerging, however, that Republicans would most likely take this path only if they fail to win a Senate majority. Insiders doubt they would move on the strategy if they know they will have a Senate majority on Election Day, because they would be in a position to eliminate the risk corridors without a budget battle. However, control of the Senate may remain unknown immediately after Election Day because of the potential for lengthy runoffs in Georgia and Louisiana. In this scenario, it's also unlikely Republicans would want to risk a high-profile confrontation with the potential for a shutdown. The GOP's image suffered brutally after last year's 16-day shutdown, which means lawmakers would be reluctant to provoke a similar fight if voters are heading to the polls for decisive runoffs.  Democrats have already taken notice of Rubio's letter and have attempted to frame it as a strategy that could lead to a scene reminiscent of last year's shutdown.  "Washington Republicans have already shown that they’re willing to shut down our government and hurt the middle class if they think it will help advance their ideological agenda," Josh Schwerin, a spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, told Business Insider. "That’s why the choice is so clearly between Republicans who will use shutdowns as leverage or Democrats who want to jumpstart the middle class." The likelihood that Republicans will follow through on the strategy depends on whom you ask. Democrats consider it a real possibility. Other analysts, observers, and aides think Rubio's letter is more about trying to both raise his personal profile and the profile of the risk-corridor program. Goldman Sachs economist Alec Phillips speculated in a recent note that Republicans taking back the Senate would lead to an increase in fiscal confrontations between congressional Republicans and the White House ahead of key deadlines to fund the government and raise the debt ceiling. "The result is likely to be less predictability regarding the process surrounding major fiscal deadlines. Since the confrontation between House Republicans and the White House over the debt limit in 2011, markets have gradually become inured to fiscal brinksmanship, as these debates have started to follow a predictable pattern," Phillips wrote. "If Republicans win majorities in both chambers as polls currently suggest they might, that pattern seems likely to change, which could lead to renewed uncertainty ahead of future fiscal deadlines." One Republican Senate aide, while refusing to comment on the potential strategy, told Business Insider that if Republicans take back the Senate, party leadership would be better served separating risk corridor-related legislation from the stopgap spending bill.  The aide described GOP-authored risk-corridor legislation as something that could attract some Democratic votes and pass both chambers. That way, Republicans will have put Obama, who would be forced with a decision about whether to sign or veto the bill, in a bit of a corner without flirting with a potential shutdown. GOP leadership in both chambers, the aide told Business Insider, should prioritize "demonstrating the kind of competence" the aide said had not been seen from current Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid.   This story was originally published on October 15, 2014 at 6:30 p.m. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSchwarzman, Chairman and CEO of The Blackstone Group, speaks during an interview with Bartiromo, on her Fox Business Network show; "Opening Bell with Maria Bartiromo" in New York(Reuters) - Blackstone Group LP , the largest publicly listed alternative asset manager, reported an 18 percent rise in third-quarter profit on Thursday, missing many analysts' expectations. Blackstone, whose investments include the Weather Channel, shoemaker Crocs Inc  and SeaWorld Entertainment Inc , said economic net income, a metric of profitability that takes into account the mark-to-market valuation of its portfolio, was $758 million for the quarter, up from $640 million a year earlier. This translated into ENI of 66 cents per share. Analysts in a Thomson Reuters poll had forecast 81 cents on average. Distributable earnings, which show actual cash that is available to pay dividends, rose 115 percent in the third quarter to $672 million. Assets under management were $284 billion at the end of September, up from $279 billion at the end of June. Blackstone declared a quarterly distribution of 44 cents per common unit.  (Reporting by Greg Roumeliotis in New York; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS / Jessica RinaldiThe investment banking giant Goldman Sachs had a huge Q3. Earnings came in at $4.57 per share, crushing expectations for $3.21 per share. Investment banking revenue surged 26% to $1.46 billion. This helped bring the firm's net revenue to $8.39 billion, which was much higher than the $7.83 billion expected by analysts. "The combination of improving economic conditions in the US and a strong global franchise continued to drive client activity across our diverse set of businesses," CEO Lloyd Blankfein said. "While conditions and sentiment can shift quickly, the strength of our transaction backlog indicates our clients' desire to pursue and execute their strategic plans for growth." Goldman is hiring. The firm's staff increased 3% during the quarter. "The accrual for compensation and benefits expenses was $2.80 billion for the third quarter of 2014, 18% higher than the third quarter of 2013, reflecting an increase in net revenues," management said. "The ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues for the first nine months of 2014 was 40.0%, compared with 43.0% for the first half of 2014 and 41.0% for the first nine months of 2013. " As expected, trading revenues fell. Fixed income, currency, and commodities client execution revenues fell 2% from Q2 to $2.17 billion. Equities client execution revenues fell 11% to $429 million. Shares are down modestly in premarket trading. Click Here For Updates » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidGood morning! Here are the major news stories already making an impact Thursday. Italy’s Tax Cut Is The Biggest Ever Done. Italy's cabinet on Wednesday approved a 2015 budget just hours before an EU deadline, unveiling plans to increase borrowing to slash taxes by €18 billion ($23.03 billion).  Saudi Arabia And Dubai Markets Plunge Amid Panic Selling. Saudi Arabia's main stock index plunged 5% on Thursday amid panic selling by retail investors, dragging down other stock markets in the Gulf. Europe's 'Fear Index' Is Smashing Through The Roof. Europe's volatility-measuring VSTOXX index is already up by more than 20% Thursday. European Markets Are Getting Hammered Again. The FTSE 100 is down 1.83%, France's CAC 40 index is down 2.40%, and Germany's DAX is down 1.76%. US Industrial Production Is Coming. At 9:15 a.m. ET, we’ll have industrial production figures for September, with analysts expecting a 0.4% increase from August. Then at 10 a.m. ET, the Philadelphia Fed manufacturing survey is out.   Airbus’ CEO Says Germany Treats Defense Companies Like Smut. Germany treats the sector like 'smut,' Airbus Group chief executive Tom Enders told a German newspaper. Hong Kong’s Leader And Protesters Might Go Back To Negotiating. Hong Kong's embattled leader reopened his offer of talks with student leaders Thursday a week after the government abruptly pulled out of discussions.  ISIS’ Advance Has Been Stalled By Airstrikes. The advance of Islamic State fighters on Kobani stalled on Thursday according to a monitoring group, after US-led coalition warplanes launched their heaviest bombardment yet on the militants.  The White House Is Now In Crisis Mode Over Ebola. The White House has canceled two days of planned political events as President Barack Obama strives to show he has control over stopping the spread of the deadly disease. Oil Just Crashed Below $80. West Texas Intermediate crude (WTI) is now below $80/barrel for the first time since summer 2012. FREE AppDownload
YouTube Oil just keeps collapsing. In the midst of Thursday's general market sell-off, which is particularly acute in Europe, oil is tanking some more. West Texas Intermediate crude (WTI) briefly fell below $80/barrel for the first time since summer 2012. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John KolesidisThe European Commission says it's standing ready to give Greece whatever support it needs and that it doesn't want a hasty end to the bailout program, according to Reuters. "Europe will continue to assist Greece in whatever way is necessary," a spokesman for the Commission said. He added: "We will work to ensure a smooth evolution of support for Greece after the end of the current program." The Financial Times also reports that the European Central Bank will extend another €10 billion in liquidity to Greece's banks, which have been hit hard as the Athens Stock Exchange crashes — it's down 1.74% Thursday and more than 25% since the start of the year. Just days ago, the Greek government planned to exit its bailout a year early. Not only does that now seem completely impossible, but it looks as if the existing level of support might not even be enough.  And now the cost of Greece's bonds is going through the roof: Investing.com The cost of servicing Greek government debt is rapidly rising, with 10-year bond yields hovering just below 9% Thursday morning. Greece's plans to fund itself from 2015 onward seemed like a long shot when yields were 6%, and they're now looking absolutely ridiculous.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA trader gestures at his screen on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New YorkBOSTON (Reuters) - Some of Wall Street’s biggest names are licking their wounds as October lives up to its reputation as one of the market’s roughest months. The Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index  has now lost almost 8 percent in the past three-and-a-half weeks , wiping out almost all of the gains achieved earlier in 2014. What seemed like another good year for investors in U.S. equities is now fraught with uncertainty, with $1.3 trillion in S&amp;P companies’ market value disappearing. Add in the impact of an oil price slump plus a big surprise rally in U.S. Treasuries, and the risks of big investment losses have risen dramatically. From top equity strategists to big hedge funds and mutual funds, the carnage has spared few. Morgan Stanley strategists said this week that their model portfolio through Monday had trailed the S&amp;P by 3.6 percentage points due to bad bets on technology stocks, including GT Advanced Technologies, the Apple supplier that surprised investors with a bankruptcy filing last week. Billionaire investor Carl Icahn, had indicated for some time that he was prepared for a stock market reversal but it is unclear whether he would have been fully hedged against a 27 percent drop in the shares of online video company Netflix on Wednesday after it reported slower U.S. growth. Icahn's Icahn Enterprises owned 1.8 million shares at the end of the second quarter. He could not be immediately reached for comment. The average U.S. equity mutual fund through Tuesday was down 2.3 percent on the year, according to Morningstar data, trailing the S&amp;P, which is up a meager 0.8 percent. Meanwhile, leveraged ETFs, which try to double the performance of key averages, are doing worse – a popular leveraged bond ETF that bets on higher long-dated yields has lost 16 percent in the last 20 days. The Proshares Ultra S&amp;P 500 fund – an ETF that looks to double the S&amp;P’s performance  – is down 14 percent in 19 days. Top equity strategists at major investment banks polled this year by Reuters have also been caught wrong-footed. They steadily boosted their bets on the rally continuing. The median S&amp;P 500 year-end forecast has been steadily climbing, from a median of 1,925 in December 2013, to 2,000 in June, and then 2,033 in a Sept. 25 poll. Still, some investors fear there is a lot worse to come – and this time they are concerned that the U.S. Federal Reserve won’t be in a position to stem the selloff as it has done in recent years. The Fed is likely to be reluctant to engage in more quantitative easing, the pumping of money into the financial system through bond purchases."I fear tomorrow could be worse," said James Sanford, portfolio manager at SAG Harbor Advisors, adding that "while we haven't seen the swings we saw in 2011, some of the problems we had at that time are still with us and this time the cavalry in the form of the Fed isn't coming to save us." To be sure, after a five-year bull market on Wall Street, many big-name investors cautioned that a pullback was long overdue. But the suddenness of the move has been an awakening for fund managers and strategists, many of whom had doubled down on their bullishness as the year wore on, steadily increasing bets on more gains in equities. One of those was Dan Greenhaus, strategist at brokerage BTIG LLC, who lamented in a note on Tuesday evening that he was one of the Street’s last strategists to raise his S&amp;P year-end target – to 2,100 on September 18, just before the market took a turn for the worse. Greenhaus had expected weakness in equities at some point, but by September bought into the thesis that underperforming hedge funds would buy into the advance, leading to a "catch-up" trade. Greenhaus did not return calls seeking comment. However, many hedge funds have run for cover at the first sign of trouble, adding to the sell-off's speed and intensity. They've responded by exiting largely popular trades, particularly in energy stocks, that had become losers. Hedge fund favorite Cheniere Energy Inc tumbled 14.5 percent in five days, and Anadarko Petroleum Corp, another stock widely held by hedge funds, dropped 12.8 percent. Drugs company Gilead Sciences Inc, also popular with hedge funds, has lost 12.6 percent in five days. And then there are losses associated with failed deals including news that AbbVie is reconsidering its bid for biotech company Shire, possibly dealing a fresh blow to hedge fund titan John Paulson, who had a big bet on Shire and publicly praised the deal only a few weeks ago. Shire's value plunged more than 20 percent on Wednesday from around $49 billion to $39 billion, potentially wiping around $500 million from the value of Paulson's stake and $270 million off Elliott Management's stake, according to Reuters calculations. Credit Suisse Prime Services data show that hedge funds' most popular long positions fell 8.6 percent during the first nine days of October, compared with a 5 percent drop for the S&amp;P 500. The bankruptcy of GT Advanced, which had a contract to supply Apple with sapphire glass, had a negative knock-on impact for many stocks, hedge fund managers say. Among its shareholders at the end of the second quarter were mutual fund giant Fidelity and many hedge funds including Whitebox, Highbridge Capital Management and Citadel. "Hedge funds are getting crushed right now," said Peter Rup, CEO and chief investment officer at Artemis Wealth Advisors, which advises high net-worth families and foundations. "They are notoriously bad at market turns and it is going to be a horrible month. They got a little lazy and didn't take preventative measures in time." Morgan Stanley chief equity strategist Adam Parker had also included GT in his list of favored stocks. His portfolio included a 1 percent allocation to GT. "Please forgive us," Parker wrote Tuesday of his bet on the stock, which has lost 93 percent of its value this year. Parker noted that his basket of stocks has trailed the S&amp;P 500 through Oct. 13 by 3.6 percentage points due to weak stock selection in technology and financials and an overweighting in the consumer discretionary area. Recently added positions in stocks like software company VMware and casino company Las Vegas Sands have disappointed. Parker was not available for comment. His note points out that the portfolio has outperformed the S&amp;P by 6.7 percentage points since the beginning of 2011.     As anxiety about tumbling stocks spread, yields on the 10-year U.S. government bond dropped below 2 percent on Wednesday for the first time since mid-2013, underscoring just how nervous investors are. Risky leveraged exchange-traded funds that bet on rising bond yields clocked steep losses with the Proshares UltraShort 20+ year Treasury ETF losing 1.6 percent. The ETF has lost 16 percent in the last 20 trading days. Michael Landreville, who runs the Thrivent Government Bond Fund, braced for higher interest rates long ago and stocked his fund with bonds maturing years from now. But in light of the current market dislocation, he plans to shorten his duration. The fund lost 0.82 percent in September, but is up 3.38 percent on the year, according to Thrivent's web site. Low yields have rewarded bond fund managers who positioned their funds with long durations - that is, bonds whose prices rise more as yields fall - in 2014. One is the $238 million Wasatch-Hoisington U.S. Treasury Fund. Portfolio Manager Van Hoisington said he saw no signs of higher rates at the start of the year given high worldwide debt levels. "We felt the possibility of rising inflation was miniscule," he said. The fund has kept its effective duration around 20 years, helping it return 25.8 percent through Oct. 14. That beat 83 percent of its peers, according to Morningstar data, far above the 5.58 percent return for the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond index, which currently has a duration of 5.63 years. And not everyone was overly optimistic on equities. David Joy, chief market strategist at Ameriprise Financial in Boston, put a year-end target of 1,845 on the S&amp;P 500, expecting weakness as the Fed backed away from its stimulus. However, he hadn't expected more of a decline than this – and is now questioning whether he has been bearish enough. "Now the wild card is, instead of talking about accelerating growth, we're talking about importing weakness from overseas, and I think this is more problematic for the market," he said.   (With additional reporting by Ross Kerber in Boston, Jennifer Ablan, Daniel Bases, David Gaffen, Richard Leong and Caroline Valetkevitch in New York; Editing by David Gaffen and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fahad ShadeedA Saudi trader monitors stocks at the Saudi Investment Bank in Riyadh August 9, 2011. Saudi Arabia's main stock index plunged 5 percent on Thursday amid panic selling by retail investors, dragging down other stock markets in the Gulf. The Saudi index sank to 9,407 points, its lowest level since mid-April. In response, Dubai's index tumbled 4.7 percent and Qatar lost 2.3 percent. The Saudi market has now erased all of the 14 percent gains which it posted after authorities announced in late July that they would open the market to direct foreign investment early next year. Traders said the slide of global equity markets had undermined confidence in Saudi Arabia, while the drop of oil prices to their lowest level since 2010 was also negative for the world's biggest oil exporting country. Economists do not expect cheap oil to be a disaster for the Saudi economy; its state budget breaks even at an oil price of around $90, but it has huge fiscal reserves that will allow the government to keep spending even if oil stays low for a long period. However, petrochemical companies' shares are correlated with the oil price, and they are heavily weighted in the market. Shares in Saudi Basic Industries, one of the world's biggest petrochemical producers, were down 4.9 percent. Also, a $6 billion initial public offer of shares by state-owned National Commercial Bank &lt;IPO-NACO.SE&gt;, Saudi Arabia's largest lender, is due to begin next week. The offer is expected to attract strong demand, which means it will temporarily suck liquidity out of the rest of the stock market as investors sell stocks to raise money for subscriptions. FREE AppDownload
Europe's "fear index," the VSTOXX index, is going through the roof Thursday morning. The index measures volatility in European markets. It's the "cousin" of the VIX. It's at a two-year high already and still climbing. It's up 23.72% Thursday, dipping above and below 35, after spending basically all of the time since fall 2012 below 25. It has smashed straight through the 30 mark and is on the climb. Stoxx, Business Insider Analysts at Rabobank laid it out for investors in a note Thursday morning (emphasis theirs):  "Markets seem to be trading as if we are now entering a QE-less world which we currently are ... As we’ve argued repeatedly, that translates as 'welcome to an asset-rich, income-poor world without the asset-rich part.'" FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Nati HarnikWarren Buffett says goodbye to Tesco. Buffett owned 3.97% of Tesco at the beginning of October, but the FT understands he is reducing his stake below 3%. This comes at the end of a troubled period for Tesco, whose share price is at an 11-month low.  Ten of the company's senior executives have either resigned or been asked to leave since the company acknowledged that it overestimated profits by £250 million ($316 million). A forensic examination on the accounts is roiling the company, and senior execs' laptops are being confiscated for investigation right before Christmas time, when the company is busiest. Buffett first entered in Tesco in 2007 and has lost more than $700 million in the investment, CNBC wrote in September.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople take pictures of electronic board showing online transaction value on Alipay in Hangzhou BEIJING (Reuters) - Chinese e-commerce firm Alibaba Group Holding Ltd said on Thursday it has changed the name of its Alipay financial services affiliate to Ant Financial Services Group as it steps up its push into the financial services industry. Alibaba has been aggressively offering new financial services around Alipay, including a money market fund for consumers, a mobile payment app and even a new private bank that was approved by the Chinese government in September. Due to Alibaba's dominant market position in e-commerce, Alipay has emerged as the online payment processing leader in China. It clears 80 million transactions per day, including 45 million transactions through its Alipay Wallet mobile app, the company said on Thursday. The rebranding of the Alipay unit, whose legal name is Zhejiang Ant Small and Micro Financial Services Group Co, is part of a strategy by Alibaba and its affiliated companies to accelerate development of financial business. The name 'Ant' was chosen to symbolize the potential strength of a number of smaller brands working together, executives said. At a day-long presentation in Beijing, Ant Financial executives outlined a vision of turning its mobile payment app into a full-fledged, data-driven commercial platform. They have their sights set on a service where businesses can deliver personally tailored smartphone ads and promotions based on Alipay data gleaned from an individual consumer's shopping habits. "China has never been lacking banks; it has 200 of them," said Ant Financial Chief Executive Lucy Peng. "But we have an opportunity to use Internet methods, Internet technology, Internet thinking to disrupt traditional finance." Alibaba controversially spun out Alipay in 2011, but its executives including executive chairman Jack Ma maintain control of the payment processor, considered by some analysts as one of the most valuable assets in the Alibaba universe due to its unique position in Chinese commerce. The new Ant Financial umbrella will oversee six financial services entities that are affiliated with Alibaba, but were not part of the company that listed on the New York Stock Exchange last month in Alibaba's $25 billion initial public offering. The six entities include: Alipay; Alipay Wallet; Yu'e Bao, a money market fund with 570 billion yuan ($93 billion) under management; Zhao Cai Bao, a third-party financial services platform; micro-loan provider Ant Micro; and MYBank, a private bank. MYBank received approval from Chinese banking authorities in September, part of a pilot program launched earlier this year and the first tentative step by the country to open its closely guarded banking sector to private investors. Alibaba stated in its IPO prospectus that given regulator approval, the Alipay affiliate could issue 33 percent of its shares to Alibaba in the future. Ant Financial executives on Thursday confirmed the terms, but said there were no new changes to the plans. In response to a question, Peng said there are no current plans for Ant Financial to hold an initial public offering of its own. (Reporting by Gerry Shih; Editing by Kenneth Maxwell) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFerrari's Formula One driver Michael Schumacher during his team's winter retreat in Madonna Di Campiglio.French journalist Jean-Louis Moncet recanted his comments suggesting that Formula 1 legend Michael Schumacher's injuries in a skiing accident last year may have been caused by a wearable camera made by GoPro Inc. "Talking about GoPro, there were no news. It was just my opinion," Moncet tweeted on Tuesday.  Moncet was reported to have spoken to Schumacher's son, Mick, but the journalist denied this in a tweet earlier this week.   "The problem for Michael was not the hit, but the mounting of the GoPro camera that he had on his helmet that injured his brain," Moncet had told radio station Europe 1 over the weekend.  Up to Wednesday's close, GoPro shares had fallen 14 percent to $72.87 since Moncet's comments. "His public tweets clearly show that he kind of took his time to correct the record which was harmful, and the company is considering several options including the possibility of civil action against the reporter in France," a source inside GoPro told Reuters. Schumacher, a seven-time Formula 1 champion, suffered severe head injuries in a skiing accident in Meribel in the French Alps on Dec. 29. Schumacher emerged from a medically induced coma in June. He has been receiving treatment at home since September. (Editing by Simon Jennings) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonA trader watches the screen at his terminal on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York October 15, 2014. Markets in Europe are tanking early Thursday.  Here's the scorecard right now: France's CAC 40 is down 1.33% Spain's IBEX is down 2.45% Italy's FTSE MIB is down 2.41% Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.57% Germany's DAX is down 0.65% Markets in Asia closed in the red. Japan’s Nikkei closed down 2.22%. It’s now down 8.2% since January, and down nearly 10% since the end of September.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng closed down 1.03%.  US stock futures are down, with the S&amp;P down 10.3 points and the Dow down 69 points.  From Europe, there’s the final inflation data for September out at 5 a.m. ET. It’s expected to come in at 0.3%, and anything lower will be an upset. Out of the US at 9.15 a.m. ET, we’ll have industrial production figures for September, with analysts expecting a 0.4% increase from August. Then at 10 a.m. ET, the Philadelphia Fed manufacturing survey is out.  Fed policymakers Naranya Kocherlakota and James Bullard are both giving speeches today.  FREE AppDownload
AFPItalian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi arrives to attend an European Union extraordinary summit on Oct. 8, 2014 in Milan.Milan (AFP) - Italy's cabinet on Wednesday approved a 2015 budget just hours before an EU deadline, unveiling plans to increase borrowing to slash taxes by 18 billion euros, but promising to abide by deficit rules. The tax cut is "the biggest ever done in the history of the Italian Republic," Prime Minister Matteo Renzi told a press conference after a race to nail down budget plans which will be scrutinised by the European Commission before going before parliament. "This is a great, great, great change. It's a budget which aims to expand and be counter-cyclical in a moment of difficulty," he said. At the heart of the programme is 18 billion euros ($23 billion) worth of tax cuts for businesses and lower-income individuals which Renzi said had been a no-brainer because taxes "had reached a crazy level." The young PM, who has staked his reputation on overhauling Italy's sluggish economy, said the budget also includes spending cuts of 15 billion euros and 11 billion euros of extra borrowing -- a detail which may rankle the Commission. Renzi has been walking a tightrope between defending neighbouring powerhouse France -- which is defying Brussels over cutting its deficit -- and trying to keep in the good graces of the Commission. He said Italy would "respect the EU's 3.0 percent ceiling", and he was ready to answer to Brussels, which had requested a 0.5 percent deficit reduction. Playing ball on the EU's rule of not having an annual deficit of more than 3.0 percent of GDP is less about kowtowing to Brussels than placating the markets and avoiding paying more to finance its vast public debt, which stood at 2.14 trillion euros in August according to the Bank of Italy. "We are respecting the rules as the EU has explained them. If there are any specific questions, however, we will answer them," Renzi said, adding that Italy's exceptional economic circumstances should be noted. Some 3.8 billion euros is expected to come from the fight against tax evasion, which the 39-year-old described as "a gigantic battle." Another 5.0 billion euros has been set aside to reduce an unpopular regional labour tax (IRAP), while 1.9 billion euros will go towards tax breaks for companies hiring new staff on full-time, long-term contracts. "Dear employer, will you now hire someone on a long-term contract? Mamma mia! What more do you want? I've got rid of every alibi," Renzi said. Economy Minister Pier Carlo Padoan told the press conference that Italy expected the economy to return to growth in the medium term, though "the impact of the reforms undertaken now will be stronger in 2016 than today."   - 'Sign of Italy's strength' -   Italy discovered earlier Wednesday that it had escaped its third recession in six years after new EU data collation methods -- which include illegal economic activities such as prostitution and drugs -- revised up its GDP figure for the first quarter. But a slump in the second quarter looked set to continue in the third, which would inevitably plunge the eurozone's third-largest economy back into the mire. The government has forecast a debt to GDP ratio of 133.4 percent in 2015 -- more than twice the EU ceiling of 60 percent. Renzi insisted economic watchers' fears over the country's financial health were unfounded, saying: "This budget is a sign of Italy's great strength, of its pragmatism and stability, and cannot be seen as problematic for the markets." Ahead of the cabinet meeting, European Commission economic policy spokesman Simon O'Connor tried to tamp down fears that Italy will be chastised, tweeting in Italian that "we are waiting to see the budget before commenting." Renzi has presented a let-up in austerity as an effort to boost growth. "Everybody, apart from certain people in Europe, understands that the important thing is growth," he said in a meeting late Tuesday with his Chinese counterpart Li Keqiang, in a fresh jab at austerity hawks. To Renzi's relief, the business sector has already hailed the budget, with the head of the Confindustria lobby Giorgio Squinzi expressing his "full satisfaction" and saying "the direction taken is one we hoped for for years." And his government received a welcome boost from ratings agency Moody's on Tuesday, which praised its "accelerated reform efforts", saying they would "mitigate the impact of the economy's return to recession on Italy's creditworthiness." But not everyone is happy, with the leader of Italy's biggest trade union CGIL, Susanna Camusso, warning the "mix of spending cuts and tax reductions for some will keep the country in a state of recession."   FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesAlibaba founder Jack Ma.That question prompted by Bank of America Merrill Lynch researchers in a note this morning.  "The S&amp;P 500 index peaked at 2019 roughly 8 minutes after the Sept 19th launch of the Alibaba IPO. Since then US and global stocks have fallen 10% and cyclical sectors such as energy, materials and industrials have been decimated." This is the long-term view: Alibaba's flotation came right at 2014's peak: the S&amp;P 500 was up about 9.8% from the start of the year on 19 September, and it's now just 2.4% up from January. Bloomberg, Business InsiderBofA's analysts say they predicted this when the dollar started to pick up this summer, suggesting a fall/autumn correction. But they also add that they'd expected a shock to rates, rather than a shock to growth, particularly from Europe.  Things still aren't too bad, according to the economists, with the US consumer currently keeping markets out of full-blown panic mode. Here are the four main pro-consumer factors that BofA suggests will keep the US away from another downturn: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arnd Wiegmann NEW YORK (Reuters) - While Bank of America Corp &lt;bac.n&gt; Chairman and Chief Executive Brian Moynihan has been working to end legal problems, he has also been quietly retooling the bank for a post-crisis world. He has taken more direct control over the bank's retail business and shifted executives into new positions, sources familiar with the matter said. He has ordered officials at every level of the bank to think harder about how to sell more products to existing customers, a practice that many banks have tried but few have successfully executed. Moynihan has also helped reshape the board, and his sway with directors only increased when he became chairman earlier this month, the sources said. The broad changes that he has made signal that he is planning to remain at the bank for the long haul, a minimum of five years, they said. Some investors have speculated that once Moynihan, a lawyer by training, was done with legal settlements linked to the 2008-2009 housing and financial crisis, he would head for the exits. Sources at the bank said that notion was false. Key investors fully support Moynihan as well. "Brian has done a superb job of taking the B of A back to basics and clearing up the problems from the past," Warren Buffett, chairman and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway Inc &lt;brka.n&gt;, wrote in an email to Reuters. "He is exactly the right CEO to move the company forward and has the ingredients in place to do so." Berkshire Hathaway owns Bank of America preferred stock and warrants to buy 700 million common shares. Some media outlets have speculated that when Moynihan does leave, Tom Montag, chief operating officer, will be in pole position to take the CEO spot. The sources at the bank dismissed that speculation, noting that Montag, 57, is older than Moynihan, 55, and that Moynihan is inclined to groom younger successors.            Results the bank posted on Wednesday underscore how much work Moynihan still has to do. The bank posted a $70 million loss for common shareholders, after setting aside an extra $5.6 billion to cover a settlement with the Department of Justice over shoddy bond mortgage underwriting. That settlement is only the latest in a string: since 2010, Bank of America has agreed to pay more than $70 billion to resolve legal disputes and buy back bad mortgages linked to the financial crisis. The bank's total tally of settlements seems to rise every quarter, to the chagrin of investors. While the bank is hopeful that the worst of the settlements is behind it, its latest results show that its challenges extend beyond legal costs. Its revenue is stagnant, having hovered around $21 billion per quarter since 2012. Moynihan is trying to boost the top line by selling more products to existing customers. The bank is pitching credit cards and home equity loans to its checking account holders, and is talking to its corporate borrowers about treasury and retirement-planning services. These are standard moves for the head of a retail bank, but Bank of America is trying to take them a little further. In early October, it began offering a rewards program nationally to customers who do more business with the bank. Some of the perks include discounted rates on mortgages and home equity loans and greater benefits on credit cards. That program was launched in a few markets in June in a pilot program. To help ensure that his strategy is being properly implemented, Moynihan began directly overseeing retail banking - Bank of America's biggest profit engine - earlier this year. The heads of the retail banking group, Dean Athanasia and Thong Nguyen, had been reporting to David Darnell, a co-chief operating officer who oversaw all retail-facing businesses. In August, the bank said Darnell was becoming a vice chairman, and Athanasia and Nguyen, would instead report directly to the CEO. Athanasia is co-leading the retail bank from Boston, a change for a group that had long been based in Charlotte, where Nguyen works. Moynihan sees younger executives like Athanasia and Nguyen as among his possible successors, sources said, although there is no front-runner for that role. Moynihan worked with Athanasia and Nguyen at FleetBoston, which Bank of America bought in 2004. Other FleetBoston executives have also been given top roles, including Terry Laughlin, who was chief risk officer until his appointment as president of strategic initiatives in April; Anne Finucane, the global chief strategy and marketing officer; and Christine Katziff, the bank's chief auditor. While Moynihan has reshaped the executive ranks, he has also helped shape the board: Eight of the 14 current directors, including Moynihan, have joined since he became CEO in 2010. A ninth, Charles Gifford, was chairman and chief executive of FleetBoston. (Reporting by Peter Rudegeair, Editing by Dan Wilchins and Ross Colvin) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaA pro-democracy protester holds a placard with photos of Ken Tsang Kin-chiu, a hospitalized protester, during a rally in front of the police headquarters of Wan Chai district in Hong Kong on Wednesday.  Good morning. Here's what you need to know for Thursday.  1. Hong Kong's pro-democracy protests have been reignited by video footage that appears to show officers beating an unarmed demonstrator, while photos of the victim apparently show severe bruising from the alleged attack.  2. A second Texas nurse infected with Ebola after treating Liberian patient Thomas Eric Duncan reported having a slight fever before she flew to Dallas from Ohio the day prior to receiving a diagnosis. 3. The plunge in oil prices has placed increasing financial pressure on countries that export it, including Russia, Iran, and Venezuela. In the short term, "the big producers will probably face budget problems in varying degrees of severity, with an array of economic, strategic and political ramifications," The New York Times writes.  4. Gen. John Allen, a former four-star general, warned on Wednesday that Islamic State militants were making significant gains in Iraq and Syria despite US-led airstrikes against the terrorist group, the Financial Times reports.  5. Two new polls on Wednesday suggested that Brazil's Oct. 26 presidential election between leftist incumbent Dilma Rousseff and pro-business candidate Aecio Neves would be extremely close.  6. Hurricane Gonzalo is now churning through the Atlantic and is expected to hit Bermuda on Friday. According to CNN, this is one of the strongest Atlantic storms in recent years. 7. The Chinese drugmaker Sihuan Pharmaceutical Holdings Group Ltd. has sent an experimental Ebola drug to Africa, where the company is planning clinical trials, Reuters reports.   8. Avalanches and blizzards in Nepal's mountain region have killed at least 20 people, while five climbers are still missing, the Associated Press reports.  9. BBC's website has been blocked across China after a video that appears to show police officers beating a pro-democracy protester began circulating online. BBC Global News director Peter Horrocks said the move appeared to be "deliberate censorship." 10. Apple is expected to unveil a bunch of new details about the iPad at its second major product launch of the season on Thursday.  And finally ... Tesla Motors CEO Elon Musk thinks that self-driving cars will become a real thing in five to six years.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA screen displays the share price for pharmaceutical maker AbbVie on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange(Reuters) - U.S. pharmaceutical company AbbVie Inc  recommended stockholders to vote against its $55 billion takeover of Shire Plc  in the wake of a U.S. government move to curb "inversion" deals that allow companies to escape high U.S. taxes by reincorporating abroad. "The agreed upon valuation is no longer supported as a result of the changes to the tax rules and we did not believe it was in the best interests of our stockholders to proceed," AbbVie Chief Executive Richard Gonzalez said in a statement. Chicago-based AbbVie had previously been eager to buy Shire, partly due to the opportunity to reduce its U.S. tax bill by moving its tax base to Britain.  (Reporting By Aurindom Mukherjee in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA visitor plays pachinko at Dynam's pachinko parlour in Fuefuki, west of TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's pro-casino lawmakers have agreed to consider setting limits on Japanese nationals' entry to casinos, bowing to pressure from opponents who threatened to block a legalization bill unless it addressed issues such as gambling addiction. Japan's parliament is expected in the coming weeks to discuss legislation that would be an essential first step to unlock a gaming market some analysts say will be worth tens of billions of dollars a year. The revision would boost chances that the bill will be passed this year as proponents hope, although it is not yet clear whether enough anti-casino lawmakers will be persuaded to provide the support it needs in both houses of parliament. "The government, for the purpose of preventing the negative effects of casino facilities by non-foreign visitors, will take necessary measures regarding admittance and capacity...," said the amended section to the bill, a draft of which was shown to reporters on Thursday. The revision would avoid banning Japanese entry outright and limiting casinos to foreign tourists, pro-casino lawmakers said. Some Japanese media reports said such a ban might be adopted to ensure passage of the bill. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has said casino resorts would help the economy by boosting tourism. But market researchers say Japan's 128 million people would likely account for a majority of casino revenues and casino operators have said foreigner-only resorts could struggle to make a profit. "From our standpoint, I will say that we will not be interested in Japan or any other country on a foreigners-only basis. We can't do that. Our business model won't allow it," Sheldon Adelson, CEO of the world’s largest casino operator Las Vegas Sands Corp, told analysts on a conference call on Wednesday. Hiroyuki Hosoda, chairman of the pro-casino lawmakers' alliance, said the revision was in response to concerns over gambling addiction and money laundering. Such worries should not hold up the current bill, he said. A second bill, set to be drafted next year if the current bill passes by year-end, would address specifics including possible entry fees or conditions for entry by locals, Hosoda said. He told reporters the current priority was to set in motion the legalization process for a casino industry, stressing its importance to Japan's economy. "With the manufacturing sector weakened, it's time for the Japanese to aim for economic growth through tourism," he said. Abe has said he hopes casinos will be legalized in time for the 2020 Olympic Games. Analysts have said any delays in legislation will make that difficult.  (Reporting by Ritsuko Ando; Editing by Edmund Klamann) FREE AppDownload
