NokiaA Nokia factory in Beijing. Fresh Chinese manufacturing data is out, and it's not great. According to Markit, the August Flash PMI reading was 50.3, which was a 3-month low. Here's commentary from HSBC economist Hongbin Qu: “The HSBC Flash China Manufacturing PMI moderated to 50.3 in August, down from 51.7 in July. Both domestic and external new orders rose at slower rates compared to the previous month. Meanwhile, disinflationary pressure returned as input and output prices contracted over the month. Today's data suggest that the economic recovery is still continuing but its momentum has slowed again. Therefore, industrial demand and investment activity growth will likely stay on a relatively subdued path. We think more policy support is needed to help consolidate the recovery. Both monetary and fiscal policy should remain accommodative until there is a more sustained rebound in economic activity.” This table breaks down sub-categories: Markit FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA worker passes a sign for Bank Street in the Canary Wharf financial district in London(Reuters) - Audit firm KPMG [KPMG.UL] has written to Europe's largest lenders saying a European Commission plan to separate banks' consumer and investment-banking arms should be shelved, Bloomberg reported on Thursday. In an emailed statement KPMG said the proposal would not add significant value alongside other regulatory reforms, while countries such as the United Kingdom, France and Germany pursue their own requirements on separating trading and deposit-taking business, Bloomberg reported. (http://bloom.bg/1rn3RaR) EU financial services commissioner Michel Barnier published proposals in January to ban speculative trading at banks and in some cases force lenders to wall off other types of trading to keep depositors safe and taxpayers off the hook if a trade goes wrong. (http://reut.rs/1sVMA8r) "A balance must be struck between a perfectly stable, albeit lackluster market, with one that creates the right conditions to sustain economic growth and job creation," Giles Williams, head of KPMG's financial regulation practice, was quoted as saying in the statement. Representatives of KPMG could not immediately be reached outside regular working hours in the United Kingdom.  (Reporting by Karen Rebelo in Bangalore; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
HP reported Wednesday its first jump in year-over-year quarterly revenue in three years. You would think that investors would be thrilled. But the stock didn't soar in after-hours trading on Wednesday. It dropped a tiny bit. Wall Street is wary 0f HP's ongoing, extended layoffs. And analysts aren't sure if this great quarter, driven by PC sales, isn't a one-hit wonder. To recap: HP bested analysts sales expectations by $570 million, fueled by 12% growth in HP's PC business. It reported $27.6 billion in revenue, up 1% over the year-ago quarter. Analysts were expecting $27.01 billion in revenue, down by just under 1%. "For the first time in three years, HP delivered year-over year, top-line revenue growth," CEO Meg Whitman said on the quarterly conference call. The company also matched the street's non-GAAP EPS estimate of $0.89, which excludes items that are supposed to be unusual such as layoffs and acquisitions. HP had guided a range of $0.86 to $0.90 per share. Things get murkier when adding in those costs. With them, HP posted a GAAP profit per share of $0.52 down 27% from the prior year, and far short of its guidance of $0.59 to $0.63. Given that HP killed it in the revenue department, analysts wonder why the EPS wasn't higher. "This was another great quarter of cash flow but we're not seeing the EPS upside that people are hoping for given higher revenue and greater restructuring savings," Morgan Stanley's Katy Huberty commented on the quarterly conference call. The fact is, HP spent $649 million in the quarter on its layoff. That compares to $252 million spent last quarter and $81 million in the year-ago quarter. Of all the costs bundled into its non-GAAP EPS, the costs of the layoffs was the biggest, by far. HP/Screen capture Most of the time, a layoff is a rare enough situation for a company to exclude it when reporting non-GAAP profits. Non-GAAP profits are suppose to show you how the company is doing without the influence of some unusual event. But people are noticing that HP's layoff seems to be perpetual. The current one launched in 2012 and was supposed to be finished by the end of HP's fiscal 2014 and cover 27,000 employees. Then HP expanded it to 29,000, then to 34,000, and then, in May, to 45,000 - 50,000, spilling into 2015. After that, who knows? HP has been in a near-constant state of restructuring for years before that. Since 2008 when it bought EDS for $13.9 billion (then-CEO Mark Hurd's signature deal), HP has spent more than $8 billion on restructuring charges. In the current round, HP has trimmed 36,000 people from the company, CFO Cathie Lesjak said on Wednesday. It will trim another 5,000 next quarter, she says, and the remaining 4,000-9,000 employees in fiscal 2015. And the company is still enormous, with over 325,000 employees worldwide. Twitter user @WallStCynic said it best by tweeting, "$HPQ has had 20 quarters in a row with a 'restructuring' charge, averaging $291 mil/qtr. GAAP earnings are the real earnings here." In the meantime, Wall Street also isn't yet banking on vibrant PCs business. HP's Whitman is hoping the company can keep its PC segment growing by stealing away market share but she also noted that much of these sales came from businesses forced to upgrade their XP machines to newer Windows 7 or Windows 8. That rush for new PCs probably won't continue. Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein commented, "PCs grew at 12% but the rest of the company grew at minus 3% ... given that 12% may not be sustainable, is it really realistic to think that revenue growth can remain stable over the next year or two?" There is a silver lining. HP's stock has gained back nearly all the value it lost during its most-troubled years. When Whitman took office in 2011, the stock was trading in the low $20s. Now it's at over $35. Google Finance  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  The Worst Case Scenario For The Bond Market (Business Insider) While we didn't get higher interest rates this year as many on Wall Street had predicted, analysts point out that higher rates are inevitable. Business Insider asked Meg McClellan, global head of fixed income market strategy at JP Morgan Asset Management what she thought would be the worst case scenario for the bond market. "We've seen unemployment come down pretty dramatically, there is some concern that the Fed may be behind the curve on inflation," she said. "But what I think the Fed is really watching is the wage inflation number." "We've seen unemployment come down pretty dramatically, there is some concern that the Fed may be behind the curve on inflation. So if you look at wage inflation now, Janet Yellen thinks 3-4% is a normal range, so if you start to see that wage inflation pick up, that's what's really going to drive up consumer prices very quickly, and the Fed's going to act quickly. And we know that the Fed has to act quickly in a way that we've had this really good strong pretty consistent messaging so far. And that quick sharp movement would be something that would upset the bonds very quickly.  "We're watching the wage inflation number pretty closely, but again we're at the point in the cycle where price inflation and wage inflation, are rising very gradually, we don't see a threat right now but more of a confirmation of recovery, but that's something you want to watch very closely." The U.S. Doesn't Face A Major Stock Market Correction Just Yet (AllianceBernstein Blog)  Vadim Zlotnikov at AllianceBernstein does not expect a big stock market correction just yet. "Turning back to the current environment, we can speculate about a negative market surprise due to declines in 2015 earnings and profit margins, but we haven’t seen the traditional sources of cyclical excesses that have been precursors—overly optimistic hiring and capital spending as well as indiscriminate merger-and-acquisition and initial-public-offering activity," he writes. "We think these are coming—just not yet. Also, there are no signs of deteriorating earnings revisions, and fundamentals are stable or improving in most regions besides Europe."  Zlotnikov thinks we could see a small 5-10% correction, but he doesn't "expect a major correction until the yield curve flattens further—or when we see more of a buildup in corporate excesses." Because of that Zlotnikov warns against "all out de-risking."  "An attractive alternative could be selectively reducing exposure or even hedging the most crowded trades using put options." 30 Years Ago Warren Buffett Gave Away The Secret To Good Investing And Correctly Predicted No One Would Listen (Business Insider) Warren Buffett first put out his investment philosophy in May 1984 during a speech at Columbia Business School. He introduced The Superinvestors of Graham-and-Doddsville. "The common intellectual theme of the investors from Graham-and-Doddsville is this: they search for discrepancies between the value of a business and the price of small pieces of that business in that market," according to Buffett. "And that's pretty much it. Buffett doesn't think about buying a stock; he thinks about buying a business," writes Business Insider's Myles Udland.  Advisors Need To Pay More Attention To The Risk Of Client's Owning Too Many Assets (The Wall Street Journal) "When it comes to retirement planning, most financial advisers focus on making sure clients don't outlive their money," writes Howard Hook, a certified financial planner with EKS Associates, in a WSJ column. "While this is key, there is a serious risk that many people don't focus on: clients who leave too much money on the table when they die. What's more, when these clients die, their children and grandchildren end up paying a premium in estate taxes." "...Helping somebody plan for having too many assets is a unique situation, and advisers shouldn't give up right away if a client is resistant to the idea of giving away money while they are alive. Instead, advisers should try to get clients to recognize the emotional benefits of giving away money while they are alive. When you phrase it that way, most clients get it." FREE AppDownload
Pure Storage, the enterprise flash storage provider valued at $3 billion, made former Google finance exec, Tim Riitters, its new CFO, Re/code reported Wednesday. Riitters is a 10-year Google veteran who was mainly responsible for the company’s overall financial and budgeting plans. He also headed Google’s European financial operations and was CFO of its European Payments Business in the past. “Riitters brings a wealth of experience to Pure Storage that will help us ensure we deliver on our mission to lead the industry transition from mechanical to solid-state storage,” Pure Storage CEO Scott Dietzen wrote in a blog post. Pure Storage is one of the fastest growing enterprise data storage startups with a valuation in excess of $3 billion.  Unlike some of its larger competitors that only offer flash solutions as part of a broader offering, Pure Storage is purely focused on solid-state flash storage. Flash is a more expensive, but significantly better-performing storage option compared to the more commoditized, mechanical hard drives. In its latest round of funding, Pure Storage raised $225 million from T. Rowe Price, Tiger Global, and Wellington Management. That puts the total amount raised at $470 million, and the company's widely speculated to go public soon. But when asked about its IPO plan by Re/code, Pure Storage CEO Scott Dietzen said he’s in no rush to go public. Bringing a high-profile CFO like Riitters on board doesn’t necessarily mean Pure Storage is gearing up for an IPO. But it certainly sends out the message that it is mature enough and is ready to take the next step forward. “When startups begin to mature and become ‘riper’ for an IPO, they typically make an effort to hire a more financially savvy executive to sort of put the house in order,” Charles King, Principal Analyst at research firm Pund-IT, told Business Insider.  “Tim Riitters’ experience at Google not only makes him a very knowledgeable person, but also somebody that’s been extremely successful at an innovative Valley company. Pure Storage was probably looking for that — for lack of a better term — ‘Valley-seal-of-approval,’” King said. In 2013, Pure Storage expanded its network to over 200 organizations around the world, growing its year-over-year revenue 700%, which, according to Pure Storage, is the highest growth rate in storage history.  “What Pure Storage has done is take the high-end storage, and say, ‘We’re going all-in on flash.’ And they’ve done very, very well so far,” King said. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe word 'Bankruptcy' is seen painted on the side of a vacant building by street artists as a statement on the financial affairs of the city on Grand River Avenue in Detroit(Reuters) - Just over a quarter of Detroit's $5.2 billion of outstanding water and sewer revenue bonds were returned to the city for repurchase on Wednesday, 24 hours before the tender offer was  due to expire. Bondholders have until 5 p.m. EDT (2100 GMT) on Thursday to decide whether to accept repurchase prices offered by the city. As of 5 p.m. Wednesday, 25.07 percent or nearly $1.3 billion of the senior and second lien bonds were tendered, according to tender agent Bondholder Communications Group. https://www.bondcompro.com/dashTNA0/1/dashTickerTNA.asp Some series of bonds had tender rates of less than 3 percent. Others were much higher, including 79 percent of $90.6 million of senior lien water bonds sold in 2004. Robert Apfel, president of Bondholder Communications, said a last-minute posting of tenders was expected as brokers and banks working on behalf of their clients typically wait until just before the deadline expires. The tender offer was launched on Aug. 7. Detroit Emergency Manager Kevyn Orr and the city's Board of Water Commissioners will decide whether enough bonds were ultimately tendered and if sufficient savings can be achieved through a bond refunding to raise money for the tender. The water board has scheduled a meeting for Friday. If U.S. Judge Steven Rhodes, who is overseeing Detroit's historic bankruptcy case, subsequently signs off on the bond plan, the city could either sell up to $5.5 billion of the refunding bonds on the municipal market next week through Citigroup  or privately place the debt with Citigroup and other financial institutions. Ahead of the tender expiration, the city released preliminary sale documents late Tuesday for the possible bond issues. In a report this week, Janney Capital Markets said that in some instances, the tender price Detroit is offering to existing water and sewer bondholders "is well below recent trading levels." The bonds are rated at junk levels.  (Reporting By Karen Pierog; Editing by Tom Brown) FREE AppDownload
John Stage, the founder and owner of Dinosaur Bar-B-Que, has been satisfying Americans' insatiable appetite for slow cooked meat since 1983. He honed his skills on the road, along with his two partners, using a makeshift bbq to cater to motorcycle shows, fairs, and festivals across the country.  Eventually settling in Syracuse, his hard earned recipes transformed into the menu for the original Dinosaur Bar-B-Que. Over the last twenty plus years, he's built a small empire, which includes seven outposts. We caught up with him in the recently opened Brooklyn location to find out his secret for fall off the bone St. Louis style ribs.  Stage says  it's all about the right balance of "smoke, spice, sauce and pure pork."  Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis and Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Thomson ReutersNewly assembled Toyota Vios sedans are seen at a stockyard of the Toyota Philippines manufacturing plant in Sta Rosa, Laguna, south of ManilaBy Rosemarie Francisco MANILA (Reuters) - Top Japanese automakers in the Philippines are threatening to shift production to cheaper Southeast Asian countries as the government drags its feet on a plan to rebuild its shrinking car manufacturing industry. The potential pullout of production lines by Toyota Motor Corp and Mitsubishi Motors, which have a combined 50,000 vehicle annual capacity in the country, would mean the Philippines could lose more than 1,000 jobs and millions of dollars worth of planned and existing investments. Time is running out, industry officials say, because there's less than two years left in the term of President Benigno Aquino, who has been backing the plan. "I believe that if this does not get approved this quarter and signed by the president by the end of the year and even in the first quarter next year, then let's forget about it because nothing will happen anymore," said Ferdinand Raquelsantos, head of the motor vehicle parts industry group MVPMAP. The original government plan includes tax incentives to help rebuild the country's tiny auto industry and turn it into a major manufacturing hub. But two years of government and industry debates, revisions and disagreements over how best to grow the auto sector have carmakers saying they may move to cheaper countries like Malaysia and Indonesia. The reforms have also been delayed because Manila wants the industry to ramp up production first to produce 40,000 units of a single car model annually before they can use the incentives. Industry insiders say only Toyota could meet that requirement with no incentives. The carmakers had hoped to capitalize on the government roadmap to boost local production after car sales hit record highs for several months this year on robust consumer spending, and vehicle ownership remains the lowest among Southeast Asia's five biggest economies at just around 35 per 1,000 people. "We have been telling the government, please issue the roadmap so there will be a clear policy direction and basis for Toyota's investments in the Philippines," Rommel Gutierrez, spokesman of Toyota Philippines, told Reuters. Gutierrez also serves as president of the auto industry group CAMPI. "The mother company in Japan has many options, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia...As early as now, it is already scouting (for locations)," Gutierrez said, adding it's debating whether to continue production of Vios compact and Innova in the Philippines in the absence of clear policy direction. The Philippine unit of Mitsubishi Motors, which has been planning to more than triple its existing capacity after purchasing a former Ford Motors plant earlier this year, hasn't decided on starting local production of new models. "Without the EO (executive order), I am not so sure if we will launch a new car or not," Hikosaburo Shibata, president and chief executive of Mitsubishi Philippines, told Reuters.  RUNNING OUT OF TIME Government officials declined to comment on a target date for the roadmap, but automakers say based on discussions with the government the plan will likely be released this year. "We have to balance. It's always a cost-benefit trade-off," said Trade Secretary Gregory Domingo, adding the government is continuing consultations with industry and state agencies. Carmakers are hoping the plan will include adequate fiscal and non-fiscal incentives such as tax credits and common testing facilities for auto parts makers to ease manufacturing disadvantages. It costs around $1,800 to $2,000 more to produce a locally assembled car than it is to import a complete vehicle, according to industry estimates. The Philippines ceased being a car exporter after Ford closed local production in 2012 partly due to increasing imports of pre-owned cars, most of them smuggled, and tariff relaxation after trade deals.  (Additional reporting by Karen Lema; Editing by Miyoung Kim and Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesCarl IcahnBillionaire investor Carl Icahn has just disclosed a huge stake in car rental company Hertz.  According to the 13-D regulatory filing, Icahn owns 38,800,000 shares of Hertz (including underlying call options), or an 8.48% stake in the company.  Icahn believes the company's shares are "undervalued," the filing states. "The Reporting Persons intend to have discussions with representatives of the Issuer's management and board of directors relating to shareholder value, accounting issues, operational failures, underperformance relative to its peers and the Reporting Persons' lack of confidence in management," the filing states. He may also want to seek a board seat.  Shares of Hertz have been trading lower today. You can see that they jumped on the news.  Yahoo! Finance  FREE AppDownload
People ordered a ton of airplanes in July. In a note to clients, Brian Jones at Societe Generale said he expects durable goods orders rose 24.5% in July, up from 1.7% in June, and topping the current record high monthly percentage increase. The catalyst? Airplanes.  Jones notes that Boeing reported a record 324 commercial aircraft were ordered in July, nearly three-times the 109 ordered in June, with the composition of these orders weighted towards the company's more expensive models.  Boeing's orders totaled an estimated $98.3 billion, Jones estimates, and he expects the Census' durable goods report next week to show an increase in aircraft bookings that is about half that amount.  Jones writes that, "While market participants have been trained to strip out the ever-volatile transport category when assessing a report, July’s projected moon shot, with its implications for future nondefense capital goods shipments, may indeed be too large to ignore." Here's the eye-popping chart that shows the projected increase in airplane sales.  Societe Generale FREE AppDownload
Chris Narayanan New York-based SocGen commodities analyst Chris NarayananThis week, a bunch of Wall Streeters have traded in their suits and ties for jeans as they make the annual pilgrimage to the Midwest to check out this year's crops.  It's what New York-based Societe Generale commodities analyst Chris Narayanan describes as "boots on the ground analysis." "It's a way for people covering the space in whatever capacity to get an idea as to what's out there and talk to people," he told us in a telephone interview. The Pro Farmer Midwest Crop Tour, which has been held since 1993, attracts bankers, brokers, investors (both domestic and international), hedge fund portfolio managers and folks from big corporations. Narayanan has been participating on the tour for six years now. He said that folks on the tour would joke and say, "'Hey, Mr. Wall Street's back.'" He's not afraid to get dirty, though.  "The first time they were a little skeptical," he explained. "In the first field, they realized 'OK this guy gets after it and gets his hands dirty.'"  "They know that I know my stuff. I'm not afraid to ask questions."  Narayanan is originally from Texas. He was on the Texas A&amp;M rodeo team riding broncos and he's a Marine Corps veteran. Every year, he gets paired with a newbie to help show them the ropes. Chris Narayanan"I love what I do. I like to learn and I like to help out."   Here's how the crop tour works:  There are two legs–the western one begins in Sioux Falls, South Dakota and the eastern one begins in Columbus, Ohio. Combined, the two tours cover about 70% of the country's soy and corn crop fields in four days before convening together in Minnesota.  Each day, the two big tours are divided into smaller groups and given routes to drive. There are about 12 to 15 routes each day. They stop every twenty miles or so to take samples and measurements. At the end of the day, they aggregate the data that they've all compiled.  Most of the Wall Street community tends to stay on the east side. That's usually the bigger tour, according to Narayanan. It's his first year on the western leg of the tour. Chris Narayanan Since Monday morning, he has headed southwest from Sioux Falls, South Dakota to Grand Island, Nebraska. He then headed into southwest Iowa before turning north en route to Spencer, Iowa. That's where he'll be on Wednesday night.  "Seeing some good, some bad corn and soybean fields, but corn seems to be in better shape. Others have seen much better fields on their routes," he told us. When you think of Wall Street, you certainly don't picture analysts in corn fields. This is something that Narayanan enjoys and looks forward to.  "This is something I like to do because there's only so much I can tell sitting behind a screen. I like to get out there and see what's going on." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWoman walks past a logo of carmaker Ford at the entrance to a media event for the launch of a concept car in SydneyBy Paul Lienert DETROIT (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co  plans to introduce a new hybrid gasoline-electric car in late 2018 to compete against the best-selling Toyota Prius, two sources with knowledge of the company's plans told Reuters on Wednesday. The compact car will be Ford's first "dedicated" hybrid - that is a vehicle designed to be marketed exclusively as a hybrid, rather than a variation of an existing gasoline model, such as the automaker's Fusion hybrid, the sources said. The as-yet-unnamed vehicle will be built just outside Detroit, . The sources said Ford eventually could offer several different body styles of the new hybrid, as Toyota does with the Prius. There would be different versions of the car's gasoline-electric drivetrain, including a more expensive plug-in model that can be recharged from an electrical outlet. The new Ford hybrid is expected to arrive as a 2019 model, roughly 21 years after the introduction of the original Prius in Japan. Toyota is planning to unveil its fourth-generation Prius late next year, the sources said. Ford spokesman Chris Preuss on Wednesday said the company doesn't comment on speculation about future products. Ford plans to build the new hybrid at its Wayne assembly plant in southeastern Michigan, at an annual rate of about 120,000, the sources said. Some of the hybrid technology, including electric motors, controllers and batteries, will be adapted from Ford's current hybrid models, although the dedicated 2019 model is expected to provide better fuel economy and range than today's hybrids. The 2019 model, which carries the internal code C240, will be built on Ford's new C2 global compact architecture, which also will underpin the next-generation Focus and Escape, the sources said. Ford, like other major global automakers, has been investing heavily in hybrid technology to meet increasingly stringent emissions and fuel economy standards in North America, Europe and Asia. But consumer demand for hybrids hasn't come close to meeting the industry's sales projections. Sales of the Chevrolet Volt, General Motors'  widely advertised plug-in hybrid, have been just 10,635 vehicles through the first seven months of this year, down 9 percent from a year ago, despite heavy dealer discounts. Sales of Ford's C-Max hybrid are down 29 percent in the first seven months, to 16,444. Sales of its Fusion hybrid are up 24 percent, to 31,092, but still only account for one in every six Fusions sold in the U.S. Prius, which has been sold in North America since 2000, remains the leading hybrid in global markets. Its U.S. sales in the first seven months of this year are down 11 percent to 127,776. Last year, worldwide sales of the Prius topped 400,000. Part of the success of Prius has been attributed to Toyota's efforts to build its "green" car into a branded family of different hybrid models, from the tiny Prius C hatchback to the van-like Prius V. Prices start at just under $20,000. The Volt has been hampered by its higher sticker price. Even after a $5,000 price cut a year ago, the base model starts at just over $35,000, although Chevrolet dealers continue to offer discounts of up to $6,000 on that, as well as zero-interest financing and low lease rates. In about a year, Chevrolet plans to introduce a redesigned, second-generation Volt with improved features and performance, as a 2016 model, the sources said.  (Reporting by Paul Lienert in Detroit; Editing by Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tatyana Makeyeva People sit outside a closed McDonald's restaurant in Moscow, August 20, 2014.Russia ordered the temporary closure of four McDonald's restaurants in Moscow on Wednesday, a decision it said was over sanitary violations but which comes against a backdrop of worsening U.S.-Russian ties over Ukraine. The four restaurants ordered to suspend operations by the state food safety watchdog included the first ever McDonald's in Russia, which opened in the last days of the Soviet Union, and which the company says is its most frequented in the world. On Wednesday evening, the lights were off inside the restaurant - usually crammed with diners - and a sign on the door said it was shut "for technical reasons". McDonald's shares were down 0.36 percent at 1804 GMT, against the backdrop of a slightly firmer U.S. stock market. The watchdog, known in Russia as Rospotrebnadzor, said in a statement inspectors had found numerous sanitary violations. A source at the watchdog said it had sealed off parts of the restaurant premises. Asked if the decision was a retaliation for the United States and other countries imposing economic sanctions on Moscow over the crisis in Ukraine, the source declined to comment and referred to the statement about sanitary violations. McDonald's head office in Illinois said in a statement: "We are closely studying the subject of the documents to define what should be done to re-open the restaurants as soon as possible." "Our main priority is to serve our customers with top quality menu items." Russia's first McDonald's opened on Moscow's Pushkin Square in 1990, when it was viewed as a sign that, under reformist Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, Cold War tensions with the United States were starting to thaw. It was hugely popular with Russians; long queues formed outside and some people even had their wedding receptions there. "We have many happy memories of this place," said a man who gave his name as Vadim. He had come with his wife Natalya to celebrate his 77th birthday at McDonald's, but was forced instead to buy a coffee elsewhere and drink it seated at a coffee table outside the shuttered restaurant. Asked about the allegations of sanitary violations, he said: "It's a lie. We've been here since it first opened and never got ill once." Another of the restaurants closed on the orders of the food safety watchdog is on Moscow's Manezh square, under the walls of the Kremlin where President Vladimir Putin has his offices. REUTERS/Tatyana MakeyevaPeople walk past a closed McDonald's restaurant in Moscow, August 20, 2014. McDonald's, seen as a symbol of the U.S. global expansion, has been criticized by Russian nationalists. Prominent politician Vladimir Zhirinovsky called for the chain to be shut down across Russia after the company withdrew from Crimea peninsula in April following Moscow's annexation of the region from Ukraine. Some consumers share that view. "I am for McDonald's being wiped from the face of the earth," said Vladimir Zolotsev, 20, studying to be a pianist, who was near the Pushkin Square restaurant. It became clear last month that McDonald's was under heightened scrutiny from the Russian state, when the watchdog said it had identified violations in product quality that raised questions about the safety of food across the chain. Foreign food producers who have fallen foul of the watchdog in the past have accused it of acting in the political interests of the Kremlin, an allegation it denies. The watchdog banned Georgian wine as Tbilisi strengthened ties with Washington and spirits from Moldova after the former Soviet republic boosted its drive to partner with the European Union. Janusz Piechocinski, the deputy prime minister of Poland, said last month that a decision by the watchdog to ban most Polish fruit and vegetable imports was an act of "political repression" by the Kremlin. McDonald's operates 438 restaurants in Russia and sees the country as one of its top seven major markets outside the United States and Canada, according to its 2013 annual report. Europe contributes about 35 percent of McDonald's global operating profit. The company does not give a country-by-country breakdown. Earlier this month Russia banned all meat, fish, dairy, fruit and vegetable imports from the United States, the European Union, Norway, Canada, and Australia for one year in retaliation for the sanctions imposed by these countries over Ukraine. However, some of these restrictions were eased on Wednesday to allow the import of some items that are useful to Russia's own food and agriculture industries, such as vegetables for planting and hatchlings of salmon and trout.  (Additional reporting by Lisa Baertlein in Los Angeles, and Maria Kiselyova and Alexander Winning in Moscow; Writing by Christian Lowe; Editing by David Evans) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois Lenoir Swimmers enjoy a floating open-air swimming pool called "badboot" in the port of Antwerp August 20, 2014.The S&amp;P 500 closed just below a new all-time closing high as the minutes from the latest FOMC meeting gave a few more clues as to what it's looking for before it hikes interest rates for the first time since 2006.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. The minutes from the July 29-30 FOMC meeting were released at 2:00 pm ET on Wednesday, and offered a few more insights into the Fed's thinking on when it might begin to raise interest rates. The Fed said that some members of the FOMC see the labor market improving faster than expected, moving closer to what some Committee members view as "normal" over the long run. The minutes also show that some Committee members believe that if labor markets and inflation continue moving closer to the Fed's goals, "it might become appropriate to begin removing monetary policy accommodation sooner" than currently anticipated. 2. Following the minutes a number of Wall Street economists weighed in. Maury Harris at UBS said the minutes provided insight on what policy will look like once the Fed begins raising rates, noting that almost all FOMC members agree it would make sense to keep rates within a range. Interest rates are currently 0%-0.25%. Paul Dales at Capital Economics said the minutes are consistent with his view that "lift-off," or the first increase in rates, will take place in March. Chris Rupkey at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi was more emphatic in his read of the minutes, writing: "[The Fed is] going to move, and it's going to faster than you think. Bet on it." 3. Also in central bank news, the Bank of England reported two members voted against keeping interest rates steady in its latest policy decision, more than the one dissent that was expected. This is the first additional split from the BoE since 2011.  4. Hertz shares were down more than 4% after the company withdrew its financial guidance for 2014 as the company faces continued uncertainty regarding some of its past financial statements. A late afternoon filing with the SEC showed that activist investor Carl Icahn has taken a more than 8% stake in the company, with Icahn saying he intends to have discussions with Hertz management.  5. Industrial giant Caterpillar reported 3-month rolling retail sales that continued to fall, with total machine sales falling 12%, 10%, and 9% for May, June, and July, respectively. This marks yet another decline in sales for the industrial bellwether, which is often seen as a proxy for growth in China. In its Asia/Pacific segment, Caterpillar reported sales fell 29% in July compared to the prior year.  6. The U.S. government is planning charges against former Countrywide CEO Angelo Mozilo, one of the most infamous characters from the financial crisis, reported Bloomberg. The report said charges against Mozilo are likely "months away." Mozilo's Countrywide was taken over by Bank of America, which has paid out billions to settle litigation tied to mortgages underwritten by the company ahead of the financial crisis. Don't Miss: Some Of The World's Brightest Minds Are Meeting This Week To Solve A Huge Puzzle In Economics » FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesCarl IcahnBillionaire investor Carl Icahn has just disclosed a huge stake in car rental company Hertz.  According to the 13-D regulatory filing, Icahn owns 38,800,000 shares of Hertz (including underlying call options), or an 8.48% stake in the company.  Icahn believes the company's shares are "undervalued," the filing states. "The Reporting Persons intend to have discussions with representatives of the Issuer's management and board of directors relating to shareholder value, accounting issues, operational failures, underperformance relative to its peers and the Reporting Persons' lack of confidence in management," the filing states. He may also want to seek a board seat.  Shares of Hertz have been trading lower today. You can see that they jumped on the news.  Yahoo! Finance  FREE AppDownload
Hewlett-Packard just reported its third-quarter earnings and we're sifting through them now. It hit $27.6 billion in revenue, a much-needed beat, and hit 89 cents earnings per share, that's right in line. Analysts were expecting 89 cents earnings per share on $27.01 billion in revenue. That's an increase over the 86 cents EPS reported last year. They were also expecting a small decline in revenue, which was $27.23 billion a year ago. When Whitman was new to the CEO job, she told investors to look for sales growth to happen in 2014, then told them growth wouldn't happen until 2015 or beyond. So this is a very good sign. Investors also wanted HP to confirm it will hit EPS of $3.72, and it did. It projects it will achieve $3.70 - $3.74 EPS. And they are looking for $1.05 EPS on $28.62 billion in sales next quarter. HP confirmed guidance of $1.03 - $1.07 for next quarter, too. But investors are not exactly tickled. Stock is down slightly, about 1%, in after-hours trading. Analysts expect HP to finish the year with on about $110 billion in sales for the year. That would mean ending the year almost flat on revenues, down just over 1% from 2013. Whitman has trimmed debt and expenses and increase profits, not including expenses from extraordinary items like HP's ever-expanding layoffs. Earlier this year, HP said it will cut another 11,000-16,000 people from its payroll, cutting a total of 45,000-50,000 people, instead of the 27,000 it originally targeted. It also bumped back the completion date of the layoff. Here's the earnings press release: HP Reports Fiscal 2014 Third Quarter Results Third quarter net revenue of $27.6 billion, up 1% from the prior-year period and up 1% on a constant currency basis• Third quarter non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share of $0.89, up 3% from the prior-year period, versus the previously provided outlook of $0.86 to $0.90 per share• Third quarter GAAP diluted net earnings per share of $0.52, down 27% from the prior-year period, versus the previously provided outlook of $0.59 to $0.63 per share• Third quarter cash flow from operations of $3.6 billion, up 36% from the prior-year period• Returned $881 million to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends in the third quarter• Operating company net cash of $4.9 billion, a sequential improvement of $2.2 billionHP fiscal 2014 third quarter financial performance  Information about HP’s use of non-GAAP financial information is provided under “Use of non-GAAP financial information” below. PALO ALTO, Calif., Aug. 20, 2014 — HP today announced financial results for its fiscal 2014 third quarter ended July 31, 2014. Third quarter net revenue of $27.6 billion was up 1% from the prior-year period and up 1% on a constant currency basis.Third quarter GAAP diluted net earnings per share (EPS) was $0.52, down from $0.71 in the prior-year period and below its previously provided outlook of $0.59 to $0.63. Third quarter non-GAAP diluted net EPS was $0.89, up from $0.86 in the prior-year period and within its previously provided outlook of $0.86 to $0.90. Third quarter non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted net EPS exclude after-tax costs of $713 million and $0.37 per diluted share, respectively, related to restructuring charges, the amortization of intangible assets and acquisition-related charges. “Overall, I’m very pleased with the progress we’ve made,” said Meg Whitman, chairman, president and chief executive officer, HP. “When I look at the way the business is performing, the pipeline of innovation and the daily feedback that I receive from our customers and partners, my confidence in the turnaround grows stronger.” Outlook For the fiscal 2014 fourth quarter, HP estimates non-GAAP diluted net EPS to be in the range of $1.03 to $1.07 and GAAP diluted net EPS to be in the range of $0.83 to $0.87. Fiscal 2014 fourth quarter non-GAAP diluted net EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.20 per share, related primarily to restructuring charges and the amortization of intangible assets. For fiscal 2014, HP estimates non-GAAP diluted net EPS to be in the range of $3.70 to $3.74 and GAAP diluted net EPS to be in the range of $2.75 to $2.79. Fiscal 2014 non-GAAP diluted net EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.95 per share, related primarily to restructuring charges and the amortization of intangible assets. Asset management HP generated $3.6 billion in cash flow from operations in the third quarter, up 36% from the prior-year period. Inventory ended the quarter at $6.2 billion, down 1 day year over year to 27 days. Accounts receivable ended the quarter at $14.2 billion, down 1 day year over year to 46 days. Accounts payable ended the quarter at $15.1 billion, up 8 days year over year to 65 days. HP’s dividend payment of $0.16 per share in the third quarter resulted in cash usage of $299 million. HP also utilized $582 million of cash during the quarter to repurchase approximately 17.5 million shares of common stock in the open market. HP exited the quarter with $14.8 billion in gross cash. Fiscal 2014 third quarter segment results • Personal Systems revenue was up 12% year over year with a 4.0% operating margin. Commercial revenue increased 14% and Consumer revenue increased 8%. Total units were up 13% with Desktops units up 9% and Notebooks units up 18%. • Printing revenue was down 4% year over year with an 18.4% operating margin. Total hardware units were down 5% with Commercial hardware units down 2% and Consumer hardware units down 6%. Supplies revenue was down 5%. • Enterprise Group revenuewas up 2% year over year with a 14.0% operating margin. Industry Standard Servers revenue was up 9%, Storage revenue was down 4%, Business Critical Systems revenue was down 18%, Networking revenue was up 4% and Technology Services revenue was down 3%. • Enterprise Services revenue was down 6% year over year with a 4.1% operating margin. Application and Business Services revenue was down 4% and Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing revenue declined 8%. • Software revenue was down 5% year over year with a 21.2% operating margin. License revenue was down 16%, support revenue was flat, professional services revenue was down 3% and software-as-a-service (SaaS) revenue was up 8%. • HP Financial Services revenue was down 3% year over year with a 1% increase in net portfolio assets and a 14% increase in financing volume. The business delivered an operating margin of 9.2%. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Bank of America sign is pictured in Encinitas, CaliforniaWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Bank of America Corp is expected to pay more than $16.5 billion to end investigations into mortgage securities that the bank and its units sold in the run-up to the financial crisis, in a deal that could be announced as early as Thursday, a person  familiar with the matter said. The bank has been hammering out the final details of the record-breaking accord with the U.S. Department of Justice and is expected to pay around $9 billion in cash and the rest in assistance to struggling homeowners. A $16.5 billion payout would be the largest in a series of soaring penalties against banks for a range of misconduct, including violating U.S. sanctions and inappropriately marketing mortgage securities. An agreement in principle was reached earlier this month after a phone call between the bank's chief executive, Brian Moynihan, and Attorney General Eric Holder. The negotiations have been driven by an investigation into securities sold by Merrill Lynch, which the bank agreed to acquire in 2008 at the height of the financial crisis, people familiar with the matter have said. Representatives of the Justice Department and Bank of America declined comment.  (Reporting by Aruna Viswanatha, additional reporting by Peter Rudegeair; Editing by Karey Van Hall and Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
StarbucksStarbucks is bringing coffee trucks to three college campuses.  The Starbucks mobile trucks will be opening at Arizona State University, James Madison University, and Coastal Carolina University, the company said in a news release.  The mobile truck will move to various busy locations throughout the day.  Starbucks media relations "Presumably that means parking outside dorms in the morning and by the quad in the afternoon," writes Venessa Wong at Bloomberg Businessweek. "So if you started to feel like the Starbucks truck is following you between classes, you wouldn’t be wrong." Only 300 of Starbucks' 11,500 U.S. locations are on college campuses, Wong writes.  Starbucks doesn't currently have plans to expand the trucks to other campuses.  Starbucks media relations FREE AppDownload
In 2012, Susan Shaffer invested about $100,000 of retirement savings with a robo-advisor. The Philadelphian has been investing for over 25 years. She has worked with traditional financial advisors, directly with brokerages, and now, with online investing platform Betterment. At age 67, Shaffer is distinctly outside of the usual robo-advice market, which generally seeks and attracts tech-savvy Millennials. That's not to say that Shaffer isn't tech-savvy: She owns a suite of Apple products, favors Twitter to get her daily news, and considers herself an early adopter of new technology. "A lot of people think I'm a little crazy because I have a lot of things online," Shaffer admits. "It's not really the way of the Baby Boomers. When I tell people about it, they're like 'I would not do that,' 'Where do you meet these people?' 'Where's their office?' I'm a bit of a risk taker. Sometimes it's a good thing, sometimes not." In the case of her online investments, she came to Betterment through Mint.com, which she uses to manage her budget. "I had chosen a money market account that Mint had advised me to use, and I thought they gave good advice. When they suggested Betterment, I just looked and decided to try it." Betterment launched in 2010, meaning Shaffer was in their first wave or two of investors. While she isn't familiar with the term "robo-advisor" ("I must have missed that on Twitter"), she did read some online reviews and about the history of the company before entrusting them with the money she's investing for retirement. Shaffer is no stranger to doing her research. When she first started concentrating on her money after her divorce, she went to seminars, and learned from the advice of personal finance guru Suze Orman. To this day, she regularly watches the CNBC morning news program Squawk Box to learn what's happening in the markets. "I like to know what's going on," she says. "I don't think I react as quickly as some people who just look at the numbers. There's always a reason things are happening." When she came across Betterment, Shaffer was looking for a change. Years ago, she had been paying a financial planner about $500 annually, plus commission. "I disliked the fact that they were pulling all the money out when the market went down and putting it into a money market account, and when the market went up they would buy things," she remembers. "Then I found out what they were charging me for the transactions: $10,000 in commission." Flickr / JD HancockShaffer finds that despite the online interface, her financial advice feels personal. Shaffer left her financial planner, and over the course of nearly three decades added Morgan Stanley, American Express, RBC, and Fidelity to the list of companies she worked with. She found that working with a brokerage directly still felt a little too expensive. "Even though everyone there was very personable and helpful, I didn't feel that I could afford their 1% fee for the next 30 years." Betterment charges .15-.35%, depending on the amount of money you invest. Eventually, Shaffer moved the rest of her retirement savings, including a pension and some rollovers, into Betterment as well.  Shaffer, who has retired from a full-time job in the pharmaceutical industry to work part-time in real estate, finds the site intuitive. "I will get to a point where I need to take my withdrawals for retirement, and they have a tool that will set that up and direct transfer money into my checking account. I think it's easier than some other systems, where you have to call and wait. You can do a lot of planning, change your allocation whenever you want, and go in and look at the activity to see whether you've gained or lost in the market." Despite the online interface, she finds that her "robo-advisor" doesn't seem all that robotic. "I've called customer support at Betterment," she explains, "and I usually get the same person every time. That's reassuring — you can call Verizon and you never know who you'll get. They have a very human feel, even through they're all online." Shaffer says she would recommend an online investment service to others, but, she confesses, "I have a hard time selling it, even to family members. They think it's scary." She recalls that her cousin, who recommended the service that charged her $10,000 in commission, was surprised to hear about the cost. "He said, 'You just do your homework better than I do.'" *This post has been updated to clarify the fact that while Susan Shaffer initially invested about $100,000 with Betterment, she later added the rest of her savings. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe MetLife building is seen in New YorkWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Financial Stability Oversight Council has closed the evidentiary record to determine whether insurance firm Metlife Inc is systemically important, a source familiar with the situation told Reuters. It is the last formal step before the council can vote on whether MetLife will be designated as systemically important, a tag that brings far greater capital and risk management oversight by financial regulators.  (Reporting by Douwe Miedema; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueCountrywide Financial Corporation founder and CEO Angelo Mozilo is sworn in to testify before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on Capitol Hill in Washington on March 7, 2008.The Feds are planning on suing former Countrywide CEO, Angelo Mozilo, according to Bloomberg. Mortgage insurer Countrywide became a focus of the financial crisis as regulators, bankers, and politicians alike were shocked by the number of toxic assets on its balance sheets and the measures the company took to hide them. Until now, Bank of America has paid the most of the price for this. The bank bought Countrywide in 2008 — pretty much the year everything went to hell — while Mozilo retired with the $535 million he made from 1999 to 2008 (and then some). To this day Mozilo has gotten off relatively scott-free, aside from the $67.5 million fine he paid the SEC for misleading investors about Countrywide's assets. And what is that even, really? Peanuts. Prosecutors are going after Mozilo thanks to the 10-year statute of limitations provided by the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act — a law passed during the Savings and Loans Crisis back in 1980s. Bloomberg's sources say, however, that a lawsuit could be months away. Check out the full report at Bloomberg&gt; FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois Lenoir Swimmers enjoy a floating open-air swimming pool called "badboot" in the port of Antwerp August 20, 2014.The S&amp;P 500 closed just below a new all-time closing high as the minutes from the latest FOMC meeting gave a few more clues as to what it's looking for before it hikes interest rates for the first time since 2006.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. The minutes from the July 29-30 FOMC meeting were released at 2:00 pm ET on Wednesday, and offered a few more insights into the Fed's thinking on when it might begin to raise interest rates. The Fed said that some members of the FOMC see the labor market improving faster than expected, moving closer to what some Committee members view as "normal" over the long run. The minutes also show that some Committee members believe that if labor markets and inflation continue moving closer to the Fed's goals, "it might become appropriate to begin removing monetary policy accommodation sooner" than currently anticipated. 2. Following the minutes a number of Wall Street economists weighed in. Maury Harris at UBS said the minutes provided insight on what policy will look like once the Fed begins raising rates, noting that almost all FOMC members agree it would make sense to keep rates within a range. Interest rates are currently 0%-0.25%. Paul Dales at Capital Economics said the minutes are consistent with his view that "lift-off," or the first increase in rates, will take place in March. Chris Rupkey at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi was more emphatic in his read of the minutes, writing: "[The Fed is] going to move, and it's going to faster than you think. Bet on it." 3. Also in central bank news, the Bank of England reported two members voted against keeping interest rates steady in its latest policy decision, more than the one dissent that was expected. This is the first additional split from the BoE since 2011.  4. Hertz shares were down more than 4% after the company withdrew its financial guidance for 2014 as the company faces continued uncertainty regarding some of its past financial statements. A late afternoon filing with the SEC showed that activist investor Carl Icahn has taken a more than 8% stake in the company, with Icahn saying he intends to have discussions with Hertz management.  5. Industrial giant Caterpillar reported 3-month rolling retail sales that continued to fall, with total machine sales falling 12%, 10%, and 9% for May, June, and July, respectively. This marks yet another decline in sales for the industrial bellwether, which is often seen as a proxy for growth in China. In its Asia/Pacific segment, Caterpillar reported sales fell 29% in July compared to the prior year.  6. The U.S. government is planning charges against former Countrywide CEO Angelo Mozilo, one of the most infamous characters from the financial crisis, reported Bloomberg. The report said charges against Mozilo are likely "months away." Mozilo's Countrywide was taken over by Bank of America, which has paid out billions to settle litigation tied to mortgages underwritten by the company ahead of the financial crisis. Don't Miss: Some Of The World's Brightest Minds Are Meeting This Week To Solve A Huge Puzzle In Economics » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBerkshire Hathaway shareholders walk by a video screen at the company's annual meeting in Omaha(Reuters) - Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc agreed to pay an $896,000 fine to settle U.S. government accusations that it violated antitrust rules by failing to report a transaction that boosted its stake in building products company USG Corp. The civil penalty, which requires court approval, settles charges made on Wednesday by the U.S. Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission that Berkshire violated the Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust law by not telling regulators about the transaction in advance. That law requires regulatory approval for some transactions, and is designed to help protect competition. Berkshire on Dec. 9, 2013, exchanged $243.8 million of USG convertible notes for 21.39 million common shares, giving it a roughly 28 percent stake in USG worth more than $950 million. Regulators said that Berkshire, based in Omaha, Nebraska, was required to report the exchange in advance because the new stake was more than three times the minimum required, but failed to do so. The transaction occurred four days after the FTC decided not to punish Berkshire for a similar "inadvertent" violation involving financial services company Symetra Financial Corp, relying on Berkshire's assurance that it would comply with Hart-Scott-Rodino. "Although we may not seek penalties for every inadvertent error, we will enforce the rules when the same party makes additional mistakes after promises of improved oversight," Deborah Weinstein, director of the FTC bureau of competition, said in a statement. Berkshire corrected the USG reporting error on Jan. 3. Buffett's assistants did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Wednesday. Berkshire had already been a large holder of USG stock when it bought the convertible notes in November 2008. The notes had a 10 percent interest rate, the same rate that Berkshire got when it invested a total of $8 billion in Goldman Sachs Group Inc and General Electric Co at around the same time. Those investments came in the wake of the financial crisis, and gave Berkshire a reputation as a lender of last resort when financial markets come under strain. Berkshire operates more than 80 businesses and holds more than $119 billion of equity investments. The $896,000 penalty represents about a half-hour of operating earnings, based on the company's reported $15.14 billion of operating profit for 2013. Buffett, 83, owns about one-fifth of Berkshire and according to Forbes magazine is the world's third-richest person.   (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Tom Brown and Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
It seems like they're having a tough time over at PIMCO. Fox Business Network's Charlie Gasparino has the scoop:    Breaking News @FoxBusiness: traders say @PIMCO hit with major bed bug infestation in NYC "Our New York office is addressing an isolated issue with insects, and as a precautionary measure the firm is fumigating certain areas of the office space. During this period our employees are working remotely and we expect to resume full on-premises staffing over the coming days. This is an issue that is far from uncommon in New York City," PIMCO said in an emailed statement.  PIMCO, which is headquartered in Newport Beach, California, has New York offices at 1633 Broadway on the 45th Floor. A receptionist answered the phone when we put in a call to the number listed for the New York office. The receptionist said it's "business as usual." FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Djordje KojadinovicIf the Fed keeps moving towards its goal, interest rates could rise sooner than expected. This is the message from the minutes from the Fed's July 29-30 FOMC meeting, which were just released.  Notably, the some members of the FOMC said: "With respect to monetary policy over the medium run, participants generally agreed that labor market conditions and inflation had moved closer to the Committee's longer-run objectives in recent months, and most anticipated that progress toward those goals would continue. Moreover, many participants noted that if convergence toward the Committee's objectives occurred more quickly than expected, it might become appropriate to begin removing monetary policy accommodation sooner than they currently anticipated." The Fed also said that some FOMC members see the labor market improving faster than expected. The Minutes shows that FOMC members, "generally agreed that both the recent improvement in labor market conditions and the cumulative progress over the past year had been greater than anticipated and that labor market conditions had moved noticeably closer to those viewed as normal in the longer run." The minutes follow the Fed's latest monetary policy meeting, which saw the Fed keep interest rates unchanged while taking another $10 billion off its monthly asset purchases.  The Fed has said it is on track to finish its asset purchases with its October meeting. The minutes also come ahead of this year's Jackson Hole symposium, which is expected to see a number of the biggest names in central banking speak, headlined by comments from Fed Chair Janet Yellen. Here are the full minutes from the Fed: During the interval between the June and July meetings, Chair Yellen appointed a subcommittee on communications issues chaired by Governor Fischer and including President Mester, Governor Powell, and President Williams. Governor Fischer indicated that the subcommittee would continue the work of previous subcommittees in helping the Committee frame and organize the discussion of a broad range of communications issues. Developments in Financial Markets and the Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet In a joint session of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets. The manager also reported on the System open market operations conducted during the period since the Committee met on June 17-18, 2014, summarized the outcomes of recent test operations of the Term Deposit Facility (TDF), described the results from the fixed-rate overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) operational exercise, and reviewed the ongoing effects of recent foreign central bank policy actions on yields on the international portion of the SOMA portfolio. In addition, the manager noted plans for a pilot program for increasing the number of the Open Market Desk's counterparties for agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) operations to include a few firms that are too small to qualify as primary dealers. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period. Monetary Policy Normalization Meeting participants continued their discussion of issues associated with the eventual normalization of the stance and conduct of monetary policy, consistent with the Committee's intention to provide additional information to the public later this year, well before most participants anticipate the first steps in reducing policy accommodation to become appropriate. The staff detailed a possible approach for implementing and communicating monetary policy once the Committee begins to tighten the stance of policy. The approach reflected the Committee's discussion of normalization strategies and policy tools during the previous two meetings. Participants expressed general support for the normalization approach outlined by the staff, though some noted reservations about one or more of its features. Almost all participants agreed that it would be appropriate to retain the federal funds rate as the key policy rate, and they supported continuing to target a range of 25 basis points for this rate at the time of liftoff and for some time thereafter. However, one participant preferred to use the range for the federal funds rate as a communication tool rather than as a hard target, and another preferred that policy communications during the normalization period focus on the rate of interest on excess reserves (IOER) and the ON RRP rate in addition to the federal funds rate. Participants agreed that adjustments in the IOER rate would be the primary tool used to move the federal funds rate into its target range and influence other money market rates. In addition, most thought that temporary use of a limited-scale ON RRP facility would help set a firmer floor under money market interest rates during normalization. Most participants anticipated that, at least initially, the IOER rate would be set at the top of the target range for the federal funds rate, and the ON RRP rate would be set at the bottom of the federal funds target range. Alternatively, some participants suggested the ON RRP rate could be set below the bottom of the federal funds target range, judging that it might be possible to begin the normalization process with minimal or no reliance on an ON RRP facility and increase its role only if necessary. However, many other participants thought that such a strategy might result in insufficient control of money market rates at liftoff, which could cause confusion about the likely path of monetary policy or raise questions about the Committee's ability to implement policy effectively. Participants generally agreed that the ON RRP facility should be only as large as needed for effective monetary policy implementation and should be phased out when it is no longer needed for that purpose. Participants expressed their desire to include features in the facility's design that would limit the Federal Reserve's role in financial intermediation and mitigate the risk that the facility might magnify strains in short-term funding markets during periods of financial stress. They discussed options to address these concerns, including methods for limiting the program's size. Many participants noted that further testing would provide additional information that could help determine the appropriate features to temper the risks that might be associated with an ON RRP facility. Participants also discussed approaches to normalizing the size and composition of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. In general, they agreed that the size of the balance sheet should be reduced gradually and predictably. In addition, they believed that, in the long run, the balance sheet should be reduced to the smallest level consistent with efficient implementation of monetary policy and should consist primarily of Treasury securities in order to minimize the effect of the SOMA portfolio on the allocation of credit across sectors of the economy. A few participants noted that the appropriate size of the balance sheet would depend on the Committee's future decisions regarding its framework for monetary policy. Most participants supported reducing or ending re- investment sometime after the first increase in the target range for the federal funds rate. A few, however, believed that ceasing reinvestment before liftoff was a better approach because it would lead to an earlier reduction in the size of the portfolio. Most participants continued to anticipate that the Committee would not sell MBS, except perhaps to eliminate residual holdings. However, a couple of participants preferred to sell MBS in order to unwind the effect of the Federal Reserve's holdings on mortgage rates relative to other interest rates more rapidly than would occur as a result of repayments of principal alone. Some others noted that, given the uncertainties attending the normalization process and the outlook for the economy and financial markets, it could be helpful to retain the option to sell some assets. Participants agreed that the Committee should provide additional information to the public regarding the details of normalization well before most participants anticipate the first steps in reducing policy accommodation to become appropriate. They stressed the importance of communicating a clear plan while at the same time noting the importance of maintaining flexibility so that adjustments to the normalization approach could be made as the situation changed and in light of experience. Participants requested additional analysis from the staff on issues related to normalization as background for further discussion at their next meeting. A few participants also suggested that the Committee should solicit additional information from the public regarding the possible effects of an ON RRP facility, but some others pointed out that the Committee would continue to receive such feedback informally in response to its ongoing communications regarding normalization. The Board meeting concluded at the end of the discussion of approaches to policy normalization. Staff Review of the Economic Situation The information reviewed for the July 29-30 meeting indicated that real gross domestic product (GDP) rebounded in the second quarter following its first-quarter decline, but it expanded at only a modest pace, on balance, over the first half of the year. Consumer price inflation rose somewhat in the second quarter, but futures prices for energy and agricultural commodities generally were trending down over the next couple of years and longer-run measures of inflation expectations remained stable. The Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) released its advance estimate for second-quarter real GDP, along with revised data for earlier periods, on the second day of the FOMC meeting. The staff's assessment of economic activity and inflation in the first half of 2014, based on information available before the meeting began, was broadly consistent with the new information from the BEA. Measures of labor market conditions generally continued to improve during the intermeeting period. Total nonfarm payroll employment increased strongly in June, and the average monthly gain for the second quarter was the largest since the first quarter of 2012. The unemployment rate declined to 6.1 percent in June, the labor force participation rate was unchanged, and the employment-to-population ratio edged up. The rate of long-duration unemployment moved down, and the share of workers employed part time for economic reasons edged up; both measures remained elevated by historical standards. Initial claims for unemployment insurance declined further in recent weeks. The rate of job openings rose further in May, but the rate of hiring was unchanged and remained at a modest level. Industrial production increased in the second quarter, as higher output from manufacturers and mines more than offset a decline in the output of electric and natural gas utilities. Capacity utilization also moved higher in the second quarter. Automakers' production schedules indicated that light motor vehicle assemblies would increase in the third quarter, and readings on new orders from national and regional manufacturing surveys were consistent with moderate gains in factory output in the near term. Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) rose more quickly in the second quarter than in the first, partly reflecting higher purchases of light motor vehicles. Key factors that tend to influence household spending remained positive in recent months. In particular, gains in equity values and home prices boosted household net worth, and real disposable personal income continued to rise in the second quarter. Consumer sentiment in the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers edged down in early July but was only slightly below its average over the first half of the year. Real expenditures for residential investment turned up in the second quarter after declining for two consecutive quarters. Starts of new single-family houses declined in June, but they rose for the quarter as a whole, and the level of permit issuance was consistent with increases in starts in subsequent months. In the multifamily sector, starts and permits also increased, on net, in the second quarter. Existing home sales moved up during the second quarter but remained below year-earlier levels, while new home sales declined. Home prices continued to rise through May, though the rate of increase was less rapid than earlier in the year. Real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property products increased in the second quarter. Nominal new orders for nondefense capital goods were little changed, on net, in May and June; however, the level of orders was above that for shipments, pointing to increases in shipments in subsequent months. Other forward-looking indicators, such as national and regional surveys of business conditions, also generally suggested moderate increases in business equipment spending in the near term. Real business expenditures for nonresidential construction also increased in the second quarter. Meanwhile, business inventories generally appeared well aligned with sales, apart from the energy sector, where inventories remained below year-earlier levels. Real federal government purchases decreased over the first half of the year, reflecting ongoing fiscal consolidation and continued declines in defense spending. In contrast, real state and local government purchases increased in the second quarter, as payrolls expanded at a faster pace than in the first quarter and outlays for construction moved higher. The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed in May as imports fell and exports rose. The rise in exports was concentrated in petroleum products and automotive parts. The fall in imports was led by declines in oil and consumer goods. For the second quarter overall, net exports exerted a moderate drag on the change in U.S. real GDP, compared with a more substantial negative contribution in the first quarter. U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, increased at a faster pace in the second quarter than in the first and were about 1-1/2 percent higher than a year earlier. Consumer energy price inflation rose in the second quarter, but retail gasoline prices, measured on a seasonally adjusted basis, subsequently moved lower through the fourth week of July. Consumer food price inflation also increased in the second quarter, reflecting the effects of drought and disease on crop and livestock production; however, spot prices for crops moved down in recent weeks, and futures prices pointed to lower prices for livestock in the year ahead. The PCE price index for items excluding food and energy also rose more quickly in the second quarter than in the first and was 1-1/2 percent higher than a year earlier. Near-term inflation expectations from the Michigan survey were little changed, on net, in June and early July, while longer-term expectations declined. Measures of labor compensation indicated that gains in nominal wages and employee benefits remained modest. Recent indicators suggested that foreign economic activity strengthened in the second quarter: Chinese GDP accelerated substantially, and Mexican data suggested a pickup there. Real GDP growth remained strong in the United Kingdom, and data for both Canada and the euro area showed improvement relative to the first quarter. By contrast, household spending in Japan dropped sharply following the country's April 1 consumption tax increase. In many advanced foreign economies, inflation picked up in the second quarter from very low rates in the first, although second-quarter inflation in the euro area remained well below the European Central Bank's objective. Staff Review of the Financial SituationFinancial conditions eased somewhat, on balance, between the June and July FOMC meetings, although geopolitical risks weighed on investor sentiment at times. On net, yields on longer-term Treasury securities fell, equity prices rose, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar was little changed. Market participants characterized the Federal Reserve's monetary policy communications over the intermeeting period as suggesting a slightly more accommodative policy stance than had been expected. The anticipated path of the federal funds rate shifted down modestly following the June FOMC statement and the Chair's press conference. Policy expectations also edged down on the release of the minutes of the June FOMC meeting. Market participants took note of the discussion of monetary policy normalization in the minutes and, particularly, the discussion of the likely spread between the ON RRP rate and the IOER rate. Results from the Desk's July Survey of Primary Dealers, conducted shortly before the July FOMC meeting, indicated that market participants' expectations for the timing of the first increase in the federal funds rate and the subsequent policy path were largely unchanged from those reported in the survey taken just before the June meeting. The median dealer continued to see the third quarter of 2015 as the most likely time for the liftoff of the federal funds rate from the effective lower bound, although, relative to the June survey, the distribution of the modal expected time of liftoff became more concentrated around the third quarter of 2015. On balance, 10- and 30-year nominal Treasury yields both declined about 20 basis points over the intermeeting period. Concerns about tensions in Ukraine and the Middle East and the release of the June minutes appeared to contribute to the declines in longer-term Treasury yields. The decline in yields at the long end of the curve likely also reflected a continuation of a pattern that began last year, which some market participants attributed to a reduction in investors' expectations for longer-run economic growth and declines in term premiums. Measures of longer-horizon inflation compensation based on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities were about unchanged. Conditions in unsecured short-term dollar funding markets remained stable over the intermeeting period. The Federal Reserve continued its ON RRP exercise and TDF testing. As a result of somewhat higher market rates on repurchase agreements, ON RRP take-up, on average, was a little lower than in the prior intermeeting period, although participation in the ON RRP exercise jumped to a record high at quarter-end on June 30. Moreover, the ON RRP exercise appeared to have continued to help firm the floor under money market interest rates. In TDF testing that ran from mid-May to early July, gradual increases in offer rates and in the maximum individual award amounts generally resulted in higher participation. The S&amp;P 500 index rose about 1-1/2 percent over the intermeeting period, as earnings reports from a range of companies appeared to indicate that profits in the second quarter had increased modestly relative to the first quarter. The VIX, an index of option-implied volatility for one-month returns on the S&amp;P 500 index, remained at low levels over the intermeeting period. Credit flows to nonfinancial corporations remained strong in the second quarter. Gross issuance of investment- and speculative-grade bonds stayed brisk. Commercial and industrial loans on banks' balance sheets continued to increase at a robust pace, consistent with reports in the July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS) of easier lending standards and terms as well as stronger loan demand from firms of all sizes. Issuance of leveraged loans by institutional investors also remained solid. Credit conditions in markets for commercial real estate (CRE) improved further in the second quarter. According to the July SLOOS, banks continued to ease their standards and report stronger demand for CRE loans during the second quarter on balance. CRE loans on banks' books continued to expand moderately, and issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities remained solid. Credit conditions in residential mortgage markets generally remained tight over the intermeeting period. Mortgage interest rates held steady around 4 percent, and origination volumes continued to be low. According to the July SLOOS, underwriting standards on prime home-purchase loans appeared to have eased further at banks during the second quarter but, on net, standards on all types of residential real estate loans reportedly remained tighter than the midpoints of the respondent banks' longer-term ranges. In contrast to mortgage lending, consumer credit continued to expand robustly in May, largely on the strength of auto and student loans, though credit card debt picked up somewhat as well. Banks responding to the July SLOOS indicated that demand for auto loans strengthened further in the second quarter. In addition, demand for credit card loans increased, and a few large banks reported having eased lending policies for such loans. Benchmark yields on long-term sovereign bonds in the advanced foreign economies continued the downward trend that began at the start of the year, with rising tensions in the Middle East and Ukraine during the intermeeting period likely adding some to the downward pressure. Concerns about one of Portugal's largest banks and about litigation risks facing European banks weighed on European financial markets, prompting yield spreads on peripheral sovereign bonds in the euro area to widen and equity price indexes for European banks to decline. Intermeeting data releases on euro-area industrial production came in below market expectations, also weighing on headline equity markets in the region. Mixed news from emerging market economies, including better-than-expected GDP growth in China and concerns about Argentina's scheduled debt payments, generally had modest market effects. Changes in emerging market equity indexes were mixed over the period, and emerging market bond yields generally declined. The broad trade-weighted dollar was little changed, on net, over the intermeeting period. The staff's periodic report on potential risks to financial stability concluded that relatively strong capital positions of U.S. banks, subdued use of maturity transformation and leverage within the broader financial sector, and relatively low levels of leverage for the aggregate nonfinancial sector were important factors supporting overall financial stability. However, the staff report also highlighted that low and declining risk premiums, low levels of market volatility, and a loosening of underwriting standards in a number of markets raised somewhat the risk of an eventual correction in asset valuations. Staff Economic OutlookThe data received since the staff prepared its forecast for the June FOMC meeting suggested that real GDP growth was even weaker in the first half of the year than had been anticipated.3 However, the staff left its forecast for real GDP growth in the second half of the year essentially unrevised because other indicators of economic activity appeared comparatively strong in relation to real GDP during the first half of the year. In particular, payroll employment continued to advance at a solid pace, the unemployment rate declined further, industrial production posted steady gains, and readings from business surveys were strong. The staff's medium-term forecast for real GDP growth was also little revised. The staff continued to project that real GDP would expand at a faster pace in the second half of this year and over the next two years than in 2013. This forecast was predicated on a further anticipated waning of the restraint on spending growth from changes in fiscal policy, continued improvement in credit availability, increases in consumer and business confidence, and a pickup in foreign economic growth. In response to a further downward surprise in the unemployment rate, the staff again lowered its forecast for the unemployment rate over the projection period. To reconcile the downward revision to real GDP growth for the first half of year with an unemployment rate that was now closer to the staff's estimate of its longer-run natural rate, the staff lowered its assumed pace of potential output growth this year by more than it marked down GDP growth. As a result, resource slack in this projection was anticipated to be somewhat narrower this year than in the previous forecast and to be taken up slowly over the projection period. The staff's near-term forecast for inflation was revised up a little, as recent data showed somewhat faster-than-anticipated increases that were judged to be only partly transitory. With a little less resource slack in this projection, the medium-term forecast for inflation was also revised up slightly. Nonetheless, as in the June projection, inflation was projected to step down in the second half of this year and to remain below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent over the next few years. With longer-run inflation expectations assumed to remain stable, changes in commodity and import prices expected to be subdued, and slack in labor and product markets anticipated to diminish only slowly, inflation was forecast to rise gradually and to reach the Committee's objective in the longer run. The staff continued to view uncertainty around its projections for real GDP growth, inflation, and the unemployment rate as roughly in line with the average of the past 20 years. Although the risks to GDP growth were still seen as tilted a little to the downside, as neither monetary policy nor fiscal policy was viewed as well positioned to help the economy withstand adverse shocks, these risks were considered to be more nearly balanced than in the previous projection. The staff continued to view the risks around its outlook for the unemployment rate and for inflation as roughly balanced. Participants' Views on Current Conditions and the Economic Outlook In their discussion of the economic situation and the outlook, meeting participants generally viewed the rebound in real GDP in the second quarter and the ongoing improvement in labor market conditions as supporting their expectations for continued moderate economic expansion with labor market indicators and inflation moving toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. Although most participants continued to view the risks to the outlook for economic activity and the labor market as nearly balanced, some pointed to possible sources of downside risk, including persistent weakness in the housing sector, a continued slow rise in household income, or spillovers from developments in the Middle East and Ukraine. Participants noted that inflation had moved somewhat closer to the Committee's 2 percent longer-run objective and generally saw the risks of inflation running persistently below their objective as having diminished somewhat. Household spending appeared to be rising moderately and was expected to contribute to stronger economic growth in the second half of the year than in the first half. Business contacts in several Districts reported a pickup in consumer spending after the weakness in the first quarter. However, a few participants raised concerns that households might remain cautious, with the personal saving rate staying elevated, or that the slow rise in wages and income might be insufficient to support stronger consumer spending. The recovery in housing activity remained slow according to most participants. Although mortgage rates were still low and housing appeared to be relatively affordable, various factors were seen as restraining demand, including low expected income and high levels of student debt as well as difficulty in obtaining mortgage credit, particularly for younger, first-time homebuyers. It was also noted that the weakness in homebuilding along with the continued rise in house prices suggested that supply constraints were also weighing on construction activity. A couple of participants indicated that some demand appeared to have shifted to rental properties. The rising demand for rentals was in part being satisfied by investors buying homes for the rental market; it was also providing support for multifamily construction. Some participants noted their concern that a number of the factors restraining residential construction might persist, damping the housing recovery for some time. Many participants reported continued improvement in sentiment among their business contacts and noted positive readings from recent regional and national surveys of manufacturing and service-sector activity. In particular, participants cited strength in airlines, railroads, trucking firms, businesses supplying the motor vehicle and aerospace industries, and those in the high-tech sector. In addition, higher energy prices continued to provide support for activity in the energy sector. In the agriculture sector, favorable growing conditions for crops had lowered prices but increased the profitability of livestock producers. The reports from their business contacts provided support for participants' expectation of stronger economic growth in the second half of the year. In some cases, the information from businesses suggested increases in spending on capital equipment or a pickup in investment in commercial and industrial construction and transportation. Contacts in a number of areas indicated that credit was readily available, and reports from participants' business and financial contacts indicated a strengthening in demand for bank credit. However, several participants reported that businesses remained somewhat uncertain about the economic outlook and thus were still cautious about stepping up capital spending and hiring. Federal fiscal restraint reportedly continued to depress business activity in some areas dependent on federal spending. Labor market conditions improved in recent months according to participants' reports on developments in their Districts as well as a range of national indicators. The improvement was reflected not only in a pickup in payroll employment gains and a noticeable decline in the overall unemployment rate, but also in reductions in broader measures of underutilization such as long- duration joblessness and the number of workers with part-time jobs who would prefer full-time employment. The labor force participation rate was stable, and a couple of participants pointed out that the transition rate from long-duration unemployment to employment had moved up. Moreover, some participants cited positive signs of increased hiring and turnover in the labor market, including increases in job openings and hiring plans, higher quit rates, and apparent improvements in matching workers and jobs. Participants generally agreed that both the recent improvement in labor market conditions and the cumulative progress over the past year had been greater than anticipated and that labor market conditions had moved noticeably closer to those viewed as normal in the longer run. Participants differed, however, in their assessments of the remaining degree of labor market slack and how to measure it. A few argued that the unemployment rate continues to serve as a reliable summary statistic for the overall state of the labor market and thought that it should be the Committee's principal focus for evaluating labor market conditions. However, many participants continued to see a larger gap between current labor market conditions and those consistent with their assessments of normal levels of labor utilization than indicated by the difference between the unemployment rate and estimates of its longer-run normal level. These participants cited, for example, the still-elevated levels of long-term unemployment and workers employed part time for economic reasons as well as low labor force participation. Several participants pointed out that the recent drop in the unemployment rate had been associated with progress in reabsorbing the long-term unemployed into jobs and reducing part-time work, suggesting that slack was diminishing and could be reduced further as employment opportunities expanded. Labor compensation was still rising only modestly. Many participants continued to attribute the subdued rise in wages to the remaining slack in the labor market; it was noted that the elevated level of relatively low-paid part-time workers was holding down overall wage increases. Several other participants pointed to reports that wage pressures had increased in some regions and occupations that were experiencing labor shortages or relatively low unemployment. However, a couple of participants indicated that the pass-through of labor costs has been more attenuated since the mid-1980s and that wage pressures might not be a reliable leading indicator of higher inflation. Inflation firmed in recent months, and most participants anticipated that it would continue to move up toward the Committee's 2 percent objective. Many of them expected that inflation was likely to rise gradually over the medium term, as resource slack diminished and inflation expectations remained stable. In support of their assessments, several reported results from various statistical models of inflation and inflation expectations. Most now judged that the downside risks to inflation had diminished, but a few participants continued to see inflation as likely to persist below the Committee's objective over the medium term. Several commented that the upside risks had not increased. However, a few others argued that the recent tightening of the labor market had increased the upside risks to inflation and inflation expectations, particularly in an environment in which the economic expansion was expected to strengthen further. In their discussion of financial stability issues, participants noted evidence of valuation pressures in some particular asset markets, but those pressures did not appear to be widespread and other measures of vulnerability in the financial system were at low to moderate levels. As a result, they generally saw the vulnerabilities in the financial system as well contained. Some participants discussed how the Committee might better incorporate financial stability risks in its discussion of macroeconomic risks. They also suggested that the Committee consider how promptly various financial stability concerns could be addressed, if need be, and which tools, including monetary policy and regulatory responses, would be most timely and effective in doing so. With respect to monetary policy over the medium run, participants generally agreed that labor market conditions and inflation had moved closer to the Committee's longer-run objectives in recent months, and most anticipated that progress toward those goals would continue. Moreover, many participants noted that if convergence toward the Committee's objectives occurred more quickly than expected, it might become appropriate to begin removing monetary policy accommodation sooner than they currently anticipated. Indeed, some participants viewed the actual and expected progress toward the Committee's goals as sufficient to call for a relatively prompt move toward reducing policy accommodation to avoid overshooting the Committee's unemployment and inflation objectives over the medium term. These participants were increasingly uncomfortable with the Committee's forward guidance. In their view, the guidance suggested a later initial increase in the target federal funds rate as well as lower future levels of the funds rate than they judged likely to be appropriate. They suggested that the guidance should more clearly communicate how policy-setting would respond to the evolution of economic data. However, most participants indicated that any change in their expectations for the appropriate timing of the first increase in the federal funds rate would depend on further information on the trajectories of economic activity, the labor market, and inflation. In particular, although participants generally saw the drop in real GDP in the first quarter as transitory, some noted that it increased uncertainty about the outlook, and they were looking to additional data on production, spending, and labor market developments to shed light on the underlying pace of economic growth. Moreover, despite recent inflation developments, several participants continued to believe that inflation was likely to move back to the Committee's objective very slowly, thereby warranting a continuation of highly accommodative policy as long as projected inflation remained below 2 percent and longer-term inflation expectations were well anchored. Committee Policy ActionIn their discussion of monetary policy in the period ahead, members judged that information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in June indicated that economic activity rebounded in the second quarter. Household spending appeared to be rising moderately, and business fixed investment was advancing, while the recovery in the housing sector remained slow. Fiscal policy was restraining economic growth, al-though the extent of the restraint was diminishing. The Committee expected that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity would expand at a moderate pace with labor market indicators and inflation moving toward levels that the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. With the incoming information broadly supporting the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back to the Committee's 2 percent objective, members generally agreed that a further measured reduction in the pace of asset purchases was appropriate at this meeting. Accordingly, the Committee agreed that, beginning in August, it would add to its holdings of agency MBS at a pace of $10 billion per month rather than $15 billion per month, and it would add to its holdings of Treasury securities at a pace of $15 billion per month rather than $20 billion per month. The Committee again judged that, if incoming data broadly supported its expectations that labor market indicators and inflation would continue to move toward mandate-consistent levels, the Committee would likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. However, the Committee reiterated that asset purchases were not on a preset course and that its decisions remained contingent on the outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. Members discussed their assessments of progress--both realized and expected--toward the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation and considered enhancements to the statement language that would more clearly communicate the Committee's view on such progress. Regarding the labor market, many members concluded that a range of indicators of labor market conditions--including the unemployment rate as well as a number of other measures of labor utilization--had improved more in recent months than they anticipated earlier. They judged it appropriate to replace the description of recent labor market conditions that mentioned solely the unemployment rate with a description of their assessment of the remaining underutilization of labor resources based on their evaluation of a range of labor market indicators. In their discussion, some members expressed reservations about describing the extent of underutilization in labor resources more broadly. In particular, they worried that the degree of labor market slack was difficult to characterize succinctly and that the statement language might prove difficult to adjust as labor market conditions continued to improve. Moreover, they were concerned that, despite the improvement in labor market conditions, the new language might be misinterpreted as indicating increased concern about underutilization of labor resources. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee agreed to state that labor market conditions had improved, with the unemployment rate declining further, while also stating that a range of labor market indicators suggested that there remained significant underutilization of labor resources. Many members noted, however, that the characterization of labor market underutilization might have to change before long, particularly if progress in the labor market continued to be faster than anticipated. Regarding inflation, members agreed to update the language in the statement to acknowledge that inflation had recently moved somewhat closer to the Committee's longer-run objective and to convey their judgment that the likelihood of inflation running persistently below 2 percent had diminished somewhat. After the discussion, all members but one voted to maintain the Committee's target range for the federal funds rate and to reiterate its forward guidance on how it would assess the appropriate timing of the first increase in the target rate and the anticipated behavior of the federal funds rate after it is raised. One member, however, objected to the guidance that it would likely be appropriate to maintain the current range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends because it was time dependent and did not recognize the implications for monetary policy of the considerable progress that had been made toward the Committee's goals. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the SOMA in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: "Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster maximum employment and price stability. In particular, the Committee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with federal funds trading in a range from 0 to 1/4 percent. The Committee directs the Desk to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain such conditions. Beginning in August, the Desk is directed to purchase longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of about $15 billion per month and to purchase agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of about $10 billion per month. The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency mortgage-backed securities transactions. The Committee directs the Desk to maintain its policy of rolling over maturing Treasury securities into new issues and its policy of reinvesting principal payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities. The System Open Market Account manager and the secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's balance sheet that could affect the attainment over time of the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and price stability." The vote encompassed approval of the statement below to be released at 2:00 p.m.: "Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in June indicates that growth in economic activity rebounded in the second quarter. Labor market conditions improved, with the unemployment rate declining further. However, a range of labor market indicators suggests that there remains significant underutilization of labor resources. Household spending appears to be rising moderately and business fixed investment is advancing, while the recovery in the housing sector remains slow. Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth, although the extent of restraint is diminishing. Inflation has moved somewhat closer to the Committee's longer-run objective. Longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace, with labor market indicators and inflation moving toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the risks to the outlook for economic activity and the labor market as nearly balanced and judges that the likelihood of inflation running persistently below 2 percent has diminished somewhat. The Committee currently judges that there is sufficient underlying strength in the broader economy to support ongoing improvement in labor market conditions. In light of the cumulative progress toward maximum employment and the improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions since the inception of the current asset purchase program, the Committee decided to make a further measured reduction in the pace of its asset purchases. Beginning in August, the Committee will add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $10 billion per month rather than $15 billion per month, and will add to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $15 billion per month rather than $20 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. The Committee's sizable and still-increasing holdings of longer-term securities should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative, which in turn should promote a stronger economic recovery and help to ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months and will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. If incoming information broadly supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. However, asset purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on the Committee's outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy remains appropriate. In determining how long to maintain the current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will assess progress--both realized and expected--toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. The Committee currently anticipates that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run." Voting for this action: Janet L. Yellen, William C. Dudley, Lael Brainard, Stanley Fischer, Richard W. Fisher, Narayana Kocherlakota, Loretta J. Mester, Jerome H. Powell, and Daniel K. Tarullo. Voting against this action: Charles I. Plosser. Mr. Plosser dissented because he objected to the statement's guidance indicating that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for "a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends." In his view, the reference to calendar time should be replaced with language that indicates how monetary policy will respond to incoming data. Moreover, he judged that the statement did not acknowledge the substantial progress that had been made toward the Committee's economic goals and thus risks unnecessary and disruptive volatility in financial markets, and perhaps in the economy, if the Committee reduces accommodation sooner or more quickly than financial markets anticipate. It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday-Wednesday, September 16-17, 2014. The meeting adjourned at 11:55 a.m. on July 30, 2014. Notation VoteBy notation vote completed on July 8, 2014, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the Committee meeting held on June 17-18, 2014. More to come ...  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Djordje KojadinovicIf the Fed keeps moving towards its goal, interest rates could rise sooner than expected. This is the message from the minutes from the Fed's July 29-30 FOMC meeting, which were just released.  Notably, the some members of the FOMC said: "With respect to monetary policy over the medium run, participants generally agreed that labor market conditions and inflation had moved closer to the Committee's longer-run objectives in recent months, and most anticipated that progress toward those goals would continue. Moreover, many participants noted that if convergence toward the Committee's objectives occurred more quickly than expected, it might become appropriate to begin removing monetary policy accommodation sooner than they currently anticipated." The Fed also said that some FOMC members see the labor market improving faster than expected. The Minutes shows that FOMC members, "generally agreed that both the recent improvement in labor market conditions and the cumulative progress over the past year had been greater than anticipated and that labor market conditions had moved noticeably closer to those viewed as normal in the longer run." The minutes follow the Fed's latest monetary policy meeting, which saw the Fed keep interest rates unchanged while taking another $10 billion off its monthly asset purchases.  The Fed has said it is on track to finish its asset purchases with its October meeting. The minutes also come ahead of this year's Jackson Hole symposium, which is expected to see a number of the biggest names in central banking speak, headlined by comments from Fed Chair Janet Yellen. Here are the full minutes from the Fed: During the interval between the June and July meetings, Chair Yellen appointed a subcommittee on communications issues chaired by Governor Fischer and including President Mester, Governor Powell, and President Williams. Governor Fischer indicated that the subcommittee would continue the work of previous subcommittees in helping the Committee frame and organize the discussion of a broad range of communications issues. Developments in Financial Markets and the Federal Reserve's Balance Sheet In a joint session of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets. The manager also reported on the System open market operations conducted during the period since the Committee met on June 17-18, 2014, summarized the outcomes of recent test operations of the Term Deposit Facility (TDF), described the results from the fixed-rate overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) operational exercise, and reviewed the ongoing effects of recent foreign central bank policy actions on yields on the international portion of the SOMA portfolio. In addition, the manager noted plans for a pilot program for increasing the number of the Open Market Desk's counterparties for agency mortgage-backed securities (MBS) operations to include a few firms that are too small to qualify as primary dealers. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period. Monetary Policy Normalization Meeting participants continued their discussion of issues associated with the eventual normalization of the stance and conduct of monetary policy, consistent with the Committee's intention to provide additional information to the public later this year, well before most participants anticipate the first steps in reducing policy accommodation to become appropriate. The staff detailed a possible approach for implementing and communicating monetary policy once the Committee begins to tighten the stance of policy. The approach reflected the Committee's discussion of normalization strategies and policy tools during the previous two meetings. Participants expressed general support for the normalization approach outlined by the staff, though some noted reservations about one or more of its features. Almost all participants agreed that it would be appropriate to retain the federal funds rate as the key policy rate, and they supported continuing to target a range of 25 basis points for this rate at the time of liftoff and for some time thereafter. However, one participant preferred to use the range for the federal funds rate as a communication tool rather than as a hard target, and another preferred that policy communications during the normalization period focus on the rate of interest on excess reserves (IOER) and the ON RRP rate in addition to the federal funds rate. Participants agreed that adjustments in the IOER rate would be the primary tool used to move the federal funds rate into its target range and influence other money market rates. In addition, most thought that temporary use of a limited-scale ON RRP facility would help set a firmer floor under money market interest rates during normalization. Most participants anticipated that, at least initially, the IOER rate would be set at the top of the target range for the federal funds rate, and the ON RRP rate would be set at the bottom of the federal funds target range. Alternatively, some participants suggested the ON RRP rate could be set below the bottom of the federal funds target range, judging that it might be possible to begin the normalization process with minimal or no reliance on an ON RRP facility and increase its role only if necessary. However, many other participants thought that such a strategy might result in insufficient control of money market rates at liftoff, which could cause confusion about the likely path of monetary policy or raise questions about the Committee's ability to implement policy effectively. Participants generally agreed that the ON RRP facility should be only as large as needed for effective monetary policy implementation and should be phased out when it is no longer needed for that purpose. Participants expressed their desire to include features in the facility's design that would limit the Federal Reserve's role in financial intermediation and mitigate the risk that the facility might magnify strains in short-term funding markets during periods of financial stress. They discussed options to address these concerns, including methods for limiting the program's size. Many participants noted that further testing would provide additional information that could help determine the appropriate features to temper the risks that might be associated with an ON RRP facility. Participants also discussed approaches to normalizing the size and composition of the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. In general, they agreed that the size of the balance sheet should be reduced gradually and predictably. In addition, they believed that, in the long run, the balance sheet should be reduced to the smallest level consistent with efficient implementation of monetary policy and should consist primarily of Treasury securities in order to minimize the effect of the SOMA portfolio on the allocation of credit across sectors of the economy. A few participants noted that the appropriate size of the balance sheet would depend on the Committee's future decisions regarding its framework for monetary policy. Most participants supported reducing or ending re- investment sometime after the first increase in the target range for the federal funds rate. A few, however, believed that ceasing reinvestment before liftoff was a better approach because it would lead to an earlier reduction in the size of the portfolio. Most participants continued to anticipate that the Committee would not sell MBS, except perhaps to eliminate residual holdings. However, a couple of participants preferred to sell MBS in order to unwind the effect of the Federal Reserve's holdings on mortgage rates relative to other interest rates more rapidly than would occur as a result of repayments of principal alone. Some others noted that, given the uncertainties attending the normalization process and the outlook for the economy and financial markets, it could be helpful to retain the option to sell some assets. Participants agreed that the Committee should provide additional information to the public regarding the details of normalization well before most participants anticipate the first steps in reducing policy accommodation to become appropriate. They stressed the importance of communicating a clear plan while at the same time noting the importance of maintaining flexibility so that adjustments to the normalization approach could be made as the situation changed and in light of experience. Participants requested additional analysis from the staff on issues related to normalization as background for further discussion at their next meeting. A few participants also suggested that the Committee should solicit additional information from the public regarding the possible effects of an ON RRP facility, but some others pointed out that the Committee would continue to receive such feedback informally in response to its ongoing communications regarding normalization. The Board meeting concluded at the end of the discussion of approaches to policy normalization. Staff Review of the Economic Situation The information reviewed for the July 29-30 meeting indicated that real gross domestic product (GDP) rebounded in the second quarter following its first-quarter decline, but it expanded at only a modest pace, on balance, over the first half of the year. Consumer price inflation rose somewhat in the second quarter, but futures prices for energy and agricultural commodities generally were trending down over the next couple of years and longer-run measures of inflation expectations remained stable. The Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) released its advance estimate for second-quarter real GDP, along with revised data for earlier periods, on the second day of the FOMC meeting. The staff's assessment of economic activity and inflation in the first half of 2014, based on information available before the meeting began, was broadly consistent with the new information from the BEA. Measures of labor market conditions generally continued to improve during the intermeeting period. Total nonfarm payroll employment increased strongly in June, and the average monthly gain for the second quarter was the largest since the first quarter of 2012. The unemployment rate declined to 6.1 percent in June, the labor force participation rate was unchanged, and the employment-to-population ratio edged up. The rate of long-duration unemployment moved down, and the share of workers employed part time for economic reasons edged up; both measures remained elevated by historical standards. Initial claims for unemployment insurance declined further in recent weeks. The rate of job openings rose further in May, but the rate of hiring was unchanged and remained at a modest level. Industrial production increased in the second quarter, as higher output from manufacturers and mines more than offset a decline in the output of electric and natural gas utilities. Capacity utilization also moved higher in the second quarter. Automakers' production schedules indicated that light motor vehicle assemblies would increase in the third quarter, and readings on new orders from national and regional manufacturing surveys were consistent with moderate gains in factory output in the near term. Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) rose more quickly in the second quarter than in the first, partly reflecting higher purchases of light motor vehicles. Key factors that tend to influence household spending remained positive in recent months. In particular, gains in equity values and home prices boosted household net worth, and real disposable personal income continued to rise in the second quarter. Consumer sentiment in the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers edged down in early July but was only slightly below its average over the first half of the year. Real expenditures for residential investment turned up in the second quarter after declining for two consecutive quarters. Starts of new single-family houses declined in June, but they rose for the quarter as a whole, and the level of permit issuance was consistent with increases in starts in subsequent months. In the multifamily sector, starts and permits also increased, on net, in the second quarter. Existing home sales moved up during the second quarter but remained below year-earlier levels, while new home sales declined. Home prices continued to rise through May, though the rate of increase was less rapid than earlier in the year. Real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property products increased in the second quarter. Nominal new orders for nondefense capital goods were little changed, on net, in May and June; however, the level of orders was above that for shipments, pointing to increases in shipments in subsequent months. Other forward-looking indicators, such as national and regional surveys of business conditions, also generally suggested moderate increases in business equipment spending in the near term. Real business expenditures for nonresidential construction also increased in the second quarter. Meanwhile, business inventories generally appeared well aligned with sales, apart from the energy sector, where inventories remained below year-earlier levels. Real federal government purchases decreased over the first half of the year, reflecting ongoing fiscal consolidation and continued declines in defense spending. In contrast, real state and local government purchases increased in the second quarter, as payrolls expanded at a faster pace than in the first quarter and outlays for construction moved higher. The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed in May as imports fell and exports rose. The rise in exports was concentrated in petroleum products and automotive parts. The fall in imports was led by declines in oil and consumer goods. For the second quarter overall, net exports exerted a moderate drag on the change in U.S. real GDP, compared with a more substantial negative contribution in the first quarter. U.S. consumer prices, as measured by the PCE price index, increased at a faster pace in the second quarter than in the first and were about 1-1/2 percent higher than a year earlier. Consumer energy price inflation rose in the second quarter, but retail gasoline prices, measured on a seasonally adjusted basis, subsequently moved lower through the fourth week of July. Consumer food price inflation also increased in the second quarter, reflecting the effects of drought and disease on crop and livestock production; however, spot prices for crops moved down in recent weeks, and futures prices pointed to lower prices for livestock in the year ahead. The PCE price index for items excluding food and energy also rose more quickly in the second quarter than in the first and was 1-1/2 percent higher than a year earlier. Near-term inflation expectations from the Michigan survey were little changed, on net, in June and early July, while longer-term expectations declined. Measures of labor compensation indicated that gains in nominal wages and employee benefits remained modest. Recent indicators suggested that foreign economic activity strengthened in the second quarter: Chinese GDP accelerated substantially, and Mexican data suggested a pickup there. Real GDP growth remained strong in the United Kingdom, and data for both Canada and the euro area showed improvement relative to the first quarter. By contrast, household spending in Japan dropped sharply following the country's April 1 consumption tax increase. In many advanced foreign economies, inflation picked up in the second quarter from very low rates in the first, although second-quarter inflation in the euro area remained well below the European Central Bank's objective. Staff Review of the Financial SituationFinancial conditions eased somewhat, on balance, between the June and July FOMC meetings, although geopolitical risks weighed on investor sentiment at times. On net, yields on longer-term Treasury securities fell, equity prices rose, and the foreign exchange value of the dollar was little changed. Market participants characterized the Federal Reserve's monetary policy communications over the intermeeting period as suggesting a slightly more accommodative policy stance than had been expected. The anticipated path of the federal funds rate shifted down modestly following the June FOMC statement and the Chair's press conference. Policy expectations also edged down on the release of the minutes of the June FOMC meeting. Market participants took note of the discussion of monetary policy normalization in the minutes and, particularly, the discussion of the likely spread between the ON RRP rate and the IOER rate. Results from the Desk's July Survey of Primary Dealers, conducted shortly before the July FOMC meeting, indicated that market participants' expectations for the timing of the first increase in the federal funds rate and the subsequent policy path were largely unchanged from those reported in the survey taken just before the June meeting. The median dealer continued to see the third quarter of 2015 as the most likely time for the liftoff of the federal funds rate from the effective lower bound, although, relative to the June survey, the distribution of the modal expected time of liftoff became more concentrated around the third quarter of 2015. On balance, 10- and 30-year nominal Treasury yields both declined about 20 basis points over the intermeeting period. Concerns about tensions in Ukraine and the Middle East and the release of the June minutes appeared to contribute to the declines in longer-term Treasury yields. The decline in yields at the long end of the curve likely also reflected a continuation of a pattern that began last year, which some market participants attributed to a reduction in investors' expectations for longer-run economic growth and declines in term premiums. Measures of longer-horizon inflation compensation based on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities were about unchanged. Conditions in unsecured short-term dollar funding markets remained stable over the intermeeting period. The Federal Reserve continued its ON RRP exercise and TDF testing. As a result of somewhat higher market rates on repurchase agreements, ON RRP take-up, on average, was a little lower than in the prior intermeeting period, although participation in the ON RRP exercise jumped to a record high at quarter-end on June 30. Moreover, the ON RRP exercise appeared to have continued to help firm the floor under money market interest rates. In TDF testing that ran from mid-May to early July, gradual increases in offer rates and in the maximum individual award amounts generally resulted in higher participation. The S&amp;P 500 index rose about 1-1/2 percent over the intermeeting period, as earnings reports from a range of companies appeared to indicate that profits in the second quarter had increased modestly relative to the first quarter. The VIX, an index of option-implied volatility for one-month returns on the S&amp;P 500 index, remained at low levels over the intermeeting period. Credit flows to nonfinancial corporations remained strong in the second quarter. Gross issuance of investment- and speculative-grade bonds stayed brisk. Commercial and industrial loans on banks' balance sheets continued to increase at a robust pace, consistent with reports in the July Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices (SLOOS) of easier lending standards and terms as well as stronger loan demand from firms of all sizes. Issuance of leveraged loans by institutional investors also remained solid. Credit conditions in markets for commercial real estate (CRE) improved further in the second quarter. According to the July SLOOS, banks continued to ease their standards and report stronger demand for CRE loans during the second quarter on balance. CRE loans on banks' books continued to expand moderately, and issuance of commercial mortgage-backed securities remained solid. Credit conditions in residential mortgage markets generally remained tight over the intermeeting period. Mortgage interest rates held steady around 4 percent, and origination volumes continued to be low. According to the July SLOOS, underwriting standards on prime home-purchase loans appeared to have eased further at banks during the second quarter but, on net, standards on all types of residential real estate loans reportedly remained tighter than the midpoints of the respondent banks' longer-term ranges. In contrast to mortgage lending, consumer credit continued to expand robustly in May, largely on the strength of auto and student loans, though credit card debt picked up somewhat as well. Banks responding to the July SLOOS indicated that demand for auto loans strengthened further in the second quarter. In addition, demand for credit card loans increased, and a few large banks reported having eased lending policies for such loans. Benchmark yields on long-term sovereign bonds in the advanced foreign economies continued the downward trend that began at the start of the year, with rising tensions in the Middle East and Ukraine during the intermeeting period likely adding some to the downward pressure. Concerns about one of Portugal's largest banks and about litigation risks facing European banks weighed on European financial markets, prompting yield spreads on peripheral sovereign bonds in the euro area to widen and equity price indexes for European banks to decline. Intermeeting data releases on euro-area industrial production came in below market expectations, also weighing on headline equity markets in the region. Mixed news from emerging market economies, including better-than-expected GDP growth in China and concerns about Argentina's scheduled debt payments, generally had modest market effects. Changes in emerging market equity indexes were mixed over the period, and emerging market bond yields generally declined. The broad trade-weighted dollar was little changed, on net, over the intermeeting period. The staff's periodic report on potential risks to financial stability concluded that relatively strong capital positions of U.S. banks, subdued use of maturity transformation and leverage within the broader financial sector, and relatively low levels of leverage for the aggregate nonfinancial sector were important factors supporting overall financial stability. However, the staff report also highlighted that low and declining risk premiums, low levels of market volatility, and a loosening of underwriting standards in a number of markets raised somewhat the risk of an eventual correction in asset valuations. Staff Economic OutlookThe data received since the staff prepared its forecast for the June FOMC meeting suggested that real GDP growth was even weaker in the first half of the year than had been anticipated.3 However, the staff left its forecast for real GDP growth in the second half of the year essentially unrevised because other indicators of economic activity appeared comparatively strong in relation to real GDP during the first half of the year. In particular, payroll employment continued to advance at a solid pace, the unemployment rate declined further, industrial production posted steady gains, and readings from business surveys were strong. The staff's medium-term forecast for real GDP growth was also little revised. The staff continued to project that real GDP would expand at a faster pace in the second half of this year and over the next two years than in 2013. This forecast was predicated on a further anticipated waning of the restraint on spending growth from changes in fiscal policy, continued improvement in credit availability, increases in consumer and business confidence, and a pickup in foreign economic growth. In response to a further downward surprise in the unemployment rate, the staff again lowered its forecast for the unemployment rate over the projection period. To reconcile the downward revision to real GDP growth for the first half of year with an unemployment rate that was now closer to the staff's estimate of its longer-run natural rate, the staff lowered its assumed pace of potential output growth this year by more than it marked down GDP growth. As a result, resource slack in this projection was anticipated to be somewhat narrower this year than in the previous forecast and to be taken up slowly over the projection period. The staff's near-term forecast for inflation was revised up a little, as recent data showed somewhat faster-than-anticipated increases that were judged to be only partly transitory. With a little less resource slack in this projection, the medium-term forecast for inflation was also revised up slightly. Nonetheless, as in the June projection, inflation was projected to step down in the second half of this year and to remain below the Committee's longer-run objective of 2 percent over the next few years. With longer-run inflation expectations assumed to remain stable, changes in commodity and import prices expected to be subdued, and slack in labor and product markets anticipated to diminish only slowly, inflation was forecast to rise gradually and to reach the Committee's objective in the longer run. The staff continued to view uncertainty around its projections for real GDP growth, inflation, and the unemployment rate as roughly in line with the average of the past 20 years. Although the risks to GDP growth were still seen as tilted a little to the downside, as neither monetary policy nor fiscal policy was viewed as well positioned to help the economy withstand adverse shocks, these risks were considered to be more nearly balanced than in the previous projection. The staff continued to view the risks around its outlook for the unemployment rate and for inflation as roughly balanced. Participants' Views on Current Conditions and the Economic Outlook In their discussion of the economic situation and the outlook, meeting participants generally viewed the rebound in real GDP in the second quarter and the ongoing improvement in labor market conditions as supporting their expectations for continued moderate economic expansion with labor market indicators and inflation moving toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. Although most participants continued to view the risks to the outlook for economic activity and the labor market as nearly balanced, some pointed to possible sources of downside risk, including persistent weakness in the housing sector, a continued slow rise in household income, or spillovers from developments in the Middle East and Ukraine. Participants noted that inflation had moved somewhat closer to the Committee's 2 percent longer-run objective and generally saw the risks of inflation running persistently below their objective as having diminished somewhat. Household spending appeared to be rising moderately and was expected to contribute to stronger economic growth in the second half of the year than in the first half. Business contacts in several Districts reported a pickup in consumer spending after the weakness in the first quarter. However, a few participants raised concerns that households might remain cautious, with the personal saving rate staying elevated, or that the slow rise in wages and income might be insufficient to support stronger consumer spending. The recovery in housing activity remained slow according to most participants. Although mortgage rates were still low and housing appeared to be relatively affordable, various factors were seen as restraining demand, including low expected income and high levels of student debt as well as difficulty in obtaining mortgage credit, particularly for younger, first-time homebuyers. It was also noted that the weakness in homebuilding along with the continued rise in house prices suggested that supply constraints were also weighing on construction activity. A couple of participants indicated that some demand appeared to have shifted to rental properties. The rising demand for rentals was in part being satisfied by investors buying homes for the rental market; it was also providing support for multifamily construction. Some participants noted their concern that a number of the factors restraining residential construction might persist, damping the housing recovery for some time. Many participants reported continued improvement in sentiment among their business contacts and noted positive readings from recent regional and national surveys of manufacturing and service-sector activity. In particular, participants cited strength in airlines, railroads, trucking firms, businesses supplying the motor vehicle and aerospace industries, and those in the high-tech sector. In addition, higher energy prices continued to provide support for activity in the energy sector. In the agriculture sector, favorable growing conditions for crops had lowered prices but increased the profitability of livestock producers. The reports from their business contacts provided support for participants' expectation of stronger economic growth in the second half of the year. In some cases, the information from businesses suggested increases in spending on capital equipment or a pickup in investment in commercial and industrial construction and transportation. Contacts in a number of areas indicated that credit was readily available, and reports from participants' business and financial contacts indicated a strengthening in demand for bank credit. However, several participants reported that businesses remained somewhat uncertain about the economic outlook and thus were still cautious about stepping up capital spending and hiring. Federal fiscal restraint reportedly continued to depress business activity in some areas dependent on federal spending. Labor market conditions improved in recent months according to participants' reports on developments in their Districts as well as a range of national indicators. The improvement was reflected not only in a pickup in payroll employment gains and a noticeable decline in the overall unemployment rate, but also in reductions in broader measures of underutilization such as long- duration joblessness and the number of workers with part-time jobs who would prefer full-time employment. The labor force participation rate was stable, and a couple of participants pointed out that the transition rate from long-duration unemployment to employment had moved up. Moreover, some participants cited positive signs of increased hiring and turnover in the labor market, including increases in job openings and hiring plans, higher quit rates, and apparent improvements in matching workers and jobs. Participants generally agreed that both the recent improvement in labor market conditions and the cumulative progress over the past year had been greater than anticipated and that labor market conditions had moved noticeably closer to those viewed as normal in the longer run. Participants differed, however, in their assessments of the remaining degree of labor market slack and how to measure it. A few argued that the unemployment rate continues to serve as a reliable summary statistic for the overall state of the labor market and thought that it should be the Committee's principal focus for evaluating labor market conditions. However, many participants continued to see a larger gap between current labor market conditions and those consistent with their assessments of normal levels of labor utilization than indicated by the difference between the unemployment rate and estimates of its longer-run normal level. These participants cited, for example, the still-elevated levels of long-term unemployment and workers employed part time for economic reasons as well as low labor force participation. Several participants pointed out that the recent drop in the unemployment rate had been associated with progress in reabsorbing the long-term unemployed into jobs and reducing part-time work, suggesting that slack was diminishing and could be reduced further as employment opportunities expanded. Labor compensation was still rising only modestly. Many participants continued to attribute the subdued rise in wages to the remaining slack in the labor market; it was noted that the elevated level of relatively low-paid part-time workers was holding down overall wage increases. Several other participants pointed to reports that wage pressures had increased in some regions and occupations that were experiencing labor shortages or relatively low unemployment. However, a couple of participants indicated that the pass-through of labor costs has been more attenuated since the mid-1980s and that wage pressures might not be a reliable leading indicator of higher inflation. Inflation firmed in recent months, and most participants anticipated that it would continue to move up toward the Committee's 2 percent objective. Many of them expected that inflation was likely to rise gradually over the medium term, as resource slack diminished and inflation expectations remained stable. In support of their assessments, several reported results from various statistical models of inflation and inflation expectations. Most now judged that the downside risks to inflation had diminished, but a few participants continued to see inflation as likely to persist below the Committee's objective over the medium term. Several commented that the upside risks had not increased. However, a few others argued that the recent tightening of the labor market had increased the upside risks to inflation and inflation expectations, particularly in an environment in which the economic expansion was expected to strengthen further. In their discussion of financial stability issues, participants noted evidence of valuation pressures in some particular asset markets, but those pressures did not appear to be widespread and other measures of vulnerability in the financial system were at low to moderate levels. As a result, they generally saw the vulnerabilities in the financial system as well contained. Some participants discussed how the Committee might better incorporate financial stability risks in its discussion of macroeconomic risks. They also suggested that the Committee consider how promptly various financial stability concerns could be addressed, if need be, and which tools, including monetary policy and regulatory responses, would be most timely and effective in doing so. With respect to monetary policy over the medium run, participants generally agreed that labor market conditions and inflation had moved closer to the Committee's longer-run objectives in recent months, and most anticipated that progress toward those goals would continue. Moreover, many participants noted that if convergence toward the Committee's objectives occurred more quickly than expected, it might become appropriate to begin removing monetary policy accommodation sooner than they currently anticipated. Indeed, some participants viewed the actual and expected progress toward the Committee's goals as sufficient to call for a relatively prompt move toward reducing policy accommodation to avoid overshooting the Committee's unemployment and inflation objectives over the medium term. These participants were increasingly uncomfortable with the Committee's forward guidance. In their view, the guidance suggested a later initial increase in the target federal funds rate as well as lower future levels of the funds rate than they judged likely to be appropriate. They suggested that the guidance should more clearly communicate how policy-setting would respond to the evolution of economic data. However, most participants indicated that any change in their expectations for the appropriate timing of the first increase in the federal funds rate would depend on further information on the trajectories of economic activity, the labor market, and inflation. In particular, although participants generally saw the drop in real GDP in the first quarter as transitory, some noted that it increased uncertainty about the outlook, and they were looking to additional data on production, spending, and labor market developments to shed light on the underlying pace of economic growth. Moreover, despite recent inflation developments, several participants continued to believe that inflation was likely to move back to the Committee's objective very slowly, thereby warranting a continuation of highly accommodative policy as long as projected inflation remained below 2 percent and longer-term inflation expectations were well anchored. Committee Policy ActionIn their discussion of monetary policy in the period ahead, members judged that information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in June indicated that economic activity rebounded in the second quarter. Household spending appeared to be rising moderately, and business fixed investment was advancing, while the recovery in the housing sector remained slow. Fiscal policy was restraining economic growth, al-though the extent of the restraint was diminishing. The Committee expected that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity would expand at a moderate pace with labor market indicators and inflation moving toward levels that the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. With the incoming information broadly supporting the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back to the Committee's 2 percent objective, members generally agreed that a further measured reduction in the pace of asset purchases was appropriate at this meeting. Accordingly, the Committee agreed that, beginning in August, it would add to its holdings of agency MBS at a pace of $10 billion per month rather than $15 billion per month, and it would add to its holdings of Treasury securities at a pace of $15 billion per month rather than $20 billion per month. The Committee again judged that, if incoming data broadly supported its expectations that labor market indicators and inflation would continue to move toward mandate-consistent levels, the Committee would likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. However, the Committee reiterated that asset purchases were not on a preset course and that its decisions remained contingent on the outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. Members discussed their assessments of progress--both realized and expected--toward the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation and considered enhancements to the statement language that would more clearly communicate the Committee's view on such progress. Regarding the labor market, many members concluded that a range of indicators of labor market conditions--including the unemployment rate as well as a number of other measures of labor utilization--had improved more in recent months than they anticipated earlier. They judged it appropriate to replace the description of recent labor market conditions that mentioned solely the unemployment rate with a description of their assessment of the remaining underutilization of labor resources based on their evaluation of a range of labor market indicators. In their discussion, some members expressed reservations about describing the extent of underutilization in labor resources more broadly. In particular, they worried that the degree of labor market slack was difficult to characterize succinctly and that the statement language might prove difficult to adjust as labor market conditions continued to improve. Moreover, they were concerned that, despite the improvement in labor market conditions, the new language might be misinterpreted as indicating increased concern about underutilization of labor resources. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee agreed to state that labor market conditions had improved, with the unemployment rate declining further, while also stating that a range of labor market indicators suggested that there remained significant underutilization of labor resources. Many members noted, however, that the characterization of labor market underutilization might have to change before long, particularly if progress in the labor market continued to be faster than anticipated. Regarding inflation, members agreed to update the language in the statement to acknowledge that inflation had recently moved somewhat closer to the Committee's longer-run objective and to convey their judgment that the likelihood of inflation running persistently below 2 percent had diminished somewhat. After the discussion, all members but one voted to maintain the Committee's target range for the federal funds rate and to reiterate its forward guidance on how it would assess the appropriate timing of the first increase in the target rate and the anticipated behavior of the federal funds rate after it is raised. One member, however, objected to the guidance that it would likely be appropriate to maintain the current range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends because it was time dependent and did not recognize the implications for monetary policy of the considerable progress that had been made toward the Committee's goals. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the SOMA in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: "Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Federal Open Market Committee seeks monetary and financial conditions that will foster maximum employment and price stability. In particular, the Committee seeks conditions in reserve markets consistent with federal funds trading in a range from 0 to 1/4 percent. The Committee directs the Desk to undertake open market operations as necessary to maintain such conditions. Beginning in August, the Desk is directed to purchase longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of about $15 billion per month and to purchase agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of about $10 billion per month. The Committee also directs the Desk to engage in dollar roll and coupon swap transactions as necessary to facilitate settlement of the Federal Reserve's agency mortgage-backed securities transactions. The Committee directs the Desk to maintain its policy of rolling over maturing Treasury securities into new issues and its policy of reinvesting principal payments on all agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities. The System Open Market Account manager and the secretary will keep the Committee informed of ongoing developments regarding the System's balance sheet that could affect the attainment over time of the Committee's objectives of maximum employment and price stability." The vote encompassed approval of the statement below to be released at 2:00 p.m.: "Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in June indicates that growth in economic activity rebounded in the second quarter. Labor market conditions improved, with the unemployment rate declining further. However, a range of labor market indicators suggests that there remains significant underutilization of labor resources. Household spending appears to be rising moderately and business fixed investment is advancing, while the recovery in the housing sector remains slow. Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth, although the extent of restraint is diminishing. Inflation has moved somewhat closer to the Committee's longer-run objective. Longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace, with labor market indicators and inflation moving toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the risks to the outlook for economic activity and the labor market as nearly balanced and judges that the likelihood of inflation running persistently below 2 percent has diminished somewhat. The Committee currently judges that there is sufficient underlying strength in the broader economy to support ongoing improvement in labor market conditions. In light of the cumulative progress toward maximum employment and the improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions since the inception of the current asset purchase program, the Committee decided to make a further measured reduction in the pace of its asset purchases. Beginning in August, the Committee will add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $10 billion per month rather than $15 billion per month, and will add to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $15 billion per month rather than $20 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. The Committee's sizable and still-increasing holdings of longer-term securities should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative, which in turn should promote a stronger economic recovery and help to ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months and will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. If incoming information broadly supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. However, asset purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on the Committee's outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy remains appropriate. In determining how long to maintain the current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will assess progress--both realized and expected--toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. The Committee currently anticipates that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run." Voting for this action: Janet L. Yellen, William C. Dudley, Lael Brainard, Stanley Fischer, Richard W. Fisher, Narayana Kocherlakota, Loretta J. Mester, Jerome H. Powell, and Daniel K. Tarullo. Voting against this action: Charles I. Plosser. Mr. Plosser dissented because he objected to the statement's guidance indicating that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for "a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends." In his view, the reference to calendar time should be replaced with language that indicates how monetary policy will respond to incoming data. Moreover, he judged that the statement did not acknowledge the substantial progress that had been made toward the Committee's economic goals and thus risks unnecessary and disruptive volatility in financial markets, and perhaps in the economy, if the Committee reduces accommodation sooner or more quickly than financial markets anticipate. It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday-Wednesday, September 16-17, 2014. The meeting adjourned at 11:55 a.m. on July 30, 2014. Notation VoteBy notation vote completed on July 8, 2014, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the Committee meeting held on June 17-18, 2014. More to come ...  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yves HermanFactSet is out with its quarterly report on which 50 stocks are most widely held by the 50 largest hedge funds. According to their research, FactSet found that these funds increased their equity exposure by 9.8% in the second quarter. And following M&amp;A activity in the Health Care sector, four health care stocks involved in merger discussions were among the top ten equity additions this quarter. By comparison, in the first quarter hedge funds increased their equity exposure by 1.9%. Hedge funds sold large interests in International Paper and Micron Technology. Additionally, the report adds that "several media companies and 'systemically important' financial institutions" were also sold by large hedge funds. We've put together a list of the 50 most widely held stocks by the 50 largest hedge funds. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry DowningIn early 2013, the “It’s 1999 again” bears came out of the woodwork and I spent a day looking at the way the stock market’s new highs were being covered by national newspapers all over the country. Surely, in 1999, everyone was both aware and excited about the milestones in the market – if we were anywhere near a mania-like atmosphere, wouldn’t we be seeing something similar today? But instead of wall-to-wall market coverage – there was just about nothing. Most business sections mentioned it, but the stock rally didn’t make the front cover of anything. And even the mentions were skeptical in nature, there was precisely zero ebullience to be found in the mainstream press. (See ‘Meanwhile on Main Street…’) Sorry, no bubble without an accompanying mania – bubbles are never just about price, but about investor behavior as well. The people who got this wrong, and were without the context of what a real bubble looks like, ended up missing out substantially. And the funny part is that this disinterest in stocks continues to this day. This week we learned that only 7% – SEVEN PERCENT – of Americans are aware that the US stock market went up by 30% last year. This is quite a mania – a mania of apathy. Gallup (via Jason Zweig): Reformed Broker Source: U.S. Investors Seem Unaware of Bull Market’s Strong Gains (Gallup) FREE AppDownload
Muted headlines about bond swaps aren't doing justice to the announcement made Tuesday night by Argentina's president. With her attempt to pass a law nullifying a U.S. Court's ruling that the country pay all its creditors, Argentina is effectively turning its back on the rules governing international finance. If Argentina's congress passes this law, the country could enter a place where rules no longer matter and negotiation with the hedge funds to which it owes over $1.3 billion in sovereign debt are all but impossible. What this law does is put debt that was once legally governed by the United States in Argentine jurisdiction. It's the international markets equivalent of taking your ball and going home. "So every government can just wave a magic wand and make their problems go away? [If that were the case] everyone would be doing it," said David Fernandez, a public finance lawyer at Buchanan, Ingersoll &amp; Rooney. "They're not fixing a problem, they're actually deflecting the issue." Argentina was declared in default for violating a U.S. Court's ruling that said it had to pay all bondholders of its sovereign debt maturing in 2033 together. A portion of those bondholders — a bunch of hedge fund holdouts known as collectively as NML Capital — had refused to restructure that debt for almost a decade, and for almost a decade Argentina responded to that by refusing to pay NML while others (the exchange bondholders) were paid. The U.S. Court said that Argentina had to pay the holdouts and the exchange bondholders equally. Essentially, you pay everyone or no one. On July 30, Argentina, remaining steadfast in its refusal to pay the holdout "vulture" hedge funds, chose the "no one" option. Of course, making that choice doesn't mean Argentina wants to deal with the consequences. The purpose of this law is to avoid paying the holdouts while still being able to argue that the country is not in default, as the body governing such decisions, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, declared. So here's how Argentina wants to do it. It's going to change the jurisdiction of these bonds from the United States to Argentina, and then change the custodial bank from Bank of New York Mellon to Argentina's Banco Nacion Trust. That way, it won't have to deal with any pesky American laws. And as the country's Economy Minister, Axel Kicillof, said in a speech Wednesday, if any investor wants to get paid, he or she can go to Argentina and get the money under Argentina's rules. Now, this plan should sound familiar because it was outlined in a memo from Cleary Gottlieb Steen &amp; Hamilton, Argentina's attorneys, to The Republic back in May. At that time, of course, attorney Carmine Boccuzzi said Argentina would never do such a thing. "There is no secret plan to evade," he said. So will it work? Can a country just snap its fingers and dissolve a contract? Can it just fire its custodial bank while it's technically in default? Fernandez says: Not really. Or at least, it's very messy. "They're literally playing with fire," Fernandez said. "The fact of the matter is, where's the money? It's in the U.S., under our jurisdiction ... This will turn into a high-profile situation between the U.S. and Argentine governments." And who wants that? Certainly not the market, and at the end of the day it is the market that will determine how effective this tactic is. Its verdict to investors is "get the heck out of Dodge" — Argentine bonds are already falling on the news. “The execution risk [of this new law] should be high and initial participation quite low as real money investors are discouraged from participating at risk of violating the pari passu judgment,” said a note released by investment bank Jefferies. We'll know more about how much investors trust Argentina on Sept. 2, when the International Swaps and Derivitives Association will hold an auction for some of Argentina's defaulted debt. The original date for the auction was Aug. 21, but this new development is throwing things for a loop. Worse for Argentina, it is making the holdouts sound as if they were right in saying that the government never intended to pay them this entire time. Argentina had been playing the victim, but this law will most likely be seen as an incredibly aggressive act in the eyes of the international community. The way Argentine President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner told it Tuesday night, though, she is simply guarding one of the greatest economic miracles of our time — her country's recovery from its 2001 default. "I really feel that we're living through a moment of real injustice being done to The Republic of Argentina," she said. "And I believe that a new world order [supports us], because we've been supported the world over, since the organization of bodies like MERCOSUR, like CELAC, like UNASUR, like 100 academics have presented to the U.S. Congress, like ... many articles have said all over the world, for simple logic we are being supported. But they are not supporting a government, they are supporting the end of something so crazy that it wants to topple the most successful debt restructuring in recent memory. And it's not only the most successful because it happened, but because it happened during a time of social inclusion for all Argentines. This is missing in many parts of the world in a similar situation." Now, thanks to this law, there is no similar situation. Never has been. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Buddhika WeerasingheLook out, angels! Here comes Sequoia!There are benefits to being an angel investor. They can be the first money into companies that eventually become enormous, such as Uber and Airbnb. For example, the first investors in Uber put money in when the company was only worth $4 million. Now Uber is a $17 billion+ company.  But as soon as a company becomes big enough to attract later-stage VCs, some of these angel investors are getting screwed over by firms with a lot more clout and cash, some angels say. "Dear Series A/B investor: if [my fund] was in a prior round and you squeeze us out of a new round, you are NOT our friend," 500 Startups' Dave McClure tweeted last week. "Really f---ing tired of bigger investors pressuring founders not to let prior investors get pro-rata." "Pro rata" is a concept in many private financings. It gives early investors have a right to buy a number of shares in a next round of financing to maintain the same ownership percentage they had when they first invested. So if an angel investor puts in $500,000 and owns 10% of the company, then the investor can put more money into the next round to maintain that 10% ownership. Angel investors have to have deep pockets to be able to match subsequent rounds however, which can require $1 million+ size checks to stay in the game. The extra shares that the early investors buy come with a cost. When early investors maintain their pro-rata stakes, one or both of two things happen: 1) New investors get a smaller stake in the company than they might like (because existing investors are buying some of the newly issued shares), and/or 2) existing investors, including company management, suffer more dilution because the company issues more shares. As a result, there are often negotiations around pro-rata allocations, with each class of investor lobbying for its interests. Recently, say some angels, some big VC firms have begun to put pressure on company founders to NOT give early investors the chance to buy their pro-rata stakes — either by persuading them not to exercise pro-rata rights, if they have them, or by not even telling them about the new financing in advance. This prevents the angels from maintaining their stakes in their successful portfolio companies—the ones that raise additional financing. This, in turn, reduces the angel investors' long-term returns and makes the profession more risky. Here's how angels get squeezed out: "A common scenario is either 1) seed investors have no pro rata rights and are fully excluded [in follow-on rounds] or 2) they have pro rata rights but the A/B investors say they won't do a deal unless the founder forces earlier rounds to not take their pro rata," an early stage investor explained to Business Insider via email. So who's right, who's wrong, and who's getting screwed? "Really f---ing tired of bigger investors pressuring founders not to let prior investors get pro-rata," early stage investor Dave McClure tweeted. Since angel investors are the first to bet on startups, they want to make sure they're rewarded for that risk.  "I feel like I took the biggest risk coming in at the very beginning and with that I want to continue keeping my percent of the company," angel investor Joanne Wilson writes on her blog. "Most VCs use documents on their Series A that say unless someone (angel) invests a significant number (say $350-1M) then they cannot continue with their pro-rata rights on the next round. I think it is absolute bullshit. The VCs should allow the angels to continue to put in their pro-rata share if they want to." Another early-stage investor referred to some large VC firms as "assholes on the cap tables" who "have no respect for the people who worked hard to help the founders create the value to date."  One firm this person named, Andreessen Horowitz, denies the claim. "We always try to be fair to early investors, especially angels," Andreessen Horowitz partner Margit Wennmachers tells Business Insider. "Most of [our partners] were angel investors at one point. I think they get that point of view from personal experience."  Sometimes, its not an VC's fault when an angel investor gets screwed over. Founders can be so eager to work with a prolific VC that they forget to look out for their early supporters. "Founders at that early stage are often deer in the headlights when a big famous firm of blue shirts and khaki pants makes a request [to not accept an angel's pro rata rights]," an angel investor tells Business Insider. VCs know what percentage of a startup they need to own for their investment to be worth it. "Over 40 years of VC history it's been proven that if you don't own 20% or more in a Series A, you're just not going to have a successful fund," one investor tells Business Insider.  But to angels, these high percentages seem ridiculous and greedy.  "One thing these investors care about more than anything else is total ownership percentage," one angel tells Business Insider. This person recounted a time they were working with a VC who was a new partner at a fund. This person confided that "all he was judged by in the partner meeting was his percentage of ownership. Not the price. Just did he manage to get 25% or not."  Some top-tier firms admit they require higher percentages than others for their "premium" services. One VC says paying to work with a big-name firm over a cheaper, no-name firm is like choosing to drive a Porsche instead of a Toyota. When you consider that a VC-startup partnership can last ten years, a lot of founders will choose to pay up, even if it comes at an angel's expense. Porsche"You pay more for a Porsche than a Toyota," one VC justifies the hefty percentage their firm asks for during negotiations. "I get myself out of the middle," one VC explains. "I make the entrepreneur a post-money offer and say hey, 'We're going to invest $5 million on a $28 million post-money valuation. What I care about is my percentage. An entrepreneur can take more money from anyone else they want, but it comes at their expense.  It dilutes them, but my negotiation with the entrepreneur is already complete." The Founder's Perspective: I Don't Want To Get Diluted VCs might apply pressure, but the decision to honor an angel's pro rata rights ultimately comes down the founder. The founder has to decide how much dilution he or she is willing to take, and how much each angel has contributed to the company's early success. Sometimes angels who haven't done much for companies try to overstep their legal rights. "Most of the time, a VC will be accommodating to an angel's pro rata rights," a VC tells Business Insider. "But if an angel comes out of the blue and hasn't negotiated those rights previously then says they want them we say, 'No f---ing way.' Often, they haven't been cheerleading the whole time." If an angel has been very helpful to a startup, some founders will go to bat for them and ask VCs to make room in the Series A or B rounds.  Airbnb CEO Brian Chesky, for example, fought to get pro rata rights for Keith Rabois and Kevin Hartz when Greylock led the first big round. Airbnb has gone on to raise hundreds of millions of dollars and it is now worth $10 billion.  "That's common to see," Rabois tells Business Insider.  "When a specific person has been helpful, the founder will ask the VC, and almost everyone will be fine with it." It's hard to please everyone though. One founder who has worked with both angels and large VC firms says keeping investors happy is "always a dance."  "A newcomer is usually investing because they're very excited about the startup amd they want to get their chunk of it — they don’t want to do all the work and only have a small chunk," the founder tells Business Insider. "If you have deep-pocket investors already in, they want to maintain their share and support it, too. You have to balance everything together and you have to try to do the best by everyone." When the balance gets too difficult, VCs often make good scapegoats for founders. It's easier to say a founder is feeling pressured by a VC then to tell an angel they haven't been helpful and don't deserve their pro-ratas.  McClure acknowledges that sometimes, angels could do more to make sure they don't get diluted. "It's unclear whether the responsibility is on the founder, new investor, or even us for not working harder on behalf of the company," McClure tells Business Insider of being left out of deals. "In fairness to founders, if they don't feel investors are working on their behalf, they have no moral obligation to offer allocation to previous investors." FREE AppDownload
All of us know that putting on sunscreen is a priority when in the sun, but how does it work? We worked with Business Insider's science team to unlock the mysteries behind the chemistry of sunscreen. Here's what we found. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Fabrizio BenschThe humanoid robot AILA (artificial intelligence lightweight android) operates a switchboard during a demonstration by the German research centre for artificial intelligence at the CeBit computer fair in Hanover March, 5, 2013. This past week several reports came across my desk highlighting both the good news and the bad news about the future of automation and robotics. There are those who think that automation and robotics are going to be a massive destroyer of jobs and others who think that in general humans respond to shifts in employment opportunities by creating new opportunities. As I’ve noted more than once, in the 1970s (as it seemed that our jobs were disappearing, never to return), the correct answer to the question, “Where will the jobs come from?” was “I don’t know, but they will.” That was more a faith-based statement than a fact-based one, but whole new categories of jobs did in fact get created in the ’80s and ’90s. However, a new Wall Street Journal poll finds that three out of four Americans think the next generation will be worse off than this generation. Barack Obama’s former chief economist Larry Summers began this chant of “secular stagnation.” It’s a pessimistic message, and it’s now being echoed by Federal Reserve Vice-Chair Stanley Fischer. He agrees with Summers that slow growth in “labor supply, capital investment, and productivity” is the new normal that’s “holding down growth.” Summers also believes that negative real interest rates aren’t negative enough. If Fischer and Fed chair Janet Yellen agree, central bank policy rates will never normalize in our lifetime. (National Review Online) As the above-cited article asserts (and I agree), the term secular stagnation is a cover-up for the failure of Keynesian policies which, as my friends Larry Kudlow and Stephen Moore note, began in the Bush years and were doubled down on by the current administration. Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, who is pursuing a career as a social commentator after dominating the NBA boards for so many years, tells us that Ferguson (which is on all the news channels all the time) is not just about systemic racism; it’s about class warfare and how America’s poor are held back. Jared Dillian over at the Daily Dirtnap notes that the militarization of the nation’s police forces has been an issue for a number of people for a long time. Exactly why does some small community in Connecticut need grenade launchers? Seriously? But he does make a point about the news cycle and trading: The key here is the press. Journalism is such a powerful force, a force for good or bad (often bad), but if you look at Radley Balko, here was a journalist who had a pet issue (which really made him a polemicist) and he kept writing about this issue over and over again, but nobody really cared. He had a small, but loyal following. Now he has a very large following, because this issue just blew up on national TV, and now everyone is interested in it, like, why does my police department have a tank? And so on. So it went from being a non-issue to a big issue – overnight. So this is what happens: now that it is at the forefront of the consciousness of the press, any time they hear about an incident like this, they will report on it. And it will seem like police militarization is everywhere. Before it seemed like it was nowhere. The only difference is that now, people will be reporting on it! It’s not like this wasn’t an issue before Ferguson. It was a huge issue before Ferguson. But now, everyone is talking about it. People are interested in hearing about it. And journalists will report on things that people like to hear about. But here is the great part. Our friend Radley Balko, the expert on police militarization, the guy who has studied it his whole adult life, wrote a book on it, is the leading authority, does he get to be the leading voice on police militarization? No. There are plenty of other opportunists around who just latch on to whatever is the new new thing and position themselves as the expert on it. I guess what I am trying to say is that the guy who is short the whole way up and is finally right at the top is actually worse off than the guy who is just right at the top. Think about the financial crisis. The cemeteries are full of the bodies of money managers who were smart and early and short all the way up. It really is about being in the right place at the right time.” (The Daily Dirtnap) I think having a national conversation about the militarization of police is probably a good thing. We all support the police, but more than a few of us are becoming a little uncomfortable with the number of SWAT teams in our communities. A little balance here and there might be a useful thing. But to bring us back to robotics and automation, Kareem and others do point out that the social fabric of this country (and of the entire developed world) is more fragile than we would like it to be. And while the country had 50-70+ years to adapt to increasing automation on farms from the 1870s onward, and survived that transition, the radical restructuring of what we think of as work that is going to happen in the next 20 years is going to be far more difficult. Especially when everything is on the news. The report that is today’s OTB is from Pew Research and Elon University and runs to 67 pages. I have excerpted about six of those pages, which highlight some of the key takeaways from thought leaders among the 1,896 experts the authors consulted with, some of whom think robotics will be a huge plus and others who are deeply concerned about our social future. (You can find the whole study at http://www.pewinternet.org/2014/08/06/future-of-jobs/ plus links in the first few pages of the report to other fascinating subjects on the future. Wonks take note.) The vast majority of respondents to the 2014 Future of the Internet canvassing anticipate that robotics and artificial intelligence will permeate wide segments of daily life by 2025, with huge implications for a range of industries such as health care, transport and logistics, customer service, and home maintenance. But even as they are largely consistent in their predictions for the evolution of technology itself, they are deeply divided on how advances in AI and robotics will impact the economic and employment picture over the next decade. The countries that are winners in the coming technological revolution will be those that help their citizens organize themselves to take advantage of the new technologies. Countries that try to “protect” jobs or certain groups will find themselves falling behind. This report highlights some of the areas where not just the US but other countries are failing. Especially in education, where we still use an 18th-century education model developed to produce factory workers for the British industrialists, putting students into rows and columns and expecting them to learn facts that will somehow help them cope with a technological revolution. Finally, I note that our views on the future impact of robotics and automation have a tendency to take on a religious tone. While everyone can marshall their “facts,” the facts mostly get used to conjure up speculations about the future. This is not unlike some of the arguments I heard in seminary. Are you post-millennial or pre-millennial? Do you see a William Gibson post-apocalyptic world coming, or a bright Ian Banks future where technology is our servant and has freed us of the mundane drudgery of needing to work to survive? The transition we are engaged in is likely to be volatile, no matter what your religious (I mean scientific) opinion of it is. But one of the joys of my life — and I hope of yours — is that I get to live through it. This week’s Outside the Box is my hopefully helpful way of getting you think about these important issues. This weekend was only partially aided by automation. We went out to my friend Monty Bennett’s ranch in East Texas, where he runs a wildlife game reserve. He has animals from all over the world. I think I saw more gemsbok at his ranch than I did when I was last on a South African safari. And to my great delight I saw a red Indian deer that had one of the most magnificent racks of antlers I’ve ever seen on any animal anywhere. And if the local redneck hunters knew about the size of the racks on his whitetail deer, he would have trouble keeping said two-leggeds from climbing the 8-foot fence that surrounds the property. (Please note, I grew up not far from Monty’s neck of the woods, where redneck was not a pejorative term.) Have a great week, and remember that robots need jobs too. Your wanting more automation in his life analyst, John Mauldin, Editor Outside the Box subscribers@mauldineconomics.com By Aaron Smith and Janna Anderson The vast majority of respondents to the 2014 Future of the Internet canvassing anticipate that robotics and artificial intelligence will permeate wide segments of daily life by 2025, with huge implications for a range of industries such as health care, transport and logistics, customer service, and home maintenance. But even as they are largely consistent in their predictions for the evolution of technology itself, they are deeply divided on how advances in AI and robotics will impact the economic and employment picture over the next decade. Key themes: reasons to be hopeful:  1) Advances in technology may displace certain types of work, but historically they have been a net creator of jobs. 2) We will adapt to these changes by inventing entirely new types of work, and by taking advantage of uniquely human capabilities. 3) Technology will free us from day-to-day drudgery, and allow us to define our relationship with “work” in a more positive and socially beneficial way. 4) Ultimately, we as a society control our own destiny through the choices we make. Key themes: reasons to be concerned: 1) Impacts from automation have thus far impacted mostly blue-collar employment; the coming wave of innovation threatens to upend white-collar work as well. 2) Certain highly-skilled workers will succeed wildly in this new environment—but far more may be displaced into lower paying service industry jobs at best, or permanent unemployment at worst. 3) Our educational system is not adequately preparing us for work of the future, and our political and economic institutions are poorly equipped to handle these hard choices. Some 1,896 experts responded to the following question: The economic impact of robotic advances and AI — Self-driving cars, intelligent digital agents that can act for you, and robots are advancing rapidly. Will networked, automated, artificial intelligence (AI) applications and robotic devices have displaced more jobs than they have created by 2025? Half of these experts (48%) envision a future in which robots and digital agents have displaced significant numbers of both blue- and white-collar workers—with many expressing concern that this will lead to vast increases in income inequality, masses of people who are effectively unemployable, and breakdowns in the social order. The other half of the experts who responded to this survey (52%) expect that technology will not displace more jobs than it creates by 2025. To be sure, this group anticipates that many jobs currently performed by humans will be substantially taken over by robots or digital agents by 2025. But they have faith that human ingenuity will create new jobs, industries, and ways to make a living, just as it has been doing since the dawn of the Industrial Revolution. These two groups also share certain hopes and concerns about the impact of technology on employment. For instance, many are concerned that our existing social structures—and especially our educational institutions—are not adequately preparing people for the skills that will be needed in the job market of the future. Conversely, others have hope that the coming changes will be an opportunity to reassess our society’s relationship to employment itself—by returning to a focus on small-scale or artisanal modes of production, or by giving people more time to spend on leisure, self-improvement, or time with loved ones. A number of themes ran through the responses to this question: those that are unique to either group, and those that were mentioned by members of both groups. JP Rangaswami, chief scientist for Salesforce.com, offered a number of reasons for his belief that automation will not be a net displacer of jobs in the next decade: “The effects will be different in different economies (which themselves may look different from today's political boundaries). Driven by revolutions in education and in technology, the very nature of work will have changed radically—but only in economies that have chosen to invest in education, technology, and related infrastructure. Some classes of jobs will be handed over to the ‘immigrants’ of AI and Robotics, but more will have been generated in creative and curating activities as demand for their services grows exponentially while barriers to entry continue to fall. For many classes of jobs, robots will continue to be poor labor substitutes.” Rangaswami’s prediction incorporates a number of arguments made by those in this canvassing who took his side of this question. Argument #1: Throughout history, technology has been a job creator—not a job destroyer Vint Cerf, vice president and chief Internet evangelist for Google, said, “Historically, technology has created more jobs than it destroys and there is no reason to think otherwise in this case. Someone has to make and service all these advanced devices.” Jonathan Grudin, principal researcher for Microsoft, concurred: “Technology will continue to disrupt jobs, but more jobs seem likely to be created. When the world population was a few hundred million people there were hundreds of millions of jobs. Although there have always been unemployed people, when we reached a few billion people there were billions of jobs. There is no shortage of things that need to be done and that will not change.” Michael Kende, the economist for a major Internet-oriented nonprofit organization, wrote, “In general, every wave of automation and computerization has increased productivity without depressing employment, and there is no reason to think the same will not be true this time. In particular, the new wave is likely to increase our personal or professional productivity (e.g. self-driving car) but not necessarily directly displace a job (e.g. chauffeur). While robots may displace some manual jobs, the impact should not be different than previous waves of automation in factories and elsewhere. On the other hand, someone will have to code and build the new tools, which will also likely lead to a new wave of innovations and jobs.” Fred Baker, Internet pioneer, longtime leader in the IETF and Cisco Systems Fellow, responded, “My observation of advances in automation has been that they change jobs, but they don't reduce them. A car that can guide itself on a striped street has more difficulty with an unstriped street, for example, and any automated system can handle events that it is designed for, but not events (such as a child chasing a ball into a street) for which it is not designed. Yes, I expect a lot of change. I don't think the human race can retire en masse by 2025.” Argument #2: Advances in technology create new jobs and industries even as they displace some of the older ones Ben Shneiderman, professor of computer science at the University of Maryland, wrote, “Robots and AI make compelling stories for journalists, but they are a false vision of the major economic changes. Journalists lost their jobs because of changes to advertising, professors are threatened by MOOCs, and store salespeople are losing jobs to Internet sales people. Improved user interfaces, electronic delivery (videos, music, etc.), and more self-reliant customers reduce job needs. At the same time someone is building new websites, managing corporate social media plans, creating new products, etc. Improved user interfaces, novel services, and fresh ideas will create more jobs.” Amy Webb, CEO of strategy firm Webbmedia Group, wrote, “There is a general concern that the robots are taking over. I disagree that our emerging technologies will permanently displace most of the workforce, though I'd argue that jobs will shift into other sectors. Now more than ever, an army of talented coders is needed to help our technology advance. But we will still need folks to do packaging, assembly, sales, and outreach. The collar of the future is a hoodie.” John Markoff, senior writer for the Science section of the New York Times, responded, “You didn't allow the answer that I feel strongly is accurate—too hard to predict. There will be a vast displacement of labor over the next decade. That is true. But, if we had gone back 15 years who would have thought that ‘search engine optimization’ would be a significant job category?” Marjory Blumenthal, a science and technology policy analyst, wrote, “In a given context, automated devices like robots may displace more than they create. But they also generate new categories of work, giving rise to second- and third-order effects. Also, there is likely to be more human-robot collaboration—a change in the kind of work opportunities available. The wider impacts are the hardest to predict; they may not be strictly attributable to the uses of automation but they are related…what the middle of the 20th century shows us is how dramatic major economic changes are—like the 1970s OPEC-driven increases of the price of oil—and how those changes can dwarf the effects of technology.” Argument #3: There are certain jobs that only humans have the capacity to do A number of respondents argued that many jobs require uniquely human characteristics such as empathy, creativity, judgment, or critical thinking—and that jobs of this nature will never succumb to widespread automation. David Hughes, a retired U.S. Army Colonel who, from 1972, was a pioneer in individual to/from digital telecommunications, responded, “For all the automation and AI, I think the 'human hand' will have to be involved on a large scale. Just as aircraft have to have pilots and copilots, I don't think all 'self-driving' cars will be totally unmanned. The human's ability to detect unexpected circumstances, and take action overriding automatic driving will be needed as long and individually owned 'cars' are on the road.” Pamela Rutledge, PhD and director of the Media Psychology Research Center, responded, “There will be many things that machines can't do, such as services that require thinking, creativity, synthesizing, problem-solving, and innovating…Advances in AI and robotics allow people to cognitively offload repetitive tasks and invest their attention and energy in things where humans can make a difference. We already have cars that talk to us, a phone we can talk to, robots that lift the elderly out of bed, and apps that remind us to call Mom. An app can dial Mom's number and even send flowers, but an app can't do that most human of all things: emotionally connect with her.” Michael Glassman, associate professor at the Ohio State University, wrote, “I think AI will do a few more things, but people are going to be surprised how limited it is. There will be greater differentiation between what AI does and what humans do, but also much more realization that AI will not be able to engage the critical tasks that humans do.” Argument #4: The technology will not advance enough in the next decade to substantially impact the job market Another group of experts feels that the impact on employment is likely to be minimal for the simple reason that 10 years is too short a timeframe for automation to move substantially beyond the factory floor. David Clark, a senior research scientist at MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, noted, “The larger trend to consider is the penetration of automation into service jobs. This trend will require new skills for the service industry, which may challenge some of the lower-tier workers, but in 12 years I do not think autonomous devices will be truly autonomous. I think they will allow us to deliver a higher level of service with the same level of human involvement.” Jari Arkko, Internet expert for Ericsson and chair of the Internet Engineering Task Force, wrote, “There is no doubt that these technologies affect the types of jobs that need to be done. But there are only 12 years to 2025, some of these technologies will take a long time to deploy in significant scale…We've been living a relatively slow but certain progress in these fields from the 1960s.” Christopher Wilkinson, a retired European Union official, board member for EURid.eu, and Internet Society leader said, “The vast majority of the population will be untouched by these technologies for the foreseeable future. AI and robotics will be a niche, with a few leading applications such as banking, retailing, and transport. The risks of error and the imputation of liability remain major constraints to the application of these technologies to the ordinary landscape.” Argument #5: Our social, legal, and regulatory structures will minimize the impact on employment A final group suspects that economic, political, and social concerns will prevent the widespread displacement of jobs. Glenn Edens, a director of research in networking, security, and distributed systems within the Computer Science Laboratory at PARC, a Xerox Company, wrote, “There are significant technical and policy issues yet to resolve, however there is a relentless march on the part of commercial interests (businesses) to increase productivity so if the technical advances are reliable and have a positive ROI then there is a risk that workers will be displaced. Ultimately we need a broad and large base of employed population, otherwise there will be no one to pay for all of this new world.” Andrew Rens, chief council at the Shuttleworth Foundation, wrote, “A fundamental insight of economics is that an entrepreneur will only supply goods or services if there is a demand, and those who demand the good can pay. Therefore any country that wants a competitive economy will ensure that most of its citizens are employed so that in turn they can pay for goods and services. If a country doesn't ensure employment driven demand it will become increasingly less competitive.” Geoff Livingston, author and president of Tenacity5 Media, wrote, “I see the movement towards AI and robotics as evolutionary, in large part because it is such a sociological leap. The technology may be ready, but we are not—at least, not yet.” An equally large group of experts takes a diametrically opposed view of technology’s impact on employment. In their reading of history, job displacement as a result of technological advancement is clearly in evidence today, and can only be expected to get worse as automation comes to the white-collar world. Argument #1: Displacement of workers from automation is already happening—and about to get much worse Jerry Michalski, founder of REX, the Relationship Economy eXpedition, sees the logic of the slow and unrelenting movement in the direction of more automation: “Automation is Voldemort: the terrifying force nobody is willing to name. Oh sure, we talk about it now and then, but usually in passing. We hardly dwell on the fact that someone trying to pick a career path that is not likely to be automated will have a very hard time making that choice. X-ray technician? Outsourced already, and automation in progress. The race between automation and human work is won by automation, and as long as we need fiat currency to pay the rent/mortgage, humans will fall out of the system in droves as this shift takes place…The safe zones are services that require local human effort (gardening, painting, babysitting), distant human effort (editing, coaching, coordinating), and high-level thinking/relationship building. Everything else falls in the target-rich environment of automation.” Mike Roberts, Internet pioneer and Hall of Fame member and longtime leader with ICANN and the Internet Society, shares this view: “Electronic human avatars with substantial work capability are years, not decades away. The situation is exacerbated by total failure of the economics community to address to any serious degree sustainability issues that are destroying the modern ‘consumerist’ model and undermining the early 20th century notion of ‘a fair day's pay for a fair day's work.’ There is great pain down the road for everyone as new realities are addressed. The only question is how soon.” Robert Cannon, Internet law and policy expert, predicts, “Everything that can be automated will be automated. Non-skilled jobs lacking in ‘human contribution’ will be replaced by automation when the economics are favorable. At the hardware store, the guy who used to cut keys has been replaced by a robot. In the law office, the clerks who used to prepare discovery have been replaced by software. IBM Watson is replacing researchers by reading every report ever written anywhere. This begs the question: What can the human contribute? The short answer is that if the job is one where that question cannot be answered positively, that job is not likely to exist.” Tom Standage, digital editor for The Economist, makes the point that the next wave of technology is likely to have a more profound impact than those that came before it: “Previous technological revolutions happened much more slowly, so people had longer to retrain, and [also] moved people from one kind of unskilled work to another. Robots and AI threaten to make even some kinds of skilled work obsolete (e.g., legal clerks). This will displace people into service roles, and the income gap between skilled workers whose jobs cannot be automated and everyone else will widen. This is a recipe for instability.” Mark Nall, a program manager for NASA, noted, “Unlike previous disruptions such as when farming machinery displaced farm workers but created factory jobs making the machines, robotics and AI are different. Due to their versatility and growing capabilities, not just a few economic sectors will be affected, but whole swaths will be. This is already being seen now in areas from robocalls to lights-out manufacturing. Economic efficiency will be the driver. The social consequence is that good-paying jobs will be increasingly scarce.” Argument #2: The consequences for income inequality will be profound For those who expect AI and robotics to significantly displace human employment, these displacements seem certain to lead to an increase in income inequality, a continued hollowing out of the middle class, and even riots, social unrest, and/or the creation of a permanent, unemployable “underclass”. Justin Reich, a fellow at Harvard University's Berkman Center for Internet &amp; Society, said, “Robots and AI will increasingly replace routine kinds of work—even the complex routines performed by artisans, factory workers, lawyers, and accountants. There will be a labor market in the service sector for non-routine tasks that can be performed interchangeably by just about anyone—and these will not pay a living wage—and there will be some new opportunities created for complex non-routine work, but the gains at this top of the labor market will not be offset by losses in the middle and gains of terrible jobs at the bottom. I'm not sure that jobs will disappear altogether, though that seems possible, but the jobs that are left will be lower paying and less secure than those that exist now. The middle is moving to the bottom.” Stowe Boyd, lead researcher at GigaOM Research, said, “As just one aspect of the rise of robots and AI, widespread use of autonomous cars and trucks will be the immediate end of taxi drivers and truck drivers; truck driver is the number-one occupation for men in the U.S.. Just as importantly, autonomous cars will radically decrease car ownership, which will impact the automotive industry. Perhaps 70% of cars in urban areas would go away. Autonomous robots and systems could impact up to 50% of jobs, according to recent analysis by Frey and Osborne at Oxford, leaving only jobs that require the 'application of heuristics' or creativity…An increasing proportion of the world's population will be outside of the world of work—either living on the dole, or benefiting from the dramatically decreased costs of goods to eke out a subsistence lifestyle. The central question of 2025 will be: What are people for in a world that does not need their labor, and where only a minority are needed to guide the 'bot-based economy?” Nilofer Merchant, author of a book on new forms of advantage, wrote, “Just today, the guy who drives the service car I take to go to the airport [said that he] does this job because his last blue-collar job disappeared from automation. Driverless cars displace him. Where does he go? What does he do for society? The gaps between the haves and have-nots will grow larger. I'm reminded of the line from Henry Ford, who understood he does no good to his business if his own people can't afford to buy the car.” Alex Howard, a writer and editor based in Washington, D.C., said, “I expect that automation and AI will have had a substantial impact on white-collar jobs, particularly back-office functions in clinics, in law firms, like medical secretaries, transcriptionists, or paralegals. Governments will have to collaborate effectively with technology companies and academic institutions to provide massive retraining efforts over the next decade to prevent massive social disruption from these changes.” Point of agreement: the educational system is doing a poor job of preparing the next generation of workers A consistent theme among both groups is that our existing social institutions—especially the educational system—are not up to the challenge of preparing workers for the technology- and robotics-centric nature of employment in the future. Howard Rheingold, a pioneering Internet sociologist and self-employed writer, consultant, and educator, noted, “The jobs that the robots will leave for humans will be those that require thought and knowledge. In other words, only the best-educated humans will compete with machines. And education systems in the U.S. and much of the rest of the world are still sitting students in rows and columns, teaching them to keep quiet and memorize what is told to them, preparing them for life in a 20th century factory.” Bryan Alexander, technology consultant, futurist, and senior fellow at the National Institute for Technology in Liberal Education, wrote, “The education system is not well positioned to transform itself to help shape graduates who can ‘race against the machines.’ Not in time, and not at scale. Autodidacts will do well, as they always have done, but the broad masses of people are being prepared for the wrong economy.” Point of agreement: the concept of “work” may change significantly in the coming decade On a more hopeful note, a number of experts expressed a belief that the coming changes will allow us to renegotiate the existing social compact around work and employment. Possibility #1: We will experience less drudgery and more leisure time Hal Varian, chief economist for Google, envisions a future with fewer ‘jobs’ but a more equitable distribution of labor and leisure time: “If ‘displace more jobs’ means ‘eliminate dull, repetitive, and unpleasant work,’ the answer would be yes. How unhappy are you that your dishwasher has replaced washing dishes by hand, your washing machine has displaced washing clothes by hand, or your vacuum cleaner has replaced hand cleaning? My guess is this ‘job displacement’ has been very welcome, as will the ‘job displacement’ that will occur over the next 10 years. The work week has fallen from 70 hours a week to about 37 hours now, and I expect that it will continue to fall. This is a good thing. Everyone wants more jobs and less work. Robots of various forms will result in less work, but the conventional work week will decrease, so there will be the same number of jobs (adjusted for demographics, of course). This is what has been going on for the last 300 years so I see no reason that it will stop in the decade.” Tiffany Shlain, filmmaker, host of the AOL series The Future Starts Here, and founder of The Webby Awards, responded, “Robots that collaborate with humans over the cloud will be in full realization by 2025. Robots will assist humans in tasks thus allowing humans to use their intelligence in new ways, freeing us up from menial tasks.” Francois-Dominique Armingaud, retired computer software engineer from IBM and now giving security courses to major engineering schools, responded, “The main purpose of progress now is to allow people to spend more life with their loved ones instead of spoiling it with overtime while others are struggling in order to access work.” Possibility #2: It will free us from the industrial age notion of what a “job” is A notable number of experts take it for granted that many of tomorrow’s jobs will be held by robots or digital agents—and express hope that this will inspire us as a society to completely redefine our notions of work and employment. Peter and Trudy Johnson-Lenz, founders of the online community Awakening Technology, based in Portland, Oregon, wrote, “Many things need to be done to care for, teach, feed, and heal others that are difficult to monetize. If technologies replace people in some jobs and roles, what kinds of social support or safety nets will make it possible for them to contribute to the common good through other means? Think outside the job.” Bob Frankston, an Internet pioneer and technology innovator whose work helped allow people to have control of the networking (internet) within their homes, wrote, “We'll need to evolve the concept of a job as a means of wealth distribution as we did in response to the invention of the sewing machine displacing seamstressing as welfare.” Jim Hendler, an architect of the evolution of the World Wide Web and professor of computer science at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, wrote, “The notion of work as a necessity for life cannot be sustained if the great bulk of manufacturing and such moves to machines—but humans will adapt by finding new models of payment as they did in the industrial revolution (after much upheaval).” Tim Bray, an active participant in the IETF and technology industry veteran, wrote, “It seems inevitable to me that the proportion of the population that needs to engage in traditional full-time employment, in order to keep us fed, supplied, healthy, and safe, will decrease. I hope this leads to a humane restructuring of the general social contract around employment.” Possibility #3: We will see a return to uniquely “human” forms of production Another group of experts anticipates that pushback against expanding automation will lead to a revolution in small-scale, artisanal, and handmade modes of production. Kevin Carson, a senior fellow at the Center for a Stateless Society and contributor to the P2P Foundation blog, wrote, “I believe the concept of ‘jobs’ and ‘employment’ will be far less meaningful, because the main direction of technological advance is toward cheap production tools (e.g., desktop information processing tools or open-source CNC garage machine tools) that undermine the material basis of the wage system. The real change will not be the stereotypical model of ‘technological unemployment,’ with robots displacing workers in the factories, but increased employment in small shops, increased project-based work on the construction industry model, and increased provisioning in the informal and household economies and production for gift, sharing, and barter.” Tony Siesfeld, director of the Monitor Institute, wrote, “I anticipate that there will be a backlash and we'll see a continued growth of artisanal products and small-scale [efforts], done myself or with a small group of others, that reject robotics and digital technology.” A network scientist for BBN Technologies wrote, “To some degree, this is already happening. In terms of the large-scale, mass-produced economy, the utility of low-skill human workers is rapidly diminishing, as many blue-collar jobs (e.g., in manufacturing) and white-collar jobs (e.g., processing insurance paperwork) can be handled much more cheaply by automated systems. And we can already see some hints of reaction to this trend in the current economy: entrepreneurially-minded unemployed and underemployed people are taking advantages of sites like Etsy and TaskRabbit to market quintessentially human skills. And in response, there is increasing demand for ‘artisanal’ or ‘hand-crafted’ products that were made by a human. In the long run this trend will actually push toward the re-localization and re-humanization of the economy, with the 19th- and 20th-century economies of scale exploited where they make sense (cheap, identical, disposable goods), and human-oriented techniques (both older and newer) increasingly accounting for goods and services that are valuable, customized, or long-lasting.” Like Outside the Box?  Sign up today and get each new issue delivered free to your inbox. It's your opportunity to get the news John Mauldin thinks matters most to your finances. Important Disclosures This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesNew York Stock Exchange, October 27, 1987Many investors think US stocks are due for a correction: They feel that the market has run too far, that the Fed has been slow to act, that complacency has created pockets of excess. Do these gut feelings mean a major equity correction looms? Not yet, in our view. The S&amp;P 500 Index has seen 16 one-year corrections of at least 15% since 1927. These corrections were preceded by sharp equity run-ups, and we’ve seen a comparable return streak recently. This is consistent with the intuition that equity corrections follow on the heels of excessive optimism. Common wisdom—colored by 2007—says corrections are preceded by complacency, but this doesn’t bear out historically. Trailing volatility and asset correlations in precrisis periods—the “price” of risk—are roughly in line with historical averages. Of course, even if complacency doesn’t seem to precede corrections, that doesn’t mean it should be ignored. The take-away is that cheap capital can boost asset prices much longer than appears rational. The key in today’s market is to monitor and hedge exposure to areas of excess that are forming in the markets because of abundant liquidity and cheap risk. A Historical Perspective Almost every economic recession since 1950 followed a flat or inverted yield curve, and most equity corrections have followed a flattening yield-curve slope. The current yield curve is still very steep in historical terms, but the recent flattening is consistent with fears that the Fed is slow to respond—and that the eventual withdrawal of liquidity will hurt economic growth. The big issue is timing: equity markets generally rally early in rate-hike cycles and decline only after interest-rate policy is viewed as hurting future growth. When rates rise from very low levels, equity returns are actually strongest (Display).  What about the most obvious indicators of an equity correction: earnings and valuations? Surprisingly, earnings per share fell in just over half of the market corrections since 1950. This is at odds with many investors’ views, which are anchored in the last two corrections, 2000–2001 and 2008. Those corrections happened during recessions, and were extreme in the context of earnings declines at the time. As for valuations, price/earnings ratios just prior to corrections tend to be elevated (an average of 18.3 historically), and the ratio at the end of July (17.9) was near that level, which could be a cause for concern. But another well-recognized valuation measure doesn’t appear to signal trouble: the yield difference between stocks and bonds is 3% today, much higher than the precorrection average of –0.3%. This supports the often-heard case today that equity valuations aren’t so high, given very low long-term rates. Predictive … or Simply Descriptive? The real question isn’t whether these characteristics we’ve discussed describe market corrections but whether they can predict them. Should we make investment decisions based solely on extremes of outperformance, flattening yield curves, high valuations or expected earnings declines? In most cases, the answer is no. These conditions predicted many more market corrections than actually happened (Display). The weak correlation between earnings growth and market performance may be the most surprising: even if we had perfect foresight into earnings growth for the S&amp;P 500 over the next three or five years, it wouldn’t give us much insight into expected returns. This, along with other analysis we’ve done, leads to what may be a surprising bottom line: earnings haven’t dictated the equity market’s path.  Turning back to the current environment, we can speculate about a negative market surprise due to declines in 2015 earnings and profit margins, but we haven’t seen the traditional sources of cyclical excesses that have been precursors—overly optimistic hiring and capital spending as well as indiscriminate merger-and-acquisition and initial-public-offering activity. We think these are coming—just not yet. Also, there are no signs of deteriorating earnings revisions, and fundamentals are stable or improving in most regions besides Europe. A Challenge: The Positioning Decision We don’t expect a major correction until the yield curve flattens further—or when we see more of a buildup in corporate excesses. But a more modest correction of 5%–10% is certainly possible, given the change in sentiment and the midcycle change in the nature of growth. Historically, these market inflections have seen the most crowded trades underperform: US tech stocks in 2000–2001 are a good example. In the post-2008 environment, investor flows into emerging-market equities offer a more recent example of crowding. Even more recently, the crowded long trade in the New Zealand dollar underperformed starting in mid-July 2014, and worsened because of bearish comments and intervention by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand on July 24. It’s understandable to look for insulation against crowded trades that could be hurt by changing sentiment, but all-out de-risking may not be preferable to investors. An attractive alternative could be selectively reducing exposure or even hedging the most crowded trades using put options. These areas might include US and Japanese equities; consumer discretionary, financials and healthcare stocks; and emerging markets and some segments of high yield. Investors might also consider continuing to diversify their equity beta exposure. The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice or trade recommendations and do not necessarily represent the views of all AllianceBernstein portfolio-management teams. Vadim Zlotnikov is Chief Market Strategist and Co-Head of Multi-Asset Solutions at AllianceBernstein (NYSE: AB). This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of BP logo seen at a fuel station of British oil company BP in St. PetersburgLONDON (Reuters) - Oil major BP  has appointed a chief executive to look after its U.S. onshore oil and gas assets, months ahead of its plan to spin off the business to boost the profitability of its shale gas portfolio in the country. SandRidge Energy Inc's  former Chief Operating Officer David Lawler will take on the Houston-based role on Sept. 15. He will head the new business - called U.S. Lower 48 Onshore - which includes unconventional resources of around 7.6 billion barrels of oil equivalent across 20,000 wells. Lawler has decades of experience in the U.S. energy market after working at Shell , ConocoPhillips  and Burlington Resources in a variety of roles ranging from drilling engineering to exploration and production business development. The U.S. unconventional oil and gas market is highly competitive and a number of other big oil companies, including rival European producers Shell and BG , have struggled to cope with depressed gas prices after making big investments. BP announced in March it would create a separate U.S. onshore oil and gas unit early next year to allow faster decision-making and shorter cycle times to move from shale drilling to production. Lawler's unit will start publishing separate financial information to the rest of BP from next year and operate under a different governance management, but BP will continue to own it. Separately, the oil major also announced on Wednesday it was the highest bidder on 27 new leases in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the basin where its Macondo well explosion killed 11 workers and caused a devastating oil spillage in 2010. "We hope to continue building on ... the recent momentum that has returned to BP's operations in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico," the company said in a statement.  (Reporting by Karolin Schaps; Additional reporting by Terry Wade in Houston; Editing by Pravin Char) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGoldman Sachs sign is seen above floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the opening bell in the Manhattan borough of New YorkGoldman Sachs Group Inc. plans to raise pay for junior bankers by 20% next year, the New York Post reported on Wednesday. The pay raise means that first-year analysts will earn about $85,000 before collecting bonuses in 2015, the newspaper said. Analysts who have been at the Wall Street bank longer will earn more. A Goldman Sachs representative did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Goldman's pay hike comes as Wall Street is making an effort to ease strains on junior bankers by limiting hours they work and compensating them better. (Reporting by Lauren Tara LaCapra) FREE AppDownload
L@mie/FlickrPicture a hungry family in need and you might not imagine a student, an active duty military service member -- or a white American family. But that is the reality, according to "Hunger in America," a study released by the charitable food organization Feeding America. Through 200 local food banks, the nonprofit serves more than 46 million people annually, including 12 million children and 7 million seniors. The report paints a bleak picture of our fellow citizens in need: 10% of which are adult students, 20% Latino, 26% black and 43% white. A staggering 620,000 households seeking food assistance include at least one member currently serving in the U.S. military. "The results from this historic study are truly alarming," said Bob Aiken, CEO of Feeding America, in a release. "Many of the people we serve struggle not only to get enough to eat, but also to keep a roof over their heads, the lights on in their homes, and to cover their healthcare and medicine costs. This data provides a factual basis for decisions about how we as a nation approach hunger relief and protect our most vulnerable citizens." More than 60,000 people who sought food assistance were surveyed, half of which (54%) had at least one member of the household that had been employed in the past year. In households with children, the number rose to 71%. But most (57%) reported only part-time employment -- the median annual  of Feeding America clients is just $9,175. "It's not the welfare moms that everybody imagines," Sandi Vidal, executive director of Christian HELP, told the Orlando Sentinel. "Many of the people we see have at least a high-school diploma or GED, and many of them are working but underemployed. They need better-paying jobs and more hours." Tough choices are made by these struggling families. A large majority (79%) admitted that they bought the cheapest food available, even knowing it might not be the healthiest choice. Two-thirds of the respondents said they have had to choose between buying food and paying for medicine or medical care. One-third said their household included an individual with diabetes. Nearly two million Feeding America volunteers contribute more than 8.4 million hours of their time each month to help provide food through 200 food  and 58,000 food pantries and meal service programs across the nation. FREE AppDownload
New York City is the billionaire-breeding capital of the world, according to a new report from Spear's and WealthInsight. Fifty-two billionaires have been born in the Big Apple, totaling 3.09% of all billionaires on the planet. Moscow came in second, while London came in third. Courtesy of Spear's The above map is actually a better indicator of "billionaire hives" six decades ago, rather than today, because the average billionaire is 63, WealthInsight's Oliver Williams told Spear's. While some cities on the ranking, like New York and London, still continue to mint wealthy individuals, others, like Detroit and Pittsburgh, rarely do. In 2012, 70 billionaires lived in New York City, more than in any other city. Moscow and London also count large numbers of billionaires among their current ranks. A study from Spear's and WealthInsight from earlier this summer found that one in every 21 New Yorkers is a millionaire. That's 4.63% of the population. The No. 1 city, Monaco, has nearly 3 in 10.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesJanet Yellen arrives at the morning session of the Economic Policy Symposium at Jackson Hole in Moran, Wyo., Friday, Saturday, Aug. 27, 2011.Fed officials have highlighted underemployment but offered little guidance about how this issue affects the policy outlook. Traditional tools like the Taylor Rule need to be recalibrated if the central bank focuses on a different measure of slack, so they offer little guidance to investors at the moment. We hope to learn more at this week’s Jackson Hole conference. A consensus among Fed officials holds that the standard U3 unemployment rate—now at 6.2%—“considerably” understates slack in the labor market. As a result, policy should focus on broader measures like the U6 unemployment rate—which includes discouraged workers and part-time workers who would prefer full-time work—or statistical estimates of the total “employment gap” (such as that from economist Andrew Levin; see here). This idea has now made it into the official FOMC statement, which said in July, “a range of labor market indicators suggests that there remains significant underutilization of labor resources.” Leaving aside the merits of this argument (see here for our views), one important question remains unresolved: how exactly will policymakers adjust the funds rate and balance sheet in light of this additional labor market slack? Fed officials have stressed the underemployment problem, but have offered few details about how it affects the policy outlook—instead, they’ve tied the exit discussion to the notion of “headwinds” (background here). This year’s Jackson Hole Conference would be a good moment for Fed Chair Yellen to clarify her views on underemployment and its policy implications. The commonplace answer to this question is that one should simply adjust the slack term in the Taylor Rule (or other policy rule) to account for underemployment. For instance, a typical version of the Taylor Rule can be written as: where r is the funds rate, r* is the neutral (nominal) funds rate, U3 and U3* are the standard unemployment rate and its natural rate, p and p*are the inflation rate and the Fed’s inflation target, and the two <U+03B3> (gamma) terms reflect the responsiveness of policy to unemployment and inflation gaps. In order to account for labor market slack beyond the standard unemployment rate, one could adjust the unemployment rate measure to capture “true” labor market slack. Based on pre-crisis relationships, the popular U6 measure implies a “true” unemployment rate of 7.1% today—significantly higher than the 6.2% reported U3 rate (Exhibit 1). This implies an unemployment gap that’s 0.9 percentage points (pp) wider, and a warranted funds rate from the Taylor Rule that’s 1.8pp lower (using a slack coefficient of 2.0, as Fed Chair Yellen has in past speeches). This is a big difference in the warranted funds rate, and goes a long way to explaining why policy has deviated from standard rules. Columbia ManagementExhibit 1: U6 could imply “true” unemployment rate of 7.1%However, it’s not generally appropriate to apply the Taylor Rule in this way. The parameters of the Taylor Rule are not laws of the universe. Rather, they’re what economists call “reduced form” estimates: historical averages, not structural features of the US economy. The responsiveness of policy to unemployment and inflation gaps—the gamma terms in the Taylor Rule—will differ based on (1) policymaker preferences and (2) the underlying structure of the economy. Thus, if we use a different slack term in the Taylor Rule, we probably need to change the other terms in the equation too. In fact, under certain assumptions it’s possible to express the Taylor Rule’s response parameters in terms of the underlying structure of the economy (see, for example, Laurence Ball, “Efficient Rules for Monetary Policy.” NBER Working Paper, March 1997). Specifically, these variables can be written as:  where ß is the sensitivity of economic slack to interest rates (the slope of the I/S Curve), <U+03BB> is the persistence of slack, a is the sensitivity of inflation to slack (the slope of the Phillips Curve), and q is a measure related to policymaker preferences (see reference for details). If, for example, the sensitivity of inflation to slack were to change, the terms in the Taylor Rule would change too. We see two reasons why these policy response parameters in the Taylor Rule might be smaller if Fed officials were focused on a broad measure of labor market slack. First, discouraged workers and the underemployed may have a smaller impact on inflation than unemployed persons actively searching for work (i.e., the slope of the Phillips Curve is flatter for broader measures of labor market slack). Unfortunately, because the various measures of labor market slack have been highly correlated until recently, it’s challenging to sort out these differences with statistical analysis. This is true even when using state level data (as discussed here). We suspect Fed officials are making an assumption that the impact of the underemployed on wage and price inflation is somewhat lower than for the unemployed (similar to the assumption in Erceg and Levin 2013), but this would be a helpful point to clarify. Second, welfare implications for the underemployed might be different than for the unemployed. This question is really a judgment call for policymakers, but we would presume that the negative financial and psychological effects of economic weakness are less severe for workers with part-time employment than for active jobseekers. If that’s the case, the sensitivity of the funds rate to slack would be smaller when targeting broad measures of labor market slack. We think Janet Yellen’s July Humphrey-Hawkins testimony offered a hint about how Fed officials might be incorporating the underemployment issue into policy discussions in practice. In response to a question about the size of the output gap, Yellen offered the following: “The unemployment rate is 6.1 percent; members of our participants in the FOMC would see a normal longer-term unemployment rate in the range of 5.2 (percent) to 5.5 percent. So you know, taking the lower end of that range is, say, a 0.9 percent gap in terms of the unemployment rate. A simple historical relationship that’s fit pretty well—this is just back-of-the-envelope; it’s not precise—called “Okun’s law” would say that … the output gap tends to be on the order of 2 (times) or 2.5 times that in terms of a percentage of GDP. So I think that gets us in the range of something like 2 (percent) or a little bit over 2 percent in terms of an output gap.” Using the midpoint of the longer-term unemployment rate estimates (5.35%, the average of 5.2% and 5.5%) implies an unemployment gap at this time of 0.75pp. In addition, Okun’s Law for the US is actually about 1.8, not 2.0-2.5 (Exhibit 2). Thus, at face value these figures imply an output gap of 1.35% (=0.75*1.8). In her calculation, Yellen instead uses the bottom end of the longer-term unemployment rate range and an abnormally large coefficient for Okun’s Law, arriving at an output gap of 2% or a bit more. We suspect this is a quick-and-dirty way of accounting for underemployment: by grossing up the working estimate of the output gap with a low NAIRU and large Okun coefficient. Exhibit 2: U.S. output gap usually 1.8 times unemployment gap  In truth though, Yellen’s Humphrey-Hawkins Q&amp;A was far from a fully articulated description about how Fed officials are dealing with these issues. The latest FOMC statement suggests policymakers have pivoted further away from their traditional focus on the U3 unemployment rate. However, there’s still considerable uncertainty around what measure of slack they are using and how it fits into the policy planning process. Unfortunately, traditional tools like the Taylor Rule need to be recalibrated if the central bank focuses on a different measure of slack, so they offer little guidance to investors at the moment. We hope this week’s Jackson Hole conference will shed some light on these questions. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA logo of McDonald's Corp's is on display outside its restaurant on the outskirts of MoscowBy Maria Kiselyova MOSCOW (Reuters) - McDonald's  said on Wednesday it is studying complaints from Russia's state food safety watchdog of sanitary breaches at its Moscow's restaurants, operations at some of which were suspended after checks. "We are studying the essence of the claims to determine the steps necessary to open the restaurants for the customers as soon as possible," McDonald's Russian office said in a statement.  (Reporting by Maria Kiselyova; Writing by Vladimir Soldatkin; Editing by Christian Lowe) FREE AppDownload
Men’s Vests? Men’s Waistcoats? Single or double breasted vests? 3 buttons, 5 buttons, 12 buttons? Notch, peak, or shawl lapels on a vest? OK – a lot of questions here ... but not to worry. I have all the answers and then some in this article on waistcoats and vests. Real Men Real Style Now check out Real Men Real Style's video guide to buying a vest:  This article originally appeared at Real Men Real Style.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexander DemianchukBottles of Carlsberg beer are seen in a bar in St. Petersburg June 17, 2014.The Russia-Ukraine conflict is showing up in the financial reports of more European companies. Danish beer maker Carlsberg said on Wednesday that revenue in its Eastern Europe operating segment fell 20% in the second quarter as total volumes decreased 12%.  Shares of Carlsberg listed in New York were down more than 3% on Wednesday following the news. In a release, Carlsberg said: "The value of the Russian beer market grew in the first six months while market volumes declined by an estimated 6-7% due to the uncertain macroenvironment, weak economic development and bad weather, particularly in June." The company added that Ukrainian beer market declined by 10% due to what it called a, "very challenging and uncertain macroeconomic climate coupled with a 43% beer tax increase in May." Carlsberg also said that distribution to some cities in eastern Ukraine has been "challenging." Carlsberg's operating margin in Eastern Europe, however, increased during the quarter, as Carlsberg decreased its package size to minimize price increases.  This commentary from Carlsberg follows an announcement on July 31 from German athletic apparel maker Adidas, which said that the situation in Russia put its short-term profitability contributions from the region in doubt.  And amid the instability in Russia and Ukraine, many have noted that taken as a percent of the world's GDP, Russia is a small player. But this doesn't exempt companies highly exposed to the Russian economy from feeling the impacts of sanctions and continued instability.  In July, we highlighted this chart from Citi, which showed that among foreign companies, Carlsberg had the second-highest exposure to Russia and Ukraine. Citi FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile of customers standing outside Macy's store in New YorkBy Joseph Ax NEW YORK (Reuters) - Macy's Inc  has agreed to pay $650,000 to New York's attorney general and install a monitor to resolve allegations that its security personnel targeted minority shoppers. New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, whose office investigated several complaints from customers of the company's flagship store in midtown Manhattan, also said Macy's would adopt new anti-profiling policies, improve training and designate a compliance expert to report to the attorney general's office for the next three years. The deal comes a week after Schneiderman's office reached a $525,000 agreement with Barneys New York [DBWLDB.UL] to resolve similar "shop-and-frisk" allegations from minority customers. "It is absolutely unacceptable - and it's illegal - for anyone in New York to be treated like a criminal simply because of the color of their skin," Schneiderman said in a statement. In a statement, Macy's said it has also reached settlements in principle with various shoppers who filed state and federal lawsuits alleging discrimination. Those complaints included a lawsuit filed by actor Rob Brown of HBO's "Treme" claiming he was detained and handcuffed at the store after purchasing a $1,300 gold watch. "Our company's policies strictly prohibit any form of discrimination or racial profiling and any occurrence of such behavior will not be tolerated in our organization," the company said. The attorney general's office opened its investigation 18 months ago. Among other findings, the office said a review of data provided by Macy's showed the store detained minorities at significantly higher rates than white shoppers. Macy's had previously operated under a consent decree reached in 2005 with the attorney general's office to resolve allegations that its security practices, including its handcuffing policies, violated anti-discrimination laws. That agreement ended in 2008.  (Reporting by Joseph Ax; Editing by Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA sign is seen outside a Royal Bank of Scotland building in central LondonBy Nate Raymond NEW YORK (Reuters) - Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  said on Wednesday it had reached a settlement allowing it to use a key piece of software in its trade finance business that a U.S. judge had prevented the bank from using due to copyright infringement. Terms of the settlement with Complex Systems Inc were not disclosed. But RBS in a statement said the deal would allow it to use the company's BankTrade software and continue processing trade finance transactions across all of its legal entities. "Our clients remain our primary focus, and this settlement assures them of our continued commitment to our trade finance business," RBS said in a statement. A spokesman for Jersey City, New Jersey-based Complex Systems had no immediate comment. In May, U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest in Manhattan entered a permanent injunction requiring RBS's ABN Amro unit to stop using the BankTrade software within a year, and not to use it to process new trade finance transactions received 60 days from her decision. ABN, now called Royal Bank of Scotland NV, had in court characterized the BankTrade software as a "core" feature of its technical platform and said removing it would be like cutting out the system's heart. The lawsuit, filed in 2008, flowed out of ABN Amro's $21 billion sale in 2007 to Bank of America Corp  of LaSalle Bank and a unit that had been licensing BankTrade from Complex Systems. Forrest said the license went to Bank of America, but RBS kept using the software. An outdated version became a deeply embedded component of a platform used in 22 countries by more than 2,600 clients, processing thousands of transactions a week, she wrote. The judge had ruled in March 2013 that ABN Amro was improperly using the BankTrade software of Complex Systems. The bank appealed and sought to put Forrest's ruling on hold in the meantime. But the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New York denied the bank's request on June 26. The case is Complex Systems Inc v. ABN Amro Bank NV, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 08-07497.  (Reporting by Nate Raymond in New York; Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
Patrick Hoesly / Flickr, CCTarget's $4.4 billion expansion into Canada continues to drain the company's profits.  Operating losses from the chain's Canadian stores widened to $204 million in the second quarter from $169 million a year earlier, the company reported Wednesday. Same-store sales in the country fell 11.4% over the same time period and gross margins stood at 18.4%, down from 31.6% a year earlier. Target's losses for the Canadian business now total more than $1.4 billion. Target said Wednesday that the international expansion is partly to blame for the company's 62% drop in overall profit for the second quarter. Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors Target Canada's shelves have been criticized by Wall Street analysts for being empty. The retailer has hired a new CEO and replaced the president of its Canadian operation to try and execute a turnaround.  Here's what went wrong with the expansion. 1. Target store locations in Canada are less than ideal. Target bought more than 120 Zellers stores from Canadian department store chain Hudson's Bay Co. in 2011 and "many were in rundown shopping centers that were hard to access," according to the Wall Street Journal. "The locations were smaller than Target's typical U.S. formats and took more money than expected to expand and convert to its trademark red-and-white layout." 2. Canadian customers have complained that Target's prices are lower in the U.S. "Canadians along the border find it a better overall value proposition visiting Target stores in the U.S. or buying online," writes Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors. 3. Target Canada's store shelves are disorganized and empty and selection is limited. In an interview with the Journal, a former Target employee complained of having to fill half of an entire aisle with Tide detergent when the store had nothing else to fill shelves.   Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors Wall Street analyst Brian Sozzi shared this photo, which shows empty shelves at a Canada Target. 4. Target is having a hard time competing with Wal-Mart, which expanded into Canada two decades ago. "Walmart is the household name to visit given its way earlier entry into the market and willingness to invest in price," Sozzi writes.  5. Target's launch in Canada was overambitious. The retailer opened 124 stores over 10 months in its first year. FREE AppDownload
New York City's cutthroat culinary community made a rare allowance this spring and gave the newly remodeled Tavern on the Green a chance. As an iconic restaurant that once represented some of the best this town has to offer in terms of dining experiences, it was the least they could do. Now, reading Eater critic Ryan Sutton's review of the revamped Tavern, it's safe to say that the restaurant has blown that chance. Or rather, blown it up, let the dust settle, and then gone in with a fire hose to wash it completely away. The chance is done. Sutton writes: "Tavern is a de facto gastronomic ambassador for the Big Apple, an unfortunate phenomenon for a venue whose $22 mac 'n' cheese is real prison slop. And when the waiter upsells you into topping it off with salmon — because what's better than oily fish to pair with cheese-y, mushy, pasta — you'll have spent $32 on what is surely one the worst things anyone can eat outside of Rikers." Woof. Tavern on the Green was built in the 1930s by infamous city power broker, Robert Moses. It was meant to be a sheep barn but instead ended up becoming an ideal type — a symbol of the most luxurious aspects of New York City life. Previous reviews of this new iteration of the restaurant have been kind compared to Sutton's. They compared today's Tavern to the tired, busted restaurant that closed down in 2009, not to a top NYC restaurant. Even The New York Times' Pete Wells admitted to going soft on Tavern because of the warm fuzzies the place gave him. So you may detect an extra cup or two of enthusiasm in my voice when I say that under its new management, the building is woven into the life of the park more fully than in its last incarnation, a wedding-cake palace as imagined by a 6-year-old princess with a high fever. And you may hear a few teaspoons of added regret when I say that it’s not a good restaurant yet by any measure. "Not a good restaurant" is basically an A+ compared with Sutton's stunning takedown. The tale of his meal sounds like one of Ramsay's kitchen's very worst nightmares, from the food itself to the service. Is your food underseasoned? A waiter brings over one of those cute little ramekins that better restaurants use to hold expensive fleur de sel. Here, the elegant cup is filled with what looks and tastes like iodized table salt. Did you order the $45 brunch to ensure quick access to carbohydrates? The included pastry basket, filled with passable croissants and stale pain au chocolat, might not show up for 20 minutes. Tea, requested when your (excellent) grits with chorizo and eggs arrive, might not come until your (absentee) waiter clears the entrees. Sugar? Five more minutes. Exhausting. Sutton's review awarded Tavern on the Green zero stars (and may God have mercy on its soul). Read the full review over at Eater&gt; FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Walgreens logo is seen outside its store in New York City(Reuters) - Drugstore retailer Walgreen Co's  Chief Financial Officer, Wade Miquelon, and another top executive lost their jobs after a $1 billion forecasting error in the company's Medicare-related business, the Wall Street Journal reported. Walgreen named Kraft Foods Group Inc's  former CFO, Timothy McLevish, to replace Miquelon on Aug. 4. Miquelon will continue as advisor to assist the company with its strategic partnership with Alliance Boots Holding Ltd. Miquelon, Walgreen's CFO of six years, had forecast $8.5 billion in pharmacy unit earnings for the year ending August 2016 at an April board meeting before cutting it by $1.1 billion last month, the paper said. (http://on.wsj.com/VEh0xC) The forecast was based partly on contracts to sell drugs under Medicare, the financial daily reported. Last month, Walgreen's president of pharmacy, health and wellness, Kermit Crawford, announced his retirement after 31 years with the company. Crawford's departure too comes as a result of the forecasting error, WSJ said. Walgreen was not immediately available for comment. The company, which gets 25-30 percent of its prescriptions from Medicare Part D plans, had not factored in a spike in the price of some generic drugs that it sells as part of annual contracts, the paper said. Medicare Part D subsidizes the cost of prescription drugs and prescription drug insurance premiums for Medicare benefits in the United States. Walgreen would pay Miquelon severance of $3.2 million and a performance bonus of about $1.2 million, and pay $3.3 million to Crawford as severance and consultation fees, the company said in a regulatory filing this month. Miquelon, 49, joined Walgreen in June 2008 as senior vice president and CFO. In 2012, he was promoted as executive vice president, CFO and president, international, and joined the board of Alliance Boots.  (Reporting by Shailaja Sharma in Bangalore; Editing by Joyjeet Das) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tim ShafferUS Airways flight 1549, also known as the "Miracle on the Hudson," rolls along Route 130 in Brooklawn, New Jersey.America is facing a shortage of truck drivers, and that problem is expected to get worse. The current shortage is estimated to be at 30,000, and a new regulation will help drive that higher. A mandate requiring commercial vehicles to have an electronic logging device is likely go into effect in early 2015. This will make it harder for drivers to fudge the numbers and work more than the legally mandated limit on hours. Right now 75% of the industry does not have these logging devices. Analysts expect 100% compliance within a year or two of the rule going into effect. "Anecdotal comments have suggested that drivers will go to carriers that essentially, turn the eye if you will, at the hours of service regulation, because of manual logs," Brad Delco, an analyst at Stephens, told Business Insider in a telephone interview. "As a result they can essentially make more money, running more miles." The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) conducted three million driver inspections in 2012 and found 950,000 violations. Of these, 450,000 were hours-of-service violations. "In our view, drivers are motivated to drive as many miles as possible, as driver pay is based on a 'per/mile' pay scale," Delco and Ben Hearnsberger at Stephens write in a note. "As a result, we believe carriers without ELDs have an advantage in recruiting/retaining drivers as less strict adherence to HOS regulations equates to higher driver pay and therefore helps attract/retain more drivers." The American Trucking Associations expects the estimated U.S. shortage of 30,000 to surge to 239,000 by 2022. ATADriver Churn Will, However, Decline Electronic logs are however expected to lower the turnover rate, which at large truckload carriers was 92% annualized in Q1, according to the ATA. Turnover refers to the rate at which drivers leave the industry and are replaced. "One-hundred percent turnover doesn’t mean that every driver left," ATA chief economist Bob Costello previously told Business Insider. "If you keep a driver for 90 days, the rate generally drops in half. However, there are a group of drivers that churn, and they generally stay at a carrier for a short length of time (just weeks or a couple of months). Many drivers stay with a carrier for years." Delco and Hearnsberger, however, think this could help lower the turnover rate among truck drivers. Truck drivers we spoke to, one of whom, Jeff, had driven for 10 different companies, pointed to safety concerns, namely trucking companies asking them to run over hours, time away from home, and low pay as major reasons the industry faced high turnover. "The reason you have such high driver turnover now is there are a lot of different jobs competing for these drivers," Delco said. "Whether it's local construction or work in the oilfield business, it's basically competing for these drivers, which causes them to always look at where the grass is greener." It isn't just other industries, though — even within trucking some companies offer a signing bonus, and some offer more miles or load than others, and drivers moving more miles make more money. Enforcing the use of ELDs on all carriers could reduce supply by 4% to 8%, Delco and Hearnsberger write. They believe that universal use of ELDs will level the playing field, "which would give no carrier/driver a distinct advantage over another due to falsifying log books,” they write in a note. “We believe this would result in a more rational pricing environment where best-in-breed carriers would win based on service/value.” The good news for truck drivers is trucking companies are beginning to take note of their troubles and working toward improving pay and overcoming other obstacles in their way. For companies, however, the shortage will get worse before it gets better. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew BirajPeople wait to commute as an overloaded bus approaches on a street after office hours during Ramadan in Dhaka.The Economist Intelligence Unit conducted a livability survey to determine which cities around the world "provide the best or worst living conditions." Cities with major conflicts tended to score the lowest. Military and political conflicts weigh heavily on livability because they adversely affect many other factors as well: infrastructure is destroyed; hospitals are supersaturated with the wounded and dead; and economic productivity drops. The survey notes that it is "designed to address a range of cities or business centers that people might want to live in or visit," and consequently, it excluded hotspots like Kabul, Afghanistan, and Baghdad.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe headquarters of German semiconductor manufacturer Infineon in NeubibergFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Germany's Infineon is poised to buy a U.S.-based semiconductor company for about $2 billion, a person close to the deal told Reuters on Wednesday. Bloomberg earlier cited people familiar with the matter as saying a deal could be announced later on Wednesday. Bloomberg had named Power Integrations, Fairchild Semiconductor and Semtech as possible targets. The person close to the deal told Reuters that Infineon was not buying Fairchild or larger Freescale and declined to comment on other candidates.  (Reporting by Alexander Huebner; Writing by Maria Sheahan; Editing by Alexander Smith and Victoria Bryan) FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Deutsche BankWall Street has become one of art's biggest patrons, with the major corporate collections that some investment banks have gathered over the years. J.P. Morgan, UBS, and Deutsche Bank were listed in Forbes' best corporate art collections in 2012. Deutsche Bank was included as the largest corporate art collection in the world. And it's not just banks. Numerous Wall Street titans through history, including J.P. Morgan, Leon Black, and Robert Lehman, have also been active collectors in the art industry. We reached out to some knowledgeable sources on Wall Street to find out exactly what it takes to amass these priceless works. Liz Christensen is an art curator at Deutsche Bank, who started 25 years ago as an independent art advisor. At that time, Deutsche Bank in the U.S. was smaller office in Midtown. She said as the bank grew larger, her responsibilities grew with it. Now she is involved in advising, collecting, educating around, and organizing exhibitions. There are about eight curators for the bank worldwide. “There was a historical precedent back in the 80s – early 90s. A lot of corporations, including banks, were buying art," Christensen said. "It was almost fashionable at that time, there was a bit of an economic "tech" boom, and the art boom went with it. And then there was a little bit of a bust and the art bust went with that too. So there is a correlation, at least in terms of the market." Deutsche Bank has 57,000 works in its collection, spread across over 900 offices.  “It’s something that we’re quite proud of, that Deutsche Banks considers art as part of its identity. Supporting art as a creative endeavor is an important part of being a good corporate citizen, and giving back to not only to society but to the places, the cities, and communities where the bank is doing business,” Christensen said. We reached out to J.P. Morgan and UBS, but both declined to comment. FREE AppDownload
You know how, when you when you send money to someone else's bank account, the funds aren't available right away? It turns out that the U.S. is one of the last developed countries to have this problem. And while regulators and some financial institutions are finally recognizing this should no longer be the case, it will likely take years for any reforms to take effect. In 2012, the UK's Faster Payments Service went into operation, replacing its BACS system, which like ACH dates from the early '70s. Other countries' same-day services, like those in Switzerland, Japan, India and Mexico, have been around for a decade or more. The U.S. has been using the same technology to settle electronic payments for the last 40 years. It’s called the Automated Clearing House (ACH).  Lipis Advisors How It Works The ACH batches transactions together at regular, predetermined intervals, then sorting them out and patching them through to their destinations. Depending on the time of day and day of the week, you may not see your payment go through for three days. The Fed (along with one additional private consortium)  is the physical operator of ACH (which is actually just a network of servers), but its rules are governed by NACHA, a banking industry group.  The Fed recognizes the shortcomings of the system, calling it a “key gap” of U.S. commerce on a site dedicated to that issue and others, called FedPaymentsImprovement.org. One could think of a myriad of cases where consumers and businesses would benefit from instant settlement: If you've cut a bill payment deadline too close, if your kid got robbed backpacking abroad, or there's been a natural disaster and urgent transactions are required.  The Fed has also found ACH's share of payments volumes has surpassed those of checks': Federal Reserve Banks Foil Change But so far banks have proven resistant to changing up the system: Two years ago NACHA rejected a proposal to start down the road of converting ACH to same-day settlement.  “It surprised a lot of people — why work against incremental progress?" Shamir Karkal, the head of banking startup Simple, told us BI by phone recently.  According to American Banker reporter Kevin Wack, banks said they were concerned about the cost of implementing the changes, especially at a time when they were being hammered on complying with new post-Lehman rules. Some also said fraud could increase, and that the benefits would only accrue to banks whose users do a lot of online banking. But Wack says there were signs that the proposal was torpedoed by large banks looking to protect fees from wire transfers.  "I do think it is one of the more significant factors," Beth Robertson, managing director of Roberts Payments LLC, told Wack. "It's not one that everyone is going to readily admit." Right now banks charge an average $26.40 for you to wire money in the U.S. Reached by Business Insider, Robertson added that that argument starts to fall apart when one considers that most wire systems process high dollar volume transactions not suited to something like ACH in the first place. "Eating away at revenue — it's probably not that significant a threat." Simple's Karkal has said he even reached out to a lawyer to see if any action could be taken against the banks.  "If this isn’t anticompetitive behavior, I don't know what is," he said. Nor do banks' arguments about the potential for increased  fraud hold up. As Wack explained, faster settlements would allow for it to be spotted quicker.  In an emailed statement to BI, PayPal, a member of NACHA and which uses ACH to make money available to customers. said improvements could actually reduce suspicious activity.  "We encourage improving the exchange of information between all parties to help ensure quick fraud detection and more convenience to our customers," PayPal said.  Fed Steps In The Fed has now realized that banks will not act without prodding. Last year they published a white paper on settlement reform, and in June held a seminar on the topic. A progress report is due in weeks. A recent Fed survey found that faster settlements would improve at least 29 billion annual† payments. “While we’re not telling industry this is the way way ought to do it, we have indicated that there would probably be a benefit in thinking about building a new [system]," Cheryl Venable, the senior vice president and retail payments product manager in the Atlanta Fed's retail payment office, told Business Insider. That would be instead of trying to reform the old one. “While addressing these unmet needs may not seem urgent to some, the Fed feels it will take several years to achieve these enhancements and that the work to address them should begin soon.” Venable acknowledged the U.S. is running behind, but said that comparing its situation to that of other countries was unfair given the American financial system's relative complexity. “I think the challenges we face as an industry unlike other geographies around the world, where their adoption of real-time payments has come as a mandate from their government, or treasury, that’s not the same structure we have in the U.S.," she said.   Holding Back Innovation Gil Luria, a payments analyst at Wedbush, says that while the current system isn't broken, it may be holding back new players in the payments space. That's because the high cost of using other payment networks, like Visa or MasterCard, have been driving more merchants, like PayPal or Target, to ACH. So there's a chance increasing demand could further tip the scales into launching reform, he said. "As these have become more prevalent the settlement period has come into focus...faster settlement is still better than slower settlement." In its paper last year, the Fed said it is now aiming for a new system within the next decade, though it's conceivable that timetable will be moved up when it publishes its update in the coming weeks. As customers put more of their lives onto the Internet and their phones, the banking system has to catch up, Robertson said. "I think it’s becoming increasingly important because of the move to mobile payments, there’s more need for faster movement," she said. Karkal said the delays are holding innovators back.   "Payment innovators — PayPal, Square, all innovators, we are all for faster payment network," he said. "The better the back-end infrastructure, the cooler stuff you can do on the front end." †Correction: We initially said 29 billion daily payments. FREE AppDownload
Howard Slutsken/Airchive.comBombardier's CSeries.TORONTO (Reuters) - Another Bombardier Inc commercial aircraft executive has left the company, the plane and train maker confirmed on Tuesday, the latest move following a major restructuring announcement last month involving its aerospace division. Montreal-based Bombardier, which has struggled with long delays and slow orders for its ambitious, multibillion dollar CSeries jetliner program, said it has appointed Ross Mitchell to replace aerospace executive, Philippe Poutissou, who left earlier this week. A spokesman said Mitchell, a company veteran, is assuming the role of vice president of business acquisitions, effective immediately. Poutissou was vice president of marketing for the commercial aircraft division. The move comes less than a month after Bombardier said it will cut 1,800 jobs and split its aerospace division into three separate units that report directly to Chief Executive Officer Pierre Beaudoin: business aircraft, commercial aircraft and aerostructures and engineering services. "Since then, there's been a lot of movement within the company," said spokesman Marc Duchesne. "There could be more." Aerospace President Guy Hachey, often the face of the CSeries, also retired at the time of the restructuring announcement in July. Last year, Bombardier replaced Chet Fuller, head salesman for the CSeries. Gary Scott, head of Bombardier's commercial plane unit and a champion of the CSeries program, retired in 2011.Howard Slutsken / Airchive.comInside the assembly plant for Bombardier's CSeries.Bombardier hopes the CSeries, which claims superior operating and fuel efficiencies, will win a sizeable portion of the 100- to 149-seat jet market, but many airlines are taking a wait-and-see stance as it undergoes flight tests. The completely new jet family will compete with the smaller commercial planes made by aerospace giants, Boeing Co and Airbus Group NV. It was supposed to enter commercial service around the end of 2013, but that is now slated for the second half of 2015. The CSeries has been grounded since late May, however, following an engine failure. The company has repeatedly said the test planes will resume flying in the "coming weeks", but on Tuesday, Duchesne only said that Bombardier was still working with United Technology Corp's engine maker Pratt &amp; Whitney and that things were going well and "moving in the right direction." Duchesne declined to comment on reports that a commercial operations director also left the company. The executive shuffle was first reported by the Wall Street Journal. Mitchell, who has nearly 20 years of experience in sales with Bombardier's commercial and business aircraft units, was most recently the regional vice president for sales in Europe. He moves from Munich, Germany, to Toronto's Downsview facility, which makes the company's Q400 turboprop planes. (Reporting by Solarina Ho; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Caterpillar's sales keep falling. The heavy machine maker just released its latest 3-month rolling retail sales stats, which showed that sales, particularly in its Asia/Pacific segment, keep falling.  Worldwide, total machine retail sales were down 12% in May, 10% in June, and 9% in July when compared to the prior year period. These declines compare to year-on-year declines of 8%, 12%, and 13% in February, March, and April.  In its Asia/Pacific segment, total machine sales were down 30%, 30%, and 29% for the months of May, June, and July, respectively.  Caterpillar is typically seen a bellwether for the world economy, and particularly growth in China, and noted short seller Jim Chanos — a long-time China bear — in May said he remained short shares of the industrial giant. This table from Caterpillar shows the breakdown of its retail machine sales. Caterpillar  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man walks on a footbridge connected to the Standard Chartered headquarters in Hong KongBy Jonathan Stempel and Matt Scuffham NEW YORK/LONDON (Reuters) - A $300 million fine on Standard Chartered  for lapses in anti-money laundering controls has piled pressure on the bank's board, coming after a series of transgressions and a drop in earnings that had already prompted calls for change at the top. Chief Executive Peter Sands has faced criticism following big losses in Korea, a slowdown in investment banking and the impact of tougher regulations. The bank warned in June that profit would fall in 2014 for a second straight year. Some investors have already questioned the futures of Sands and Chairman John Peace, prompting the bank to reject reports in July that it was planning for their succession. The civil settlement announced on Tuesday by Benjamin Lawsky, the New York State financial services superintendent, came two years after Standard Chartered agreed to pay $667 million to a variety of U.S. regulators to resolve similar charges, including $340 million to Lawsky's office. A monitor appointed in 2012 uncovered shortcomings in the bank's surveillance systems that caused a "significant number of potentially high-risk transactions" to go undetected, according to a consent order signed by Sands. "If a bank fails to live up to its commitments, there should be consequences," Lawsky said in a statement. "That is particularly true in an area as serious as anti-money-laundering compliance, which is vital to helping prevent terrorism and vile human rights abuses." The latest settlement calls for Standard Chartered's New York branch to suspend the processing of dollar-denominated payments, known as dollar clearing, for high-risk business clients at its Hong Kong unit. A significant amount of the potentially high-risk transactions the system has failed to detect originated from its Hong Kong unit and branches in the United Arab Emirates, according to the statement. Standard Chartered will also end high-risk small- and mid-sized business client relationships in the United Arab Emirates, and obtain approval from Lawsky's office before opening U.S. dollar-clearing accounts for new clients. It will retain a monitor for another two years. The decision will impact a few hundred of StanChart's retail business clients in Hong Kong, which represent a small percentage of the bank's client base in the city, an industry source with direct knowledge of the matter said. Standard Chartered shares rose following news of the fine, which had been anticipated, and were up 0.4 percent at 1100 GMT.  FUTURE RISKS Espirito Santo analyst Shailesh Raikundlia said he expected the settlement to have a small impact on Standard Chartered's revenue but said the bank would be prepared to lose that income to mitigate future conduct risks. Investec's Ian Gordon said he believed the restrictions in Hong Kong related to a small subsection of Standard Chartered's commercial clients business in Hong Kong, the entirety of which contributed $87 million to the bank's first half profit. In a statement, Standard Chartered said it "accepts responsibility for and regrets the deficiencies" in its anti-money laundering surveillance system in New York, and is committed to fix the problems with "utmost urgency". It also said it "remains fully committed" to the Hong Kong and UAE markets, and that the vast majority of its clients and businesses, as well as its U.S. licenses, were unaffected. The bank is based in London but makes most of its money in Asia, Africa and the Middle East. Earlier in August, the bank's head of Asia operations, Jaspal Bindra, said banks were being penalized too harshly for lapses in anti-money laundering efforts, although StanChart later distanced itself from his comments. The Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA), the city's de facto central bank, said in a statement on Wednesday it had been closely monitoring Standard Chartered's anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism financing controls. "Although we have identified some areas for improvement, they are not issues that cause significant supervisory concerns," the HKMA said in a statement. StanChart's monitor is Ellen Zimiles, a Navigant Consulting Inc  managing director and former federal prosecutor. The bank's earlier settlement with Lawsky resolved charges that it concealed an estimated $250 billion of transactions linked to Iran, violating U.S. sanctions. U.S. regulators have in recent years also punished other European banks including Barclays Plc , BNP Paribas SA , HSBC Holdings Plc  and UBS AG  for running foul of laws against money laundering or doing business with blacklisted countries. BNP's $8.83 billion settlement is the largest, but Standard Chartered's is unusual by making the bank a repeat offender.  (Additional reporting by Steve Slater in London, Karen Freifeld in New York and Saikat Chatterjee and Anne Marie Roantree in Hong Kong; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe and Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
Lockheed Martin/US Navy The Pentagon has stuck with the F-35 Lightning Joint Strike Fighter program despite dozens of technical problems and delays, strategic concerns, and massive cost overruns that have nearly doubled the initial cost estimate, raising the cost of building the planes to around $400 billion with a lifetime cost of up to $1.5 trillion. One reason why the project has become such a boondoggle is that many states and countries are significantly invested in the plane, relying on its production for income and jobs. Every U.S. state but Alaska, Hawaii, Nebraska, and Wyoming has economic ties to the F-35, with 18 states counting on the project for $100 million or more in economic activity, according to primary contractor Lockheed Martin. All told, the project is supposedly responsible for 32,500 jobs in the U.S. Globally, another nine countries have major ties to the F-35. One way or another, America's multirole fifth-generation fighter is coming — though it was most recently delayed to September 2017. Skye Gould/Business Insider
REUTERS/Rebecca CookHertz rental cars are seen in a rental lot near Detroit Metropolitan airport in Romulus, Michigan.Hertz shares were down more than 11% on Wednesday after the company disclosed it was withdrawing its 2014 financial guidance. In March, the company said it saw 2014 adjusted earnings per share of $1.70-$2.00 on revenue of $11.4-$11.7 billion.  In a filing with the SEC on Tuesday night, Hertz said it expects its results to be "well below" the low-end of this guidance. Hertz also said it will conduct a review of its financial record for 2011, 2012, and 2013, and asses the impact, if any, on its 2014 results.  Some of the challenges that Hertz said will hamper its results include: In addition to withdrawing its guidance, Hertz announced that the lead independent director of its Board, George Tamke, will retire.  FREE AppDownload
Joe Raedle/Getty Images NEW YORK (MainStreet) — Although renting has become a popular option for everyone from Millennials to retirees, buying a home is still an important financial milestone for many Americans. According to the National Multifamily Housing Council, renters make up about 33% of U.S. households, but the majority — 67% — own their homes. Although renting has its perks, many homeowners say there's nothing quite like owning something you can truly call your own. Experts weigh in on five tipping points that often inspire renters to take on a mortgage and sign on the dotted line. 1. You want control of your surroundings and environment If you find yourself wanting to put in a swimming pool, remodel your bathrooms or make other substantial changes to the property, it's a sign you should be looking to buy, says Michael Chadwick, certified financial planner and chief executive of Chadwick Financial Advisors in Unionville, Conn. "There are certain things you can't do when you're sharing space. If you want to install a high-efficiency furnace or build an outdoor pizza oven, you can't do that if you're a renter," Chadwick explains. Read More: 5 Smart Budget Tricks for Back-to-School Shopping While a homeowner might be willing to invest $30,000 remodeling their kitchen, they simply won't do that in a home they rent, he explains. "You're not going to put new furnishings in if you can't take them with you, or if you can't get out of them what you paid when you move. People want the ability to come home to a place that has their touch." Some rental properties restrict tenants from painting walls or hanging frames, towel racks and other items, Chadwick says. Many homebuyers just want a chance to design and decorate their space however they please. 2. You're interested in a specific city or school district If you want to live in a specific neighborhood, it may be time to put down roots, says James Roche, CEO of Houseplans.com. "If you want your children to be in a particular school district or you want your family to live in a specific part of town, then it's time," he says. "It may be better for your kids to have that stability. A lot of parents don't want to think about moving around all the time when they have kids in school." Occasionally, families may identify a particular neighborhood they want to live in, but there are no rental properties in that area. At that point, buying a home is the only option, Chadwick explains. "It happens more than you might think. In many parts of the country, there are no rentals available. If there are no rentals in the area you want, then it's time to think seriously about a purchase." 3. Your family grows — or shrinks Many times, people are inspired to buy because they find they have too many people in their family for the number of bedrooms, says Greg McBride, chief financial analyst for Bankrate.com. "You're just moving through the progression of life, and sometimes you find that you need a bigger property. Families may realize this when their kids reach school age, or when their family is growing," McBride says. Also, many baby boomers are buying these days, but they're downsizing rather than looking for additional space. "A lot of the empty-nesters look to downsize when their kids leave home. They aren't looking to make a first-time purchase, they're just looking to get into something smaller for their golden years,' he says. "They may be looking at retiring to a different part of the country or moving closer to grandchildren." 4. You find a good deal At a certain point, it's time to stop thinking about "what if" and start taking steps to make the purchase, especially with interest rates on the rise. "When you find a good deal, it's time to act," says Clare Levinson, personal finance expert and author of "Frugal Isn't Cheap: Spend Less, Save More, and Live Better." "Maybe you've had your eye on a house for quite some time and it's still on the market. Houses are moving, so if you wait any longer, there's a strong possibility you'll lose out," she says. Read More: 5 Reasons Recent Grads Should Stick to Their College Budget If you're considering a purchase, look at what the market is dictating, Levinson says. If you're waiting for the price to get 20% or 30% lower, that may not be realistic. 5. You have the down payment As soon as you have your down payment saved, don't be afraid to part with it, Levinson says. "A lot of people reach their goal and then they don't want to part with that money. The danger is that your eyes will start to get bigger, and you may try to purchase a bigger home than you can afford." Likewise, once people have their down payment, they may want to hold onto it for longer than necessary. "A lot of people keep thinking something bigger and better will come along, but that day might not come. At some point you have to say, 'This may not be our dream home, but it's a good home and we're going to go ahead and do it.'" FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLogo of Swiss drugmaker Novartis is seen at its headquarters in BaselZURICH (Reuters) - Novartis has signed a licensing deal to hand over its experimental tuberculosis (TB) drugs to the Global Alliance for TB Drug Development, joining a growing Big Pharma retreat from antibiotics. The TB Alliance deal reflects renewed scrutiny of the Novartis portfolio under new chairman Joerg Reinhardt, who is focusing the Swiss company's research on core areas such as cancer, respiratory drugs, heart failure and dermatology. While scientists are exploring novel avenues in the hunt for urgently needed new bacteria-fighting medicines, many companies now have little appetite for the chase, preferring to concentrate on more lucrative areas such as cancer and diabetes. "Novartis is not really focused on anti-infectives, so I think it makes sense," Kepler Cheuvreux analyst Fabian Wenner said of the licensing deal. Under the terms of Wednesday's agreement, TB Alliance will fund further research and development and be responsible for seeking approval and commercializing the TB treatments discovered at the Novartis Institute for Tropical Disease. "The goal of this agreement is to enable the program to be successful and bring needed medicines to patients," Novartis said in an emailed statement, adding that it had not asked for any upfront or milestone payments.  Among the drugs Novartis is licensing is a class of medicines known as indolcarboxamides, which target drug resistant and multi-resistant strains of TB. One of the compounds, NITD304, works by blocking a protein that is essential for the TB bacterium's survival. "TB Alliance is well placed to take our discoveries and compounds through development for the benefit of patients with TB," said Mark Fishman, head of research at Novartis. More than 8.6 million people fall sick with TB each year leading to more than 1.3 million deaths, according to the World Health Organisation. The emergence of totally resistant forms of the lung infection is posing a further challenge to healthcare systems, particularly in developing countries. Treating TB is a long process. Patients need to take a cocktail of antibiotics for six months and many fail to complete the treatment, which serves to fuel growing drug resistance. Novartis said it would continue to pursue research and development for specific anti-infectives, including treatments for parasitic diseases such as malaria, as well as viral diseases such as dengue fever.   (Editing by David Goodman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toby MelvilleCleaners abseil down one of the faces of Big Ben, to clean and polish the clock face, above the Houses of Parliament, in central London August 19, 2014. A week has been set aside for the cleaning of what is officially known as the Great Clock, which is set in the Elizabeth Tower.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. 1.  Hertz Is Crashing. The car rental giant was down 13% pre-market after it withdrew its guidance, citing costs of an audit of results dating back to 2011. It now expects results to be "well below" initial forecasts. "Hertz, which has delayed the filing of its second-quarter results pending the completion of the review, has said it would restate its results for 2011 and revise its 2012 and 2013 results," Marketwatch said. "So far, Hertz said, it doesn’t appear it will have to restate its 2012 and 2013 results. The company is also looking into whether its 2014 results have been impacted." 2.  Target Cuts Outlook. Shares of the retailer were down 4% pre-market Wednesday after it lowered Q3 earnings guidance to $0.40-$0.50 against expected $0.66, and cut adjusted full-year earnings.  "In the U.S., traffic trends continue to recover and monthly sales are improving. Better U.S. sales have continued into August, driven by early back-to-school results." 3.  Lowe's Is Falling. The home improvement chain cut its full-year sales forecast to 4.5% from 5% and same-store sales forecast to 3.5% from 4%. Shares are down more than 3% pre-market Wednesday. 4.  Argentina's Workaround. The country is now attempting to pay debt locally to get around a New York court ruling that it still owed a group of hedge funds for its previous default. "The government will submit a bill to Congress that lets overseas debt holders swap into new bonds governed by domestic law with the same terms, President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner said in a nationwide address yesterday," according to Bloomberg. "Payments will be made into accounts at the central bank instead of through Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the current trustee." But fund manager Will Nef told them, “The bigger picture hasn’t changed at all. Argentina is still locked out of international credit markets because the issue with the holdouts remains unresolved.” 5.  Shake-Up At Walgreens. WSJ's Michael Siconolfi has a report out detailing how two key executives were forced out of the drugstore chain after erroneous results that have caused its share price to plunge 13%. "At an April board meeting, Chief Financial Officer Wade Miquelon forecast $8.5 billion in fiscal 2016 pharmacy-unit earnings, based partly on contracts to sell drugs under Medicare. Last month, directors got a shock. Mr. Miquelon suddenly cut that forecast by $1.1 billion. In early August, the CFO of the nation's largest drugstore chain was gone. Walgreen said several days earlier that its pharmacy chief, Kermit Crawford, would retire at year-end. Behind the botched numbers and management shake-up are Walgreen's efforts to capture a larger role as a middleman dispensing prescription drugs under Medicare's Part D, which subsidizes costs for the elderly and disabled. The saga at Walgreen—which derives 25% to 30% of its prescriptions from Medicare Part D plans—shows the broader risks for those operating in the Medicare ecosystem." 6.  FOMC Minutes. Published At 2 P.M. As BI's Myles Udland wrote in his preview of the Kansas City Fed's Jackson Hole Conference, which kicks off tomorrow, investors are increasingly focused on what the Fed thinks of the labor market. An interesting wrinkle, pointed out by Dean Baker, here is that while you might be tempted to say that surging unfilled job openings reflect workers not having the proper skills, one of the fastest areas of jobs growth is in food service, which is not what we're told are the skills people are lacking for (usually people say it's tech skills that are causing the disparity). 7.  UK Manufacturing Orders Rise. The reading of 11 bested forecasts of 4 and July's reading of 2. "The outlook for UK manufacturers remains healthy, with both total and export orders firming up," said Katja Hall, CBI Deputy Director-General, per FT. "Despite a dip in the pace of output growth, companies expect a strong pick-up in the next three months. But with growth flat at best in the eurozone and sterling having risen in recent months, there are still some headwinds to export demand. We need more manufacturers exporting to high-growth markets, which will help to put the recovery onto a more balanced, sustainable footing." 8.  Japan Exports Climb. The gain of 3.9% was about in line with estimates for 3.8%. "The export data will be a relief for the Bank of Japan, which has predicated its economic growth and inflation forecasts on a rapid rise in exports as part of the government's 'Abenomics' plan to energize the Japanese economy," Reuters said. "The BOJ can say with more confidence that it will keep its monetary policy on hold," Hiroshi Miyazaki, senior economist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities told the wire. 9.  Key Question Over Journalist's Execution. BI's Michael Kelley asks why James Foley, who was believed to be in the custody of pro-Assad forces, ended up with ISIS. "What is unclear is if previous investigations into Foley's whereabouts were inaccurate, if ISIS militants somehow captured Foley from some of the regime's most elite security, or if the Assad regime provided Foley to ISIS. "Until recently, James Foley was thought to be in hands of pro-Assad forces. If Assad is handing over Westerners to ISIS to be killed, it indicates Assad feels cornered, looking for leverage," BBC's Kim Ghattas tweeted, adding that the assessment jibes with what she has been told by sources in Damascus recently. 10.  Markets. U.S. Futures are flat. Asian markets closed in the green with Japan's Nikkei up 0.03% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 0.15%. European markets were down 0.4%.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe headquarters of German semiconductor manufacturer Infineon in NeubibergFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Germany's Infineon  is nearing a deal to buy a U.S.-based semiconductor company for about $2 billion, Bloomberg reported on Wednesday, citing people familiar with the matter. A deal could be announced later on Wednesday, Bloomberg said, without saying which company Infineon was targeting. The report pushed down shares in Infineon by as much as 3.2 percent in early afternoon trade. They had regained some ground by 1154 GMT, trading 1.4 percent lower at 8.596 euros. "We do not comment on market rumours," a spokesman for Infineon said, but reiterated that the company had been on the lookout for takeover opportunities for some time. Shareholders have been calling on Chief Executive Reinhard Ploss, who has been at the helm for almost two years, to use Infineon's cash pile of more than 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) to make acquisitions or return the money to investors. On July 30, Infineon board member Arunjai Mittal told analysts that the group would pick any target according to its strategic fit, how difficult post-merger integration would be and how much it would add to Infineon's sales and profits. Among U.S. chipmakers of roughly the size that Bloomberg cited are Fairchild Semiconductor International , Diodes  and International Rectifier . Bloomberg has also named Power Integrations  and Semtech  as possible takeover targets in the chip sector. (1 US dollar = 0.7528 euro)  (Reporting by Maria Sheahan; Additional reporting by Joern Poltz in Munich, Victoria Bryan in Berlin and Supantha Mukherjee in Bangalore; Editing by Victoria Bryan and Pravin Char) FREE AppDownload
Jessica Rinaldi/ReutersTarget Corp reported a 62% drop in second-quarter profit and cut its full-year earnings forecast as it resorts to price cuts to attract cash-strapped consumers and win over shoppers unnerved by a massive holiday-season data breach. Target, whose shares were down 2.5% at $57.75 in premarket trading on Wednesday, cut its full-year adjusted profit forecast to $3.10-$3.30 per share from $3.60-3.90. The company cut its earnings estimate for the second quarter earlier this month, saying a pullback in consumer spending had led to weak sales. The profit announced on Wednesday matched the company's estimate released on Aug. 5. Target also said then that the data breach, which resulted in the theft of at least 40 million payment card numbers and 70 million other pieces of customer data, had cost it a net $111 million so far after taking insurance into account. The company did not provide an updated figure on Wednesday. Sales at U.S. mass merchandisers such as Target and Wal-Mart Stores Inc &lt;wmt.n&gt; have been hit as consumers struggling with stagnant wages and higher taxes reduce spending. On top of that, Target has also run up big losses in Canada where its ambitious expansion has stumbled due to supply chain issues and a backlash from consumers who had expected prices to be more in line with those in the United States. Target said its net profit fell to $234 million, or 37 cents per share, in the three months ended Aug. 2, from $611 million, or 95 cents per share, a year earlier. Excluding items, the company earned 78 cents per share. Total sales rose 1.7% to $17.41 billion, while sales at stores open for at least a year were flat. Analysts on average expected earnings of 79 cents per share, on revenue of $17.38 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Of the 29 retailers that had reported second-quarter earnings as of Tuesday, 45% had missed the average analyst estimate, 38% exceeded and 17% were in line, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. For revenue, 54% missed the average estimate while 46% same out ahead. (http://tmsnrt.rs/1pdvdgW)   (Reporting by Siddharth Cavale in Bangalore; Editing by Ted Kerr) FREE AppDownload
Rick Wilking/Reuters Economists and central bankers tend to be less focused on what consumers pay at the grocery store because food and energy prices have historically been more volatile - remember, it's just "noise". However what they can't ignore is how shoppers view inflation - i.e. inflation expectations. And food prices have a significant impact on households' views on future inflation. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sang TanBank of England Governor Mark Carney.There was a 7-2 split in favor of not raising interest rates at the latest Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee, the central bank has reported. That's a bigger split than expected. Analysts expected an 8-1 split in favor of keeping rates at their current low level, according to The Guardian. The split is the first to appear in the BofE since 2011, The Guardian added. The minutes of the BofE's latest MPC meeting seem to be hinting that the dissenters believe the majority of directors are keeping the rate at 0.5% because they are terrified of what the markets will do the first time the rate goes up, even by only 0.25%: These members further noted that, while there were always likely to be risks associated with the possible financial market reaction to the first increase in Bank Rate after such a protracted period, it was unclear that these risks would be lessened, and indeed possible they would be augmented, by delaying that increase. The FT expects the split — which presages the view that an interest rate hike is coming sooner rather than later — will "jolt" the markets. Zero-interest rates are coming to an end, in other words. The two most hawkish members voted for the rate rise. They are Martin Weale, a director of the National Institute of Economic and Social Research and lecturer in economics at the University of Cambridge; and Ian McCafferty, who had been chief economic adviser to the CBI. Here is the BofE's summary of why they wanted interest rates to go up: For two members , in particular, economic circumstances were sufficient to justify an immediate rise in Bank Rate. These members noted that the continuing rapid fall in unemployment alongside survey evidence of tightening in the labour market created a prospect that wage growth would pick up. They noted that it was possible that wages were lagging developments in the labour market to some extent. If that were true, wages might not start to rise until spare capacity in the labour market were fully used up. Since monetary policy, too, could be expected to operate only with a lag, it was desirable to anticipate labour market pressures by raising Bank Rate in advance of them. Moreover, if recent robust GDP growth rates had been underpinned by stimulatory monetary policy, in addition to a release of pent - up demand driven by reduced uncertainty and improved credit conditions , then the erosion of spare capacity would be likely to remain rapid while policy remained expansionary . In the judgement of these members, even after a rise of 25 basis points in Bank Rate, monetary policy would remain extremely supportive, and an early rise would facilitate the Committee’s aspiration that the rises in Bank Rate should be only gradual. These members further noted that, while there were always likely to be risks associated with the possible financial market reaction to the first increase in Bank Rate after such a protracted period, it was unclear that these risks would be lessened, and indeed possible they would be augmented, by delaying that increase. Here's a great chart from BNP Paribas showing the hawk-dove spectrum on the MPC: BNP Paribas via @EconHedge People will now watch Andy Haldane and Ben Broadbent very closely, to see if their votes follow those of Weale and McCafferty, according to The Telegraph: Jeremy Cook, of currency firm World First, suggested that there would be "standing room only" at the speeches of Andrew Haldane and Ben Broadbent, two MPC members who might join the rebellion next. The bank saw a mixed set of economic signals prior to the meeting. U.S. GDP was up 1%, but there was some contraction in the weaker European areas. There was a sharp fall in industrial orders in Germany, for instance. The MPC saw a surprise uptick in consumer price inflation: Twelve - month CPI inflation had risen from 1.5% in May to 1.9% in June, rather stronger than Bank staff and other economists had expected immediately beforehand. Most of the surprise was centred in the prices of clothing and footwear, which had risen between May and June for the first time since the CPI series had begun in 1996 . Although it was possible that this partly reflected an unusual delay to the start of the summer sales that normally caused the sub - index to fall in June — a factor which would unwind in subsequent months — there was little firm evidence to suggest that this had occurred. And there were other reasons to suppose that the increase in prices might be more lasting. Here is the brief statement summarizing the BofE's thinking: Minutes of the Monetary Policy Committee Meeting held on 6 and 7 August 201420 August 2014 <U+200B>The Governor invited the Committee to vote on the propositions that:    Bank Rate should be maintained at 0.5%;    The Bank of England should maintain the stock of purchased assets financed by the    issuance of central bank reserves at £375 billion.Regarding Bank Rate, seven members of the Committee (the Governor, Ben Broadbent, Jon Cunliffe, Nemat Shafik, Kristin Forbes, Andrew Haldane and David Miles) voted in favour of the proposition. Ian McCafferty and Martin Weale voted against the proposition, preferring to increase Bank Rate by 25 basis points. Regarding the stock of purchased assets, the Committee voted unanimously in favour of the proposition. FREE AppDownload
LatinContent/Getty ImagesArgentine President Cristina Fernandez.Buenos Aires moved to pay bondholders domestically after a US bank left it unable to do so, President Cristina Kirchner said. "To protect the payments to bondholders who took part in the 2005 and 2010 debt swaps, we are designating the (state) Banco Nacion Trust as a replacement for Bank of New York Mellon, however the bondholders decide (to take payment), voluntarily," Kirchner said in a televised address. In July, US Judge Thomas Griesa ordered a freeze on some Argentine payments until Buenos Aires simultaneously pays off the hedge funds which sued the country to demand payment on their bonds. Argentina placed $539 million into an account of Bank of New York Mellon at the Argentine central bank at the end of June to meet a scheduled payment to holders of the country's restructured bonds. But Griesa forbade the bank from transferring the money to the bondholders, in line with his previous 2012 ruling. Argentina, he said, must first comply with an order that hedge funds which did not join the bond restructuring program after the country's 2001 default be paid in full for the $1.3 billion in bonds they hold. Argentina says the hedge funds gave up the chance for payment when they rejected the restructuring deal, which was accepted by 92 percent of the country's creditors. But Griesa has repeatedly ruled in favor of the hedge funds, NML Capital and Aurelius Capital Management, and threatened to hold Bank of New York in contempt of court if it transfers the money. He also forbade the bank from returning the money to the Argentine government. Holders of eurobonds and other non-dollar-denominated Argentine debt say the New York court does not have jurisdiction over their bonds, and that their payments should not be held up by the claims of the hedge funds. Argentina and the hedge funds have sought to find a compromise, most recently exploring whether another group of investors, mainly banks, could buy the hedge funds' bonds to satisfy their claims. But those talks went nowhere, leaving the parties at odds as the country -- already ruled in default by ratings agencies -- approaches new scheduled interest payments in coming months. via AFP  Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersHomes are seen for sale in the southwest area of PortlandNEW YORK (Reuters) - Applications for U.S. home mortgages rose last week as demand for refinancing increased, an industry group said on Wednesday. The Mortgage Bankers Association said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity, which includes both refinancing and home purchase demand, rose 1.4 percent in the week ended August 15. The MBA's seasonally adjusted index of refinancing applications rose 2.7 percent, while the gauge of loan requests for home purchases, a leading indicator of home sales, fell 0.4 percent. Fixed 30-year mortgage rates averaged 4.29 percent in the week, down 6 basis points from the week before. The survey covers over 75 percent of U.S. retail residential mortgage applications, according to MBA.  (Reporting by Luciana Lopez; Editing by Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSmoke is released into the sky at the ConocoPhillips oil refineryBy Steve Quinn JUNEAU Alaska (Reuters) - Alaska voters looked on track to narrowly uphold a new law that cuts taxes on oil production and is worth up to $1 billion a year to companies such as ConocoPhillips , BP Plc  and Exxon Mobil Corp . With 80 percent of voting precincts reporting results in Tuesday's primary, those favoring the law held a four-point lead, according to unofficial returns posted by the Alaska Division of Elections. Upholding the 8-month-old tax reduction ushered in by Governor Sean Parnell means the state would not revert back to the system implemented by his old boss, Sarah Palin, who raised taxes in 2007. Results will not be certified until Sept. 2, said state elections director Gail Fenumiai, who added that nearly 11,000 absentee ballots needed to be counted over the next 10 days. Parnell, who claimed his own victory in the state's Republican primary election on Tuesday night, has said his tax rollback will make Alaska more competitive for investment and North Slope oil producers. He called the More Alaska Production Act crucial to the state's long-term future because it would reverse declining output. Repeal backers got on the ballot last year with a petition featuring 50,000 signatures shortly after Parnell signed Senate Bill 21. They have faced opposition that has raised close to $15 million compared with their several hundred thousand dollars. Those pushing for the repeal said Parnell's system only put more money in the oil companies' pockets for investment elsewhere while depleting the state's fiscal war chest.  (Reporting by Steve Quinn in Juneau, Alaska; Writing by Eric M. Johnson; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA view of the sign outside the Lowes store in Westminster(Reuters) - Home improvement chain Lowe's Cos Inc reported a 5.6 percent rise in quarterly sales as more people undertook home renovation projects after a prolonged winter. Net income rose to $1.04 billion, or $1.04 per share, in the second quarter ended Aug. 1, from $941 million, or 88 cents per share, a year earlier. Revenue rose to $16.59 billion from $15.71 billion and same store sales rose 4.4 percent. Lowe's shares were down 3% in pre-market trade on Wednesday, however, as the company trimmed it's full-year same-store sales outlook to 3.5% from a prior view of 4%.  Total sales are also expected to increase 4.5% in 2014, down from prior expectations for a 5% increase. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA family leaves the Staples store in Broomfield(Reuters) - Staples Inc's  quarterly profit fell 20 percent as it sold fewer computers and core office supplies in North America. The largest U.S. office supply retailer said net income fell to $81.9 million, or 13 cents per share, in the second quarter ended Aug. 2 from $102.5 million, or 16 cents per share, a year earlier. Total sales fell 1.8 percent to $5.2 billion. North America and online sales fell 6 percent to $2.3 billion.  (Reporting by Devika Krishna Kumar in Bangalore; Editing by Kirti Pandey) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople queue up outside a Standard Chartered Bank branch before operation hours at the central business district in SingaporeBy Michelle Price HONG KONG (Reuters) - Hong Kong's de facto central bank moved to defend itself on Wednesday after a New York regulator penalized Standard Chartered Plc for what it described as anti-money laundering failings in its United Arabs Emirates and Hong Kong businesses. The New York State Department of Financial Services said on Tuesday that it had identified deficiencies in the surveillance system of Standard Chartered's  New York branch that failed to flag high-risk transactions relating to clients based in the UAE and Hong Kong. Standard Chartered has agreed to pay a $300 million penalty and will suspend the processing of dollar-denominated payments for high-risk business clients at its Hong Kong unit, the New York State Department of Financial Services said. The U.S. watchdog's allegations come at a critical time for Hong Kong as authorities look to clean up the city's image and clamp down on money laundering ahead of a make-or-break review by international anti-money laundering regulators in six months. In an unusually punchy statement, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority said its anti-money laundering rules are in line with international standards, and that it could not be responsible for enforcing such rules in other jurisdictions. The U.S. anti-money laundering rules are widely regarded as the toughest in the world. "This is disappointing for the regulators, given it's such a prominent bank in the territory," said Philippa Allen, chief executive of Hong Kong consultancy ComplianceAsia. "The regulators have been raising standards, they have introduced new powers to rectify some of the problems...I think we will see prosecutions as a result of this, they are going to be under pressure now." The Hong Kong authorities have been working hard to restore the city's reputation after a 2008 review by international anti-money laundering watchdog Financial Action Task Force (FATF) found several major weaknesses in the city's overall anti-money laundering oversight. The next FATF inspection, scheduled for March and April, is seen as a crucial test for Hong Kong since a bad mark could undermine its status as a financial center.     "This doesn't look good for Hong Kong," said Keith Pogson, senior partner, financial services, Asia Pacific at EY. "Anti-money laundering is a very big focus of the government, and the regulators and banks have done a huge amount of work on this." The HKMA said it takes anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing work "very seriously", and has doubled its supervisory resources in this area in the last two years.     "The HKMA conducts frequent risk based examinations on banks to ensure their compliance with these requirements," it added. The Hong Kong government introduced new anti-money laundering legislation in 2012. Since then, the HKMA and the Securities and Futures Commission have stepped up scrutiny of banks' anti-money laundering controls, according to bankers and regulatory experts. The FATF noted these improvements, but regulatory experts said the city still has some way to go.     "The last FATF review wasn't favorable for Hong Kong, and there are other issues on the table this time, including issues around tax information. Hong Kong has to make sure it is not on any blacklist, as this could be an economic disaster," Pogson said.  (Reporting by Michelle Price; Editing by Denny Thomas and Ryan Woo) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman talks on telephone next to line of job seekers waiting to attend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. career fair in New YorkWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Mike Yack has left the workforce twice in the last eight years and calls himself retired, yet at age 62 the former General Motors employee does not consider his working life over. "I'd be open to anything - learning a new trade or something. I don't expect top wages. But I am not going to work for ten dollars an hour," said Yack, who accepted a buyout from GM in 2006 and was then laid off earlier this year by a GM contractor. Yack, who says he can get by on Social Security and his GM pension, is among millions of Americans who could re-enter the U.S. labor force if the economy improves. They don’t show up in the U.S. jobless rate, currently at 6.2 percent. For U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen, the willingness of people like Yack to return to the workforce contributes to the "slack" she sees in the labor force that could keep wages growth and inflation under control even as the economy picks up. Yellen and other Fed policymakers will be studying the labor market overhang carefully as they gather for their annual retreat in Jackson Hole, Wyoming this week. Heading into that event, an exclusive Reuters/Ipsos poll - which was conducted between June 6 and Aug. 8 - shows there are many retired, and other jobless people who have stopped looking for employment, declaring they are ready to re-enter the labor force if the right opportunity came along. The poll of 7,727 individuals aged 18 and older who said they were unemployed, retired, or declined to provide their employment status, found that 34 percent said they had stopped looking for work because the job market was so bad. Despite the falling unemployment rate, 40 percent said they were no more optimistic about their job search today than when they initially stopped working. Among those who said they had halted a job search, many were ready to resume the hunt if they received the right signals from the market – those signals included more job postings that match their qualifications, evidence of a stronger economic recovery, and word that friends or relatives had landed jobs. For people who identified themselves as retired, 40 percent said they would have preferred to keep working and 30 percent said they would go back to work if the right job came along. Of the poll respondents, 44 percent had not worked in the past five years, though nearly two thirds of those people were close to or had reached retirement age when they stopped working. Large numbers of discouraged workers are key to why the U.S. labor participation rate lingers at 62.9 percent, down from 66.4 percent in January 2007, just before the recession and the financial crisis was about to roll over the economy. And this is in addition to the 7.5 million Americans who are currently working part-time but want to work full-time, often referred to as involuntary part-time workers. Most want a full-time job but can't find it or their employers have cut back on their hours for business reasons. The number is still about 3 million more than before the financial crisis.   PHYSICALLY ABLE For Yack, the equation is quite simple. If wages start moving up at the auto parts suppliers and other companies near his home in Howell, Michigan, he says he would be ready to return to the workforce. “I am physically able. The opportunity is not there,” he said. In the U.S., the Fed's mandate is to maintain full employment consistent with stable prices, giving it a direct interest in knowing not only how many people are working, but in how many might want to work but have been discouraged from looking. But the extent of the changes under way in the U.S. job market are not fully known, nor is the ability of the Fed or other government officials to address them. Some trends seem inexorable: perhaps half the recent decline in labor force participation, for example, can be explained by the aging of the U.S. workforce, a number of studies have concluded.  Six years into the recovery, U.S. policymakers confront a few problems. Wages are hardly keeping up with inflation, productivity is in the doldrums, and the churn between jobs – an indicator of economic dynamism – has slowed. In addition, the labor force participation rate for people aged 25-54 – considered the prime working years – has dropped from 84 percent at the turn of the century to just 81.4 percent now, a fact economists have found difficult to explain. And the number of people unemployed for six months or more has been dropping, but still stands at 3.2 million – nearly triple the number in the months before the last recession hit. Those and other factors have convinced Yellen the U.S. still has room to grow before inflation becomes a concern, and has made her reluctant to raise interest rates before employment and wage growth recover. [ID:nL2N0QE0YZ] What she, academic researchers, Obama administration officials, and others are trying to understand is whether those trends have become a permanent part of the U.S. labor landscape. They have plenty of recent research, much of it containing worrying findings, to comb through. Studies by economists like Robert Litan at Brookings Institution and John Haltiwanger at the University of Maryland have documented the growing importance of larger and older firms in the U.S. economy -- and noted how those tend to be less dynamic job creators than new companies [ID:nL2N0QH00Q]. Other research, noted with concern at the Fed and elsewhere, has found a decline in demand for higher skilled and better educated workers. That means college graduates may be competing for positions further down the "job ladder," pushing the less skilled to the margins. "A year or so ago many labor economists would have said this was just a really bad recession and we have seen a huge cyclical impact and it takes a while to reverse," said Paul Swaim, senior labor economist at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. "It looks like the longer-run trends are more and more the story ... It is not just declining employment participation. It is a whole sort of ebbing of vitality." The Fed's response to the problem is necessarily blunt: keeping interest rates lower than might otherwise be warranted in hopes of encouraging growth, investment, job creation and higher wages. Some of the forces at work in the U.S., however, may be of a more subtle sort that require changes in government policy and not simply stronger economic growth. The fact that labor force participation among women has declined in the U.S. while it continues rising in much of Europe, for example, may be related to European policies that provide better family leave and care for aging parents. There is evidence as well that the jobs which are being created are those that pay less, perhaps adding to the level of income inequality in the U.S. and undermining the spending power of households. A higher federally mandated minimum wage could help to address this, though critics say that could hurt jobs growth and risk a much higher inflation rate.   AILING WIFE Conversations with the unemployed, meanwhile, show that there are many reasons why they may stay out of the workforce. For some, like Bill Young of suburban Atlanta, a simple bump in the overall economy might help. The 41-year-old landscaper said his last full time job was a decade ago, before the housing boom turned to a bust. The sector has yet to recover. "It is almost impossible to get a full-time job," said Young, who gets by on "a lot of little part-time jobs." April Phelps, 40, of Sycamore, Illinois., has been making do on her disability payment since she left the Army. She got a master's degree in psychology in 2011, but has yet to land a job and is only intermittently searching because of the frustration. Donald Oremus, 63, left his job two years ago to care for his ailing wife. After that long out of the workforce he feels his skills as an architectural draftsman are out of date in a profession driven by fast advances in software. The Veterans Benefits Administration recently agreed to provide home nursing care for his wife. Both served in the Navy during the Vietnam War. He's now weighing whether to invest the necessary time and money to learn the latest tools and return to work. "I would love to get back," Oremus said by phone from his home in Boise, Idaho. "Suddenly I have fallen far behind."   (Reporting By Howard Schneider) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gonzalo FuentesEuropean markets are in the red early Monday.  Here's the scorecard: Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.25%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.38%. Germany's DAX is down 0.36%.  Spain's IBEX is flat.  Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.10%. Asian markets closed in the green with Japan's Nikkei up 0.03% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 0.15%. U.S. futures are are down with Dow futures down 15 points and Nasdaq futures down 2 points. In the U.S., The minutes of the July 29-30 Federal Open Market Committee meeting will be released at 2 p.m. ET. The Bank of England released the minutes from its monetary policy meeting at 4:30 a.m. ET, which showed there was a 7-2 split in favor of not raising interest rates. The split is a new development. There are no other majors market movers on the EU calendar on Wednesday.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSheri Atwood, founder and CEO of SupportPay, speaks during an interview with Reuters in Redwood CitySANFRANCISCO (Reuters) - When she started her child-support tracking business SupportPay, Sheri Atwood expected all kinds of suggestions - but not the tip she got from a female investor who suggested she dye her blonde hair darker to be taken more seriously by venture capitalists. To Atwood, who eventually won her funding from other backers, the recommendation underscored an attitude in Silicon Valley that women make second-class entrepreneurs. If more women held the purse strings at venture capital firms, the attitude would change, she said. Despite the lip service Silicon Valley has given over the past couple of years to the need to recruit more women venture capitalists, at senior levels the industry’s gender balance hasn’t budged, even as other industries with poor gender diversity show improvements. The issue matters because women venture capitalists have a direct effect on the success of companies other women launch, say female entrepreneurs, including serving as role models and being more likely to spy potential in businesses that target other women. About 4 percent of senior investing partners in U.S. venture capital are women, according to data from Pitchbook, a consulting firm. That is down slightly from 5 percent in 2010, and about even with 2008. The numbers compare to 15 percent of executive officers at Fortune 500 companies, 24 percent of tenured faculty at U.S. business schools, and 20 percent of the U.S. Senate - all areas that have shown gains for gender parity in recent years while venture capital has stagnated. A leading ranking of venture capitalists, the Forbes Midas List, noted just four women on its latest list of top 100 venture investors. A few years ago, five women typically made the list each year. And despite much discussion over the need to improve gender balance over the past few years, many of the top firms still have no senior women partners at all. Some Silicon Valley women shy away from openly discussing the shortage and the climate for women, believing their comments would peg them as whiners and cut them out of deals in the case of venture capitalists, or funding in the case of entrepreneurs. Among firms that Forbes ranked as top because they provided multiple partners to its Midas List, only one, Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers, appears to have more senior female investing partners in the United States compared with five years ago. Kleiner has two women listed as lead partners in its most recent funds. It is battling a lawsuit brought by former partner Ellen Pao, who alleges harassment and discrimination. Kleiner denies the accusations. Kleiner declined to comment, but in a blog post two years ago partner John Doerr said his firm was one of the most diverse in terms of gender, age and ethnicity. Another venture capital firm, DFJ, has one senior woman in the United States, the same as five years ago. DFJ said it believed "a diverse group of people makes better decisions, both within our industry and the companies we fund." Accel, which declined to comment, has no senior women investors in the United States, although it had one previously. Others, including Sequoia Capital, Greylock Partners, Benchmark, Meritech Capital Partners, NEA, Andreessen Horowitz, and Bessemer Ventures, had no senior women partners five years ago. They still don’t today. "No excuses," said a Sequoia spokesman. "We need to do better and we're pursuing a number of initiatives to help." Sequoia funds groups such as Girls Who Code, which teaches young women computer programming. Many venture capitalists say a lack of women in technology exacerbates the shortfall in venture. Bessemer partner Ed Colloton said the firm believed in developing talent internally and had "a strong pipeline of future female partners" on the current team. A Greylock spokeswoman said the firm has discussed how to improve the situation, including backing startups with diverse executives in hope of cultivating a more diverse next-generation group of venture capitalists. A spokeswoman for NEA said it was “focused on having a strong bench that will result in a more diverse GP (general partner) group over time.”  Andreessen Horowitz's Peter Levine and Benchmark's Bill Gurley, both general partners, said their firms were eager to hire a senior female investing partner but hadn't found the right fit. Meritech founding partner Paul Madera said he hoped to one day hire a female partner. The paucity of senior women VCs exists at a time when difficulties facing women in technology have hit the headlines. Examples include statistics showing low numbers of women at companies such as Facebook and Google; a lawsuit by a female founder of dating app Tinder alleging she was pushed aside; and three suits brought by female employees at venture firms alleging harassment or discrimination, or sometimes both. Despite the lawsuits, female venture capitalists say, the troubles in venture generally lean to the subtle, such as leaving women out of key meetings or social gatherings. Even if they lack women in investment roles, which carry the most prestige, many firms have senior partners in operational roles such as marketing and finance, and many back female-founded companies. “I am quite optimistic about women in venture,” said Benchmark’s Gurley, who while he has no female investing colleagues himself named Ruby Lu at DCM, Jenny Lee at GGV, and Rebecca Lynn at Canvas as “fantastic” investors. Other accomplished female investors include Mary Meeker and Beth Seidenberg of Kleiner Perkins; and Theresia Gouw, formerly of Accel Partners and now head of her own firm, Aspect Ventures Many venture capitalists, both women and men, say that a big part of the problem lies in the educational and career paths many women have opted to pursue at a time when many firms seek VCs with technical backgrounds. The percentages of women majoring in engineering, computer science and math have declined over the last decade, to 19 percent, 18 percent, and 43 percent of all students majoring in each of those fields respectively, according to the National Science Foundation.     The percentage of female entrepreneurs has stagnated since the early 1980s at around 27 percent, says Ross Levine, a professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley. “You have to say, ‘Where are the women in computer science?’” said Ann Winblad, a founding partner at Hummer Winblad, who added that her firm hires partners largely from the group of company founders it has backed. Top firms especially tend to lack senior women, leading to comparisons with “Mad Men,” the TV show about 1960s-era advertising where men dominate. Benchmark and Sequoia, for example, employ no women in any investing capacity in the United States. Most firms do the bulk of their investing in the United States, but some of them say their numbers would be better if overseas offices were included. Sequoia employs female managing directors in China, for example. Another issue is that top firms enjoy spectacular investing results, leading to little pressure from their own investors -known as limited partners - to change things, the LPs say. “At the end of the day, it does come down to returns, and their network,” said Atul Rustgi, a principal at Accolade Partners, a limited partner whose portfolio includes leading venture firms such as Accel and Andreessen Horowitz. Accolade raises the gender issue with its portfolio firms, but “how much pressure you can exert is a whole different matter,” he said. Judy O’Brien, a five-time Midas List venture capitalist who is now a partner at law firm King &amp; Spalding, says, learning the ropes without a female mentor can be tough. “You don’t quite know how to conduct yourself in a senior position,” for example, establishing stature in a meeting. Many women say they did not initially aspire to become a venture capitalist and needed someone to nudge them into the business. Aileen Lee, a onetime engineering major who stepped back from Kleiner Perkins two years ago to start her own firm, Cowboy Ventures, spoke in April about her career in a speech at Upward, a women’s organization founded by Lisa Lambert of Intel Capital. It took Kleiner Perkins reaching out to her while she was an executive at Gap, the retailer, before she even considered the industry. The men she had known at Harvard Business School who aspired to venture capital seemed worlds away. Drawing laughs, she pegged them as preppie squash players and overly ambitious briefcase toters. "I just figured I’d never fit in," she said at Upward. "I don’t still." (Editing by Edwin Chan and Ross Colvin) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ingolfur BruunThe growing ash plume from the Grimsvotn volcano, under the Vatnajokull glacier in southeast Iceland, as its eruption begins May 21, 2011. 1. A video posted by the ISIS militant group purportedly shows the execution of American journalist James Foley. "If genuine, we are appalled by the brutal murder of an innocent American journalist, and we express our deepest condolences to his family and friends," the White House said.  2. An investigation into the fatal shooting of the unarmed teenager Michael Brown by police officer Darren Wilson in Ferguson, Missouri, has unveiled conflicting eyewitness accounts, The New York Times reports. "Some witnesses say that Mr. Brown, 18, moved toward Officer Wilson, possibly in a threatening manner, when the officer shot him dead. But others say that Mr. Brown was not moving and may even have had his hands up when he was killed," The Times said.  3. A long-term resolution between Israel and Hamas appears long off. Fighting picked up again on Tuesday after an extended five-day cease-fire in Gaza ended and peace talks in Cairo collapsed. 4. Former Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer stepped down from the Microsoft board. Ballmer will focus on the Los Angeles Clippers basketball team he just bought and teach business at USC.  5. Texas Gov. Rick Perry (R) posed for a mug shot on Tuesday. Perry is accused of abusing his office by threatening to cut a state-level prosecutor's funding after she was arrested for drunken driving. After the mug shot, he went out for ice cream.  6. Hackers stole the personal information of around 4.5 million patients from Community Health Systems using the Heartbleed bug.  7. The potential for an Icelandic volcano to erupt could cause a headache for summer travelers. If the volcano blows, leading to ash clouds, it could be a major disruption to air travel.  8. The international community is not doing enough to help Ebola victims in West Africa, a senior aid worker told The Guardian. "Leaders in the West are talking about their own safety and doing things like closing airlines — and not helping anyone else," said Brice de la Vigne, the operations director of Médecins Sans Frontières.  9. British bank Standard Chartered will pay a $300 million settlement to New York State's financial regulator over allegations the bank failed to detect risky transactions. As part of the deal, the bank "will suspend clearing activity for high-risk Hong Kong business clients and exit certain client relationships at its branches in the United Arab Emirates. The U.K. bank will also not be allowed to accept new customers for dollar-clearing without prior approval by the DFS," the Financial Times says.  10. Conde Nast is selling Fairchild Fashion Media, which includes the title Women's Wear Daily, to Penske Media Corporation for less than $100 million, the Financial Times reports.  And finally ... Heavy rains in Japan have triggered landslides that have killed 27 people so far. Derek Jeter is the latest celeb/sports star to participate in the ALS "Ice Bucket Challenge." Watch him get ice bathed here.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTechnician Bob Poe works on wiring under the drivers seat of a Chevy Traverse because of a recall at Raymond Chevrolet in AntiochWASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. auto safety regulators on Wednesday unveiled a more precise way for vehicle owners to search online to find out if their cars or motorcycles have been recalled by the manufacturer. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) said  owners can now search for possible safety recalls on the agency's SaferCar.gov website by using the unique Vehicle Identification Number. Previously, vehicle owners searched on the NHTSA website by make, model and year, but the number of vehicles actually subject to a recall could be smaller than the search result. Searching by the 17-digit VIN gives a precise result. NHTSA is also requiring starting on Wednesday that manufacturers of light vehicles and motorcycles provide the ability to search for recalls on their websites using the VIN, which on cars can be found on the dashboard on the driver's side. Only about 75 percent of recalled cars are brought in by consumers to be fixed and the agency said it hopes the new search tool will boost that rate. "Safety is our highest priority, and an informed consumer is one of our strongest allies in ensuring recalled vehicles are repaired," Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx said in a statement. A record 43 million vehicles have been subject to a recall this year in the United States, a NHTSA spokeswoman said.  (Reporting by Eric Beech; Editing by Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
