In an October 2008 op-ed in the New York Times, Warren Buffett famously advised: “Be fearful when others are greedy, and be greedy when others are fearful.” Whereas most investors during that time of financial panic were dumping their freefalling U.S. equities, Buffett was snatching them up at such great volume that he imagined his personal, non-Berkshire Hathaway portfolio would soon be composed only of domestic stocks. “I haven’t the faintest idea as to whether stocks will be higher or lower a month — or a year — from now,” he continued. “What is likely, however, is that the market will move higher, perhaps substantially so, well before either sentiment or the economy turns up.” The same is true for oil prices. I can’t say when oil will begin to recover or by how much. What I can say is this: For far too many investors, by the time they gain back the confidence to put money into oil stocks again, the rally might have already taken off, making it challenging to capture the full benefit of the upswing. Think of it this way. Every Black Friday, merchandise is discounted to such an extent that thousands of bargain shoppers are willing to camp overnight in parking lots to be the first inside. When the doors open, people literally get pushed, shoved, elbowed and trampled on. But too often, the stock market works in a curiously opposite way. When certain stocks drop in price, investors scramble for the exit instead of picking up the bargains. Oil tycoon T. Boone Pickens recently told Mad Money’s Jim Cramer that oil would return to $100 within 12 to 18 months. Again, there’s no guarantee that this will happen—and keep in mind that it’s in Pickens’ self-interest that oil reach these figures again—but if it does, the most opportune time to participate in the oil trade could be now when stocks are at a discount. Pickens’ prediction aside, there are sound reasons to believe that oil prices will be normalizing sooner rather than later. For one, oil prices are currently below many countries’ breakeven prices. This could finally encourage the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to cut production, so long as Saudi Arabia gets assurances from fellow members that they would comply with the cuts. Where they are right now, prices simply aren’t sustainable. According to Business Insider, oil rigs in the Permian Basin have fallen by nine; those in Williston by seven; and those in Marcellus by one. Brian Hicks, portfolio manager of our Global Resources Fund (PSPFX), believes that the bottom for oil prices might have already been reached. “Aggressive capex cuts in the oil industry right now will lead to lower supply in 2015 and 2016, increasing demand and pushing up prices,” Brian says. “Plus, there might be a positive seasonal trading session over the next few weeks, with a possible laggard rebound in January.” Although past performance is no guarantee of future results, the chart below, which takes into account 30, 15 and five years’ worth of seasonal data for oil prices, illustrates Brian’s point. In the 30-year range, a steady decline in prices began in October and bottomed in February. This was followed by a substantial rally that carried us through the first and second quarters of the year. It’s possible the same will happen again early next year. Frank Holmes/U.S. Global Investors “The theme going into 2015 is mean reversion,” Brian said in a Frank Talk a couple of weeks ago. “Oil prices are below where they should be, and hopefully they’ll start gravitating back to the equilibrium price of between $80 and $85 a barrel.” While we wait for oil to revert back to its mean, however, the world can enjoy and benefit from inexpensive gas. Call it the “oil peace dividend.” Here in the U.S., the current average for a gallon of gas is $2.45. Just one year ago, it was $3.21 per gallon, $0.76 higher. Over the course of a year, those extra cents add up. But the U.S. isn’t the only country that benefits from affordable fuel. In an article titled “The Saudi Stimulus,” Jon Markman writes that the global economy is looking to save hundreds of billions of dollars on an annual basis: According to EIA [U.S. Energy Information Administration] data, consumption of crude oil during the latest 12 months was 6.9 billion barrels. So the price drop from $107/barrel at the June 2014 high to $59 today represents a total presumptive savings of $332 billion per year. In a time when China, the European Union and other major markets are trying to jumpstart their economies, a $330 billion tax break can only come as good news. It should help in stimulating spending and driving global economic growth. It’s impossible not to discuss falling oil prices without also touching on Russia, half of whose budget depends on $100-per-barrel oil exports. In the past month alone, the federation’s currency has plunged more than 30 percent to 60 rubles to the dollar as Brent oil has slipped nearly 25 percent. Frank Holmes/U.S. Global Investors President Vladimir Putin couldn’t have chosen a worse time to annex the Crimean peninsula because now the region must be subsidized with money Russia doesn’t really have at the moment. (That’s not to say, of course, that there was ever a good time to invade Ukraine, or that Putin could have predicted the dramatic decline in Brent oil prices.) But even before the ruble began to unravel, stocks in Russia’s MICEX Index had already taken a hit in July and fallen out of lockstep with other emerging markets. Frank Holmes/U.S. Global Investors There’s no lack of commentators making comparisons between the Russian Federation’s current tailspin and the country’s 1998 debt crisis. But a more apt comparison might be the lead-up to the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, given the many uncanny parallels between then and now involving oil. Yegor Gaidar, acting prime minister of Russia between 1991 and 1994, wrote in 2007: The timeline of the collapse of the Soviet Union can be traced to September 13, 1985… The Saudis stopped protecting oil prices, and Saudi Arabia quickly regained its share in the world market. During the next six months, oil production in Saudi Arabia increased fourfold, while oil prices collapsed by approximately the same amount in real terms. As a result, the Soviet Union lost approximately $20 billion per year, money without which the country simply could not survive. Today, Russia is similarly hemorrhaging capital as a result of international sanctions and crashing oil prices, prompted by both the American shale oil boom and OPEC’s inaction in stabilizing the commodity at last month’s meeting. It’s unclear for how long Russia’s government can support its oil-dependent budget. During his press conference last Thursday, President Putin conceded that spending cuts were unavoidable, but that “under the most unfavorable external economic scenario, this situation may go on for about two years.” Some readers might find that prognosis a little too optimistic. It could be that Russia is in for a much lengthier period of damage control. It states in our prospectus that “government policy is a precursor to change.” As such, we believe Russia poses too great of a geopolitical risk for our investors. Because of nimble active management, our Emerging Europe Fund (EUROX) now has minimal exposure to Russia, thereby avoiding losses as significant as the Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX). Frank Holmes/U.S. Global Investors This decision has also enabled the fund to outperform its benchmark, the MSCI Emerging Markets Europe 10/40 Index, which still maintained a 46-percent weighting in Russia as of the end of November. The index has consequently fallen more than 30 percent year-to-date, compared to EUROX’s 22.5 percent. Frank Holmes/U.S. Global InvestorsSince trimming nearly all of our Russian holdings, Turkey has replaced the beleaguered federation as our largest weighting in EUROX. The Borsa Istanbul 100 Index is currently up 16 percent year-to-date. As anyone who watches the news closely knows, the situation in Russia is evolving rapidly day-to-day. We will continue to monitor events that could trigger opportunities in the region. &lt;p"&gt;In the meantime, check out EUROX’s current regional breakdown. I would like to conclude by wishing all of our loyal shareholders as well as Investor Alert and Frank Talk readers a Merry Christmas, Happy Hanukkah and Season’s Greetings! FREE AppDownload
YahooKatie CouricTo understand what the general public is hearing about oil, I watched a Yahoo video yesterday with Katie Couric explaining the decline in oil prices. In general the piece was very good. Couric started by explaining that the decline in oil prices could be explained in two words: Supply and Demand.  She discussed reasons for more supply and softening demand. Note: from Professor Hamilton "[In October] I discussed the three main factors in the recent fall in oil prices: (1) signs of a return of Libyan production to historical levels, (2) surging production from the U.S., and (3) growing indications of weakness in the world economy." I'd add to the discussion that the short run supply and demand curves are both very steep for oil, so small changes in supply and / or demand can cause a large change in price (see A Comment on Oil Prices). But then Couric mentioned a myth I've heard several times recently. She said: "Who knew?"  No one, because it is not true. Yes, the U.S. is the largest producer this year (ahead of Saudi Arabia and Russia), but the U.S. is NOT "selling more to other countries than it's been buying". The source of this error is that the U.S. is a net exporter of refined petroleum products, such as refined gasoline. Here is the EIA data on Weekly Imports &amp; Exports of crude oil and petroleum products.  The U.S. is importing around 9 million barrels per day of crude oil and products, and exporting around 4 million per day (mostly refined products). The U.S. is a large net importer! Note: Here is some data on natural gas (the U.S. is net importer). Another data source is the monthly trade balance report from the Department of Commerce that shows about a net petroleum trade deficit of about $15 to $20 billion per month this year. The good news is the petroleum contribution to the trade deficit has been declining, but it is still very large. Couric was correct about supply and demand, but it is important to note the U.S. is still a large importer of oil. FREE AppDownload
Volatility in global financial markets was acute last week, and it may be a prelude of what’s to come in the year ahead. As I write in my weekly commentary, an important driver of those swings will be markets’ adjusting to less accommodative U.S. monetary conditions. But on top of that, investors will continue to wrestle with several lingering geopolitical issues, particularly with respect to Russia. While stocks continue to press higher, there’s no denying the environment is changing. Back in July, we suggested that as the date of a first Federal Reserve rate hike approached, market volatility was likely to rise from the unusually low levels that characterized 2013 and the first half of 2014. Indeed, since the summer, equity market gains have been accompanied by greater gyrations. Between Jan. 1 and the end of August, the average daily close on the VIX Index (a common measure of stock market volatility) was 13.5. The average has now risen to 15.5. In addition to the expected shift in the monetary regime, the rise in volatility is also being driven by more unease from overseas. One area of increasing concern, both politically and economically, is Russia. Oil prices fell another 6% last week, and are now down roughly 45% year-to-date. Lower oil prices will help mitigate the global slowdown, but plunging oil prices are inflicting real harm on several emerging market countries, notably Venezuela and Russia. While the Russian market and currency stabilized by Friday, the Russian ruble had plunged earlier in the week, despite a massive interest rate hike by the Russian central bank. The rate hike was the largest single increase since 1998, when Russian rates soared past 100% and the government defaulted on its debt. Given this history, there is growing concern that despite a current account surplus and relatively low levels of debt, the combined effect of lower oil prices and economic sanctions leaves the Russian market vulnerable to speculative pressures. In short, the worry is that an economic contraction morphs into a financial crisis in the country. Piecing it all together, we end the year with a few key thoughts: consider stocks over bonds, but be selective; prepare for volatility and focus on assets where value offers some potential downside protection; finally seek growth potential in select emerging markets, particularly in Asia. FREE AppDownload
Wells FargoBy now, we've all heard that oil prices have plummeted over the last several months, which has made things tough for major energy-producing economies like Saudi Arabia and Texas. But it's great news for the average American consumer because lower oil prices means lower gas prices — and lower gas prices means a rise in disposable income.  This chart from Wells Fargo Securities shows just how much each income group in the US will save over a year because of lower gas prices. FREE AppDownload
Matthew Lewis / Getty ImagesThe Federal Open Market Committee will see some personnel changes in the new year that could change the way it votes. Deutsche Bank chief economist Joseph LaVorgna wrote in a note Thursday that the changes in the makeup of the FOMC will produce a more dovish committee, or a committee that is cautious about the economy's prospects and prefers accommodative policy with low interest rates. It's a crucial year for the committee, as it determines the path of monetary policy following the end of its quantitative easing program in an economy that is gaining momentum. LaVorgna rated all the current 10 FOMC members on a scale of 1 to 5, with 1 being dovish and 5 being hawkish, and 3 being neutral. He then ranked the 2015 FOMC to conclude that the Fed will be more dovish next year. Here's the table from his note with their scores: Deutsche Bank Two of the most hawkish members – or members who are optimistic about economic growth and wish for less monetary accommodation – are retiring: the Philadelphia Fed's Charles Plosser and Dallas' Stanley Fisher. Loretta Mester, a "moderate hawk," will also be leaving. Narayana Kocherlakota, a Fed dissenter rated 1, will not vote next year but will likely be replaced by another dove, LaVorgna wrote. LaVorgna explained what these changes mean for the FOMC's decisions in 2015: “Clearly, this could have an impact on the timing of interest rate normalization next year, especially if the decision to raise rates around the middle of next year turns out to be a close call. The economy will certainly have to be performing well along with noticeable evidence of wage and/or price pressure.” FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersIrving Picard. the bankruptcy trustee in the Bernard Madoff case, speaks to the press outside the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - Victims of Bernard Madoff's massive Ponzi scheme will get afresh $322 million payout if a U.S. judge approves the request by the trustee liquidating the convicted fraudster's firm, bringing the recovery total to more than $7 billion. The trustee, Irving Picard, said on Monday he would seek permission from a U.S. bankruptcy judge in New York to begin the fifth interim distribution of payments, which would average $299,900 and range from just under $400 to more than $60 million. The announcement came five weeks after Picard said he had reached three settlements with various defendants, totaling more than $642 million. All told, Picard has recouped about $10.5 billion, roughly 60 percent of the $17.5 billion of principal he estimated was lost by Madoff customers in the Ponzi scheme, which was revealed in December 2008. Picard has allowed 2,547 claims related to 2,213 accounts that victims held at Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC. Once the fifth interim distribution is complete, he said, 1,154 accounts will be fully satisfied. A court hearing to consider approving the payout has been scheduled for Jan. 15. Madoff, 76, is serving a 150-year prison term after pleading guilty in March 2009. Five former Madoff employees were sentenced to prison terms of two to 10 years earlier this month, following their conviction in March of fraud and other charges for helping Madoff conceal his fraud for decades. Fifteen people, including Madoff himself, have been convicted at trial or pleaded guilty in connection with the Ponzi scheme.   (Reporting by Joseph Ax; Editing by Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
American Apparel founder Dov Charney has gone from running a company worth more than $200 million to sleeping on a friend's couch within the past six months. Charney, who was officially terminated from his consulting role at American Apparel last week, told Trish Regan at Bloomberg TV that he is down to his last $100,000. American Apparel paid Charney an annual salary of $800,000 as CEO before he was fired from that role in June. The company is valued at between $226 million and $243 million. Charney owns 43% stock in American Apparel, but the hedge fund Standard General controls his stake. He gave Standard General control when he took a loan from the firm in July. Now he's fighting to take the company private and threatening to "sue everyone," according to his interview with Regan. Charney's downfall follows a string of allegations of sexual and financial misconduct during his 16-year tenure at the company.  He was fired as CEO due to allegations that he sexually harassed employees and "refused to participate in mandatory sexual harassment training," according to a leaked copy of his termination letter. American Apparel's board of directors also accused him in the letter of paying "significant" severance packages to former employees to conceal any wrongdoing. Charney has denied the charges as baseless. "Most involve activities that occurred long ago (if at all) and about which the Board and the Company have had knowledge for years," Charney's lawyer wrote in a letter to the board. Charney became known for strange and inappropriate behavior in 2004 when a writer for Jane magazine published a now-infamous story in which Charney allegedly masturbated in front of her and engaged in oral sex with another employee. In 2005, three former employees filed sexual harassment cases against him claiming he exposed himself and held meetings in his underwear. Charney said he was simply serving as a model for a new product. "I frequently drop my pants to show people my new product," he said in a deposition tape at the time, according to NBC News. Two of the cases were combined and settled out of court.  ABC News The facts of many of the harassment claims brought against Charney are unknown because all American Apparel employees must sign arbitration agreements that require claims against the company to be settled by arbitration meetings — which are typically closed to the public — instead of in court, according to The New York Times. In one known case, an arbitrator found Charney guilty of defamation for "failing to stop the publication of naked photographs of a former employee, Irene Morales, who had sued him for harassment," the Times reports. When the board of directors learned of the ruling involving Morales, it began an internal investigation into Charney's conduct, according to the Times.  Then another case came to light involving a former American Apparel store manager who claimed Charney called him a homophobic slur, choked him, and rubbed dirt in his face. A month later, the board fired Charney.  Charney responded by taking out the loan from Standard General to boost his ownership of the company to 43%. He gave up his voting rights to the firm as collateral for the loan, and since then, Standard General has pushed American Apparel to replace most members of its board. Charney claims that when he pledged his stake to Standard General, the firm promised to give him back his position, "not necessarily as CEO but that he would effectively be running the company" once an internal investigation against him was completed, Bloomberg TV's Trish Regan said. But Standard General ended up using the deal to push him out of the company, Charney now alleges. Regan quoted Charney as saying, "I gave them my entire life’s work and they agreed to put me back in, but instead they used this investigation to fire me. They betrayed me. I gave them my heart. My shares. They teamed up with Allan [Mayer, co-chairman of American Apparel's board] and worked against me." American Apparel initially fired Charney as CEO because of "concerns about his trustworthiness" and allegations of sexual misconduct, the Wall Street Journal reported. An investigation followed and Charney remained in a consulting role at the company until last week, when he was officially terminated. Responding to the allegations, a Standard General spokesperson said, "Our objective is to help American Apparel grow and succeed. We supported the independent, third-party and very thorough investigation into the allegations against Mr. Charney, and respect the Board of Director's decision to terminate him based on the results of that investigation. We believe that American Apparel will benefit from the leadership of its new CEO, Paula Schneider, and we are focused on supporting her and American Apparel going forward." Meanwhile, Charney says he is down to his last $100,000 and sleeping on a friend's couch in the Lower East Side neighborhood of Manhattan, and he's plotting a counteroffensive. "He wants support to take his company private and to have a role there," Regan said. "He’s suing everyone, by the way." FREE AppDownload
WikimediaNicholas SchorschFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Wall Street Is Calling For The Resignation Of An Investment Billionaire  (InvestmentNews) Last Monday, Nicholas Schorsch resigned as chairman from ARCP, but analysts are now calling for his resignation from RCS Capital after he was hit with a lawsuit on Thursday, claiming that he told an accounting officer to lie on the financial statements, reports Bruce Kelly. "We see the resignation of Mr. Schorsch as imperative," William Katz, a Citigroup Global Markets analyst, wrote in a research note on Thursday. The news of the lawsuit "and the subsequent impact on the share price put added pressure to see [Schorsch] exit from the board as a first step," wrote Kenneth Hill, a Barclays analyst. Construction Activity Still Hasn't Recovered Even Half Of The Previous High, 6 Years After The Housing Crisis (Morningstar) The US Census' recent construction report "reflects neither a boom nor a bust, and it only reinforces how disappointingly slow this recovery has been so far," writes Roland Czerniawski. Six years have passed since the housing crisis, and yet permits and starts have not even recovered half of the previous peak yet.  The three biggest issues holding the housing market from taking off are affordability, the skyrocketing student loans, and that "lending standards still remain relatively stringent despite modest improvements over recent quarters," according to Czerniawski. Wells Fargo Was Fined $1.5 Million Over Checking IDs On New Accounts (The Wall Street Journal)  Wells Fargo was ordered to pay $1.5 million by Finra "for failing to properly verify identification for nearly 220,000 new customers accounts," report Emily Glazer and Christina Rexrode. "Firms must be vigorous in the testing of their electronic systems to ensure they are operating correctly, include those designed to ensure compliance with critical aspects of the [anti-money-laundering] rules," said Brad Bennett, Finra's enforcement chief. The Bond Market's Going To See Volatility In 2015 (Charles Schwab)  "We think the end of the Fed's bond buying programs and the prospects for rate hikes in the US will bring more volatility as the US economy's course diverges from those of other developed countries," writes Kathy A. Jones. "We expect long-term interest rates to remain low and that the dominant trend in 2015 will be a flatter yield curve," writes Jones. Additionally, the stronger US dollar, the falling commodity prices, and the low global bond yields are all likely to keep US bold yields low in the upcoming year. PETER SCHIFF: The Fed Could Go Back To The Well Of Quantitative Easing (Advisor Perspectives)  "QE4 was always more probable than anyone in government or on Wall Street cares to admit," writes Peter Shiff. In fact, Shiff believes that the next recession doesn't requires a "huge shock" like the 1999 and 2007 bubbles. The current energy, stock, bond, or real-estate bubbles that exist in the market have been "inflated by the easiest monetary policy in history and are enough to upset the balance of things. "All [the Fed] can do is go back to the well of quantitative easing, which is exactly what I think they will do," writes Shiff. "More QE may minimize the damage in the short-term, but I believe it will keep us trapped in our current cocoon of endless stimulus, where we will slowly suffocate to death." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriTraders laugh as they cut up a crumb cake on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York December 22, 2014. For a while there, traders and investors lost faith in Santa Claus rallies. The stock market has erased all of its December losses and now sits at a record level. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: 1. US futures were already pointing to a higher open. Stocks remained in the green for most of the day. While the S&amp;P 500 set a record closing high, the December 5 intraday record high still holds at 2,079.4. 2. The pace of existing home sales plunged 6.1%in November to an annualized rate of 4.93 million units. This was much worse than the 1.1% decline expected by economists. “Fewer people bought homes last month despite interest rates being at their lowest levels of the year,” said the NAR's Lawrence Yun. “The stock market swings in October may have impacted some consumers’ psyche and therefore led to fewer November closings. Furthermore, rising home values are causing more investors to retreat from the market.” 3. Despite the disappointing report, markets brushed it off. Perhaps traders were focused on the positives of the report like BMO Capital Markets economist Jennifer Lee. "Of the closings, first-time homebuyers made up 31%, the largest share since October 2012," Lee wrote. "Granted this is still far from the 40%-to-45% range during normal times but after spending the last 19 months below 30%, this increase is a very encouraging development." 4. Warm weather has boosted natural gas inventory levels, and that's been crushing prices. Natural gas futures plunged 9% to $3.144 per million BTUs, the lowest level since January 9, 2013. This is good news for consumers. 5. Also good news for consumers, gas prices continue to fall thanks to low oil costs. According to a Lundberg survey released Sunday, that average price of gasoline in the US fell $0.25 in the past two weeks to $2.47 per gallon. This is the lowest level in five-and-a-half years. American consumers should enjoy it while it lasts; energy pros all expect oil prices to rally from here. Don't Miss: 17 Mindblowing Facts About North Korea » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.Note from dshort: The NYSE has released new data for margin debt, now available through November. I've updated the charts in this commentary to include the latest numbers. The New York Stock Exchange publishes end-of-month data for margin debt on the NYXdata website, where we can also find historical data back to 1959. Let's examine the numbers and study the relationship between margin debt and the market, using the S&amp;P 500 as the surrogate for the latter. The first chart shows the two series in real terms — adjusted for inflation to today's dollar using the Consumer Price Index as the deflator. I picked 1995 as an arbitrary start date. We were well into the Boomer Bull Market that began in 1982 and approaching the start of the Tech Bubble that shaped investor sentiment during the second half of the decade. The astonishing surge in leverage in late 1999 peaked in March 2000, the same month that the S&amp;P 500 hit its all-time daily high, although the highest monthly close for that year was five months later in August. A similar surge began in 2006, peaking in July 2007, three months before the market peak. Debt hit a trough in February 2009, a month before the March market bottom. It then began another major cycle of increase. Margin debt hit an all-time high in February of this year. The latest Margin Data Unfortunately, the NYSE margin debt data is about a month old when it is published. Following its February peak, real margin declined sharply for two months, -3.9% in March -3.2% in April and was flat in May. It then jumped 5.7% in June, its largest gain in 17 months. The number has since hovered in a narrow range over the last five months. Real margin debt rose 1.0% in November and is now 2.7% off its February peak.  Click for a larger image The next chart shows the percentage growth of the two data series from the same 1995 starting date, again based on real (inflation-adjusted) data. I've added markers to show the precise monthly values and added callouts to show the month. Margin debt grew at a rate comparable to the market from 1995 to late summer of 2000 before soaring into the stratosphere. The two synchronized in their rate of contraction in early 2001. But with recovery after the Tech Crash, margin debt gradually returned to a growth rate closer to its former self in the second half of the 1990s rather than the more restrained real growth of the S&amp;P 500. But by September of 2006, margin again went ballistic. It finally peaked in the summer of 2007, about three months before the market.  Click for a larger image After the market low of 2009, margin debt again went on a tear until the contraction in late spring of 2010. The summer doldrums promptly ended when Chairman Bernanke hinted of more quantitative easing in his August, 2010 Jackson Hole speech. The appetite for margin instantly returned, and the Fed periodically increased the easing. Now that QE over, it will be particularly interesting to watch debt levels in the months ahead. NYSE Investor Credit Lance Roberts of STA Wealth Management analyzes margin debt in the larger context that includes free cash accounts and credit balances in margin accounts. Essentially, he calculates the Credit Balance as the sum of Free Credit Cash Accounts and Credit Balances in Margin Accounts minus Margin Debt. The chart below illustrates the mathematics of Credit Balance with an overlay of the S&amp;P 500. Note that the chart below is based on nominal data, not adjusted for inflation.  Click for a larger image Here's a slightly closer look at the data, starting with 1995. Also, I've inverted the S&amp;P 500 monthly closes and used markers to pinpoint the monthly close values.  Click for a larger image As I pointed out above, the NYSE margin debt data is a several weeks old when it is published. Thus, even though it may in theory be a leading indicator, a major shift in margin debt isn't immediately evident. Nevertheless, we see that the troughs in the monthly net credit balance preceded peaks in the monthly S&amp;P 500 closes by six months in 2000 and four months in 2007. The most recent S&amp;P 500 correction greater than 10% was the 19.39% selloff in 2011 from April 29th to October 3rd. Investor Credit hit a negative extreme in March 2011. There are too few peak/trough episodes in this overlay series to take the latest credit-balance data as a leading indicator of a major selloff in U.S. equities. But we'll definitely want to keep an eye on this metric in the months ahead. Note on the data: The NYSE website only posts the Free Credit Cash Accounts data back to 2003. The Free Credit Cash Accounts data back to 1980 is available on a fee basis from Haver Analytics. This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
So, what are the oil market pros predicting for prices after the crash of 2014? Overall, they're expecting prices to go up. However, futures traders are positioned much more conservatively than what the professional oil price forecasters are predicting. "Forecasters and market participants disagree about the likelihood of a significant rebound in oil prices during the next 12 months," Goldman Sachs' David Kostin wrote. "Many clients share the view priced into the futures market that Brent will remain below $70 by year-end 2015. However, oil producers anticipate a rebound, echoing a Bloomberg survey of professional forecasters that expects Brent to rise by 35% to $82 at year-end 2015 (Exhibit 2)." Goldman's house view is that Brent eventually rallies to $85 a barrel. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBillionaire activist-investor Carl Icahn gives an interview on FOX Business Network's Neil Cavuto show in New YorkWILMINGTON, Del. (Reuters) - The Trump Taj Mahal, a casino hotel in New Jersey's struggling Atlantic City gambling hub, could stay open for all of 2015 with a $20 million financing package from investor Carl Icahn, lawyers for Trump Entertainment Resorts said on Monday. The casino was supposed to shut its doors on Saturday, which would have made it the fifth in the city to close this year. But it stayed open through the weekend as Icahn and the company hashed out a financing deal. Icahn made the offer last week, but neither he nor the company would say at the time whether or for how long it would keep the property open.  Atlantic City's fortunes have faded as competition from Pennsylvania and other neighboring states has cut into the monopoly it once held on East Coast gaming. Bankrupt Trump Entertainment's other casino, the Trump Plaza, was one of the four to close this year. If the court approves Icahn's financing by Jan. 9, the $20 million would help the Taj Mahal stay open during lean winter months until business picks up in the summer, Trump Entertainment attorney Erez Gilad told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross during a hearing in Wilmington, Delaware. Icahn could use the extra year to resolve issues concerning the casino, including a fight with its union over health and pension benefits that is pending in federal appeals court. Icahn, who holds $292 million of Taj Mahal debt, had previously agreed to invest $100 million to keep the casino open if the business obtains up to $175 million in tax relief from the city and state.  Under the deal reached over the weekend, that package is off the table, Gilad told the court. A hearing on the debtor-in-possession financing is scheduled for Jan. 9.   (Reporting by Daniel Kelley in Wilmington; Editing by Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images and RedfinThis was a huge year for high-end real estate. The most expensive home ever sold in the US hit the record books in 2014, and several famous properties changed hands. From celebrity-owned estates in Los Angeles to sky-high mansions in Manhattan, here are the most expensive homes sold in the US in 2014.  *Thanks to our astute readers for pointing out a missing house. It's been added to the list. FREE AppDownload
The wheat market is on fire, thanks to Russia. Wheat futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange rose last week for the fourth straight time, climbing 4.2% to $6.3225 according to Bloomberg. Russia is the world's fourth largest wheat producer, and Deputy Prime Minister Arkadi Dvokovitch announced Monday that the country will reduce cereal exports within 24 hours.  It's the latest in a series of controls to contain food inflation.  Food costs in Russia have soared in the last few months following its ban on imports from the West in retaliation to sanctions. The collapse of the ruble after Russia’s interest rate hike has also made matters worse. Wheat futures surged to the highest level since May last Thursday after a Russian exports authority only allowed shipments to four countries, even though Russia typically exports to several dozens, according to the Wall Street Journal.  Prices fell into the weekend as investors speculated that European wheat production would make up the offset from Russia. In trading on Monday, wheat futures climbed after the Deputy Prime Minister's announcement. The wheat Russia is not exporting would add to its local food reserves in a bid to control prices; the cost of bread has already climbed up to 10% in the past month, according to Bloomberg. Russia’s agriculture minister Nikolai Fyodorov said last Tuesday that an outright export ban is off the cards. Russia has blocked exports in the past to boost domestic supplies. Here's a chart showing the steady climb of wheat futures in the last few days. FinViz And here's the longer term trend in wheat futures as at last Thursday, from Morgan Stanley's commodity manual. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Mike Rowe, the host of "Dirty Jobs," talks about what drives plumbers, pig farmers and others in not-so-glamorous professions to be really good at their jobs.  WATCH MORE: The Full Interview With Mike Rowe Behind The Brand takes you behind the scenes at some of the coolest brands as well as talk with world-class thought leaders and entrepreneurs so you can get an inside look at how they do it. Follow Behind The Brand: On YouTube Follow host Bryan Elliott: On Twitter
MOSCOW (Reuters) - The Russian economy will slide next year into its first recession since the global financial crisis and inflation will be close to double digits, economists forecast in a Reuters poll, as the oil price crash and Western sanctions bite. According to the median of 11 economists' predictions, gross domestic product will fall 3.6 percent in 2015. After growth of just 0.5 percent this year, the recession will challenge President Vladimir Putin's promise last week that Russia can eventually recover from what he called "tough times". They also predicted the rouble would stay under pressure, forcing the central bank to keep punishingly high interest rates until well into 2015. At the start of this year analysts forecast the economy would expand by 2 percent in 2014. But since then it has suffered a reversal of fortunes due to the unexpected plunge in the price of oil, Russia's main export earner, and the sanctions imposed over Moscow's role in the Ukraine crisis which have drastically curbed foreign financing. Vladimir Miklashevsky, an economist at Danske Bank in Copenhagen, made the most pessimistic GDP forecast in the poll. He expects the economy to shrink 7.9 percent next year, about the same as in the global crisis year of 2009. "As a result of the geopolitical problems, Western sanctions against the Russian Federation and the response of the Russian authorities in 2014, there has been a significant increase in both consumer prices and the cost of foreign funding," he said. Inflation is expected to hit 10.1 percent at the end of this year, the poll showed - nearly double the 5.5 percent target the central bank had at the beginning of this year for 2014 - before slipping to 9.2 percent in 2015. Former finance minister Alexei Kudrin said on Monday he expected inflation to hit 12-15 percent in 2015 as the country suffers a full-fledged economic crisis. The ruble's more than 40 percent drop against the dollar this year has forced the central bank to raise interest rates several times. The latest emergency rise last week by an unprecedented 650 basis points took its main rate to 17 percent, a level that virtually kills commercial lending. Economists forecast in the poll that the central bank would start easing rates only in the second half of the year, and if the overall situation improves. The rouble &lt;rubutstn=mcx&gt; has firmed in recent sessions to around 55 to the dollar thanks to stabilizing oil prices and a series of measures by the central bank and the finance ministry to support banks and squeeze rouble liquidity. Nevertheless the currency is still facing tough times. The economists forecast it would end this year at around 60 rubles per dollar before firming to 50 rubles by the end of 2015. "(It's) very hard to forecast the rouble," said Christopher Shiells, an economist at Informa Global Markets. "But I am of the view that the worst has been seen." Olga Lapshina, an economist at Bank St. Petersburg, said the rouble could weaken in the first quarter of 2015 due to large debt repayments by Russian companies but may firm later. Russian banks and companies face around $120 billion in debt repayments next year, according to central bank data.   (Writing by Lidia Kelly; editing by David Stamp) FREE AppDownload
AOL CEO Tim Armstrong sat down with Henry Blodget at Business Insider's Ignition 2014. Armstrong addressed the persistent rumors of a future merger between AOL and Yahoo. Edited by Alex Kuzoian. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook IGNITION 2014 Video Coverage
Bloomberg TVDov Charney (left) and Trish Regan (right)American Apparel founder Dov Charney is speaking out against a hedge fund he says betrayed him and forced him out of the retail brand. "They robbed me," Charney told Trish Regan at Bloomberg TV in an off-camera interview.  Charney got a loan from Standard General in July so he could boost his ownership of American Apparel to 43% after he was fired as CEO in June. He gave up his voting rights to the firm as collateral for the loan, and since then, Standard General has pushed American Apparel to replace most members of its board. Charney claims that when he pledged his stake to Standard General, the firm promised to give him back his position, "not necessarily as CEO but that he would effectively running the company" once an internal investigation against him was completed, Regan said. But Standard General ended up using the deal to push him out of the company, Charney alleges. Regan quoted Charney as saying, "I gave them my entire life’s work and they agreed to put me back in, but instead they used this investigation to fire me. They betrayed me. I gave them my heart. My shares. They teamed up with Allan [Mayer, co-chairman of American Apparel's board] and worked against me." American Apparel initially fired Charney as CEO because of "concerns about his trustworthiness" and allegations of sexual misconduct, the Wall Street Journal reported. An investigation followed and Charney remained in a consulting role at the company until last week, when he was officially terminated. Responding to the allegations, a Standard General spokesperson said, "Our objective is to help American Apparel grow and succeed. We supported the independent, third-party and very thorough investigation into the allegations against Mr. Charney, and respect the Board of Director's decision to terminate him based on the results of that investigation. We believe that American Apparel will benefit from the leadership of its new CEO, Paula Schneider, and we are focused on supporting her and American Apparel going forward." Meanwhile, Charney says he is down to his last $100,000 and sleeping on a friend's couch in the Lower East Side neighborhood of Manhattan, and he's plotting a counteroffensive. "He wants support to take his company private and to have a role there," Regan said. "He’s suing everyone, by the way." FREE AppDownload
There's a mythical phenomenon in the stock market that some historians refer to as the "Santa Claus Rally." Simply put, it's the observation that historically, stocks have tended to rally during the trading days between Christmas and New Year's. PNC Financial Services' Bill Stone writes about it: According to the 2015 Stock Trader’s Almanac, since 1969 the Santa Claus rally has yielded positive returns in 34 of the past 44 holiday seasons—the last five trading days of the year and the first two trading days after New Year’s. The average cumulative return over these days is 1.6%, and returns are positive in each of the nine days of the rally, on average. Nevertheless, each year there is at least one day of declines. Alternative research over a longer period confirms the persistence of these trends: According to historical data going back to 1896, the Dow Jones Industrial Average has gained an average of 1.7% during this seven-day trading period, rising 77% of the time. So, why does this happen? Who knows? According to Stone, some popular explanations: year-end tax-related portfolio adjustments; optimism during the holiday season; and short-sellers being on vacation. Frankly, none of those rationals are not worth betting on. If there's any explanation for the trend, it may just be that stocks just tend to go up on average. FREE AppDownload

When Warren Buffett was 10 years old, he had an epiphany. With enough money, he could be secure and free. Now at age 84, he emphasizes a different asset to his Berkshire Hathaway management team: reputation.  In a biennial memo to his senior managers surfaced by the Wall Street Journal, Buffett writes that "the top priority — trumping everything else, including profits — is that all of us continue to zealously guard Berkshire's reputation."  He continues:  We can't be perfect but we can try to be. As I've said in these memos for more than 25 years: "We can afford to lose money — even a lot of money. But we can't afford to lose reputation — even a shred of reputation."  We must continue to measure every act against not only what is legal but also what we would be happy to have written about on the front page of a national newspaper in an article written by an unfriendly but intelligent reporter.  Buffett goes on to say that if any of his managers see anything with a "propriety or legality" that causes them to hesitate, then give him a call.  The immediacy is crucial. If there's anything Buffett hates, it's bad news that has "festered for awhile." He references his time with Salomon Brothers, the troubled bank he served as chairman of in the 1990s.  "A reluctance to face up immediately to bad news is what turned a problem at Salomon from one that could have easily been disposed of into one that almost caused the demise of a firm with 8,000 employees," he writes.  The takeaway: In finance, as in all businesses, great relationships are the secret to sustained growth.  As seen at the Journal, here's the full memo: Wall Street Journal Wall Street Journal FREE AppDownload
Natural gas prices fell to a two-year low in trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange on Monday. Futures prices tumbled up to 9.9% to the lowest level since January 2013, according to Bloomberg's Christine Buurma. Natural gas for January delivery settled at $3.144 per million British thermal units on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Prices have declined 26% this year.  Temperatures have been above average this month, and much of the country is forecast to be warmer than usual through New Year's Eve, Buurma reports. This has increased the inventories of natural gas on a year-over-year basis. It's leading investors to reduce bets that prices will rise. During last year's polar vortex, natural gas prices surged and the Energy Information Administration (EIA) saw the largest withdrawals from inventories in 20 years. There'll be less need demand for gas for heating this year. Coupled with this is the fact that US gas production is booming. The EIA forecasts that gas production this year may increase 5.5% to a record 74.26 billion cubic feet per day.  RBC Capital Markets slashed its forecast for natural gas prices last week. A team of analysts led by Leo Mariani wrote: "We think North American natural gas fundamentals are somewhat fragile going into 2015, and could remain challenged for the next 12-18 months on robust supply." Here's a chart showing the gradual drop in prices through December: FinViz FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn employee stands near galvanized coils at a workshop of the Novolipetsk (NLMK) steel mill in LipetskLONDON (Reuters) - Russia has complained that a U.S. move to scrap a 15-year-old deal sheltering Russian flat-rolled steel producers from high import duties is inconsistent with World Trade Organization rules. The move comes as Western sanctions over Moscow's actions in Ukraine, together with a plunge in world oil prices, have pushed the Russian economy to the brink of recession. The so-called U.S. suspension agreement has sheltered Russian steelmakers from steep anti-dumping duties on hot-rolled, flat-rolled, carbon quality steel, instead setting a cap on imports and a minimum price. It was scrapped on Dec. 19. As a result, Russian steelmaker Severstal  now faces anti-dumping duties of 73.59 percent, while other producers like Novolipetsk Steel  and Magnitogorsk Iron and Steel Works  face duties of 184.56 percent. In a letter to the U.S. Department of Commerce this month, Russia's trade representative to the United States, Alexander Stadnik, said the rates calculated were originally based on methodologies used for countries with non-market economies. Commerce ruled in 2002 that Russia was no longer a non-market economy, and the country joined the WTO in 2012. "Since the original investigation Russia has joined the WTO, and has implemented further market reforms that have increased the transparency and predictability of its marketplace, and thus made it easier for foreign firms to compete in Russia and have therefore expanded competition within that market," said Stadnik in the letter, dated Dec. 12. "In this case, imposing a non-market economy rate is inconsistent with the WTO rules." U.S. steel prices  are at their lowest since October last year, according to data compiler CRU, and industry representatives hope protective measures against imports of Russian steel could support them. In their submission to Commerce, Severstal, Novolipetsk and Magnitogorsk said the duties were punitive because they were calculated 15 years ago under a different economic situation and dumping methodology and based on outdated prices. But U.S. producer Nucor Corp  said it was normal procedure to apply the duty rates calculated in the original investigation. The U.S. Commerce Department was not immediately available for comment.  (Additional reporting by Krista Hughes in Washington, editing by David Evans) FREE AppDownload
Pantheon Macroeconomics"A correction was due."Existing home sales plunged in November. According to the NAR, the pace of sales fell by 6.1%, to an annualized rate of 4.93 million units.  Wall Street had been expecting sales to fall 1.1% to 5.20 million units. Today's numbers showed the largest drop since July 2010. Economists had a mix of reactions to the data: FREE AppDownload
When asked if there was one scientific fact that blew his mind, Bill Nye, author of "Undeniable" had a whimsical response. But what about what's still to come? Nye hopes these are the 3 scientific breakthroughs that are forthcoming.  Produced by Justin Gmoser and Alana Kakoyiannis.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
Rob Griffith/ReutersPresident of Russia Vladimir Putin talks with the Saudis during the G20 leaders summit in Brisbane November 15, 2014. Saudi Oil Minister Ali Naimi really got the world's attention in an interview he gave to the energy journal Middle East Economic Survey (MEES). We told you earlier that Naimi said the Saudis don't care how low the price of oil goes: "Whether it goes down to $20, $40, $50, $60, it is irrelevant." What's interesting though is Naimi's rationale for not caring. Basically, he told MEES, the Saudis can afford not to care about the low price of oil. The Russians, by contrast, cannot afford it because they are inefficient producers who can't stop pumping even if they wanted to. Low prices are decimating the Russian economy because the country is dependent on oil. That's driving down the value of the ruble, and making it impossible for Russia to pay its debts. Already, Russia's central bank has had to bail out one of its private banks. A full scale Russian collapse is increasingly likely. Russia can't reduce the amount of oil it pumps (which might raise prices) because its oil fields and technology aren't as good as the Saudis'. The reason Saudi Arabia isn't collapsing like Russia is because the Saudis have been careful and efficient producers, who have stockpiled huge amounts of cash in case this day would come, Naimi reckons. Everyone is asking whether the Saudis should pump less oil and let the price come up, rescuing nations like Russia who need the price of oil to be $105 a barrel. But why should the Saudis be punished for Russia's uselessness? Naimi told MEES — via The Financial Times — that Russia doesn't "deserve market share": It is also a defence of high efficiency producing countries, not only of market share. We want to tell the world that high efficiency producing countries are the ones that deserve market share. That is the operative principle in all capitalist countries. You know Naimi is talking about Russia specifically because of the geography he calls out by name: ... The problem with old fields around the world is that they need continuous investment in new wells, and they cannot shut old wells, because if they do, they will not come back up. So they are wary in that respect, particularly in West Siberia, where they have been producing for a long time and the wells there are declining. ... I want to make one thing clear. It is unfair of you to ask Opec to cut. We are the smallest producer. We produce less than 40% of global output. We are the most efficient producer. It is unbelievable after the analysis we carried out for us to cut. FREE AppDownload
Crashing oil prices are bad news for energy-driven economies like Saudi Arabia, Russia and Nigeria, which rely on revenues to fund government spending. In recent years, all anyone's ever talked about in the US is the shale boom, sparked by developments in hydraulic fracturing technology. The boom has been an important source of new jobs and business spending for the economy. And investors in the industry have certainly made a lot of money. With low oil prices making a lot of these shale drilling projects unprofitable, investors have been left wondering just how exposed the US economy and its financial markets really are. While the US energy industry is indeed big, it's actually relatively small compared to all of the other huge industries that make up the US economy and markets. Goldman Sachs' Alec Phillips and Kris Dawsey offer some context in a note circulated to clients late Friday. They emphasized that energy is more broadly represented in the public financial markets than in the economy as a whole. Here are some stats about the US energy industry: Indeed, investors in energy junk bonds and junk bond indexes have felt a lot of pain. But those with broadly diversified portfolios are really feeling much of a pinch. Energy has been an increasingly important component of the US investment spending, or capital expenditure (capex) story. While that theme certainly has its cracks, economists agree that the benefits of cheap energy to the consumer overwhelmingly offsets this downside. "Consumer spending represents 68% of the US economy," Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders said earlier this month. "Oil and gas capex represents about 1% of US GDP and less than 9% of US total capex (which in turn represents about 12% of US GDP). Therefore, the benefit of lower energy prices to the consumer and many businesses greatly outweighs the significant hit to energy companies and/or energy-oriented capex, especially in energy-oriented states." "The upshot is that oil producers are over-represented in publicly traded markets, and oil consumers are under-represented," Phillips and Dawsey write. Phillips and Dawsey estimate current oil prices will offer a net boost of 0.4 to 0.5 percent points of growth to 2015 GDP. Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Last month's move by the U.S. commodities regulator to let Southwest Airlines Co keep its multibillion-dollar oil trades secret for 15 days offered the world's biggest low-cost carrier a break it has been seeking for three years. However, the decision to grant the airline an exemption from rules calling for greater derivatives transparency raised concerns about its market impact and sparked a debate among regulators, according to people familiar with the approval process. All other swap trades except Southwest's must be reported "as soon as technologically practicable." The Dallas-based airline has argued that its deals are so specific that immediate disclosure could cause the market to move against it, adding tens of millions of dollars to its costs. For years, that argument was not enough to sway the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and its former chairman, Gary Gensler. One concern was that granting an exemption to just one company is unusual and could hurt others in a similar position. Also, the waiver could set a precedent that would encourage others to seek similar special treatment, restoring a veil over bigger parts of derivative markets. The agency is already looking into problems the Mexican government is facing in its vast oil hedging program after news organizations, including Reuters, reported on the country's trades using publicly available swaps trading data, said one person familiar with the agency's procedures. A CFTC spokesman said Tim Massad, Gensler's successor, had issued the waiver to Southwest after his staff had done proper analysis to confirm the company’s claims, and the relief was a lot narrower than what the company had originally requested. But the person familiar with the approval process said the decision caused "a big stink" within the agency. When Southwest talked to the Commission in 2012 and in 2013, "they couldn't prove their case," the source said. Barring new evidence or a further appeal, Southwest's plea appeared to reach a dead end more than a year ago. The company had another shot at an exemption when Gensler left this year. It made its case to then-interim Chairman Mark Wetjen, who told the staff to start another study but doubted that a waiver was warranted, said a second source familiar with the CFTC's thinking. Only after Massad's arrival in June did things start moving. It is unclear what led to his decision to grant the waiver. LOBBY GROUP Even those who see merits in granting a waiver have taken issue with the decision to give it to just one company. While the agency frequently issues exemptions from its rules, they generally apply to a wider industry or class of participants, or address a problem specific to one company. "I'm surprised that they didn't apply it across the market," another person familiar with the situation said. With its low-cost tickets and clever marketing, Southwest has wide popular appeal. It says it has been on Fortune magazine's list of most-admired companies in the world for 20 consecutive years, and many on Capitol Hill support it. Southwest hired Delta Strategy Group, a Washington lobbying firm replete with former CFTC staffers to make its case in Congress. Since it started its campaign, the House has passed two bills that would write the waiver into law, although it is far from certain that they would win approval in the new Congress. "I SEE YOU" Rodney Davis, a Republican member of the House of Representatives from Illinois, who introduced one of these bills, welcomed the CFTC's waiver. "It's a good first step to help a company out," Davis told Reuters. "The rule was not initially designed to impact companies like Southwest." Southwest's hedging program, among the largest and longest-running in the industry, is best known for sparing the airline the pain when oil surged to nearly $150 a barrel in 2008. While other carriers' energy bills soared, Southwest was buying its jet fuel at half-price because of swaps and options positions it had locked in. But the size and frequency of its trades in long-term oil contracts allow a small group of dealers at banks to figure out Southwest's positions by crunching the public data, even though the transactions are anonymous, the company says. The airline "began to get phone calls from other participants in the market saying: 'I see you guys are out there trading,'" Southwest Treasurer Chris Monroe told Reuters. That meant Southwest had to pay higher prices after the transparency rules came into force in 2012. Monroe told a Senate committee last year that reporting the trades would add $60 million to Southwest's $6 billion annual fuel bill. Shedding light on derivative markets that were at the epicenter of the financial crisis is a core goal of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street reform, but non-banks are complaining they sometimes end up as unintended victims. Yet critics say the waiver allows Southwest to operate in secret, a privilege others do not have. Another concern is that no single player should be so dominant that its trades alone can move prices. The CFTC's action "looks anomalous and seems to warrant an expanded explanation," said Bart Chilton, a former Democratic commissioner who left the agency in March. (Reporting by Douwe Miedema; Editing by Tomasz Janowski and Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
Greece’s plans to turn Piraeus port in the main trade gateway into Europe received a shot in the arm last week after China pledged to upgrade the entire train network linking it to central Europe and significantly reduce the cost and time needed to transport goods. According to the Imerisia news site (link in Greek), the investment, announced by Chinese Prime Minister Li Keqiang last week at the summit meeting of Southeastern European leaders in Belgrade, will bolster Greece’s bid to become a rail freight hub and the goal to render Trainose, the country’s freight train network, an attractive option for multinationals to transfer cargo into central Europe.Kieqiag’s comments follow last month’s agreement between the  Piraeus Port Organization (OLP) and PCT, a subsidiary of China’s Cosco, that envisages investment plans worth €230 million in the port, which China sees a gateway to Europe and one of the fastest growing ports.The deal will allow Piraeus port to start works to expand its western side and, according to media reports, raise the eventual capacity of its container terminal to 7.2 million twenty-foot equivalent units  (teu) putting it on a path to become the main entry point for Asian trade toward Europe.Only recently Cosco added the electronics giant Sony as a fourth multinational on its list of clients. The other three multinationals that have opted for Piraeus as their entry point are China’s Huawei, ZTE Corp and Hewlett Packard. According to remarks by Sony Hellas head Yiannis Gratsonis, published in Kathimerini newspaper, the deal will expedite the transfer of cargo into Europe.GoogleMaps/Screenshot “The biggest benefit for Sony is the 10 days it gains compared with the previous route,” but stressed the need to upgrade the cargo line that starts at the port of Piraeus.“The capacity of each train is only reduced by the rail infrastructure,” Kathimerini quoted him as saying, adding that the bridges and tunnels in some neighbouring countries are not big enough to support larger trains or containers.Goods are predominantly transferred by rail to Austria, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary, and experts have been urging the government to upgrade the infrastructure to accommodate expanding freight capacities.  The port, which Athens and Beijing are calling the “new European gate for Asian imports” could, according to a National Bank of Greece study, rake in additional revenues of €900 million and around 9,000 jobs  from the expected increase to 4.7 million teu in 2015, up from 3 million in 2012Cosco is the world's leading Group specializing in global shipping, modern logistics and ship building and repairing. It is ranked 327th in Fortune Global 500. FREE AppDownload
When the Castro regime assumed power in Cuba in 1959, it quickly nationalized the assets of almost every foreign corporation within its borders as the country transitioned to communism. For half a century now, American companies have laid claim to billions of dollars in lost assets on the Caribbean island 90 miles from U.S. shores. Under American law, the claims have been steadily accruing interest, but the companies have never seen a penny. It's one of many knotty issues for the two Cold War adversaries to resolve as they end their prolonged estrangement that outlasted the Cold War itself by more than two decades. Like many of the other points of contention, the claims of U.S. companies against the Castro government dredge up difficult memories, long-buried grievances, and unpleasant histories that neither side may be eager to confront. While it's not yet clear how the mid-century claims of U.S. companies will be handled, interviews in the days since President Obama's historic policy change with those involved in the claims and experts on Cuba reveal the claims have not been forgotten by the businesses and they're not going away. "You can safely assume a large flare went up yesterday," Robert Muse, a Washington, D.C., attorney who specializes in Cuban issues, including corporate claims, told TPM last week the day after Obama's White House announcement. "They're right now sending memos down the line: 'What about our claim?'" The federal government has a whole outfit, the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission, tasked with overseeing these claims. When a foreign country expropriates (or nationalizes) a U.S. company's assets, as happened in Cuba but has also occurred in China, Vietnam and elsewhere, the companies file a claim with the commission. It then examines its validity and, if it checks out, the claim is officially certified. It is then up to either the companies individually to negotiate a settlement with the foreign government or for the federal government to negotiate on behalf of the companies with claims as a whole. In Cuba, American corporations have 5,913 claims that were worth $1.9 billion when they were certified in the 1960s. Those claims have been accruing interest for the last half century, at a 6 percent rate, meaning that they are worth upwards of $7.5 billion in 2014. Because of the U.S. embargo of Cuba and lack of any formal diplomatic relations between the United States and Cuba, the claims have never been resolved. Some big U.S. claimants, like the Cuban Electric Company, became effectively defunct, but other marquee names like ITT Tech, Exxon, Texaco, Coca-Cola and Freeport-McMoRan mining have standing claims worth hundreds of millions of dollars. That isn't the kind of value that Fortune 500 companies are going to just write off, Muse said. "You'll hear things from people who don't know this, 'Oh the claims have been written off,'" Muse said. "No one should imagine that the general counsel of these companies is unaware of that or that their shareholders are unaware of it." US Companies; Cuba Claims  A long and nasty history complicates what experts agree will be an important part of normalizing relations with Cuba. As Philip Bonsai, a former U.S. ambassador to Cuba, detailed in Foreign Affairs in 1967, American companies in the first half of the 20th century became reviled in some quarters for having an outsized influence in internal Cuban affairs and for exploiting the country's natural resources. They were also allies of the pre-Castro Batista regime, whose members enriched themselves while brutally suppressing dissent. That might help explain why when U.S. companies have previously floated the idea of resolving claims, the Castro regime -- which of course developed its own reputation for oppression and corruption -- has responded with demands that the United States repay Cuba for the damages of the half-century embargo. "Every time it's come up, the Cuban government says, 'We're happy to negotiate, but you owe us X billions or trillion of dollars for the damage done to our economy by your sanctions,'" Julia Sweig, director for Latin American studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, told TPM. "Is this an actual living, breathing issue or is it a legacy issue once we get diplomatic relations? I think if we put it at the front end, it's very hard to address." While Muse and others agree that addressing the claims won't be the first step in the normalization process, they insist that it will be a crucial one. Not only do these companies have billions in existing claims for expropriated assets to resolve, but it might be difficult for Cuba to encourage further foreign investment until they put this issue in the past. "In the end, to fully normalize, it will need to be resolved. That needs to be gotten out of the way," Philip Peters, a former State Department official now with the Cuba Research Center, told TPM. "I think this is a very interesting test of how creative Obama wants to be in moving from a policy that's pure punishment to one that increasingly chips away at the embargo and offers a positive path forward." What isn't clear is what the Obama administration now plans to do about the claims issue. The fact sheet released the day of the president's announcement by the White House -- which is not the fine print that experts will ultimately want to examine -- didn't address it. But in order for the Cuban embargo to be fully lifted, as Obama said last week he would like it to be, Muse said these claims have to be resolved under the 1996 Helms-Burton Act. Administration officials would not comment beyond a general statement from the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission. "Although the broad outlines of these changes have been unveiled, it is not yet clear what effect such changes will have on the status of the claims previously adjudicated by the Commission," the commission said. Obama should have substantial executive authority to address companies' claims, experts said. His options likely range from a simple settlement, though companies typically receive pennies on the dollar in that case, to more creative options like U.S. companies entering into joint ventures with Cuban entities, which assures Cuba of additional outside investment while the U.S. companies receive a larger share of the profits to pay off their claims.APPeople burn tables and roulette wheels outside the Plaza Hotel casino in Old Havana, Cuba in Jan. 1959 shortly after Fidel Castro gained control of the country following a revolution. The companies themselves aren't saying much. TPM reached out to some of the larger businesses: Exxon, Freeport, and ITT Tech. Freeport declined to comment. Exxon didn't respond to TPM's request. ITT said it was still processing the news. "Given the recent announcement of renewed relations between the United States and Cuba, we are just beginning to digest what that news could mean for commerce between the two nations," ITT spokeswoman Kathleen Barker said in an email. "We will continue to closely monitor developments to better understand the potential impacts of this historic event." Muse, who declined to name his clients with claims in Cuba, said that the issue could play an important role in speeding along the process that Obama began last week. "If you can use the large claimants, almost as a wedge in, generate interest in the large American corporate sector, by direct negotiations with some of these claimants," Muse said. "Then you get U.S. companies back on the island. You create interest in investment in Cuba." For many of the companies with claims, the surprise announcement of the dramatic shift in U.S. policy toward Cuba meant reviving claims that have been gathering dust for decades. "They weren't going to be sitting down in 1995 worrying over much about their claim," Muse said. "They would wait until things ripen, political breakthroughs happen and the word 'normalization' is in the air. That's when you're going to start to hear from them." That time is now. FREE AppDownload
Ousted American Apparel CEO Dov Charney has revealed he's down to his last $100,000.  Charney, who was officially terminated from his consulting role at American Apparel last week, told Trish Regan at Bloomberg TV that he had fallen on hard times.  In addition to his dwindling funds, Charney is sleeping on a friend's couch in the Lower East Side neighborhood in Manhattan.  American Apparel paid Charney an annual salary of $800,000 as CEO. The company he founded is valued at between $226 million and $243 million. Charney says he was betrayed by Standard General, a hedge fund that gave him a loan in July so he could boost his ownership of American Apparel.  Standard General controls his shares as collateral and put several members on American Apparel's board.  "I gave them my entire life's work, and they agreed to put me back in," Charney told Regan. "Instead, they used this investigation to fire me."  American Apparel abruptly fired Charney as CEO in June because of "concerns about his trustworthiness," The Wall Street Journal reported at the time. Since then, the company has been further investigating him.  "Based on this investigation, the special committee determined that it would not be appropriate for Mr. Charney to be reinstated as CEO or an officer or employee," the company said in a release last week. "While under suspension as CEO, Mr. Charney had been serving as a consultant to the Company. This relationship has now been terminated." Charney's replacement, Paula Schneider, is reportedly a close friend of his.  Regan notes that Charney, who is known for his erratic behavior, could be a liability for the struggling company.  Here's the video with details of her interview.   FREE AppDownload
While it seems like Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook have a problem reaching the next generation of users, Instagram seems to be holding strong. So we asked kids between the ages of 9 and 13 what they really think of Instagram... Produced by Sam Rega and Caroline Moss Follow BI Video: On Twitter
REUTERS/KCNANorth Korean leader Kim Jung UnThe recent hack on Sony, and the company's subsequent decision to delay the release of its movie "The Interview" is turning into a costly headache. Film financiers are surely on edge. But Wall Street's industry analysts aren't phased, and they don't seem to believe this the hacks will be a problem for the media industry overall. Weeks have passed since news of the hacks broke. Yet, analysts haven't made any major adjustments to earnings expectations for the media industry during the fourth quarter or the full year, according to FactSet's John Butters. Since November 28, analysts estimates for Q4 earnings have been unchanged. Further, analysts estimate media industry earnings will fall by a mere 0.07% in 2015. "In terms of ratings, analysts have become slightly more negative on this industry since November 28," writes Butters. "The overall percentage of Buy ratings declined to 53% from 54% during this time frame, while the percentage of Holdings increased to 43% from 42% during this time frame. The percentage of Sell ratings remained unchanged at 3%." So bottom line is: Wall Street's lack of response reflects that they don't really see the recent events as a major issue for the media industry overall. FactsetSony's stock price (green) seems to be driven by other forces.Over the past several weeks, Sony has been the subject of cyber attacks that have shut down the company's computer system and revealed employees' personal information. New information has been continuously leaked by a group that calls themselves "Guardians of Peace." It's unclear who's in the group, but the FBI has blamed North Korea. The hackers threatened to carry out terrorist attacks against movie theaters, and included the line "Remember the 11th of September 2001" in that message. Since then, Sony has canceled the December 25th release of the "The Interview" — a move that was criticized by Obama last Friday. FREE AppDownload
In his book "Zero to One: Notes on Startups, or How To Build the Future," serial entrepreneur Peter Thiel's advice often goes against traditional thinking.  The idea of mentorship is no exception. Here, he shrugs off the notion that having a smart set of advisors around is any indicator of whether or not your startup will succeed.  Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis and Graham Flanagan. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
AFPWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The French firm Alstom SA has pleaded guilty and will pay $772 million in criminal penalties to settle charges with the U.S. Justice Department alleging the company bribed government officials to win business in Indonesia, India and China. The settlement announced by the Justice Department on Monday marks the largest-ever criminal fine levied by the United States against a company for violations of foreign bribery laws. Earlier on Monday, a unit of Alstom and two employees were also charged by the Serious Fraud Office in the United Kingdom with bribing officials from 2002 through part of 2010. Alstom's power turbines unit has already been under tremendous heat, both because of the looming bribery probe fines and from a drop in orders and a cash crunch. In June, the company agreed to sell most of the power business to General Electric Co. so it could turn its attention to its smaller rail unit instead.   (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch in Washington) FREE AppDownload
There are dozens upon dozens of different styles of beer out there, from pale ales to stouts to bocks — and those are just a few. Being that there are so many styles, and so many exceptions to the rules, it's incredibly difficult (not to mention time-consuming) to get to know them all, but knowing your favorites will make drinking them a lot more enjoyable. We've created a taxonomy of most major beer styles to help you put your favorite cold ones into context. Start in the center and see where each style of beer falls. Skye Gould/Business Insider
Facebook has had a great 2014 by reporting a year-to-date gain of 45% versus 11.6% for the greater S&amp;P 500 index. Building upon its excellent 2013, the company has firmly put its poor post-IPO performance behind it. For perspective, even if you were "unlucky" enough to buy Facebook at its highest print on the first day of public trading -- $45 -- you'd still be sitting on a gain of 78%. During that period Facebook has faced numerous concerns from the Wall Street analyst crowd. Chronologically, its reliance on Zynga and gaming for revenue, its lack of a desktop advertising monetization strategy, its lack of a mobile monetization strategy, and Mark Zuckerberg's perceived reckless string of acquisitions. In each case, Facebook has continued its upward trajectory, shaking off concerns by reporting strong financial results. More recently, the company has faced questions related to its user base, specifically when it comes to teens. According to a new report from research firm Frank N. Magid Associates (hat tip to Bloomberg) provides new fodder to that assertion. The company found the percentage of 13- to 17-year-old social-media users in the U.S. dropped 6 percentage points this year, decreasing from 94% in 2013 to 88% today. If anything, this survey actually confirms this trend rather than first reporting it. Last year, then CFO David Ebersman caused a stir when he commented on teen users on a quarter conference call: "Youth usage among U.S. teens was stable overall from Q2 to Q3, but we did see a decrease in daily users partly among younger teens." The stock quickly shaved off a 15% gain that day in the after-hours market with the comment overshadowing an excellent financial report. Earlier this year, a shocking report from iStrategy Labs found 25% fewer U.S. teens use Facebook now as opposed to 2011. So, you see where this is going, right? Facebook must be struggling to pull in ad dollars as the site becomes uncool. The chart below gives proper context: Facebook's 10Qs and 10Ks; figures in millionsSo, as you can see, if Facebook is now uncool with the teen set it appears Madison Avenue hasn't gotten the memo, metonymously speaking, of course. Advertisers are still paying Facebook billions per quarter for ads. Looking at that chart, with the exception of the first quarter drop-off (extremely normal considering the highly lucrative holiday season ad-fest), each quarter Facebook has outperformed the one before it. When looking at the numbers on a year-over-year comparison (eliminating seasonality), the numbers are even better. For perspective, last quarter Facebook pulled in $2.96 billion in ad revenue -- an increase of 64.5% from last year's corresponding quarter. Obviously, the key question for investors is "can this trend continue." Considering advertisers pay top dollar for young and impressionable users, it is easy to come to the conclusion that Facebook may have issues growing ad dollars going forward. However, I don't feel that to be the case. Matter of fact, Facebook stands to be a huge beneficiary of the coming shift in ad dollars. An earlier study from research firm eMarketer found that although digital media consumption -- including both online and mobile -- commanded nearly half of total media consumption, when it comes to ad spend, digital media only pulls in 28% of the total. As advertising agencies follow user trends by proportioning their ad dollars to match eyeball market share, look for Facebook to continue to be a major beneficiary of this shift. In addition, many of those teenagers have moved over to Facebook-owned Instagram, and although the monetization isn't as good now, Citigroup just assigned Instagram alone a $35 billion valuation. As a side note, Zuckerberg paid $1 billion for Instagram, at the time considered one of his "reckless" acquisitions. Has Facebook changed? Sure. And I lament the fact that, at times, it appears to take the form of a bad Thanksgiving political discussion rather than the young, hip social hangout of yesteryear. However, it is still a major part of many people's online experience and persona and that's not going to change anytime soon. Advertisers know that and investors shouldn't worry about this new report. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriTraders laugh as they cut up a crumb cake on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York December 22, 2014. For a while there, traders and investors lost faith in Santa Claus rallies. The stock market has erased all of its December losses and now sits at a record level. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories: 1. US futures were already pointing to a higher open. Stocks remained in the green for most of the day. While the S&amp;P 500 set a record closing high, the December 5 intraday record high still holds at 2,079.4. 2. The pace of existing home sales plunged 6.1%in November to an annualized rate of 4.93 million units. This was much worse than the 1.1% decline expected by economists. “Fewer people bought homes last month despite interest rates being at their lowest levels of the year,” said the NAR's Lawrence Yun. “The stock market swings in October may have impacted some consumers’ psyche and therefore led to fewer November closings. Furthermore, rising home values are causing more investors to retreat from the market.” 3. Despite the disappointing report, markets brushed it off. Perhaps traders were focused on the positives of the report like BMO Capital Markets economist Jennifer Lee. "Of the closings, first-time homebuyers made up 31%, the largest share since October 2012," Lee wrote. "Granted this is still far from the 40%-to-45% range during normal times but after spending the last 19 months below 30%, this increase is a very encouraging development." 4. Warm weather has boosted natural gas inventory levels, and that's been crushing prices. Natural gas futures plunged 9% to $3.144 per million BTUs, the lowest level since January 9, 2013. This is good news for consumers. 5. Also good news for consumers, gas prices continue to fall thanks to low oil costs. According to a Lundberg survey released Sunday, that average price of gasoline in the US fell $0.25 in the past two weeks to $2.47 per gallon. This is the lowest level in five-and-a-half years. American consumers should enjoy it while it lasts; energy pros all expect oil prices to rally from here. Don't Miss: 17 Mindblowing Facts About North Korea » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Pawel KopczysnkiGosh, I wish I could read a post on Business Insider that would explain all this.Business Insider is looking for a financial markets junkie to join our growing Markets team as a contributors editor. The ideal candidate should have experience in finance or financial markets reporting. The candidate should be familiar with the popular financial blogs and the best Twitter accounts. The contributors editor will be able to identify and write Business Insider-style headlines for outside stories to feature on Business Insider. These pieces will be curated from our existing roster of 300-plus contributors and syndication partners, but the editor will also be responsible for building the network by securing new partners. Relevant topics include stocks, bonds, currencies, commodities, rates, and macroeconomics. The candidate should have strong communications skills and the ability to make a wonky story fun and exciting. This job is all about packaging and framing. If you are interested, please apply HERE. Include your résumé, and suggest five syndication partners the Markets team should go after and why. Also, feel free to shoot an email to deputy editor Sam Ro at sro@businessinsider.com. This job is full time and based in our New York City headquarters. Business Insider offers competitive compensation packages complete with benefits.  FREE AppDownload
@REALTORSThe pace of exising home sales plunged 6.1% in November to an annualized rate of 4.93 million units. This was much worse than expected. Economists had forecast the pace of sales declined 1.1% to 5.20 million units. "Overall, the weaker existing home sales report suggests that the housing market remains on a somewhat rocky footing as data remains quite choppy," TD Securities Gennadiy Goldberg said. "We suspect that the recent decline in mortgage rates could help provide a near-term boost to activity over the coming months, but believe that further housing market improvement is likely to remain quite gradual, remaining a source of concern for the Fed. " “Fewer people bought homes last month despite interest rates being at their lowest levels of the year,” said the NAR's Lawrence Yun. “The stock market swings in October may have impacted some consumers’ psyche and therefore led to fewer November closings. Furthermore, rising home values are causing more investors to retreat from the market.” The median existing home sales price was $205,300 during the month, up 5.0% from a year ago. The inventory of existing homes available for sale fell to 2.09 million, which represents a 5.1 month supply. Here's some color regarding the mix of sales: Single-family home sales dropped 6.3 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.33 million in November from 4.62 million in October, but remain 2.4 percent above the 4.23 million pace a year ago. The median existing single-family home price was $206,200 in November, up 5.6 percent from November 2013. Existing condominium and co-op sales declined 4.8 percent to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 600,000 units in November from 630,000 in October, and are unchanged from a year ago. The median existing condo price was $199,000 in November, which is 1.2 percent higher than a year ago. The pace of sales fell for all regions covered by the NAR: the Northeast fell 4.2%, the Midwest fell 8.0%, the South fell 3.2%, and the West fell 9.6%. FREE AppDownload
Jeff Bezos explains why he doesn't spend much time talking to traders, and instead focuses his attention on long term investors. Produced by Devan Joseph Follow BI Video: On Facebook Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions.
REUTERS/Stephen HirdJ Sainsbury CEO King and Chairman Hampton  The Guardian is reporting that the Sainsbury's website accidentally cancelled "hundreds" of orders on Sunday night. Waitrose was also hit by a similar problem. Staff told customers that its website was "going into meltdown" and had led to failed deliveries of food. A Waitrose spokesman, speaking to the Guardian, said that "The temporary IT problem yesterday was swiftly and successfully fixed." Appalling service from @waitrose. No delivery last night, no call to say it wasn't calling - no call today to rearrange - Xmas stuff missing People affected by the website issues were told that they could rearrange their deliveries to a date after Christmas, or pick them up in store.  It's not clear why the supermarket websites failed on Sunday evening. There was likely a lot of people trying to book orders at that time since it's so close to Christmas, but as we saw during Black Friday, supermarket websites have plans in place to deal with excess traffic. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Collapsing crude prices are starting to make their way through the North American energy sector, as the most unprofitable oil &amp; gas rigs are mothballed. Those flashing red numbers are not just on your screen any more. Baker HughesThe closures have been particularly acute in Canada, where some 40 oil &amp; gas rigs have been taken out of operation recently. In fact it's not clear if economists fully appreciate what's about to transpire with the Canadian economy. This decline in rig count is just the beginning. Consider for example the situation with the Canadian oil sands - one of the more expensive sources of crude production. Even if prices recover somewhat, oil sands production will be winding down - nobody wants to operate money-losing businesses for a prolonged period. And those who believe crude will be back above $80/bl any time soon is deluding themselves. FTUp until now, production from oil sands has fueled growth in other sectors, including for example transportation and housing in Alberta. This is about come to a screeching halt. Alberta Treasury Board and FinanceThe national situation is not significantly better. Housing markets across the country have continued to rally, even as homes south of the border had undergone an unprecedented price adjustment. While many point out that the reason for avoiding a US-style housing crash has been a stronger mortgage market, that's only part of it. The global commodity boom in which Canada successfully participated is the main reason. Multiple Listing ServiceNow as the commodity super-cycle has ended and energy prices collapsed, Canadian households are caught with near-record levels of leverage. National PostSome have been pointing out that Canadian mortgage debt service ratio has continued to improve. However that measure is misleading, as it excludes principal payments. In reality the situation is much worse (see chart, h/t @ac_eco). There is also the argument that Canada's economy is "diversified". Perhaps. But just to put the situation in perspective, take a look at the breakdown of the nation's trade balances. @Earthed, Maclean's While economists will attempt to analyze the impact of energy prices on various sectors separately, when it comes to Canada, a number of economic components are quite difficult to decouple from one another. What's clear is that this exposure to energy is going to damage the labor markets, squeezing the nation's overextended households.  And the knock-on effect won't be limited to a severe slowdown in residential construction growth. Consider for example the expenditures on renovations - something that's been supporting parts of manufacturing and other sectors. This is not going to end well. ScotiabankThe markets are already sensing the contagion effect from energy on the housing market, as Canadian property REITs take a hit. If oil prices remain anywhere near the current levels for a prolonged period - something the Saudis are aiming for (see post) - Canada's economy is in serious trouble. Sober Look FREE AppDownload
Saudi Arabia convinced its fellow OPEC members that it was not in the group's interest to cut oil output however far prices may fall, the kingdom's oil minister Ali al-Naimi said in an interview with the Middle East Economic Survey (MEES). OPEC met Nov. 27 and declined to cut production despite a slide in prices, marking a shift in strategy toward defending market share rather than supporting prices. "As a policy for OPEC, and I convinced OPEC of this, even Mr al-Badri (the OPEC secretary general) is now convinced, it is not in the interest of OPEC producers to cut their production, whatever the price is," Naimi was quoted by MEES as saying. "Whether it goes down to $20, $40, $50, $60, it is irrelevant," he said. He said the world "may not" see oil back at $100 a barrel, formerly Saudi Arabia's preferred level for prices, again. Oil fell towards $60 a barrel on Monday, reversing gains after Saudi Arabia indicated it could increase its output. Monday's edition of the Saudi-owned al-Hayat newspaper quoted the kingdom's oil minister Naimi as saying Saudi Arabia is prepared to increase output and gain market share by meeting the demands of any new customers. On Sunday he said lower crude prices would help demand by stimulating the economy. Brent fell 72 cents to $60.66 by 1415 GMT. It is down more than 46 percent from the year's peak in June above $115 per barrel. U.S. crude was down 84 cents at $56.29 a barrel. "We are going down because you have some OPEC ministers who come every day making statements trying to drive the market down, said Olivier Jakob, an oil analyst at Petromatrix Oil in Zug, Switzerland. "They come every day to convey the message that they are not doing anything to restrict supplies and that they basically want oil prices to move lower to reduce production in the U.S." OPEC's decision not to reduce production at a meeting in November sped up the decline in already falling oil prices. Prospects for a cut in the near future look remote. While analysts said Brent would likely remain above $60 a barrel this year, they said further large jumps in price were unlikely. Analysts said the price drop would have only a gradual impact on the outlook for production. "Given the lead time in permit approval and rig construction ahead of oil production, a sizeable negative U.S. supply response given the price drop is unlikely to take place until late 2015, which places further downward pressure on oil prices in the first six months of next year," National Australia Bank said in a note. It said it expected Brent and U.S. crude to average $68 and $64 per barrel respectively in 2015. Analysts also said they expected relatively low price volatility for the rest of the year as traders begin to wind down their 2014 positions. (Additional reporting by Henning Gloystein in Singapore and Ahmed Aboulenein in London; editing by Jason Neely, David Evans, and Jane Merriman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexei NikolskyiRussia's President Vladimir Putin visits a Rosneft refinery in the Black Sea town of Tuapse in southern Russia.Moscow (AFP) - Russian oil major Rosneft, hit by US sanctions over Moscow's role in the Ukraine crisis, said Monday it had to abandon plans to purchase the oil trading business of US bank Morgan Stanley after failing to win regulatory approval. The December 2013 deal for an undisclosed amount covered Morgan Stanley’s Global Oil Merchanting business that included agreements on stocking oil in terminals as well as physical oil inventories.       FREE AppDownload
When it comes to choosing a new smartphone, the decision for most people often comes down to Samsung versus Apple. To help you decide, here are nine things Samsung's Galaxy Note 4 does better than Apple's iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. Produced by Will Wei Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Fred ProuserMeredith Whitney. But things may be much worse than initially thought. In a new report Sunday evening, Abelson reported that Whitney's fund was down 11% through last month and that her office was on the market. Whitney's American Revival Fund LP dropped during eight out of the past 11 months. And in two months in which the fund was up, it was by less than 1%, Abelson reports. This is during a year that has so far seen the S&amp;P 500 rally 12%. Whitney made a name for herself during the financial crisis when she correctly predicted that Citigroup would be forced to cut its dividend. She also predicted hundreds of billions of dollars of municipal bond defaults in 2010 — but that never happened. On Friday, Abelson reported that Whitney's hedge fund lost 4.5%, following targeted returns of 12% to 17%.  The hedge fund's CEO Brittani Caetano and SAC Capital veteran and cofounder Stephen Schwartz have left the firm. And, to make things worse, a fund connected to BlueCrest Capital is asking for its money back. To get all the details, check out the full story on Bloomberg.   FREE AppDownload
Russia's government has pushed the country into an economic crisis by not tackling its financial problems fast enough, former finance minister Alexei Kudrin said Monday, warning that the full effects would be felt next year. Kudrin — a darling of investors who is credited with building Russia's $170 billion worth of sovereign wealth funds — added that sanctions over Ukraine, not falling oil prices, were primarily behind the collapse of the ruble and warned that Russia risked seeing its debt downgraded to junk status in 2015. "Today, I can say that we have entered or are entering a real, full-fledged economic crisis. Next year we will feel it clearly," the former minister told a news conference. "The government has not been quick enough to address the situation ... I am yet to hear ... its clear assessment of the current situation." Kudrin, one of few to criticize Russian President Vladimir Putin, quit in 2011 in protest at proposals to increase defense spending. He has since criticized Putin's response to Western sanctions imposed following Russia's annexation of Ukraine's Crimea region and its subsequent support for loyalist fighters. But the two men are still believed to be close. Russia has been hit by what economy minister Alexei Ulyukayev called a "perfect storm" of plummeting oil prices, sanctions, and a flight of investors' capital, made worse by a lack of structural reforms that means the economy is overwhelmingly dependent on oil revenues. Government officials have tried to minimize the impact of sanctions on the country and its ruble currency — which plunged last week despite a hike in interest rates to 17%. Putin has said "external factors" like oil were the key culprit behind the country's "tough times." But on Monday, Russia announced plans to impose a heavy tax on grain exports because ruble volatility and high global prices had caused exports to spike. Russian news agencies reported Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev told a meeting with officials that the country needed to hang on to its stocks. And though the country's top oil firm Rosneft said it had made a $7 billion debt repayment from its own cash reserves, easing some investors' worries. Russia's central bank said it would have to bail out the mid-size Trust Bank with 30 billion rubles ($544.54 million) to stop it from going bankrupt. REUTERS/Alexsey Druginyn/RIA Novosti/PoolRussia's then-Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, left, with Kudrin in Moscow on Feb. 28, 2011. Kudrin said falling crude prices only partly accounted for the plunge in the ruble — which has fallen particularly steeply since autumn as concerns increased that the sanctions would prevent Russian companies from meeting debt obligations because they cannot access Western capital. Kudrin forecast a series of defaults among medium and large enterprises — though banks were more likely to be supported by the state — which is likely to result in rating agencies downgrading Russia's debt to "junk" status. Most agencies have put Russia this year one notch above junk status. "Russia will get a downgrade," Kudrin said. " It will enter the 'junk' territory." Kudrin said he believed that between 25% and 35% of the decline in the ruble — down some 45% against the dollar so far this year — could be attributed to sanctions. The rest, he said, was down to a stronger dollar and investors' mistrust of Russian authorities and their actions. The ruble ticked up slightly against the dollar Monday, and the RTS index of dollar-denominated shares rose more than 4% as Brent crude prices rose 2% to above $62 per barrel. While the currency may stabilize in the first quarter of next year, its decline will most likely help to push inflation to a rate of 12% to 15% in 2015, Kudrin said. The central bank envisages next year's inflation at about 8%. And even if the price of oil rose to $80 per barrel, gross domestic product was still likely to fall by more than 2% in 2015, Kudrin said. At $60 per barrel, GDP would decline by 4% or more, he added, echoing the central bank's latest assessment, published last week.  ($1 = 55.0925 rubles) (Reporting by Darya Korsunskaya; Writing by Lidia Kelly; Editing by Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Crude oil prices are likely to bottom out in the first half of 2015, until a possible slowdown in U.S. shale production counters a supply glut exacerbated by OPEC's decision not to cut output, a Reuters monthly survey showed. The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries' agreement last month to stand pat on output meant the onus for any supply cutbacks was now on non-OPEC producers, primarily led by U.S. shale oil, analysts said. "Oil prices will be lower, making shale oil production less attractive for investments, which are necessary to keep shale oil production growing," Commerzbank's Carsten Fritsch said. Oil is seen recovering in the second half as non-OPEC production responds to lower prices, while demand picks up in the course of the year, the poll showed. The survey of 30 economists and analysts projected Brent to average $74.00 a barrel next year and $80.30 in 2016. The forecast for 2015 is $8.50 below the average projection in the previous Reuters poll. The November poll number was down $11.20 from October, marking the biggest downgrade in average forecasts since the 2008 economic downturn. Brent this month hit five-year lows below $60 a barrel, down almost half from peaks reached in June. Brent has averaged $100.57 so far this year. Brent was up 74 cents at $62.12 on Monday. U.S. crude was up 66 cents at $57.79 a barrel. "In terms of the floor price, we think $60 per barrel will be the level at which fast-rising U.S. shale oil producers will feel the pinch," ANZ analyst Natalie Rampono said. "Supply cuts above this level will be limited to other smaller, high-cost U.S. and Canadian unconventional oil producers. Although we think it will take six to 12 months for these supply cuts to become apparent," she added. Some analysts, however, were skeptical whether OPEC's stand would serve as a deterrent to U.S. shale oil producers. "The lag in oil production response from existing wells from the U.S. suggests that only the marginal oil projects will be discouraged at this stage," Vyanne Lai of National Australia Bank said. The poll forecast U.S. light crude would average $68.70 a barrel next year, and $74.90 in 2016. U.S. crude has averaged $93.99 so far in 2014. "Some of the highly leveraged U.S. shale oil producers will face serious trouble. In the long term, OPEC strategy should pay off for OPEC as this strategy should lead to higher oil prices from 2016/17 on," Hannes Loacker of Raiffeisen Bank said. Raiffeisen is among the most bullish forecasters, projecting Brent to average $80 a barrel in 2015, and is one of 11 institutions that had participated in the previous poll and retained their outlook since then. Of the 14 banks polled that have cut their forecasts since the previous month's survey, Morgan Stanley slashed its projection by $28 to an average 2015 Brent price of $70. ANZ, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, JBC, LBBW and Deutsche Bank also lowered their North Sea crude forecast for next year by more than $15 per barrel. ABN AMRO had the highest Brent forecast at $85 for 2015, while Nomisma Energia had the lowest at $59 a barrel. Brent's premium &lt;cl-lco1=r&gt; to U.S. crude will narrow to $5.30 a barrel in 2015 from $6.68 so far this year and $10.58 in 2013, the poll said.   (Reporting by Koustav Samanta and Vijaykumar Vedala in Bengaluru; Editing by Dale Hudson) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLing, newly elected vice chairman of the the CPPCC, leaves during a plenary meeting of the CPPCC in BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - China has started a probe into alleged corruption of Ling Jihua, a former senior aide to former president Hu Jintao, the official Xinhua news agency said on Monday. The Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Commission for Discipline Inspection announced the investigation in a brief statement on Monday, Xinhua said. Ling is vice chairman of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference National Committee and head of the United Front Work Department of the CPC Central Committee. Ling is investigated for "disciplinary violations", Xinhua said. Ling was demoted in September 2012 after sources said his son was involved in a deadly crash involving a luxury sports car. (Reporting by Kevin Yao and Ben Blanchard; Editing by Jeremy Laurence) FREE AppDownload
LONDON (Reuters) - Top British bankers and other senior executives in the financial services industry are not taking the risk of cyber attacks seriously enough, financial policymakers at the Bank of England say. Cyber crime costs the global economy $445 billion a year and the bill is rising, according to the Center for Strategic and International Studies. Banks are particularly vulnerable, despite spending hundreds of millions of dollars a year on cyber defenses. Increasingly sophisticated criminals are trying to steal money or client data, cause havoc in financial markets or score political points. Minutes of the most recent meetings of the Bank's Financial Policy Committee noted "a tendency among (banking) firms to view cyber threats as a technical problem rather than an issue which merits board-level attention given the evolving nature of cyber threats and the key importance of cyber resilience to continuity of financial services". Cyber criminals obtained details of 83 million clients from JPMorgan Chase &lt;jpm.n&gt; this year while Sony Pictures was hacked in an attack the United States has blamed on North Korea. The minutes published on Monday showed the Bank of England and some financial service firms were in advanced discussions over taking a voluntary test known as CBEST, in which they would hire hackers to attack them at will in order to test their resilience. Other major banks and key financial institutions should also take the test as soon as possible, the FPC minutes said. The FPC also said banks in Britain need to do more than pass health checks on their ability to withstand financial shocks, urging boards to improve the way their companies are run. Last week, the BoE said Britain's biggest lenders, with the exception of the Co-operative Bank, had passed stress tests of how well prepared they were. British banks have been embroiled in scandals ranging from attempts to fix benchmark interest and foreign exchange rates to the mis-selling of loan insurance and complex hedging products to small businesses. "In this environment, the Committee judged that strong, effective and well-informed management and governance arrangements would be essential to rebuild confidence in the banking system," the minutes said.   (Reporting by Matt Scuffham and William Schomberg; Editing by Ruth Pitchford) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Wall Street Bull sculpture in lower Manhattan is seen facing up Broadway, two blocks south of where Dominique Strauss-Kahn is living under house arrestNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures advanced on Monday, after the S&amp;P 500 notched its best weekly performance in almost two months, as oil prices continued to show signs of stabilizing. Futures snapshot at 7:35 a.m.: * S&amp;P 500 e-minis were up 4.25 points, or 0.21 percent, with 80,495 contracts changing hands. * Nasdaq 100 e-minis were up 8.5 points, or 0.2 percent, in volume of 14,883 contracts. * Dow e-minis &lt;1YMc1&gt; were up 45 points, or 0.25 percent, with 12,172 contracts changing hands. * Brent crude hit a high of $62.97 and WTI crude rose to as much as $58.53 amid investor confidence there would be no substantial price loss in the run-up to the new year. However, Brent pulled back to last trade down 14 cents to $61.24 while U.S. crude was last off 0.4 percent at $56.91. [O/R] * The benchmark S&amp;P index &lt;.SPX&gt; rose 3.4 percent last week, boosted by a 5 percent jump over three sessions, after the U.S. Federal Reserve said it would take a "patient" approach toward raising interest rates and as oil prices appeared to stabilize. The S&amp;P energy index &lt;.SPNY&gt; surged nearly 10 percent for the week. * Investors await existing home sales data, due out at 10:00 a.m. (1500 GMT). Expectations are for a decline of 1 percent. * Trading volume is expected to be light this week due to the Christmas holiday, which could increase volatility. U.S. equity markets will operate a shortened session on Wednesday and be closed on Thursday. * Gilead Sciences &lt;gild.o&gt; lost 6.6 percent to $101.30 in premarket trade. Express Scripts, the nation's largest pharmacy benefit manager, has lined up a cheaper price from AbbVie Inc &lt;abbv.n&gt; on its newly approved hepatitis C treatment and, in most cases, will no longer cover Gilead's treatments. * BioCryst Pharmaceuticals &lt;bcrx.o&gt; jumped 10.2 percent to $12.30 in light premarket trade after the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved its intravenous flu drug. * Rising energy shares lifted European equities, while Greece's bourse advanced after its prime minister offered Sunday to bring pro-European independents into the government. [.EU] * Asian shares took their cues from Wall Street's strong finish last week and moved higher, also aided by the recovery in oil prices.   (Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
On Monday, the Central Bank of Russia announced that it will be bailing out the first bank of the current ruble crisis, the private lender Trust Bank. The central bank will provide 30 billion rubles — roughly $530 million — but did not officially say that Trust Bank's problems were linked to the ruble's plunge. Additionally, the CBR stated that its Deposit Insurance Agency would take over supervision of Trust Bank as of Monday. Over the past year, the ruble has dropped by 45% against the dollar, and last week was particularly brutal for the currency. But here's the real story: Bruce Willis is the face of Trust Bank. Here's what the homepage of the bank's official site looks like. Trust.ru And here's a close up of one of the three-rotating images from the homepage. Trust.ru The greatest holiday gift of them all: joining the Bruce Willis-endorsed bank.Trust.ru A nice Bruce Willis-ed out header. Trust.ru And here's Bruce Willis in a leather jacket advertising for the Russian bank. Trust.ru And here's the creme de la creme: you can get yourself a Trust Bank card so that you can carry around Bruce Willis wherever you go.  Trust.ru We're sold. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA television shows a news conference by Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen as traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange December 17, 2014.JonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are chatting about right now. Good Morning!  Us Futures are continuing last week’s Fed induced rally, gaining 20bp in early trade.   This mirrors global strength, starting with a 1% pop in the DAX as Bunds get sold.   The FTSE is 80bp higher, as Consumer Discretionary stocks act well – Materials issues the only group in the red.  Ahead of the Greek Elections tomorrow, Greece’s Samaras made concessions – but their market is unchanged.   Despite stability in the Ruble, Russia’s Micex is off 1% as Oil weakens.    Over in Asia,The Nikkei was basically unchanged as Yen strengthened - China gained 1.6% and Hong Kong 1.3%, but Macau Casino stocks under pressure as the Chinese president warned to strengthen oversight.    Despite Aussie cutting its Ore price estimate for 2015 to $63/average – Energy and Materials stocks down under jumped in heavy covering, propelling the ASX 2%.  The 10YY is climbing higher, reversing Friday’s drop in Yields by 2bp – and German yields are back over 60bp.    The Euro is slightly higher, but well under Friday’s opening levels as Expiry and diverging policies hit Euro to new lows against the Greenback, weakening the DXY despite slight $ strength against Yen.      There is weakness across the Energy complex, as WTI/Brent have surrendered 2.5% gains to dive red (Saudi and UAE reaffirmed intentions to keep output at current levels) - Natty Gas Continues to gain downside momentum into next week’s expiry on unseasonably warm weather, Lotta chatter break of $3.60 on Friday causing heavy Momentum selling.  Natty is off 10% in 2 days.    Wheat is jumping 1% as Russia limits exports – while Gold is up small, but remains under $1200/oz.   At 8:30 we get Chicago Fed Nat Activity Index, while the Housing stocks will focus on Existing Home Sales for November at 10.   Watch the Euro at 10 as well, we get Consumer Confidence from the Eurozone.   Finally, at 1 we get an Auction of 2Y notes. FREE AppDownload
BERLIN (Reuters) - Germany sees no reason to think about changes to the EU's sanctions regime against Moscow at the moment, a government spokeswoman said, after the foreign minister expressed concern that Russia could be destabilized if sanctions were not eased. The spokeswoman Christiane Wirtz told a news conference that the expiry of sanctions next year provided a "natural point in time" to debate whether they should continue and in what form. The European Union imposed sanctions in a series of escalating steps starting in March of this year. Each round of sanctions is valid for 12 months, meaning they must be renewed in March 2015 if they are to remain in place. "At the current time, we are all in agreement that new sanctions should not be introduced," Wirtz said. "And as long as the causes of the sanctions remain, as long as they haven't disappeared, then there is no reason to think about lifting the sanctions independent of the agreed time period." The comments came after Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier told German weekly Der Spiegel that he was worried Russia could be destabilized if EU sanctions were not eased. Pointing to the dramatic fall in the rouble currency and declining energy prices, which have sparked an economic and financial crisis in Russia, Steinmeier said: "It cannot be in our interests that this runs out of control." Steinmeier is a member of the center-left Social Democrats (SPD), who have traditionally favored engagement with Russia over confrontation. Until now, he has stuck closely to conservative Chancellor Angela Merkel's firm line with Russian President Vladimir Putin. But the comments to Der Spiegel suggested cracks may be emerging between the two. Wirtz told the news conference that Merkel had spoken with Ukraine's President Petro Poroshenko over the weekend and that both had agreed on the need for a meeting of the so-called Contact Group - which includes envoys from Kiev, Moscow, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and pro-Russian separatists - to discuss prisoner exchanges and supplies for people living in eastern Ukraine. (Editing by Michelle Martin) FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe next blog post will be on Monday, Jan. 5, 2015. We wish you all the best during the holidays and a happy and healthy New Year. Only a few days ago, investors were starting to doubt Santa Claus. He usually gives us a yearend rally as a Christmas present. However, the S&amp;P 500 plunged 4.9% from December 5 through December 16. That was certainly a lump of coal. But then, the S&amp;P 500 yet again found support around its 50-day moving average without leading to a correction of 10% or more--having done so more than a dozen times since the spring of 2012. Instead, it rallied 5.0% from Wednesday through Friday last week. The S&amp;P 500 is only 0.2% below its record high of 2075.37 on December 5. Santa had some help from the “Fairy Godmother of the Bull Market,” Fed Chair Janet Yellen. At her press conference on Wednesday, she sprinkled some fairy dust and waved her wand, saying that the Fed will remain “patient” when considering when to raise interest rates, which could still be a “considerable time” away. Whenever she speaks publicly about the economy and monetary policy, stock prices tend to rise. She hasn’t lost her touch! Given that the market’s overall valuation multiple is quite high, investors are always ready to jump on undervalued situations that might develop. That was evident in last week’s rally, which was led by Energy and Materials: Here’s the S&amp;P 500 sectors’ performance derby from Wednesday through Friday: Energy (9.8%), Materials (6.3), Health Care (5.2), Information Technology (5.1), S&amp;P 500 Composite (5.0), Financials (4.8), Industrials (3.9), Utilities (3.9), Consumer Discretionary (3.9), Telecommunication Services (3.8), and Consumer Staples (3.3). (See Table.) On a global basis (in dollars), value hunters jumped into Russia (22.4%), Brazil (9.8), Turkey (8.4), South Africa (7.5), and Mexico (7.2) from Wednesday through Friday. Nevertheless, the US outperformed the major market indexes during this three-day rally. Here is the performance derby (in dollars): S&amp;P 500 (5.0), EM (3.8), World (3.7), United Kingdom (2.8), Japan (2.3), and EMU (0.9). (See Table.) Finally, investors have good reason to believe in Santa. Since 1928, December has been the best month for stocks, with an average gain of 1.5%. That matches July’s average, but December has been up 64 times and down 22 times, while July has been up 49 times and down 38 times. By the way, the January Barometer is likely to be wrong this year. The S&amp;P 500 fell 3.6% during the first month of this year, but is up nicely ytd, especially if Santa’s rally continues through the end of the year. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Melt-Up for the Holidays? (1) Santa’s little helper. (2) From lump of coal to lump of sugar. (3) Transportation stocks on a roller coaster. (4) Yellen’s fairy dust full of good cheer. (5) Yellen claims FOMC members not worried about plunging oil prices, jumping junk yields, or imploding Russian ruble. Or are they? (6) Fed-Speak: Inflationary expectations vs. inflationary compensation. (7) December often stuffs goodies in socks and stocks. (8) A bull market for all seasons. (9) Dr. Ed’s Movie Reviews: 2014. (10) See you next year. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriMiguel Esteves on Sunday before placing his rosary beads on a makeshift memorial at the Brooklyn, New York, site in which two police officers were shot in the head.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Markets Are Rallying. US futures are pointing to another up day for the markets, with Dow futures up 56 points and S&amp;P futures up 6 points. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.7%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.9%, and Germany's DAX is up 0.9%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.08%, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 1.26%. It's A Santa Claus Rally Miracle. "Only a few days ago, investors were starting to doubt Santa Claus," researcher Ed Yardeni wrote. "He usually gives us a yearend rally as a Christmas present. However, the S&amp;P 500 plunged 4.9% from December 5 through December 16. That was certainly a lump of coal. But then, the S&amp;P 500 yet again found support around its 50-day moving average without leading to a correction of 10% or more — having done so more than a dozen times since the spring of 2012. Instead, it rallied 5.0% from Wednesday through Friday last week. The S&amp;P 500 is only 0.2% below its record high of 2075.37 on December 5." US Housing Data Is Coming. The National Association of Realtors will publish existing home sales data at 10 a.m. ET (3 p.m. GMT). Economists estimate the pace of sales fell 1.1% in November to an annualized rate of 5.20 million. Saudi Arabia Isn't Budging On Oil. Saudi Arabia stands by its decision not to cut oil production despite tumbling prices. Reuters reported: "Referring to countries outside of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi told reporters: 'If they want to cut production, they are welcome: We are not going to cut; certainly Saudi Arabia is not going to cut." US Gas Prices Hit A 5-And-A-Half-Year Low. The average price of regular-graded gasoline fell 25 cents in the past two weeks to $2.47 a gallon, according to a Lundberg survey released Friday. China Is Willing To Help Russia. "If the Russian side needs, we will provide necessary assistance within our capacity," Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi was quoted as saying in a state newspaper Monday. China's Xiaomi Is Valued At More Than $45 Billion. The country's largest smartphone maker has raised more than $1 billion in its latest round of funding expected to close as early as Monday, The Wall Street Journal reports. American Apparel Adopted A New Stockholder Rights Plan. "Each right will entitle its holder to purchase, for $3.25 per share, a number of shares of the company's common stock or substantially equivalent securities having a market value of twice such price," the clothing retailer said in a statement. "The board implemented the rights plan as an additional means to ensure that all American Apparel stockholders are treated fairly." Rich Russians Are Fleeing To The UK. Figures from Britain's Home Office show that the number of Russians granted investor visas in 2014 jumped by 69% compared with the previous year as the economic situation in Russia worsens. Belarus Blocked Online Stores And News Websites. Government officials introduced the block Friday in an attempt to stop panic-buying spurred by the depreciation of the Belorussian ruble, which has been hit hard by the slide of the Russian ruble. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Russell CheyneFemale bankers are getting crushed by their male counterparts.Female bankers in London are paid tens of thousands of pounds less than their male colleagues, according to a survey by recruitment firm Astbury Marsden. At the highest levels, female managing directors and partners are paid £68,421 less than their male colleagues every year. The survey covers 1,468 bankers who were asked about their salaries, bonuses, promotions, and job movements. (We told you earlier about the expected level of bonuses in the City of London this year.) The average base pay for a City of London staffer in 2014 is £96,458, up 8% from last year, according to Astbury Marsden. But some people's pay packets are more average than others, the data show. Men earn £99,337 on average compared to women, who get £86,649:Astbury Marsden Women are paid less at every level of banking except when they reach executive director level: Astbury Marsden The survey doesn't ask why this discrepancy occurs. It doesn't account for time out of the workforce for child-raising, for instance. But women are paid less from the moment they enter banking, at the entry level "analyst" position, when they are least likely to have children. There also pay discrepancies between job functions at banks: Astbury Marsden Astbury Marsden does not say whether women are disproportionately concentrated in job functions that are lower paid. FREE AppDownload
 Russia's uber-rich are seeking refuge in the UK in record numbers as the economic crisis in their home country deepens. According to Home Office statistics, the number of Russians granted fast-track visas — given to those who will invest at least £2 million ($3.1 million) in the UK — jumped by 69% in 2014 compared with the previous year, The Sunday Times first reported. Between January and September, 162 visas were given to Russian multimillionaires, an increase of 66 visas from the same period in 2013. The Times notes a dramatic uptick in visa applications after March, when the first round of western sanctions were placed on Russia over its military action in Ukraine. The ruble's slide and falling oil prices are also to blame for the flight out of Russia.  Under the terms of Britain's Tier 1 Investor visa, recipients can stay for a maximum of three years, four months with an investment of £2 million or more in UK government bonds or UK-registered companies. Applicants can't invest in property, which had been permitted until new restrictions were imposed last month, The Financial Times reports. According to the website, applicants can expect a decision within three weeks.  After two years in the UK, those with investor visas can apply to stay permanently if they invest £10 million ($15.6 million). A £5 million ($7.8 million) investment will allow you to apply after three years.  According to the Times, roughly half of the Russians who enter the scheme want to invest more than £5 million. Kamal Rahman, a lawyer at a firm that handles many Russian applications, told the newspaper: "The thing our Russian clients are interested in is citizenship. Investing the higher amount reduces the time from six years to five." Interestingly, the news follows a Bloomberg report that Russian buyers are disappearing from London's property market. "The ruble has now declined to such an extent that buying property in another currency, like sterling, is around twice as expensive as it was at the beginning of the year," Business Insider's Mike Bird noted. Wealthy Russians are also feeling the sting when it comes to vacation spending. Russian tourists are canceling their holiday plans to Thailand amid the collapse of the ruble.  FREE AppDownload
It turns out 2014 was a banner year for initial public offerings. Although companies that went public, particularly those in the tech sector, faced a significant cooling off starting in the spring, putting the kibosh on plans to go public by some promising companies such as cloud storage startups Box and Dropbox, online site registrar Godaddy, and the streaming music startup Spotify, the average return for IPOs this year was still 16 percent, according to Renaissance Capital, an IPO consultant and researcher. While that's quite a bit lower than the 41 percent logged in 2013, double-digit growth isn't something to sneeze at. Plus, there were 273 IPOs this year. The public markets haven't seen so much activity since--you guessed it--2000 when 400 companies debuted, according to Renaissance. And we at Inc. are proud to say that more than a few companies that had IPOs this year hail from the Inc. 5000. Names include, online discounter Coupons.com, high definition camera maker GoPro, alternative lenders Lending Club and OnDeck Capital, and car pricing and buying portal Truecar, which numbered among them. We know a good thing when we spot it, and we're expecting 2015 to even brighter for companies with debut plans. For now though, here's a look at the year's 10 biggest IPOs:  Funding from IPO: $70 millionOffering Price: $9Opening Share Price: $9.70Current Share Price: $21.22 The Inc. 5000 company provides pricing information on what others have paid for used and new cars, in addition to operating private label, online car buying programs for USAA, AAA, and Overstock.com. Truecar went public in May, as the air was coming out of the tech market. It did not disappoint however, with shares rising 12 percent the first day. Funding from IPO: $100 millionOffering Price: $9Opening Share Price: $11.40Current Share Price: $24.54 Joining the fray of startups focused on alleviating fixed costs for other companies, Zendesk has helped revolutionize customer service and help desk functions, turning them into ad hoc services themselves, available via the Web. It was among top 10 best-performing IPOs this year, according to Renaissance Capital. Funding from IPO: $168 millionOffering Price: $16Opening Share Price: $32.43 Current Share Price: $15.70 The company has revolutionized the sleepy and, some would say moribund, world of coupons by moving it online and into the mobile environment. Founded by Steven Boal in 1998, Coupons.com took no institutional money until 2011. It's share price took off for a few months after the offering, but has since returned to more discounted prices. Funding from IPO: $200 millionOffering price: $26Opening Share Price: $40Current Share Price: 35.56 The mobile and online food ordering service, which connects diners with thousands of takeout restaurants nationally, actually combines the businesses of Chicago's GruHub and New York's Seamless following a merger in 2013. At the time, both companies had independently pursued plans for IPOs. As a combined entity, GruHub had a strong opening, with shares climbing 50 percent out of the gate, only to close down about 17 percent by the end of the day. The stock has similarly bounced around all year, trading as high as $45 in August, before easing down to its current level. Prospects are still strong for GrubHub, which leads in the online food ordering space. Funding from IPO: $200 millionOffering Price: $20Opening Share Price: $26.63Current Share Price: $25.67 Like Lending Club, OnDeck proved that there's a strong market for alternative financing in small business loans, with shares jumping nearly 40 percent on its first day of trading. Unlike Lending Club, OnDeck, finances loans through bank warehouse lines and by selling loans to the second market. OnDeck plans to disrupt bank lending to entrepreneurs by using state of the art technology to make decisions within minutes. Funding from IPO: $306 millionOffering Price: $23Opening Share Price: $27Current Share Price: $33.79 Although Richard Branson's space exploration company, Virgin Galactic, is having severe problems stemming from a crash of a space ship that was to have ferried consumers to outer space for short joy rides next year, Virgin America is a lot closer to earth. Branson's low-cost airline, is more than coasting along, however. Its share price is up, as it's benefitting from a sharp drop in oil prices. Branson's legendary dash and charisma no doubt factor in too. He owns nearly a quarter of the company. Funding from IPO: $425 millionOffering Price: $24Opening Share Price: $31 Current Share Price: $57.09 Charismatic chief executive Nick Woodman started GoPro because he wanted a device that didn't exist in 2002, a high-performance, high definition camera that was also highly portable. His vision succeeded and GoPros can be seen everywhere today. GoPro is on the Inc. 5000, and investors clearly love it, perhaps because it produces high-tech hardware, a standout in a year otherwise packed with technology services and software. Funding from IPO: $500 millionOffering Price: $22.50Opening Share Price: $20.50 Current Share Price: $16.50 Every big IPO year needs a big clunker too. King, maker of the Candy Crush Saga game for mobile phones shows the dangers of being a one-hit wonder. The colorful game involving candied fruit slices provides 80 percent of the company's revenues, and it's had a hard time convincing investors it's capable of branching out. Though it did rake in half a billion dollars from its offering. Funding from IPO: $870 millionOffering Price:$15Opening Share Price:$23.43 Current Share Price: $26.94 Proving that 2014 is also the year of alternative finance, Lending Club, the peer to peer lending marketplace, hauled in nearly a billion dollars by tapping public markets. Started in 2007 by Renaud Laplanche, Lending Club originally let peers provide low-cost financing to their peers, but it has since morphed into a model that lets institutional investors do the same thing. Funding from IPO: $22 billionOffering Price: $68Opening Share Price: $92.70Current Share Price: $108 Entrepreneur Jack Ma founded the online marketplace--described by some as part Amazon, part eBay--in his apartment in 1995. It is the biggest Internet company in China, with some 500 million active users. Alibaba also had the year's largest IPO, setting records by bringing in $22 billion for the company. Questions linger about its unique ownership structure, which gives Jack Ma and the Chinese government considerable and somewhat murky control. That could cause problems for investors down the line. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim Zmeyev A board showing currency exchange rates in Moscow on Tuesday.MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian mid-sized lender Trust Bank is to receive up to 30 billion rubles ($530 million) from the central bank to stop it going bankrupt in the first bailout of its kind during the current rouble crisis. The central bank said its Deposit Insurance Agency, responsible for managing crisis-hit lenders, would take over interim supervision of Trust Bank as of Monday. The ruble has dropped about 45% against the dollar this year, suffering particularly steep falls early last week. President Vladimir Putin has declined to call it a crisis and said the currency would eventually rise again.    The measures "will make it possible for Trust to continue smooth payments operations. All the bank's clients, including depositors, can use its services as usual", the central bank said in a statement. BloombergRuble to US dollar in 2014. Trust, which hired actor Bruce Willis as its face for a series of advertisements, is Russia's 32nd largest lender by assets, according to Interfax data. It is also 15th biggest by private personal accounts, including deposits. As of Dec. 1, Trust held 145 billion rubles ($2.63 billion) in private personal deposits, according to its accounts. Last week, the Finance Ministry proposed doubling deposit insurance to 1.4 million rubles ($25,000) if a bank fails. Under increasing pressure from a plummeting rouble and western sanctions over Ukraine, Russia's banking sector could get a capital boost of up to 1 trillion rubles ($18 billion) under a new law being prepared by the government. The central bank said it would soon select an investor to bail out Trust Bank, most likely to be one of the country's major banks, it said.  ($1 = 56.4600 rubles) (Editing by Lidia Kelly and John Stonestreet) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBritain's Chancellor of the Exchequer Osborne tours market stalls promoting the livelihoods of small business owners at Downing Street in LondonLONDON (Reuters) - Britain will extend laws which make the manipulation of market benchmarks a criminal offense to cover a further seven benchmarks including the main foreign exchange and overnight interest rate fixes, the government said on Monday. "Ensuring that the key rates that underpin financial markets here and around the world are robust, and that anyone who seeks to manipulate them is subject to the full force of the law, is an important part of our long-term economic plan," finance minister George Osborne said in a statement. The extension of the law, which was originally introduced to cover the London Interbank Offered Rate (Libor) after a manipulation scandal, would come into effect in on April 1 2015, the finance ministry said.  (Reporting by William James; editing by William Schomberg) FREE AppDownload
BEIJING (Reuters) - China is willing to help Russia if needed but believes that the country has the ability to overcome its current economic problems, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi was quoted as saying in a state newspaper on Monday. The ruble has dropped about 45 percent against the dollar this year, suffering particularly steep falls early last week. President Vladimir Putin has declined to call it a crisis and said the currency would eventually rise again. Wang, speaking to reporters over the weekend, said that Russia also had the "wisdom" to get out of difficulties, the official China Daily reported. "If the Russian side needs, we will provide necessary assistance within our capacity," he said, noting that the two countries had consistently helped each other. He did not elaborate. China's trade minister, also speaking at the weekend, proposed more use of China's currency in settling trade with Russia in the face of the weaker ruble to ensure safe and reliable trade. China and Russia have close diplomatic and economic ties, particularly in the energy sector. However, China has largely stayed out of the crisis over Ukraine, trying not to be seen to take sides and calling for talks to resolve the issue. China's exports to Russia rose 10.5 percent and imports climbed 2.9 percent in the first three quarters of the year from the same period in 2013, with total trade valued at $70.78 billion. China's foreign exchange regulator said last week that they were closely monitoring the slide in the ruble but that they hadn't seen a significant impact on cross-border capital flows. (Editing by Joseph Radford) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduard KorniyenkoPeople dressed as Father Frost, the equivalent of Santa Claus, walk past a board showing currency exchange rates, during a parade in the Russian southern city of Krasnodar December 20, 2014.  This 3 and 1/2-day week comes with fresh data on housing, income, spending, and GDP. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Nearly every major strategist on Wall Street is convinced stocks are going higher in 2015. However, almost all of those strategists are convinced gains will be very modest. Fundstrat Global Advisors' Tom Lee thinks its a mistake to be part of that heard of cautious bulls. "[T]ake a look at the history of the Street in forecasting S&amp;P 500 actual returns," Lee wrote on Thursday. "For 5 of the last 6 years, the Street has underestimated the market close, with the exception being 2011 (when the budget showdown and S&amp;P downgrade hurt equities)." "Be contrarian," Lee recommends. Lee, the former chief US equity strategist for JPMorgan, expects the S&amp;P 500 to hit 2,325 by the end of 2015. That call makes Lee tied for top bull among strategists followed by Wall Street. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com.      FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA SpiceJet passenger aircraft taxis on the runway at the airport next to a slum area in MumbaiNEW DELHI (Reuters) - A co-founder of troubled Indian carrier SpiceJet Ltd  has asked for more time to finalize a rescue plan, a government official with direct knowledge of the matter said on Monday. Ajay Singh, who helped set up the airline in 2005, was expected to submit a plan on Monday. The official said Singh had sought two to three weeks to finalize the plan. Singh is in talks with U.S.-based private equity investors to raise funds and lead a turnaround of SpiceJet, but talks were taking longer time than expected due to the upcoming Christmas holidays, the government official said. Singh was not immediately available for comment.  (Reporting by Aditi Shah; Writing by Devidutta Tripathy; Editing by Clara Ferreira Marques) FREE AppDownload
The United Kingdom’s oil industry is taking a beating from low oil prices, so much so that it is “close to collapse.” That comes from the head of the Association of UK Independent Oil and Gas Exploration Companies, otherwise known as Brindex. Robin Allan, the chairman of Brindex, says that the number of new oil projects that are profitable at $60 per barrel is close to zero. “It's almost impossible to make money at these oil prices,” Allan told the BBC in an interview. “It's a huge crisis.” The United Kingdom has been a significant oil producer in the past, driven mostly by offshore oil platforms in the North Sea. However, North Sea output has been in decline since the late 1990’s, with the industry unable to log substantial new discoveries to offset declining production from aging fields. Production has fallen by 40 percent in just the last four years. U.K. oil production, now below 1 million barrels per day, is less than half of what it was in 1998. With the best days for British oil fields behind them, costs have climbed rapidly. A strong currency, high taxes, and falling output have led to surging costs to produce each given barrel of oil. By some estimates, it is five times more costly to produce oil in the U.K. today compared to 2002. As a result, the health of the British oil industry has deteriorated rather rapidly. Oilprice.comBut the latest crisis has been sparked by low oil prices, which have fallen by half since June 2014. That has oil companies slashing both spending and employees across the country. The U.K. oil and gas industry employs an estimated 450,000 people, but those numbers are starting to dwindle quickly. According to the BBC, ConocoPhillips is cutting about 14 percent of its 1,650 workers, and several other firms are either freezing wages or laying off workers. But the numbers are surely worse than is being reported because oil companies often use contractors, whose layoffs wouldn’t be officially announced. Allan, of Brindex, says the British oil and gas industry is facing a grim future due to low international oil prices. “It’s close to collapse. In terms of new investments - there will be none, everyone is retreating, people are being laid off at most companies this week and in the coming weeks. Budgets for 2015 are being cut by everyone,” he said. The job losses have prompted the industry, along with workers and unions, to call on the government to cut taxes to stem further casualties. The British government recently cut taxes by 2 percent, a reduction that the industry feels is a pittance. But a prominent voice on Britain’s oil industry dismissed the dire warnings. Sir Ian Wood, who was commissioned by the government to review the industry, says that predictions of a collapse of British oil and gas are “well over the top and far too dramatic.” And while there will be job losses, Wood estimated that they will be relatively small, perhaps in the range of 5 to 10 percent. Much of Britain’s oil workers are located in Aberdeen, Scotland, which could see hard times ahead. “There is barely an oil company in Aberdeen that isn’t looking at reducing its headcount at the moment,” said Mike Tholen, an economics director with Oil &amp; Gas UK. Earlier this year, Scottish nationalists pushed for independence, a bid that was largely based on faith in a turnaround in the oil industry. But Scottish citizens rebuffed the independence campaign in September. If the British oil and gas industry is indeed facing an existential crisis, it probably works to Scotland’s favor that it will stay within the British union rather than having tried to build an independent state on a dying industry. For now, there is little hope in the short-term. The British government can tweak tax rates, but as with all other producers around the world, the industry’s fate is tied to the global price of oil. FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Danil SemyonovThe fall of the ruble has made grain exports far more profitable for Russian farmers, leading to a steep rise in domestic wheat prices despite one of the best harvests on recordMoscow (AFP) - The Russian government said it was bringing in customs barriers on Monday to limit the export of cereals in the hope of reducing domestic prices sent soaring by the collapse of the ruble. Deputy Prime Minister Arkadi Dvokovitch said the measure is likely to be in place within 24 hours, according to Russian news agencies. The fall of the ruble has made grain exports far more profitable for Russian farmers, leading to a steep rise in domestic wheat prices despite one of the best harvests on record.         FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuri GripasUS President Barack Obama (C) dances with participants during the 92nd annual National Christmas Tree Lighting on the Ellipse near the White House in Washington December 4, 2014. World markets are in the green early Monday, extending a recovery that follows a slump in oil prices and the dramatic slide of the Russian ruble. "Overall the concerns (about the plunge in oil prices, Russia and Greece) are fading into the background a bit," Sybren Brouwer, head of equity strategy at ABN Amro, told Reuters.  Here's the scorecard, so far: France's CAC 40 is up 0.97% Germany's DAX is up 0.72% Britain's FTSE 100 is up 1.00% Spain's IBEX is up 0.43% Italy's FTSE MIB is up 1.09% Asian markets closed in the green. Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.08% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 1.26%.  US futures are also up. The Dow is up 38 points, the S&amp;P 500 is up 3.6 points, and NASDAQ is up 9.75 points. In Europe, December consumer confidence will be released at 3 p.m. GMT. And later in the US, the National Association of Realtors will publish existing home sales data at 3 p.m. GMT (10 a.m. ET). Economists estimate the pace of sales fell 1.1% in November to an annualised rate of 5.20 million. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn employee counts Russian ruble banknotes at a private company's office in KrasnoyarskMOSCOW (Reuters) - Gazprom &lt;gazp.mm&gt;, Russia's top gas producer, will stick to President Vladimir Putin's urge to sell foreign currency revenues on the domestic market, the company's deputy CEO Alexander Medvedev told reporters on Monday. "This doesn't create any issues for us. We understand this will help to stabilize the (ruble) rate," he said. Last week, Russian officials have called for large exporters to sell part of their foreign exchange revenues on the domestic market to help the ruble, which is down some 45 percent against the dollar so far this year &lt;rubutstn=mcx&gt;.   (Reporting by Denis Dyomkin; writing by Katya Golubkova; Editing by Lidia Kelly) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWoman walks past a Tesco supermarket in central LondonLONDON (Reuters) - Britain's accounting watchdog, the Financial Reporting Council (FRC), said on Monday it had launched an inquiry into PwC [PWC.UL] over its auditing of Tesco's 2012, 2013 and 2014 accounts. In October Tesco, Britain's biggest retailer, said it had misstated its profits by 263 million pounds ($411 million), compounding a disastrous run of profit warnings. PwC were not immediately available for comment. The watchdog has powers to sanction accounting firms and their staff for failing to apply book-keeping rules properly.  ($1 = 0.6402 pounds)  (Reporting by Neil Maidment; Editing by James Davey) FREE AppDownload
LONDON (Reuters) - Oil rose above $62 a barrel on Monday, mirroring gains in equities, as investors became confident there would be no further substantial price loss in the run-up to the new year. Saudi Arabia's powerful oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, said on Sunday that lower crude prices would help demand by stimulating the economy and slow down supply growth. "Naimi said that the market would correct itself and was confident that the fall was temporary," Michael Hewson, chief market strategist at CMC Markets, said. "The market has calmed down and it is forming a short-term base above $60, and it's to be expected that there would be a bit of a rebound after such a sharp fall." Brent rose 74 cents to $62.12 by 0854 GMT. It is down 46 percent from the year's peak in June above $115 per barrel. U.S. crude was up 66 cents at $57.79 a barrel. OPEC's decision not to reduce production at a meeting in November sparked the recent rout in oil prices. Prospects for a cut in the near future look remote. Saudi Arabia is prepared to increase its oil output and claim a bigger market share to meet the demands of any new customers, Monday's edition of the Saudi-owned al-Hayat newspaper quoted Naimi as saying. While analysts said Brent would likely remain over $60 a barrel for the rest of the year, they said further large jumps in price were unlikely. "Any oil relief rally is likely to be limited and short-lived, barring a major outage. We see too many headwinds that must be addressed," Morgan Stanley said on Monday in a report. National Australia Bank said: "Given the lead time in permit approval and rig construction ahead of oil production, a sizeable negative U.S. supply response given the price drop is unlikely to take place until late 2015, which places further downward pressure on oil prices in the first six months of next year." The bank added that it expected Brent and U.S. crude to average $68 and $64 per barrel respectively in 2015. Analysts also said they expected relatively low price volatility for the rest of the year as traders begin to wind down their 2014 positions. (Additional reporting by Henning Gloystein in Singapore; Editing by Dale Hudson) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Ed JonesSkyline of Seoul, seen at dusk on November 26, 2014Seoul (AFP) - South Korea on Monday trimmed its economic growth forecast for 2015 to 3.8 percent from 4.0 percent as it vowed to continue expansionary policies aimed at spurring domestic consumption. The revised projection comes after the country's central bank this month warned its own 3.9 percent growth forecast would be "difficult" to maintain as domestic demand alternated between positive and negative territories and a weak yen hurt the price competitiveness of South Korean firms against Japanese rivals abroad. The finance ministry said Monday that, in addition to the 2015 growth forecast being lowered, its estimate for this year's economic growth was also revised down to 3.4 percent from 3.7 percent. South Korea's economy grew 3.0 percent last year. "We must maintain our expansionary macroeconomic and fiscal policies so that people can feel the effect of economic recovery," President Park Geun-Hye said at a meeting of economic ministers on Monday. Consumer spending has recovered at a slower-than-expected pace this year despite a government stimulus package and a series of cuts in the Bank of Korea's key interest rate, which now stands at 2.0 percent. The ministry said domestic demand may pick up next year, helped by lower oil prices. "Our economy will pick up gradually thanks to our expansionary macroeconomic policy, lower international oil prices and an expected global economic recovery," Finance Minister Choi Kyung-Hwan said. But economic weakness in China and Europe, as well as the US Federal Reserve's expected policy tightening, might weigh on South Korea's growth, the ministry said. It also said consumer prices are expected to rise about 2.0 percent next year, faster than this year's estimated 1.3 percent rate. The country's current-account surplus for 2015 may fall to $82 billion in 2015 from $89 billion this year, it added. FREE AppDownload
Essygie / Flickr, CCBankers outside the Bank of England.Bankers in the City of London are expecting bonuses of up to £125,000 on average, according to a survey of 1,500 senior City employees by the recruitment firm Astbury Marsden. Here are the numbers, according to the FT: The bonuses are being awarded before a new EU rule comes into effect on Jan. 1, which will limit bonuses to 100% of salaries (or 200% with shareholder approval). Banks have already been trying to get around those rules with new "role-based" payments or "top up" fees for bankers who would have earned more. The bonuses will also be scrutinised by the FCA, which has warned banks not to reward executives whose behaviour was unethical or criminal. An RBS executive was arrested late on Dec. 19 as part of the ongoing investigation into whether traders manipulated the foreign currency exchange market. It is the first arrest in the case, according to the FT. FREE AppDownload
Hello! Here's what you need to know for Monday. 1. Oil-rich countries Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates during an energy conference on Sunday blamed the slump in oil prices on producers outside OPEC and stood by the organization's decision last month not to curb output. 2. Sony is reportedly planning to release "The Interview" for free after the film's release in theaters was canceled following threats from hackers.  3. A gunman, identified as 28-year-old Ismaaiyl Brinsley, fatally shot two Brooklyn police officers on Saturday as they sat in their patrol car. Brinsley was later found to have committed suicide. 4. Taiwan is considering blocking access to Uber's website and mobile app, claiming the ride-sharing service does not have the proper license.  5. North Korea is threatening strikes against the White House, calling the US a "cesspool of terrorism" in a statement from the National Defense Commission. 6. The identity of the CIA analyst who spent years tracking down Osama bin Laden and who was immortalized in the film "Zero Dark Thirty" has been revealed.  7. South Korea's nuclear plant operator, Korea Hydro and Nuclear Power, will conduct drills to test its ability to withstand a cyberattack after blueprints of its nuclear reactors were leaked on social media last week. 8. The Australian house in which a 37-year-old mother allegedly killed eight children, seven hers, is set to be demolished.  9. Pakistan executed four more militants on Sunday, ending a six-year moratorium on capital punishment, following the attack of a school by the Taliban that killed 149 people, mostly children.  10. South Korea on Monday lowered its economic growth forecast for 2015 to 3.8% from 4% after a warning from the country's central bank. And finally ... A father and his two young sons survived 11 days stranded in the Australian outback by rationing food and collecting rainwater.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSpain's Cristina de Borbon, sister of the newly-crowned King Felipe VI, leaves a courthouse after testifying in front of judge Jose Castro over tax fraud and money-laundering charges in Palma de MallorcaMADRID (Reuters) - Cristina de Borbon, sister of Spain's King Felipe VI, has been ordered to stand trial on charges of tax fraud, the High Court of the Balearic Islands said on Monday, prolonging the embarrassment of the royal family which has sought to distance itself from a corruption probe. The charges were brought as part of an investigation into the business dealings of Cristina's husband, former Olympic handball player Inaki Urdangarin, accused of embezzling millions in public funds through his non-profit Noos Foundation. It will be the first time a member of the Spanish royal family sits in the dock. Princess Cristina and her husband have both denied wrongdoing. (Reporting by Sarah White; Editing by Robin Pomeroy) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEmployees smoke outside an office building in BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - China's parliament is considering tough curbs on tobacco advertising as the world's top consumer of cigarettes looks to kick its smoking habit, state media reported on Monday. The Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC) is weighing an amendment to China's advertising law that would "protect minors" from harmful ads, including cigarette ads, Xinhua news agency said. If the amendment is approved, all tobacco ads will be banned except those posted in tobacco shops, Xinhua said, citing an official at the NPC Law Committee. Ads would be banned in public places, hospitals and schools, and public transport facilities, the report said. Outdoor ads and window displays for tobacco products would also be forbidden. The amendment comes as the State Council, China's cabinet, weighs a ban on indoor smoking as well as an end to tobacco advertising. But intense lobbying by the powerful state tobacco monopoly has in the past stood in the way of tobacco control. China faces a smoking-related health crisis, with more than 300 million smokers and hundreds of millions more exposed to second-hand smoke each year. But the government is heavily dependent on tobacco taxes, and last year the tobacco industry contributed more than 816 billion yuan ($131.70 billion) to government coffers. (Reporting By Megha Rajagopalan; Editing by Jeremy Laurence) FREE AppDownload
Saudi Arabia said Sunday it would not cut output to prop up oil markets even if non-OPEC nations did so, in one of the toughest signals yet that the world's top petroleum exporter plans to ride out the market's biggest slump in years. Referring to countries outside of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi told reporters: "If they want to cut production, they are welcome: We are not going to cut; certainly Saudi Arabia is not going to cut." He added he was "100% not pleased" with prices but that they would improve, although it was unclear when. He blamed the fall in prices to half their levels of six months ago on speculators and what he called a lack of cooperation from non-OPEC producers. His remarks at a conference in Abu Dhabi marked the second time in three days that the kingdom has signaled that it would not alter output levels, preferring to allow the market to stabilize on its own. The determined tone of his comments was echoed by some other Arab oil ministers at the conference in the United Arab Emirates capital. UAE Oil Minister Suhail Bin Mohammed al-Mazroui urged all of the world's producers not to raise their oil output next year, saying this would quickly steady prices. He did not elaborate. REUTERS/Leonhard Foeger  The world is forecast to need less OPEC oil in 2015 because of a rising supply of US shale oil and other competing sources, with no significant increase in world demand growth. Kuwaiti Oil Minister Ali al-Omair said OPEC did not need to cut production and would not hold an emergency meeting ahead of its next scheduled talks in June. "I don't think we need to cut. We gave a chance to others (and) they were not willing to do so," he said, referring to contacts with non-OPEC producers before OPEC's meeting in November in Vienna. There, OPEC kept its target output of 30 million barrels per day unchanged, leaving the market to balance itself without the group's intervention. That stance was seen as a shift from a longstanding policy in which OPEC powerhouse Saudi Arabia has acted as a swing supplier. Asked about possible cooperation between members of OPEC, which include the world's lowest-cost producers, and non-member countries, Naimi replied: "The best thing for everybody is to let the most efficient producers produce." Essam Al-Sudani/ReutersA worker at the Nahr Bin Umar field, north of Basra, southeast of Baghdad, on Nov. 16. He also said OPEC's decision would ultimately help the world economy. "Current prices do not encourage investment in any form of energy, but they stimulate global economic growth, leading ultimately to an <U+200E>increase in global demand and a slowdown in the growth of supplies," he said. Iraq's oil minister, Adel Abdel Mahdi, said he saw no need for an OPEC emergency meeting but "we have to wait and see" whether the group was right to keep output unchanged. Naimi denied politics played a role in the kingdom's oil policy and said the price fall would not have "a noticeable and big" impact on Saudi Arabia or other Arab economies. The market slide has triggered conspiracy theories, ranging from the Saudis seeking to curb the US oil boom, to Riyadh looking to undermine Iran and Russia for their support of Syria. Before the Vienna meeting, there were hints that Russia could cut output or exports if OPEC did the same. But the message from Moscow after the meeting was that the world's second-largest oil exporter would maintain its output. (Additional reporting by David French; writing by William Maclean; editing by Sami Aboudi and Jason Neely) FREE AppDownload
