screenshot/Corriere della SeraCremonesi noted that the interviewed rebel "was happy to be photographed with the fresh seals on three of the wagons applied by the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE)."A Ukrainian militiaman who says he witnessed the downing of Malaysia Flight MH17 gave a vivid interview to Lorenzo Cremonesi of the Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera. "We shot down a Kiev plane, our superiors told us," said the pro-Russian rebel, who worked locally as a miner before the uprising in eastern Ukraine. "We thought we were looking for bailed-out Ukrainian pilots but instead we found dead civilians ... All those poor people with baggage that certainly wasn’t military.” On July 17, a flight from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur was shot down in Torez, located in the Donetsk region of eastern Ukraine, killing all 298 people onboard. The fighter, from the Oplot (stronghold) combat unit, told Cremonesi that he and his colleagues saw "a huge explosion in the sky" and were prepared to fight paratroopers from "one of the Kiev Fascists’ planes" that commanders told them had been shot down. “My men and I were looking for parachutes on the ground and in the trees," the militiaman said. "All of a sudden, I saw scraps of material in a clearing. Underneath I found the body of a little girl [...] It was awful. That was when I realized it was a civilian plane. Not a military one. And all these dead people were civilians. A heap of burst suitcases confirmed it.” Guardian correspondent Shaun Walker, who is reporting from the Donetsk region, summed up the Corriere della Sera report: Italian journo speaks to rebel who was told to look for Ukrainian plane his commander thought they'd shot; found MH17 http://t.co/3hTOghpciE According to recorded conversations leaked by Ukraine's security services (SBU), separatists at the scene subsequently realized the mistake.  The U.S. believes that the passenger jet was shot down by a Russian-made SA-11 surface-to-air missile.  Russia's military suggested that a Ukrainian Su-25 fighter plane shot down the Boeing 777, which was flying at about 33,000 feet when struck by a missile. The Interpreter reported that the Su-25 can fly only as high as 23,00 feet without bombs. Cremonesi, a war correspondent who was briefly abducted by Fatah in Gaza in 2005, reports that the Oplot militia unit identified the bodies and "watched over" the wreckage before guarding the mortuary wagons.  The bodies of most MH17 victims arrived in the Netherlands on Wednesday. Quoted excerpts were translated from Italian by Giles Watson.   FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoHSBC China flash PMI, a gauge of manufacturing conditions, climbed to an 18-month high of 52 in July, from 50.7 the previous month. This beat expectations for a rise to 51. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. New orders and export orders climbed at a faster rate.  “Economic activity continues to improve in July, suggesting that the cumulative impact of mini-stimulus measures introduced earlier is still filtering through,” Hongbin Qu, HSBC China economist said in a press release. “We expect policy makers to maintain their accommodative stance over the next few months to consolidate the recovery.” PMI also acts as a sentiment indicator, Bank of America’s Ting Lu said in a note to clients. “Due perhaps to the escalation of supportive policies from Beijing, sentiment in the economy and financial markets have been noticeably improved." The recent surge in Chinese credit has prompted some economists to say that growth has again become Beijing's top priority. Beijing has a 7.5% growth target for the year. Here's a breakdown of the sub-indices: Markit Economics/HSBC Here's a look at the improvement in Chinese manufacturing. Markit Economics/HSBC FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA view shows the Standard & Poor's building in New York's financial district February 5, 2013.(Reuters) - The parent of Standard &amp; Poor's, which is defending against a $5 billion lawsuit by the federal government over its credit ratings, said on Wednesday it may soon also face U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission charges over another set of ratings. In a regulatory filing, McGraw-Hill Financial Inc said it received a "Wells notice" on July 22 indicating the SEC is weighing filing civil charges for alleged securities law violations over S&amp;P's ratings of six commercial mortgage-backed securities transactions issued in 2011. A Wells notice indicates the agency believes civil charges may be warranted, and gives a recipient a last chance to mount a defense. S&amp;P said it has been cooperating with the agency, and will continue to do so. Catherine Mathis, an S&amp;P spokeswoman, said it has been reported the SEC was examining its decision in 2011 to "pull" ratings of a CMBS transaction. She added that the $5 billion lawsuit, brought last year by the U.S. Department of Justice, does not include CMBS securities. S&amp;P suffered a huge blow to its commercial mortgage-backed securities business in 2011, after a major error on a $1.5 billion deal caused its market share to shrink. In July of that year, the rater discovered a mistake in its methodology, forcing it to withdraw ratings from a significant CMBS bond offer by Goldman Sachs Group Inc and Citigroup Inc. In November 2012, SEC examiners homed in on one of the three largest U.S. credit rating agencies, saying the firm changed a key financial ratio for asset-backed securities without telling the public, and failed to consistently apply its rating methodology.     The rating agency, which was not identified, "may have been influenced by market share and business considerations in its application of the methodology used to rate asset-backed securities," the SEC wrote in a report summarizing its recent examinations of the agencies. S&amp;P was accused in the Justice Department lawsuit of helping fuel the financial crisis, and causing losses for federally insured banks and credit unions, by inflating ratings to boost fees from issuers, and being slow to downgrade souring mortgage debt. The rating agency also faces related lawsuits by many U.S. states. Its main U.S. rivals, Moody's Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, do not face similar lawsuits. If the SEC decides to charge S&amp;P, it will mark the first time the agency has ever sued a major credit-rating firm. In an April interview with Reuters, SEC Enforcement Director Andrew Ceresney said his agency was pursuing new actions against rating agencies over shoddy disclosures and other violations of its rules.   (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York and Sarah N. Lynch in Washington, D.C. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipWhen it comes to the size of their capital markets, emerging countries have long punched below their economic weight. While they make up 39 percent of global GDP, their share of global equity market capitalization is just 22 percent, and that of corporate and sovereign bond markets is even lower, at just 14 percent. But over the next generation, that may change.The Credit Suisse Research Institute believes that by 2030, emerging equities, corporate bonds, and sovereign bonds markets will comprise 39 percent, 36 percent and 27 percent, respectively, of their total global markets. The main driver of that growth? China, which should overtake Japan as the world’s second-largest capital market by that time. In a new report entitled “Emerging Capital Markets: The Road to 2030,” the Institute estimates China’s equity market capitalization will grow 15.6 percent a year to reach $53.6 trillion between now and 2030, a thirteen-fold increase from today’s levels. It sees similar growth in the corporate bond market, to $31.9 trillion (an eleven-fold increase), as well as the sovereign bond market, to $12.3 trillion (eight-fold). In that event, China would be second only to the U.S. in each of the three major asset classes. What’s more, the country could also account for 55 percent of all emerging market debt underwriting fees and 70 percent of equity fees between now and then – a total of some $159 billion. “There is no way around it: China is the most important place for the development of capital markets,” says Markus Stierli, Head of Fundamental Micro Themes in Credit Suisse’s Private Banking and Wealth Management division. “It’s the place everyone’s watching.” Credit SuisseWhat will drive the increase? Stierli believes the government’s efforts to provide a national social security system for the 235 million people who will be over age 65 by 2030 will be the single biggest driver of capital market growth. At 47 percent, China has the highest savings rate of the largest emerging market countries, but Chinese citizens increasingly expect a comprehensive social safety net. Stierli says the government’s commitment to providing a pension fund bodes well for markets. “Creating a pension fund requires the evolution of an asset management market,” he says. “Pension systems require the kind of returns only financial markets can generate, and those financial markets need to be regulated.”  At the same time, Credit Suisse expects the country’s savers to start seeking more remunerative financial products than low interest rate bank deposits for their nest eggs. That will drive growth in domestic mutual, pension, and insurance funds, which will, in turn, encourage domestic companies to start tapping the debt and equity markets for their financing needs, in addition to their historical source, the country’s banks. An increase in domestic capital markets activity will likely attract more foreign capital, but there are a number of obstacles to overcome before that happens. The government, wary of the destabilizing effect large inflows of foreign capital have had on other countries in the past, still limits foreign investors’ participation in domestic stock markets. It also controls both interest rates and the exchange rate. But officials are making good on a November promise for financial reform, having loosened controls on the yuan and announced a plan to liberalize interest rates earlier this year. In March, regulators raised the cap on foreign ownership of a company’s shares from 20 percent to 30 percent and allowed smaller companies to issue debt. China’s state-owned enterprises are also actively seeking private investment. Chinese industrial giant Citic, for example, recently announced that its Hong Kong subsidiary will buy the parent company, with the result that nearly all of the merged entity’s shares will trade on the Hong Kong stock exchange. The move will subject Citic to stricter disclosure standards and investor scrutiny, which it clearly hopes will attract additional foreign interest. And earlier this week, the government announced a “mixed ownership” pilot program in which it would seek private investors to take stakes in two state-owned firms. Financial stability is an additional potential concern for investors, especially when it comes to corporate debt. Concerns that China’s financial system is dangerously overleveraged preoccupied markets in the first half of this year, especially after a solar company became the first-ever Chinese firm to default on a payment in the domestic bond market in March. Fears about China’s slowing economic growth also have plagued markets this year. Stierli points out that China has so far avoided the banking and debt crises some investors have been predicting for more than a year and that even annual GDP growth of 6.5 percent – as opposed to the 8 percent-plus that was the norm before 2012 – has the power to generate significant earnings. But he nonetheless cautions that there are bound to be significant risks along the path to a $98 trillion capital market. Investors will have to figure out how to assess management and governance at state-owned enterprises when they go public or open up to private-sector investment, for example. And it remains to be seen if Chinese firms will move up the value chain, which would deliver even more earnings potential to investors. But overall, there is an enormous expansion expected in China’s capital markets over the next 16 years. And, if it plays out as Credit Suisse’s Research Institute expects, the shift will require nothing short of a redrawing of the landscape of global finance. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Robert GalbraithFacebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg walks through Facebook headquarters prior to unveiling the company's new location services feature called "Places" at a news conference in Palo Alto, California August 18, 2010. 1. Facebook smashes it. Mark Zuckerberg’s company just reported Q2 results, beating expectations all over the board, and the numbers are mind-blowing. Income from operations was $US1.4 billion over just $US562 million this time last year. Total revenue was up 61% to more than $US3 billion (for the quarter). Monthly active users – basically the number of people using Facebook – stood at 1.32 billion, up 14% and if you needed proof of the mobile revolution, the mobile audience was 1.07 billion, up 31%. Consider this against Twitter’s problem at the moment, which is the perception that its user base has stopped growing. BI’s Jim Edwards pulled this part of the Facebook statement, with highlights added. So not only is it big with strong revenue growth but it is well-run too. 2. There were heartbreaking scenes in The Netherlands overnight as a cargo plane arrived carrying the bodies of MH17 victims, which were then loaded into a convoy of hearses and driven to a forensics facility for identification. Here are the photos – be warned, it is grim stuff. Political pressure is building in The Netherlands for some form of action against Russian companies which are “mailboxed” in the country – and PM Mark Rutte has a range of options that could hurt Putin. More on that here. 3. To the markets and the S&amp;P 500 closed at an all-time high amid a continuing run of earnings beats across sectors. The Dow finished down just 0.1% while the S&amp;P was up 0.2% for a record close of 1,987.01, while the Nasdaq was up 0.4%. It follows the ASX hitting a post-GFC high in trading yesterday where it took a run at 5600, but fell away in the afternoon. Trading across Asia was generally flat apart from in Hong Kong, which was up 0.8% ahead of the release of the China Flash PMI today, one of the most important leading indicators for the regional economy. ASX futures are up 19 points on the September contract so the market will be watching to see if the physical bourse can take a tilt at the 5600 mark again. Greg McKenna has more here. 4. NZ lifts rates. The RBNZ lifted the official cash rate by 25 basis points this morning to 3.5%, and sounded a major warning in its accompanying statement that with “the exchange rate yet to adjust to weakening commodity prices, the level of the New Zealand dollar is unjustified and unsustainable and there is potential for a significant fall”. The market’s on notice. 5. Bill Ackman’s massive Herbalife presentation. The US hedge fund manager has been crusading against Herbalife for nearly 20 months and yesterday delivered what he hoped was its “death blow”. Ackman is short Herbalife, believing it’s a pyramid scheme that regulators will shut down. And he spent $50m investigating the company, a large part of which went toward gathering the information you can see in this extraordinary 265-slide deck he showed yesterday. One theory is that Ackman might be willing to be sued by Herbalife, which would allow for discovery of documents that he could then use to strengthen his regulatory case against the company. 6. Breast cancer breakthrough. Shares in Puma Biotechnology exploded overnight after it announced a successful trial of a breast cancer drug, the company announced blocked the return of cancer in patients with a particular early-stage type of the disease, and “improved disease-free survival by 33 per cent compared with a placebo”. The stock almost tripled in value, making $US950 million in a single day for Adage Capital Management, a Boston-based hedge fund. 7. Australia’s 10 most expensive rental suburbs. Not surprisingly, there’s a lot of demand-setting-the-price hijinks going on. The honours are split evenly between NSW and WA. In WA, it’s driven by need, with Pilbara properties hovering around the $1500 mark for gross rental yield of about 8%. In NSW, it’s all lifestyle with glam suburbs averaging $1200 rent for roughly 3% yield. More here. 8. Dogs get jealous too. Scientists have established that man’s best friend really does exhibit jealous behaviours, and will even try to break up a social connection between their owner and another person or animal. This is important because researchers have been trying to establish the roots of jealousy – seeing it in dogs suggests protecting social relationships is a deep-rooted evolutionary drive, and understanding it more might shed light on motivators for human behaviour in all sorts of scenarios. If that sounds abstract, try this: jealousy is third-leading motive for murder. 9. iPhone payments are coming. The company recently struck a deal with Visa, which has 2.2 billion cardholders, and there’s a report today that suggests Apple might roll out a mobile wallet - similar to what’s on the latest Samsung Galaxy models – that would allow you to pay for items using technology in every iPhone. Currently, users need a special “sticker” that attaches to the outside of the device. 10. Inside the mind of Bill Gates. “Playing Bridge is a pretty old fashioned thing in a way that I really like,” the world’s richest man said in a Reddit AMA earlier this year. “I do the dishes every night – other people volunteer but I like the way I do it.” There’s this and 20 other insights – OK, most of them are really about leadership, not card games – here, from the world’s richest man. Bonus item: What would you do for a Krispy Kreme? There’s a new store in Adelaide, and police have been called to it 20 times because of fights breaking out – there was even a knifepoint robbery of a customer leaving with six boxes of the tasty treats. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
On May 18, 2012 many thought they were watching the tech bubble burst. Facebook debuted on the stock market at $38 per share, and after an agonizing first day with very little trading, the market closed with the social media company clinging to its valuation, CNN Money reported on that Friday. In the days that followed, Facebook dipped. On Monday it closed $4 lower than the IPO. Tuesday it continued to dive. For a hot and profitable tech giant, this was unusual, CNN Money wrote, as even unprofitable companies like Yelp scored boosts during their IPOs. For many watching the industry, this spelled bad news. The New York Times called the IPO a disaster. Fortune used such colorful words as "bungled" and "blunder" to describe the offering.  Fox Business predicted that the "Facebook fiasco" would discourage other tech companies from pursuing IPOs. Forbes cautioned readers not to buy shares, saying "Facebook is hitting the IPO market at its zenith, and it has nowhere to go but down."  And at the time, they weren't exactly wrong. Facebook's stock value continued to dive, losing another 10% over the course of that first month, the Times reported. High-profile tech IPOs did drop off. However, Facebook did eventually climb up. Today, in 2014, the company reported earning close to $1 billion per month for the last quarter. The stock is up to close to $74 after hours.  But still, the earnings out of Palo Alto on Wednesday show just how bad some predictions can turn out. It's safe to say this one is far from popped.  Google Finance FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Boy, they sure don't make those New York Stock Exchange gavels like they used to. Former Army Staff Sgt. Ryan Pitts was on hand Wednesday to close out the day at the NYSE, but the gavel ended up breaking on his third strike. He was a bit surprised. CNBC Pitts, who was medically discharged from the Army in 2009, received the nation's highest award on Monday for his part in fending off a blistering Taliban assault on his combat outpost five years ago. Kyle White, who received the Medal of Honor in May for a different battle, was also on hand to give his fellow soldier a little bit of friendly ribbing (You can see him in the left of the frame). Here's the video:  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mariana BazoSenior soccer players take part in a match at a soccer field in Miraflores, in Lima, June 19, 2014. Senior players, aged from 60 to 90, play weekly in a program organized by the municipality to promote activities for older adults. Picture taken June 19, 2014. FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Investors Should Look For Managers With Skin In The Game (Barron's) In a video interview with Barron's Jack Otter, Chris Davis, chairman at Davis Funds explained his philosophy on investing in businesses rather than stocks, such as Bank of New York and Google. "When we buy a business, we aren't thinking 'What's our exit strategy?" or "Are we going to find a greater fool to sell this business to at a greater price?" We're thinking about our return being driven, determined, by the cash flows produced by that business," Davis said. "Imagine buying an apartment building for $1 million and it produced $70,000 of income. You'd say, 'I've got a 7% return.' Now, a few years later, that was up to $100,000, you'd say 'I'm getting a 10% return.' You wouldn't debase your return on what you could sell the apartment building for every day. You'd look at the cash to generate the return. And that's how we look at the businesses we invest in." Davis said another bad idea is to entrust your investments to a fund manager that has no skin in the game. "Can you imagine a client giving us money to invest and our investing it in companies where the CEOs didn't own any stock in the companies that they're entrusted to manage? And yet just like you say, 47% of domestic equity managers don't have a single dollar in the funds that they manage. And by the way, only 12% have more than a million dollars invested alongside their clients," Davis said. "We want to be with owner operators, we want managements that have skin in the game, we want our incentives to be aligned. That's a critical tenet when we look at companies, why shouldn't that be a critical tenet when we look at an investment manager," David said. How Advisors Can More Easily Advise Clients On Their 401(k)s (Wall Street Journal) Advising clients on their 401(k)s can be cumbersome, however, a Schwab study showed that almost 60% of clients with a defined contribution plan are seeking advice. Kevin Clark from Quintessential Retirement Services wrote in the WSJ that it's important for advisors to take responsibility for these needs. "So I think that advisers have a choice, really: they can simply surrender to those robo-advisers or find a way to automate the 401(k) advising process with technology of their own," Clark said. "There are a host of powerful software options out there that are helping advisers deliver information to clients more efficiently. Many allow you to load in your allocation strategy, and using their algorithms and fund information, the programs tailor advice to clients' individual 401(k)s. That means no more pie charts or time-consuming research." "Advisers need to be far more active in the 401(k) advising space and now, with this kind of technology available, there's really no reason for them not to be. Clients are asking for this advice and it's only reasonable that it be available from someone they not only trust, but someone who also understands the role of their 401(k)s in the context of their larger financial picture," he said. Money Fund Reforms Passed By The SEC May Not Be Enough (InvestmentNews) The SEC has passed reforms on money market funds in an attempt to strengthen the financial system and increase transparency. "Among the reforms, which passed on a 3-2 vote, money market funds that serve institutional clients and invest in private debt will now be required to let their share price fluctuate from $1 a share," wrote Trevor Hunnicutt at InvestmentNews. But some industry experts are skeptical about the reform's impacts. "Many investors use money-market funds as a way to park cash they don’t want to invest in risky assets but near-zero interest rates have depressed the yields on the funds. That, combined with the reform efforts, have led some fund firms to start pitching other products, like very short-term debt funds, as alternatives to money market funds," Hunnicutt said. "In an interview after the commission meeting, Jerome M. Schneider, a portfolio manager for the Pacific Investment Management Co., said that interest in the firm’s actively managed short-term debt products has been driven in part by institutional investors reconsidering their allocations to money market funds since the Reserve Primary Fund "broke the buck" in Sept. 2008. He said the firm may consider other products as a result of the change to a floating net asset value," Hunnicutt wrote. How To Protect The IRAs Your Clients Pass On To Their Heirs (Financial Planning) Under a June Supreme Court ruling, inherited IRAs are not protected in bankruptcy. This means that your clients' heirs could lose their IRAs if they run into financial problems. Ed Slott from Financial Planning gave a couple suggestions on how to protect these IRAs once they are passed on. "For clients in states with no inherited IRA protection, there are other approaches that advisors might use. Perhaps the most obvious, especially in situations where bankruptcy or general creditor protection for your clients’ beneficiaries is a major concern, is to name a trust as the IRA beneficiary," Slott said. "If a trust is drafted properly, it can help shield assets from the trust beneficiaries’ creditors, while still allowing the trust to stretch distributions from the inherited IRA over the life expectancy of the oldest trust beneficiary." "If your clients do not need all or a portion of their IRA for retirement purposes, another option is to use some of the IRA money to buy life insurance and leave the insurance to a trust. Life insurance is, for a host of reasons, a much more trust-friendly asset than an IRA or Roth IRA, and life insurance proceeds are generally tax free - reducing the impact of the trust tax rates," he said. When It's Acceptable To Dip Into Your Child's College Savings (Wealth Management) With the costs of college rising, parents need to plan ahead for their children's education. However, Chris Taylor from Reuters wrote that dipping into 529 plans isn't always a horrible thing, and is preferable to spending from a retirement account. "With non-qualified distributions, in most cases you are looking at a 10 percent penalty on earnings. Withdrawn earnings will also be treated as income on your tax return, and if you took a state tax deduction on the original money, withdrawn contributions often count as income as well," Taylor said. "Not ideal, of course. But if your other option for emergency funds is to raid your own retirement accounts, tapping college savings is a last-ditch avenue to consider. Not only because you do not want to blow up your own nest egg but because it could make relative tax sense. As the saying goes, you can borrow money for college, but not for retirement," he said. FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Police have arrested seven people on charges they were tied to an international ring that defrauded eBay Inc's StubHub online ticketing service of some $1.6 million, the latest in a string of high-profile cybercrime busts in recent months. Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr announced the arrests on Wednesday. They include a Russian national who was detained while vacationing in Spain, along with three others arrested in London, two in the United States and one in Canada. They were charged with involvement in a cybercrime ring that used stolen credit card numbers to purchase thousands of tickets to events, including concerts of Justin Timberlake and Jay-Z as well as games for sports teams including the Boston Red Soxand New York Giants, according to court documents unsealed Wednesday. The charges include money laundering, possession of stolen property and identity theft. StubHub's head of global communications, Glenn Lehrman, told Reuters his firm has been working with law enforcement around the world for the last year on the case.   (Additional reporting by Mica Rosenberg and Joseph Ax) FREE AppDownload
Vimeo Qatar recently cemented an enormous weapons deal with the United States. But this week, the tiny, resource-rich Gulf kingdom with outsized geopolitical ambitions — and a seemingly bottomless pocketbook — might be setting itself up for more problematic relations with the U.S. Last week, Qatar closed the largest sale of American weaponry so far this year, purchasing $11 billion worth of Patriot missile batteries and Apache attack helicopters. The sale revealed that Qatar hasn't exactly been lacking in strategic daring in the wake of its failed bet on Muslim Brotherhood-linked political movements throughout the Middle East, and its subsequent fallout in diplomatic relations with neighboring Gulf monarchies. But the Gaza-Hamas conflagration casts a problematic light on the Qataris, who have been one of Hamas's most reliable international partners. Then-Qatari Emir Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani made the first official visit to Hamas-controlled Gaza of any head of state in October of 2012. During the visit, he pledged over $400 million in assistance to the territory, and some significant but currently-unknown amount of that money has ended up in Hamas's pocket. Jonathan Schanzer, the vice president for research at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, told Business Insider that Qatar is "believed to be the primary financier of Hamas," which has estimated annual operating expenses of around $1 billion. In June, Qatar attempted to transfer money for civil service salaries for Gaza-based Hamas members through the Arab Bank, a transaction that the Bank disallowed under reported U.S. pressure. Hamas's apparent hard-line position in its latest confrontation with Israel is a partial function of Qatari support, as the emirate is the financial underwriter for the militant group's policies and hosts several of its top leaders. Just today, Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal said in a Doha press conference — carried in its entirety on Qatari-funded Al Jazeera's Arabic channel — that Egypt would have to open the Rafah border crossing as a condition for his group would agree to a ceasefire. It's a request that Egypt is unlikely to agree to, especially given an earlier Hamas demand that the border crossing effectively be taken out of Egyptian control, and placed under the purview of "friendly Arab governments." Qatar is arguably a counter-productive actor in the context of the biggest Israeli-Palestinian crisis since the Second Intifada of a decade ago. And it's a major purchaser of U.S. arms, a country that's been able to maintain favor with the U.S. David Weinberg, a scholar who also studies the Gulf states at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, told Business Insider by email that Congress hasn't been concerned enough with Qatar's policies to put a hold on weapons sales, and confirmed the Obama administration's recent nominee as ambassador to Doha without controversy. "It's not clear whether Congress has the stomach for a fight over these issues with an ostensible ally when so much seems to be going wrong elsewhere in the Middle East and when the administration seems to be vouching for Qatari conduct," wrote Weinberg by email last week, when the Hamas-Israel escalation was at a far different stage. At this point, nearly 700 Palestinians and 34 Israelis have been killed in the conflict. Hamas has achieved battlefield objectives — like the successful targeting of Israel's international airport, and deadly attacks inside Israeli territory — that dictate against an immediate resolution. And as the situation gets worse, it's possible that American lawmakers, some of whom are already wary of Qatari influence in the region, could start thinking about holding them accountable. FREE AppDownload
Sotheby's International RealtyThis may be your one opportunity to own a castle in Tuscany. The 16th-century Castello di Magona in Livorno, Italy, is now on the market for $16 million through Sotheby's International Realty. The home was built in 1529 and was formerly owned by Leopoldo II, Grand Duke of Tuscany, according to Architectural Digest (via Curbed).  The 29,909-square-foot castle sits on 10 acres and has views of the Mediterranean Sea and Elba Island, along with the beautiful Tuscan countryside. Inside the home, special features include hand-painted frescoes, intricate ceilings and floors, and even some suits of armor. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBank of China's logo is seen through trees at its branch office in Beijing(Reuters) - Bank of China Ltd, the fourth largest lender in China, has revived talks to become the anchor tenant at 7 Bryant Park boutique office tower in New York, Crain's New York Business reported on Wednesday. Crain's said the 30-story, 471,000-square-foot tower — being developed by Hines, Pacolet Milliken Enterprises and JP Morgan Asset Management — is scheduled to be ready for occupancy early next year. (http://bit.ly/1kcCYDx) It was not immediately clear how much space Bank of China was negotiating to take at the property, though the firm in recent months has been rumored to be considering 200,000 square feet or more, the report said. Bank of China was not immediately available to comment.   (Reporting by Avik Das in Bangalore; Editing by Joyjeet Das) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ross Land/Pool The Reserve Bank of New Zealand just raised interest rates. The RBNZ raised its benchmark interest rate to 3.5% from 3.25%. Here's the full statement from the central bank: Statement issued by Reserve Bank Governor Graeme Wheeler: The Reserve Bank today increased the Official Cash Rate (OCR) by 25 basis points to 3.5 percent. New Zealand’s economy is expected to grow at an annual pace of 3.7 percent over 2014. Global financial conditions remain very accommodative and are reflected in low interest rates, narrow risk spreads, and low financial market volatility. Economic growth among New Zealand’s trading partners has eased slightly in the first half of 2014, but this appears to be due to temporary factors. Construction, particularly in Canterbury, is growing strongly. At the same time, strong net immigration is adding to housing and household demand, although house price inflation has moderated further since the June Statement. Over recent months, export prices for dairy and timber have fallen, and these will reduce primary sector incomes over the coming year. With the exchange rate yet to adjust to weakening commodity prices, the level of the New Zealand dollar is unjustified and unsustainable and there is potential for a significant fall. Inflation remains moderate, but strong growth in output has been absorbing spare capacity. This is expected to add to non-tradables inflation. Wage inflation is subdued, reflecting recent low inflation outcomes, increased labour force participation, and strong net immigration. It is important that inflation expectations remain contained. Today’s move will help keep future average inflation near the 2 percent target mid-point and ensure that the economic expansion can be sustained. Encouragingly, the economy appears to be adjusting to the monetary policy tightening that has taken place since the start of the year. It is prudent that there now be a period of assessment before interest rates adjust further towards a more-neutral level. The speed and extent to which the OCR will need to rise will depend on the assessment of the impact of the tightening in monetary policy to date, and the implications of future economic and financial data for inflationary pressures. Following the announcement, the New Zealand dollar strengthened against the U.S. dollar. FinViz Earlier this summer, Morgan Stanley's Sung Woen Kang said the firm expected the RBNZ to raise rates at both its June and July meetings, and did not expect the central bank to raise rates again until 2015.  FREE AppDownload
Facebook's gross margins increased dramatically. In essence, the company makes way more in sales this year than it used to, but its cost-base for generating those sales increased only modestly. Income from operations was a staggering $1.4 billion — this time last year it was just $562 million. The stock went up and flirted with $74, a rise of 4%, after the market closed, hitting an all time high. People underestimate how huge Facebook is. Even at this late stage of the game, it added 41 million new members last quarter. There are no other apps out there that are accomplishing anything even close to that.  Here are the highlights: To give you a better idea of just how well-run a business Facebook has become, here's the top of the income statement. I've highlighted the way margins are expanding dramatically: Facebook See the full results here. And now for some charts! Facebook Facebook Facebook Facebook Ahead of the call with analysts, Facebook played light classical music. Here's our live coverage of the call with CEO Mark Zuckerberg, COO Sheryl Sandberg and CFO David Wehner. Getty / Scott Olson Sheryl SandbergZuck: This was a good quarter for us. ... 63% of users visit daily. 650 million use FB on mobile every day. 1 in 5 mins on mobile is on FB. ... but there is still room to grow. "The growth of our community on mobile is producing better results for our business partners." Connecting everyone: Internet.org. ... running tests in more countries. ... 3 mm people are connected to the internet who had no access before. Apps: 12 bn messages a day on FB. 300 mm MAUs on Messenger. Ultimately, Messenger will be an imp business. Instagram: Still building. Understanding the world thru "public content". 1 bn search queries are made every day on FB. A great milestone. ... 800 mm people are now connected to public figures ... 3bn interactions on FB during World Cup ... "1 bn people use FB on their phones every month." Applinks is now being used by hundreds of apps. Audience Network: "We've received a lot of interest from developers." Knowledge economy: 1.5 mm active marketers on FB. ... improvements to reducing low quality content. Goal is to make ads as interesting as content. Sandberg: Mobile ad revenue grew 151%. Still growing advertiser base, still capitalizing on mobile. Small businesses: India SMB roundtable ... [anecdote] a man sold his house to start his business. FB is his leading marketing channel. He gets a 5X return on adspend. He now has 150 employees in 3 offices. ... forming an SMB advisory council. Gillette launched Vector 3 razor in India. A feature-phone only campaign. (Most users in India are on feature phones.) Reached 63% of the target audience. World Cup: 350 mm people generated 3 bn interactions. ... 91 of Ad Age 100 use Facebook. Video ads: We've run about a dozen campaigns. Early data is promising. Rollout is slow but careful. IG is slow but careful as well. LiveRail acquisition: We have a lot to do here. We're investing in tools to improve the relevance of video ads across the web. Wehner: $872 million free cashflow. More than 800 mm people use FB every day. Both IG and Messenger have passed 200 MAUs and continue to grow nicely. People are actually seeing fewer ads on Facebook as users move to mobile, but the price of each ad is rising. He warns of increased costs later this year and in 2015 from acquisitions of Oculus and WhatsApp, and from investment in infrastructure projects like Internet.org. Warns of difficult comps ahead. Questions! [We seem to be having difficulty getting the analysts on the line!] On LiveRail: Sandberg: we think we can use it to expand video ads to mktrs and publishers outside of Facebook. Audience network: Early days ... we really only have some advertisers in our network. Any commentary on breadth of mobile ad revenue and mobile app installs? Is FB adspend eating TV adspend? Sandberg: I do think people think mobile app install ads are all our revenue and they're not, they're only part of the revenue. It's broad-based, brand advertisers of all kinds use ads. Mobile app installs ads are growing. But we see our opportunities in mobile ads as much broader than just installing apps. Clients are just realizing the creative opportunity in FB ads. Progressive insurance is an example. People used to think TV was for storytelling ... starting to realize FB is for that too. [Clearly, FB is continuing its assault on TV ads.] The buy button: Sandberg: We're just streamlining the process. Commerce is an important growing part of our business. We're not going to sell products. Zuck: We will clearly do work in payments to accept payments on platform ... but our main biz is advertising ... if we do payments it will be supportive to that ... M and WA over time and IG ... there is  lot of work to set up the foundation to have a business community in those ... years of work before they are huge businesses for us. IG and M are where FB was in 2006. ... importance of setting up a community first. ... so we gave away all those things for free. .... 30 mm businesses use Pages ... analytics are free ... only later did we layer ads on top of that ... when we say "ramp over time" we really do mean that ... not something you'll notice in a short period of time. Sandberg: Underlines that brand advertisers launch products all the time — it's not just the world cup. Applinks &amp; search: Zuck: Applinks too early to say ... search is a multiyear effort ... which of a friends' friends work at a certain company? No one else can do that. ... we have 1 trillion posts, more than any other search database that's out there. ... links will take a while to play out before they are monetize-able. Ad pricing: Wehner: News feed ads is driving the overall pricing trend ... we see that reflected in the price ... right-hand rail ads: There will be fewer of them and that will drive pricing. Zuck is sounding a little bit impatient with analysts today. He did NOT like this question about David Marcus joining FB to run Messenger. He came from PayPal. WSJ has a good account of the exchange: ... why is a payments-background guy running messaging apps? Sandberg says Chinese companies are using FB to reach a global audience. And, since FB wants to connect the world, that includes China. That was it. As for Marcus, Zuck says he just thinks it is a good higher. There will be some overlaps between the Messenger app and payments over time, yes. But again, there is so much groundwork still to build the foundation, stop asking. FB isn’t going to thrust ads into Messenger — not happening cheaply, he says. Get that out of your models. Zuck can’t be clearer. MarketWatch described it this way: Analyst: “Are we looking at it wrong? Is there any reason why he wouldn’t be more focused on payments?” Zuckerberg responds: “I think he is just a real talented product generalist and he has done a number of different things including ran and built a messaging company.” Then Zuck snapped at the next analyst question on WhatsApp user trends: Zuck: “The deal hasn’t closed. We have nothing to say.” Ouch! Question on privacy and Zuck's philosophy: In the old days of emails ... there was no space where you could share with just your friends. ... creating that space that had the kind of privacy no one had seen before ... interested in creating new private spaces where you can express things you otherwise wouldn't be able to ... Zuck wonders what the limits are to photo sharing. How many more photos are we going to share? Obviously still a way to go there ... but he seems to see messaging as an ever-mutating space with more potential than photos. Oculus: Zuck: We're really excited about this ... acq just closed ... this hits on a diff part of our strategy ... the way i organize my remarks every quarter are around these 10 year goals ... the biz yr talking about are further out than you think, this one is even further out. ... when FB was founded smartphones had only just been invented ... FB was built on someone else's foundation ... wants a diff rel with the next platform ... we can define what the next gen of computing will be ... we're also going to spend a lot and invest in a bunch of these things to do it right in the long term. ... it's not that we're going out and investing in new strategic priorities but we're going to invest v heavily in the ones we have. Exclusive content? Zuck: We do have exc content we just don't pay for it. This week for instance Shakira hit her 100 mm fan moment on FB. ... you're not going to come to FB to watch a movie ... we're mostly focused on driving success for partners news channels ... or individuals  and public figures on FB ... Search: 1 bn searches a day, which is awesome and we're proud of it. ... people search a little bit less on mobile. ... we did a lot of work on that ... if you want to go and find that Shakira video i was just talking about I don't know the product will deliver it but it will soon ... it's an ongoing thing .... there are a lot of Qs that only Facebook can answer. And that's all, folks! This was the context going into the call: Facebook won the World Cup, no matter which numbers you're looking at. There were 1.2 billion posts and comments made on Facebook during the games. That might translate into an uptick in monthly active users. Facebook acquired LiveRail, a video adtech firm, and it also began running video ads in users' news feeds. Analysts were looking for any guidance on the amount of revenue that video ads create. Facebook also created its Audience Network product, which allows clients to run ads in other apps using Facebook as a targeting mechanism. Similarly, Facebook now lets advertisers use Facebook as a targeting mechanism on web sites other than Facebook. And Facebook began testing a "buy" button in Facebook ads. That's just a test, so it probably won't be a big deal today. However, the overall theme here is that Facebook continues to bolt on new revenue-driving products, so investors wanted news of how they're contributing to the business. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid CEO Sheng Fu (3rd R) and members of Cheetah Mobile's leadership team celebrate their company's IPO on the New York Stock Exchange May 8, 2014. The S&amp;P 500 made a new all-time closing high on a busy day for corporate earnings and a quiet day for economic data. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) It was a busy morning for earnings, headlined by quarterly reports from PepsiCo and Boeing. PepsiCo reported earnings per share of $1.32, beating expectations for $1.23 and shares of the soft drink giant gained more than 2.5% for the day. Pepsi CEO Indra Nooyi, however, said that the company continues to operate in a, "challenging and volatile macro environment." Boeing shares served as the worst performers in the Dow, falling more than 2% after the jetmaker reported quarterly revenue that disappointed. In the second quarter, the company's operating margin also fell 2% to 7.5% from 9.5% in the prior year period.  2) Some other notable earnings announcements included Dow Chemical, which reported profit that beat expectations and saw shares gain more than 3%, and Whirlpool, which reported profit that missed expectations, as well as reduced its quarterly outlook, and shares of the home appliance maker finished roughly unchanged after falling earlier in the day.  3) The Mortgage Bankers Association's weekly mortgage applications survey for the week ended July 18 showed mortgage applications rose 2.4% from a week ago. The refinance index also increase 4% from last week. Following the report, Quicken Loans vice president Bill Banfield said, "Consumer took action on the lowest mortgage rates we've seen since the beginning of 2013. The jump in application volume is a welcome change after a few sluggish weeks of mortgage activity."  4) In stock news, Puma Biotechnology shares gained nearly 300% after the company last night reported positive results from a clinical trial of its breast cancer treatment. Puma's management said it plans to filed for marketing approval for the treatment in the first half of next year. The surge was a massive boon for at least one hedge fund, Adage Capital based in Boston, which held more than 5.5 million shares of Puma as of its latest filing with the SEC.  5) General Motors announced another round of recalls, this time announcing six recalls involving 717,960 vehicles, though none of the recalls were related to ignition switches.  6) Earnings season rolls on today after the market close, with quarterly earnings reports expected from AT&amp;T, Facebook, Gilead Sciences, and Qualcomm.  Don't Miss: This Is Why Shorting Stock Is So Brutal » FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVThe Federal Reserve is widely expected to start raising rates some time in 2015. Markets are antsy about the timing of the rate hike and what it could mean for the stock market. David Rosenberg at Gluskin Sheff expects that the rate hike will come in the first half of the year at the earliest. But he doesn't think we should be worried about rate hikes.  Rosenberg points out that the last rate hike occurred in 2006. And that in fact now it will be nine years before a hike. He writes that a rate hike is "long overdue," and that he is worried the Fed might outstay its welcome.  "The history books show that at no time did a bull market end after the first rate hike. Typically — in terms of trough to peak moves in the S&amp;P 500 — we are only one-third of the way into the bull run on the eve of the first Fed tightening in rates. That is an average, but the median is almost identical and there has never been a time when the cycle was more than halfway through at that point of the first rate increase." He points out that the stock market only begins to "peak out and roll over —in terms of magnitude, not just duration," when Fed rate hikes are already under way.  "The average increase in Fed funds rate is 350 basis points (and the media 220 basis points) from the lows before the S&amp;P 500 finally begins to succumb to the liquidity squeeze, and since 1960 the smallest run-up that induced a bear market was 130 basis points." Rosenberg also thinks that historic peaks in the S&amp;P 500 occurred when the gap between the 10-year U.S. treasury note and two-year was 50 basis points or less, that curve is now +200 basis points. "So at some point, yes, Fed rate hikes will cause a market setback, but that is usually in the mature stages of the tightening cycle as the yield curve flattens," he writes. "I see that more as a 2016 story — which means the market won't have to deal with it until it starts to price in the growth implications of that flatter curve, likely in the second half of 2015." That being said, Rosenberg thinks sector rotation is important. But the stock market worries can wait another year.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Eduardo MunozHedge fund manager Bill Ackman gave what he called "the most important" presentation of his career on Tuesday. Over the course of three hours, he delivered a presentation that he had billed as a "death blow" to Herbalife–a maker of nutrition shakes that Ackman believes is a "pyramid scheme."  He said his team spent $50 million on investigating the company and its so-called "nutrition clubs." The market didn't buy his argument. Shares of Herbalife surged ending the day up 25%. Ackman has been crusading against Herbalife for nearly 20 months. He believes the company operates as a "pyramid scheme" that targets poor people. It's Ackman's contention that regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, will shut the company down. Back in March, the FTC opened an investigation into the company. We've included his slide deck from his latest presentation.  FREE AppDownload
Most investors in the stock market know that it's best to be patient and focus on the long-term. However, this does not mean you should just set your investment allocations and forget it. For instance, let's say you have 60% of your portfolio in stocks and 40% in bonds. If you have a year or two of of big stock market gains but weak bond returns, then your allocations will have shifted towards stocks. According to JP Morgan Asset Management, a 60%/40% portfolio two years ago would look more like a 69%/31% allocation today because stocks have been surging. Suddenly, you're much more exposed to stocks than you had planned to be. In order to address this, you should regularly rebalance your portfolio. In this case, you should sell stocks and buy bonds and get back to your target allocations. This simple strategy will force you to buy low and sell high. "Rebalancing a diversified portfolio at least annually should continue to be the cornerstone of a disciplined investment approach that avoids status quo bias," write JP Morgan Funds' James Liu and Anthony Wile. "Figure 8 demonstrates the benefit of rebalancing a diversified portfolio annually: Over the past 25 years, rebalancing helped shield investors from being over and under exposed during market turmoil and rallies. This 60 percent difference results from a disciplined approach of buying low and selling high." JP Morgan Asset Management FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Eduardo MunozBill Ackman: 'Bring it on' Yesterday, hedge fund manager Bill Ackman gave "the most important presentation" of his career and it was bizarre. So far, Ackman said that his team spent nearly $50 million spent on research, investigations, legal and advocacy on Herbalife. Yesterday,  his presenation focused on the company's so-called "nutrition clubs."  As Ackman spoke for nearly three hours, shares of Herbalife soared to close the day up 25%. The market clearly didn't buy his argument.  Perhaps he had a bigger plan, though.  For more than 18 months, Ackman has been on a crusade against Herbalife–a maker of nutritional shakes he believes is operating as a "pyramid scheme" that targets poor people. He's betting that Herbalife's stock will go to zero. During his presentation, Ackman had some harsh words for the company. He went as a far to compare Herbalife to Nazis. "The big lie is used by totalitarian regimes, and by the Nazis and by lots of people and people generally believe big lies because they are so bold that how can they possibly be false?" Ackman said. He also lashed out at the company's CEO, Michael Johnson.  "I'm a huge beneficiary of this country, OK. Michael Johnson is a predator, OK. This is a criminal enterprise, OK. I hope you're listening Michael. It's time to shut the company down," Ackman said as he was beginning to choke up after talking about the "American dream." During the Q&amp;A portion of the event, Dealbook reporter Matthew Goldstein asked Ackman if he was trying to goad the company into suing him with his inflammatory language.  "It would be great," Ackman said. "Bring it on." It's not immediately clear if this is Ackman's plan, but it would make sense.  If the company were to sue, they would likely say that Ackman is spreading false and misleading information. In order to have a claim, they would have to prove Ackman to be wrong. Truth is a defense and Ackman would need access to any documents that can help prove the case. This would lead to discovery and that would give Ackman and his team access to documents that could support his short case. "He would get very broad discovery. If Herbalife sues him he could open up discovery and demand every email among Herbalife executives. And they had to be discussing him and his charges over the last two years and he'd find out where they were defensive, where they were sensitive, what their counter arguments were going to be. There's no better way to find out where they're nervous and what they say to each other in the light of his charges," Columbia Law Professor John Coffee told Fox Business.  Herbalife's CFO said they may sue.  "We may. That's on the table. It's an option. I think our case gets stronger every day," Herbalife CFO John DeSimone told Bloomberg TV yesterday. Then again, maybe they won't.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Samsul SaidWith this month's downing of MH17 and the March disappearance of MH370, it seems that if Malaysia Airlines didn't have bad luck, it wouldn't have any luck at all.   It is incredibly rare for two catastrophic events to happen to the same airline in such a short period of time, Chris Sloan, president of aviation news organization Airchive, told Business Insider. Malaysia's recent tragedies have indelibly stained the reputation of an airline that has one of the best safety records in the world. Until this year, Malaysia Airlines had experienced only two fatal accidents in 68 years of operation. In fact, the last 19 years have been fatality-free. And the airline regularly receives stellar marks for service and comfort from airline ratings agency Skytrax.  Despite high marks from passengers, the airline's financial performance over the years has been dismal. With the Malaysian government holding a majority stake in the airline through its holding company, Penerbangan Malaysia Berhad, Malaysia Airlines has become a veritable black hole that sucks in money. Multiple government bailouts over the past decade were required keep the carrier aloft. In the past three years, the airline has lost an astonishing $1.2 billion, reports Businessweek. And according to the CAPA Centre for Aviation, Malaysia Airlines lost a further $140 million in the first quarter of this year alone, with business down 59%. In other words, the airline hasn't been profitable for years. And it's unlikely to achieve profitability anytime soon. With the loss of consumer confidence compounding the company's financial troubles, what's in store for Malaysia Airlines? Here are three ways the company could turn around. A potential solution is to simply rebrand the airline: Take the existing company and relaunch it with a new logo and a fresh coat of paint. This strategy was successful for both ValuJet and Swissair, though under different circumstances. REUTERS/Edgar SuValuJet was a budget airline that rebranded as AirTran Airways after a fatal crash and subsequent financial losses in the mid-1990s.  While the company's transformation following its merger with AirTrain was nothing short of spectacular, its situation differed greatly from Malaysia Airlines in both complexity and symbolism.  At the time of ValuJet's rebranding, it was a 5-year-old airline with a small, aging fleet of 15 short-range DC-9/MD-80 series jets.  Malaysia Airlines, on the other hand, is nearly 70 years old, with a fleet of 100 aircraft, ranging from smaller Boeing 737s to 500-seat Airbus A380 superjumbos. As Malaysia's flag carrier, the airline is also a symbol of national identity, serving as a flying ambassador for the country.  Swissair's rebranding also offers some parallels. Swissair, known for its high-quality service and strong financial performance, was referred to as the "flying bank" for many years. However, by the late 1990s, after a decade of poor financial decision making, the Swiss national airline was struggling to deal with massive amounts of debt. Its grim financial situation was worsened by the crash of Flight 111 off the coast of Nova Scotia in 1998. By 2001, the company announced it would have to liquidate its assets. SWISS International Airlines arose from the ashes, and has since been rated as one of the best in the world. The success of SWISS shows it's possible to rebrand a nation's flag carrier and recover financially. However, SWISS had two advantages that Malaysia Airlines does not: Consumer confidence in the Swissair brand wasn't fatally tarnished by the company's troubles, and Switzerland's aviation tradition was well-established.  Wikimedia Commons/ Steven BylesSo Malaysia Airlines may have to do more than simply rebrand—it may need a top-to-bottom overhaul. Korean Air's revamp in the early 2000s offers some context, says Airchive's Sloan. In 1999, the airline suffered three crashes in six months. Two were fatal. Instead of simply rebranding, Korean Air made major internal changes. The airline brought in Lufthansa to retrain its pilots, changed its corporate culture, and relaunched. Malaysia will have to follow a similar playbook, Sloan says, adding, "they have to show the world they learned their lesson." There have been calls from inside Malaysia for the government to dump its investment in its money-losing airline. However, Sloan believes the opposite is likely to happen: Not only will the government pump more money into the airline, it will also nationalize it, he says. No country wants to lose such a prominent international symbol at a time of weakness.  Nationalization could provide the airline with a temporary financial safe haven, buying time to execute the sweeping changes needed to ensure long-term viability. In 2001, the New Zealand government nationalized Air New Zealand and injected more than $700 million into the company after the airline's failed merger with Ansett Australia drained its coffers. The nationalization allowed Air New Zealand to make drastic shifts in its business model. Eventually, that airline returned to profitability.  If the Malaysian government does not step up to the plate, another option for Malaysia Airlines is to seek a merger. In the month before the crash of MH17, rumors sprang up about cash-rich Etihad Airways' interest in acquiring shares of the airline. But since the crash, the Abu Dhabi-based carrier has distanced itself from the rumors.  APOne prospective partner for Malaysia Airlines may very well be a competitor: AirAsia, a low-cost carrier that also operates out of Kuala Lumpur. In the last 15 years, CEO Tony Fernandes has taken AirAsia from a tiny, debt-ridden operation to a financial juggernaut. Much of its explosive growth has been at the expense of more established regional competitors. Now, Fernandes wants to jump into the long-haul game with the company's AirAsiaX brand. In fact, the airline purchased 50 Airbus A330neo long-haul airliners at this month's Farnborough Airshow.  To remove a local competitor and bolster its transcontinental operation, AirAsia may be willing to take on Malaysia Airlines' international assets for a reasonable price. It's not unheard of for a younger regional airline to swallow up a large international carrier. In 2007, Brazil's Gol Airlines purchased the remnants of the country's bankrupt national carrier, Varig. After the merger, Varig—once Brazil's preeminent international airline—now operates as an arm of Gol Airlines.  In 2012, Malaysia Airlines and AirAsia actually agreed to $364 million stock swap that was nixed by pressure from Malaysia Airlines' union. With the airline confronting an unprecedented crisis and AirAsia enjoying a meteoric rise, it may make sense for the airlines to revisit their past agreement.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTesla has been stringing California along when it comes to the company's intentions for its $5 billion gigafactory. Back in May, CEO Elon Musk said it was "improbable" that the massive lithium ion battery facility would be built in the Golden State, but he didn't rule it out. Now there's speculation California may seriously be back in the running. There's just one potential sticking point: according to local news outlet KTVU, California could be offering real estate at a Superfund site that's not completely cleaned up. It's the former Concord Naval Weapons Station, a sprawling, 12,800-acre site, about 30 miles east of San Francisco. Possible Gigafactory locations in Arizona, Nevada, New Mexico and — most humiliatingly for California, home to Tesla's Palo Alto headquarters — Texas have all reportedly been discussed. Tesla has also indicated that its timetable for constructing a factory is brisk. The company wants to have the annual capacity to produce enough lithium-ion battery packs to power 500,000 vehicles by 2020 (only about 50,000 cars now roll off the assembly line). The Concord Naval Weapons Station is where the U.S. Navy stored bombs, torpedoes, and missiles for decades, beginning during World War II (a devastating explosion at Port Chicago, part of the complex, killed over 300 sailors and civilians in 1944). There's more than enough land available for Tesla to realize its gigafactory ambitions, but the Superfund site cleanup of various highly toxic contaminants is still ongoing (heavy metals are the environmentally destructive military-industrial gift that keeps on giving).WikipediaAn aerial view of the Concord Naval Weapons Station shot in 2006.That process could be too slow for the electric-car startup. Musk wants to increase production of the Model S sedan over the next year and gear up to manufacture two new vehicles through 2017: the family-oriented Model X SUV and the smaller Model 3 sedan. However, Tesla's on-again, off-again gigafactory flirtations with its home state have exasperated some outspoken critics of the way that California does business. Venture capitalist Tim Draper has made Tesla's rebuff of California a talking point for his controversial "Six Californias" initiative. Losing Tesla strikes him as a smack-your-forehead example of the state's dysfunctional business and political culture. No one in California government, at either the state or local level, is happy that a futuristic, media-darling company like Tesla has signaled that it wants to create over 6,000 jobs someplace else, either. California has all but branded itself as the natural entrepreneurial engine of the new transportation economy. And although Tesla remains committed to its plant in Fremont, its audition of other western states and their more enticing tax arrangements proves that while Musk &amp; Co. may be committed to the idea that California nurtures innovation, the reality of running a capital-intensive car company means that nothing is ever set in stone. Tesla didn't immediately respond to Business Insider's requests for comment, but the company did tell KTVU that it hasn't made a final call on the gigafactory location. FREE AppDownload
Paul Marotta/Getty ImagesThere are thousands of universities all over the world, but only a handful are recognized as the best of the best. The Center for World University Rankings recently released a list of the top universities in the world and also listed the best universities in specific countries and continents.  The CWUR, which is based in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, looks at the quality of education, prestige of faculty members, and quality of faculty research at each university to compile its annual list.  We've put together a list of the best universities in 35 countries, as determined by the CWUR. Some of the universities are hundreds of years old with storied histories, while others are newer but are making strides with their research and academics.  FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderRestaurants, shops, and startups are taking Toronto by storm. Canada's most populous city may be known for the CN Tower, its crack-smoking mayor, and a slew of odd nicknames, including Hogtown, Queen City, T-Dot, and Hollywood North. But Toronto, roughly an hour-and-a-half flight from New York City, serves as a hotbed of innovation with creative startups and cool small businesses making their homes in the city.  From a sustainable poutine eatery to a biometrics device manufacturer, these are the companies helping Toronto emerge as one of the most biz-friendly cities in North America. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoSince coming to power in December 2012, Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe has advocated a string of aggressive policy measures, dubbed Abenomics, to bolster the economy, stoke inflation, and improve global competitiveness via a weaker yen.  Abenomics for a long time was successful in depressing the yen. It went from about 82 yen to a dollar in December 2012, to 105.3 yen to a dollar in January 2014. Year-to-date however the U.S. dollar is down 3.7% against the yen. Richard Bernstein, CEO of Richard Bernstein Advisors, thinks the only real story in Japan is the yen. "The competitive advantage has been whittled away through demographics, through productivity, through better competitiveness in other emerging market," Bernstein said at a breakfast earlier today. "What's left is currency. If you have no competitive advantage, this is true of every country, how do you compete? You compete on price." Bernstein dubbed Japan's strategy, the Walmart strategy. Walmart he explained uses cheap prices to gain market share, and that was the story in Japan for a year and a half. But the yen has now started to appreciate.  "Think about what would happen to Walmart's stock price if it started raising prices," he said. "They'd have no competitive advantage. This is a market share game for them. So look what happened, the yen started appreciating — Walmart raising prices — and the Nikkei goes down, that's it. That's all you have to know." Bernstein said back in the 1980s there was little correlation between the yen and the stock market, but that changed. BloombergHere's the yen falling against the dollar."The one arrow, two arrow, three arrow, four arrow stuff is great politics, but I don't think it makes any difference," he said. Bernstein was making reference to the names of various parts of Abenomics. Arrow one, is a fiscal stimulus, arrow two involves aggressive monetary easing, and arrow three drives structural reforms driven at improving economic competitiveness. While Bernstein does think the other arrows will bring back the competitive advantage eventually, he doesn't think it will do much for profitability or stocks in the next 12 to 15 months.  He also said that the Bank of Japan doesn't realize that the odds are stacked against them because whenever there's a problem in emerging markets, the yen is seen as a safe haven, which causes it to strengthen. "In the next 12-24 months as an investor you just want to look at the yen. That will tell you the whole story for Japan," he said. "It's just Walmart, that's all there is." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidGilead CEO John C. MartinGilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) is set to report FQ2 2014 earnings after the market closes on Wednesday, July 23rd.  Gilead Sciences is a biotechnology company that throughout its history has primarily focused on antiviral drugs to treat infections such as HIV and hepatitis B.  Wednesday’s report from Gilead is one of the most anticipated releases of the entire corporate earnings season because of a recently released drug designed for the treatment of hepatitis C. Analysts have predicted that year over year sales could be up anywhere from 79% to 171%. While no individual can claim to have any clue what’s going to happen, here are the crowdsourced earnings expectations from Estimize.com.   Estimize This quarter 39 contributing analysts on Estimize.com have come to a consensus earnings expectation of $1.90 EPS and $5.942B in revenue compared to a consensus of $1.80 EPS and $5.777B from Wall Street. Over the previous 6 quarters the consensus from Estimize.com has been more accurate than Wall Street in forecasting Gilead’s EPS and revenue 2 and 4 times each respectively.  Estimize Last quarter Gilead’s earnings skyrocketed as the company released a new drug for the treatment of hepatitis C, Sovaldi. According to the World Health Organization, approximately 3% of the world’s population is living with the hepatitis C infection, leaving plenty of room for growth in the distribution and sales of Gilead’s new drug. This quarter there is a very wide range of sales estimates from both Wall Street and Estimize. Everyone generally agrees that sales will be up from last quarter, but analysts have extremely different opinions about the magnitude of revenue growth or how the firm’s bottom line will be affected. The range of estimates is visualized below. Estimize Estimize is completely open and free for anyone to contribute, and the base of contributing analysts on the platform includes hedge fund analysts, asset managers, independent research shops, non professional investors, and students. The Estimize consensus was more accurate than the Wall Street consensus 65% of the time last quarter on the coverage of nearly 1000 stocks. A combination of algorithms ensures that the data is not only clean and free from people attempting to game the system, but also weighs past performance and many other factors to gauge future accuracy. Estimize Contributing analysts on the Estimize.com platform are forecasting that on Wednesday Gilead will report earnings 10c (6%) per share ahead of Wall Street’s EPS forecast and beat the Street’s revenue consensus by $165 million (3%). On Wednesday we will see just how much higher Sovaldi can fuel Gilead’s earnings. Head over to Estimize.com/calendar to follow the most comprehensive earnings season calendar on the web featuring consensus estimates from Wall Street and the Estimize community.  FREE AppDownload
The LedburyThere's a reason The Ledbury is No. 1.The Ledbury just took the top spot on our list of the Best Restaurants in London. Located in the private, fashionable neighborhood of Notting Hill, The Ledbury serves modern French fare inspired by Australian-born chef Brett Graham's culinary background. The two-star Michelin restaurant sources its ingredients from a vast network of small-scale suppliers, in order to serve the best of the U.K.'s land and sea. The tasting menus are surprisingly and relatively affordable: Lunch menus cost £45 to £80 a head, and the eight-course prix fixe dinner runs guests £110.
REUTERS/Rick WilkingThe U.S. flag flies at the Burt GM auto dealer in Denver June 1, 2009. GM has announced another round of recalls covering a total of 717,960 vehicles. CNBC's Phil LeBeau reports the recalls cover six models from 2011-2014. None are ignition switch related. 120,426 cars are related to turn signal bulb defects, according to Bloomberg.  This brings GM's 2014 recall total to 60, covering 30 million vehicles, LeBeau says. Shares are down 0.1% though are actually rising on the news. We've previously discussed how the recalls may have the effect of boosting sales as car purchasers come in "out of cycle," or at a time when the usual reasons for getting a new vehicle, like age or season, don't apply. FREE AppDownload
Fortune Brainstorm TECH 2014I'm waiting for Cisco CEO John Chambers in Aspen, Colorado, on a gorgeous mountain-view deck. He's running late. He flew his private jet into Aspen a few hours ago to speak at Fortune's Brainstorm Conference and he'll be flying out before dinner. In between he's squeezed in a few quick meetings with customers, and me. Chambers is friendly and likes to talk, particularly to customers, so I expected the delay. I've been chatting with Cisco's head of PR, John Earnhardt. When my turn arrives, Chambers walks out to the deck to greet me and personally escort me to our meeting room. He's wearing dark blue jeans and a button-downed shirt. I stand up to shake his hand. Then I reach for my giant backpack on the chair next to me. Chambers immediately reaches for it. "What can I carry?" he asks. "I'm a Southern gentleman." (Chambers is from West Virginia.) But I'm a tough Colorado chick used to carrying my own gear. I try to shake him off and, in the end, Earnhardt outreaches us both and grabs my backpack. Earnhardt lays his North Carolina accent on: "I'm a Southern gentleman as well." Normally, having another person carry my stuff would make me uncomfortable, but Chambers is turning on the charm, saying just the right thing to a journalist ("Thank you for being fair in your coverage of us"). We're all smiling as we enter our conference room. In five months Chambers will celebrate a major milestone at Cisco: 20 years as CEO. His on-screen persona is that of a smooth talker, simultaneously a visionary and a master of deflection. A Financial Times columnist, Lucy Kellaway, bestowed a dubious award on him last year: "Chief Obfuscation Champion." But his employees, past and present, talk about him much differently. They openly admire him, say he's warm, open-minded, attentive. That's the John Chambers who shows up for our interview. In equal measures he tells me about Cisco's acquisition strategy, the pain of growing up with dyslexia, how he makes hard decisions like firing someone, what makes him cry, and his views of the obligations of being rich and powerful. Business Insider: You seem very cheerful lately, as if the rough period Cisco had from 2010 to 2013 is well behind you. You feeling happier?John Chambers: No. I’ve never — in almost 20 years of being CEO — I've never raised my voice in the office. That doesn’t mean that people don’t know when I’m displeased or when I think people have done a good job. As a leader, you don’t get too high on the highs or let the bumps balance down. Every leader over time has probably equal amount of good luck or bad luck — or, you could argue, has good opportunities or challenges.BI: Still, you've had plenty of both in 20 years. Tell me about your process for making a personal decision. Say you have to fire someone. I assume after 20 years as a CEO you’ve had to fire someone.JC: Sure. BI: How do you decide? Do simply know in your gut that it’s the right decision? JC: Well, no. The hardest decision you do is to let someone go, especially someone that’s a good person and is trying hard. A well-run organization turns over 10% of their organizations, including senior leadership. I don’t have the heart to do that. But we need to run at 3% to 5% in voluntary attrition. We need to do that a little better — we run at 3%. When a leader doesn’t do his or her job it isn’t just a problem with the person. They take their whole organization down.Often what I tell a new CEO asking for advice, or one of my own new leaders, is the two most important decisions that your team is going to watch is the first person you hire and the first person you promote — because you are saying that’s the type of person I want. And the first person you fire. BI: You say you "don't have the heart" to run at 10% turnover. Why not? JC: I’m not a tough person. I cry at movies. I’m not a particularly proud of that, but I do. I follow every illness — of every employee, their spouse, children — that’s life-threatening. This last week there was a number of them. It's about getting a person who has breast cancer into the right doctors at Duke, or getting a secondary opinion, or helping someone who has lost a spouse unexpectedly, talking to the person to see what we can do. That’s who we are as a company. You can say we’re too soft, but we are family and it's actually very powerful. BI: Yes, I’ve heard that. I’ve asked people to "give me dirt" on you, but it's hard to find.JC: [Laughing] My wife might able to do that. BI: Cisco has done well over the years, but it's also had tough times, layoffs, a reorg, unwinding some acquisitions — Flip and Linksys. What advice do you have for entrepreneurs on when to stand firm and when to cut and run? JC: You never know for sure. What you do is develop guidelines or principles for key decisions. We’re pretty disciplined on where we’re going strategy-wise. We build those strategies off of "market transitions" [disruptive new technologies]. Unless there’s a market transition that plays to our strengths, like networking, we don’t think we can enter a market that’s already established and out-execute.Our guidelines are a minimum target of 40% market share and "sustainable differentiation" with good industry-average margins. That sounds basic but “sustainable differentiation,” that’s the advice I'd give to startups. Do they really have something that’s different? Or is it temporary, and then they’ll have to do something else?Also, is there a transition? Great startups that become great companies are catching that transition. You see that especially, interestingly enough, during economic slowdowns, because there aren’t as many players going after [the new market]. If no transition is going on, thinking you can be the 20th person into the market become No. 1, 2, 3. It isn’t going to occur. No. 20 isn’t going to make it.BI: Cisco buys a lot of companies. It acquires instead of spending on R&amp;D. How do you decide which companies to buy? JC: We kind of invented the concept of “build, buy, partner for innovation" by acquisition. When we did our first acquisitions, as everyone knew, all failed. Most of them still do.We said, if we’re going to acquire, what are we going to do differently? We came up with six rules of thumb. They turned out to be pretty accurate. Whenever I’ve violated two of them, I usually get into trouble.First, do you have the same vision of where industry is going as the target of your acquisition? If visions differ, you might get together economically for a while, but then you are going to have problems.Second, understand what you are acquiring and protect it at all costs. In my industry, you are acquiring people and next-generation products. You are making an investment that together you can grow faster, make more profits, and take more market share.If I can’t hold the people, and our cultures aren’t very similar, we don’t do it.BI: How do you know if the cultures are similar?JC: You know at the beginning. You listen to them: if they mention customers, if they share the success of the company with their employees, or just a couple of people at the top make all the money. Do they have a healthy paranoia? When riding high, do they know that they can get unseated fairly quickly? That’s what Silicon Valley is about. We all know we can get unseated very quickly — as quickly as two years.Third, is the acquisition really strategic? The failure rate is 90% for most acquisitions. If Cisco is world class, as many people say we are, with acquisitions, we’re going to do well with two out of three. That means we’re still going to miss on one out of three.Fourth, geographic proximity is very important. Once you get out of the country, odds go down even more. BI: For a while, weren’t you targeting non-U.S. acquisitions, mostly for tax reasons.JC: Still am. But it makes it harder. You just go with your eyes wide open. You also don’t go with a company that doesn’t have “sustainable differentiation” or with a culture that’s different.We learn how to catch market transitions, enter them only where we have sustainable differentiation, and then [fifth] we listen to our customers. If you listen to them the right way, they’ll tell you who to acquire, they’ll tell you what you are doing right and wrong. They’ll tell you what your challenges are in the future, and what their top issues are. That’s why I listen to every critical account every night and have for 20 years. [Sixth]: Focus on solving a customer's problems.As basic as that sounds, that’s what Cisco does. What I do as CEO. BI: Philanthropy is a big topic in the Valley these days. In your opinion, what’s the obligation of the 1%? JC: Both of my parents were doctors, and I firmly believe that those who have been successful in life owe an obligation to those who have not. So almost all of the giving by Elaine and I is to education or healthcare that can really make a difference. As you follow all the employees who have breast cancer, or prostate cancer or lost a child, the ability to make a difference when it can, I believe it’s an obligation. That’s especially true at a company like Cisco where you can also help with donations of technology to places like the people in Mississippi, with education, or in Sichuan Province, with the earthquake or the people in Palestine to build a middle class.What people don’t often know — it’s just plain good for business. We’re No. 1 in almost every area of social responsibility. And while we make mistakes, customers and others forgive us. They do in part because they trust us. Nobody’s perfect. Make no mistake, I am not — as my wife will tell you. But we try to be good people. BI: Did you sign Bill Gates’ "Giving Pledge," where the wealthiest vow to give large chunks of their fortune to charity?JC: Do I need to sign a giving pledge to give? No. I used to do it all anonymously because I felt where you give is your own business. But then I realized that several of the universities and schools, charitable organizations, Second Harvest Food Bank — one of the biggest ones I consistently give to — they said, “John, people need role models. They see you giving, they’re more likely to give. One of the key reasons nobody gives is that no one they know or respect asks them and they don’t think they can make a difference." So I now talk about it publicly, even though it makes me a little uncomfortable.BI: You're known as a spokesman for dyslexia. I’ve heard people say it can help a leader think outside the box. Is that true?JC: It would surprise you how many government and business leaders there are with dyslexia. Some people view it as a weakness, and maybe it is. What dyslexia forces you to do — you don’t go A, B, C, D, E to Z. I can go A, B, Z with speed.Because of my weakness I’ve learned other ways to accomplish the same goal with faster speed. So in math, I can do equations faster by eliminating the wrong answers quicker than I can get the right answer.It’s easy for me to see how a business proposition is going to play out, or who our next-generation competitors are, from taking this data point from this customer and another data point from another customer, and jump to Z. So it’s definitely an advantage.It’s one of the reasons I talk to young people with dyslexia pretty regularly. You have to have role models. BI: When you were younger, did dyslexia affect your self-esteem? JC: Oh, absolutely. In third and fourth grade, my teachers thought I may not go to college. I had two parents who were doctors, and my mom was valedictorian in multiple classes. My parents always told me, "you’re smart," and that’s nice from love, but that’s not what you see. If I hadn’t had a teacher, Mrs. Anderson, who helped me get through that period ... my parents found her. This was before dyslexia or learning disabilities were understood. I had no role models. BI: What made you start talking about it publicly? JC: I accidentally disclosed it one time, during "Taking Our Children" to work, and I realized how many people in the room were dyslexic, not just kids but parents too. That’s why I became a spokesperson for it. When one of your counterparts [another journalist] called me up and asked me to write an article about it, I at first said no, because even right now, when I talk about dyslexia, my hands sweat. It makes uncomfortable because if you give me directions or I call the person the wrong name, or get their numbers mixed up — I can memorize numbers really well — but once I file it wrong, I’ll make the same wrong turn every time.Even there, I don’t make fun of people. I call people by what thing they want to be called. What does your best friend call you? What does your spouse call you? It helps you emotionally connect to people.It comes back to what we said earlier. You have equal amounts of good luck and bad luck. Nobody’s perfect. I’m not either. But it’s how you reach for the good opportunities and how you navigate the tough times.BI: So after all these years, what’s your favorite part about being rich and famous? Steve Ballmer said his was the ability to get a great tee time wherever he went.JC: I have very little interest or desire to be rich and famous. That doesn’t mean it isn’t nice to have money. It is. It takes stress out of life. But fame and money has never been very important to me other than what our company can do to change the world. That is a tremendous excitement. If you can change a Palestine or an earthquake or a hurricane in U.S. or an industry or business. We want to change the standard of living for everyone in this world. Change healthcare. Change every city, every business — and make money doing that. A lot of money for the company, shareholders, employees.If your pupils don’t dilate at that thought, something is wrong with you. FREE AppDownload
As is its tradition, EMC reported earnings before the market opened, a beat on revenue and a meet on profits. Sales were up 5% year-over-year to $5.9 billion. That's a beat. Analysts were looking for $5.8 billion. Non-GAAP earnings per share, excluding extraordinary charges, hit 43 cents a share, in-line with expectations. The company also raised its full-year  earning per share guidance by 1 cent. EMC now expects to end the year with non-GAAP EPS of $1.91. EMC reiterated full-year revenue guidance of $24.575 billion for 2014. VMware is still the company's star child. Its revenue was up 17% from the year ago quarter, to $1.45 billion. Its newer spin-out, Pivitol (run by VMware's former CEO Paul Maritz) is growing, too, the company reported. Revenue for Pivitol was up 29% year over year, to $54 million. EMC is facing increasing market pressure these days. Companies are looking at cloud-computing vendors ranging from Amazon to Box to help them store documents, reducing the need to buy ever more storage for their own data centers. On top of that, EMC is facing growing competition from companies like Pure Storage that sell flash storage, the same storage tech used by thumb drives and smartphones. EMC is in the flash storage market, too, with its recently launched EMC XtremIO product line. This came from the 2012 acquisition of Israeli flash-storage startup XtremIO for $430 million. EMC has now been selling XtremIO for two quarters and says sales of the product this quarter put it on an annual run rate to "surpass $300 million." The company has recently become of interest activist investor, Paul Singer and his Elliott Management Corp., the Wall Street Journal reported on Monday. Elliott is looking to spend $1 billion to take on a 2% stake, according to the Journal, and with that, pressure for EMC to sell off VMware, and/or break itself apart altogether. This has sparked lots of discussion that EMC may soon be embroiled in big break-up fight with investors So far, no official documents have been filed with the SEC that make Elliott's huge stake official. When asked about it on a call with investors, CEO Joe Tucci said that he has agreed to a meeting with Elliott, reports the WSJ. Without VMware, EMC posted a profit of $589 million compared with $701 million a year earlier. The stock is trading slight up today, at about $29. EMC FREE AppDownload
Boonsri Dickinson, Business InsiderLike many of the other tech companies – Lyft, Zaarly, Fiverr – that have gotten bucketloads of venture capital to match underemployed people with no-commitment gigs, TaskRabbit taps into an existing need – any kind of income in an economy increasingly built on low-wage jobs or no jobs at all – and fulfills a real desire for flexibility among 21st-century workers. The company's CEO has said that TaskRabbit's goal is to "revolutionize the world's labor force". But TaskRabbit, like all the others, is just a site and an app that matches workers – "taskers", in the company's terminology – with one-off jobs that other people want done for them. In the old days – as in, a couple of weeks ago – workers would bid on jobs posted by potential clients on the TaskRabbit site, and clients would select the best bid for "outsourcing" chores like cleaning the oven, wrapping gifts or assembling Ikea furniture. The pay might have been low at that point, but workers determined it for themselves, just as they determined when and what kind of work they would do. Now, TaskRabbit has changed its rules. Attempting to capitalize on the explosion in the so-called "gig economy" and set itself apart from the ever-growing competition, TaskRabbit this month has begun using a new algorithm to match workers with clients, who then contact a given worker to see if she is available, and the worker has 30 minutes to accept or reject the bid. The taskers are not pleased. "One of the big draws to TaskRabbit in the first place was flexibility – now, I lose out on work not because somebody underbids me but because I decided to have a life that day or get work done," Sally Mercedes, who used to regularly use the site, wrote me in an email on Tuesday. She went on: I keep being matched up with people paying significantly less than the hourly rate I listed on my profile for that task. That probably annoyed me more than anything else. Jamie Viggiano from TaskRabbit tells me the new experience was designed based on eight months of feedback from both clients and taskers. "We built a solution for the majority," she says. "On average, our taskers are getting 400% more working opportunities than they got in the old experience." Taskers can, if they're not getting enough tasks at the rate they've set, use a "rescue tasks" app in order to find work that may be below their normal rate. But it's notable that the updated site looks a lot like, well, any other employer these days. The company now touts its "skilled professionals" who undergo criminal background checks and in-person interviews. And, if that's not enough, you can ask specifically for the TaskRabbit "elite", a top-tier workforce that is both highly active and highly rated by clients. TaskRabbit, Zaarly, Agent Anything and the other supposedly high-tech companies bill themselves as new and improved takes on the modern working world, but their model actually comes from a much older concept: piecework. It was common in the late 19th and early 20th century that, instead of working in a factory for a wage or a salary, workers sewed or assembled goods at home and were paid by the finished item rather than for their time. The new wave of piecework may look different – working for an individual rather than a big company, working for many different clients instead of just one, and having a website act as a broker (and take 20% off the top) – but it has very similar roots. This "revolutionary" work built out of Silicon Valley convenience is not really about technological innovation – it's just the next step in a decades-old trend of fragmenting jobs, isolating workers and driving down wages. And, as Paul Mason noted the other day on these pages, there's a whiff of the "shape-up" in these gigs – that is, when workers lined up on the docks to be chosen for a day's work ... or not. They pit tasker against tasker for the prize of some work, giving already-atomized workers an added incentive not to share information about employers, wages and fees. As Mercedes told me: I have ended up on tasks where I learned I was making significantly more than the others, which is always interesting to discover. But while technology has made it easier for clients to find workers to do low-paying gigs, it has also made it easier for workers to find each other. And despite the competitiveness engendered by the TaskRabbit system, there are multiple groups on Facebook where TaskRabbit workers and users of other "gig economy" apps talk to one another – including at least one that formed specifically in response to the latest changes, and multiple location-based groups. It might be a big step from a Facebook group to a union, but getting together to express grievances is a first step toward organizing. Worker's organizations are going to – and going to have to – look different in this century from the unions we're accustomed to. They will need to be as flexible, streamlined and quick as the tech companies they target – but the basics won't change. And, as the longtime labor movement saying goes, the boss is often the best organizer: TaskRabbit's changes may have finally given gig-workers something to get together about. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
EthereumLast night, a company called Ethereum began selling the first batch of its cryptocurrency, called ether. As of 10 a.m. Wednesday, investors had already bought $2.6 million worth. We're living in a time when an app that just says Yo is worth $10 million, so this shouldn't be too surprising. But the digital currency world has been anticipating the first ether sale for more than a year and regards Ethereum's creator, Vitalik Buterin, as potentially the most important person in cryptocurrency since Satoshi Nakamoto.  The goal of Ethereum is to decentralize everything using blockchain technology. We talked a few months ago about what the futuristic version of this could look like. It's similar to the internet of things, having all your machines talking to one another so that you can have driverless taxis figuring what to charge you based on how much traffic there is and how fast you need to get where you're going. Ethereum seeks to cut out banks, stock exchanges, and even lawyers and replace them with a blockchain, a decentralized ledger of transactions. Individuals or companies will be able to issue "smart" shares or contracts on Ethereum's blockchain that give a user pre-programmed rights or capabilities. Gil Luria, Wedbush Securities' digital currency expert, told us in an email that some Ethereum applications could include exchange-less derivatives trading, "smart" escrow services, and predictions markets.  Ethereum's ether will eventually be mined like Bitcoin, as a way for rewarding people for devoting immense amounts of computing power to making the whole system work. "Without the requirement of payment of ether for every computational step and storage operation within the system, infinite loops or excessive storage demands could bog down ethereum and effectively destroy it," Ethereum says on its website. The ether sale is allowing investors to lock in supply at a known price now, with the rate set at 2,000 ether to 1 bitcoin, or $620.  Buterin, a Canadian barely 21 years old, was talking up Bitcoin when the cryptocurrency was still wondering in the wilderness. He founded Bitcoin Magazine and published some of the most incisive pieces on what cryptocurrencies could do beyond simply serving as money. All that rumination eventually inspired Buterin to create his own, modified version.   "Ethereum has vast potential, whereas Bitcoin won't ever do anything well beyond implementing a currency," programmer Nick Szabo, another early Bitcoin proponent who's recently begun tweeting after an extended absence from the internet, told us in an email several weeks ago.   Luria says there are "many more" Ethereum applications "that we have to think about." In other words, Ethereum's immediate use remains mostly limited. But for those who missed out on getting in on Bitcoin early, Ethereum's launch represents something of another chance.   FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderJim Chanos, president of Kynikos Associates, has long been one of the most outspoken and successful short sellers in the market.It's just not a great idea to short stocks. Last night, drug development company Puma Biotechnology reported better than expected breast cancer trial results, and shares of the company rallied nearly 300% afterward. Yesterday, activist investor Bill Ackman gave the "most important presentation of his career," regarding his short position on Herbalife. During Ackman's presentation, Herbalife shares rallied. If you were long shares of Puma Biotechnology before last night's close, your position is now worth almost 3 times as much. If you were short shares of Herbalife ahead of yesterday's open, your holdings are now worth almost 20% less. On Twitter, Dan Davies made this point even more succinctly. @TheStalwart that's what biotech investment is all about ... also NB this is three times as much as Pershing's best case scenario in HLF (This is all oversimplified, of course. Investors will have an "average cost basis," which depends on exactly what price they bought stock at in the past, not to mention broker fees, advisor fees, and so on. There are probably very few — if any — people who bought Puma for the first time at $60 yesterday and sold it at $230 today. If you did, take vacation. Now.) "Going long" a stock is owning shares, betting that the price will rise over time. "Going short" a stock is betting that the price of a stock will fall. But it's not just these specific stock moves that show why shorting stocks is a bad idea. If you're long a stock you enjoy unlimited upside with limited downside; if you're short, you have limited upside and unlimited downside. This is the case for one simple reason: A stock can only ever fall to $0, but there is no limit on how high it can go. Whether you short a stock that costs $1 or $1000, your short position can make you only 100%. If someone is long the same stock, the most they can lose is the capital they've put at risk, whether it's $1 million or $100. But if a stock doubles or triples in value, those who own the stock get to enjoy all those profits. If you're short, you can lose multiples of the capital you risked. (On paper, at least. You still have to sell the stocks, pay the taxes, pay commissions, etc., to realize that profit, but either way you probably make a bunch of money. You can also lose more money if you used margin but again, this is a simple example.) But there's another rub with shorting stocks: You have to borrow the shares to bet against them. And then to "cover" your position, you buy these shares back and pocket the difference. When you borrow shares, you take out a loan. This loan charges interest: you don't borrow money for free. And so the longer it takes for the stock you've bet against to fall, the more expensive it becomes. This chart shows basically how a short could play out. But keep in mind, no one ever shorts at the top and covers at the bottom, or conversely, buys at the bottom and sells at the top. This only happens in the movies; or on CNBC. Google Finance And the above example, of course, assumes the stock even falls. Or that your costs don't go up. In a paper called "Short Selling Risk," Joseph Engelberg of the University of California, San Diego, Adam Reed of the University of North Carolina, and Matthew Ringgenberg of Washington University in St. Louis, outline some of the risks that short sellers face. Among them are "variable future costs," or the risk that the interest charged on your loan increases unexpectedly. Basically, if lots of people are shorting a stock, the borrowing costs could balloon from say 1% to 20% or 30%, potentially pushing you out of your short position before enough time passes for your idea to even play out. Engelberg, Reed, and Ringgenberg write that, "we find that while loan fees do not follow a random walk, more than 97% of future loan fees remain unexplained." Shorting a stock could get expensive, but its not totally clear why. In an interview with Business Insider, Ringgenberg said: "Research shows that on average, stocks with large short interest tend to go down in price. But for a number of reasons, short sellers can get forced out of a position before they are proven right." Ringgenberg says this shows that short sellers clearly have an information arbitrage regarding the stocks they have positions in, but just because you might be right doesn't mean you necessarily make money. Short sellers play an important part in the market, often keeping companies and other investors honest about their positions, and many professional investors have made a good living shorting stocks. But the risks these short sellers face are enormous — and expensive. FREE AppDownload
Extreme poverty has dropped worldwide, but many parts of the world still have a long way to go. The UN recently published a report on the current status of their Millennium Development Goals, a set of eight goals addressing the challenges faced in developing countries adopted in 2000. The first of the goals is to dramatically reduce extreme poverty. Here, from the UN's report, are the proportions of populations in different regions who live on less than $1.25 per day. Worldwide, this rate has dropped by half in the last two decades, with 36% of the global population in extreme poverty in 1990, and 18% in 2010: United Nations A huge amount of the drop in extreme poverty came from China. In 1990, 60% of China's population was living on under $1.25 per day, and in 2010, only 12% were. Other regions, like Sub-Saharan Africa, saw smaller improvements in their extreme poverty rates. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsNote: This index is a leading indicator primarily for new Commercial Real Estate (CRE) investment.  From AIA: Momentum Increasing for Architecture Billings Index The Architecture Billings Index (ABI) is signaling improving conditions for the overall design and construction industry. As a leading economic indicator of construction activity, the ABI reflects the approximate nine to twelve month lead time between architecture billings and construction spending. The American Institute of Architects (AIA) reported the June ABI score was 53.5, up from a mark of 52.6 in May. This score reflects an increase in design activity (any score above 50 indicates an increase in billings). The new projects inquiry index was 66.4, up noticeably from the reading of 63.2 the previous month and its highest level in a calendar year. The AIA has added a new indicator measuring the trends in new design contracts at architecture firms that can provide a strong signal of the direction of future architecture billings. The score for design contracts in June was 55.7 – the highest mark since that indicator starting being measured in October 2010. “The recent surge in both design contracts and general inquiries for new projects by prospective clients is indicative of a sustainable strengthening across the construction marketplace,” said AIA Chief Economist Kermit Baker, Hon. AIA, PhD. “With the first positive reading since last summer in billings at institutional firms, it appears that design activity for all major segments of the building industry is growing. The challenge now for architecture firms seems to be finding the right balance for staffing needs to meet increasing demand.” • Regional averages: Midwest (56.3), South (53.9), Northeast 51.1) , West (48.7) [three month average](emphasis added) Calculated RiskThis graph shows the Architecture Billings Index since 1996. The index was at 53.5 in June, up from 52.6 in May. Anything above 50 indicates expansion in demand for architects' services.  This index has indicated expansion during 18 of the last 23 months.Note: This includes commercial and industrial facilities like hotels and office buildings, multi-family residential, as well as schools, hospitals and other institutions. According to the AIA, there is an "approximate nine to twelve month lag time between architecture billings and construction spending" on non-residential construction.  So the readings over the last year suggest some increase in CRE investment this year and in 2015. FREE AppDownload
Tony Cruz, a backup catcher for the St. Louis Cardinals, chose to walk up to the plate last night to the sound of Matthew McConaughey thumping his chest as he hazed Leonardo DiCaprio in the "Wolf of Wall Street." The Cards were down five runs with one out in the bottom of the 9th, so it appears to have been an "anything goes"-type situation. McConaughey has explained that the bit was mostly ad libbed from his own warm-up routine, so it actually totally works. Check it out:  Your browser does not support iframes. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressThe S&amp;P 500 is at an all-time high. At it highest level, the S&amp;P touched 1,989.23 this morning. Stocks are mixed, with the Dow currently lagging the S&amp;P 500 and the Nasdaq, but with a 5 point advance, the S&amp;P 500 is making an all-time intraday high for the second straight day. The Dow is down 2 points, the S&amp;P 500 is up 5 points, and the Nasdaq is up 24 points. The Dow is being weighed on by shares of Boeing, which were down about 2% after the jetmaker reported quarterly revenue that came in below expectations. In other earnings news, PepsiCo reported earnings that were better than expected, though CEO Indra Nooyi said the company is operating in a "challenging and volatile macro environment." Dow Chemical reported earnings that beat expectations, and reported gains in each of its operating segments.  The S&amp;P 500's biggest gainer is biotechnology company Biogen, which was up more than 10% after reporting revenue that grew 40% to $2.4 billion, topping expectations.  Also in the biotechnology space, Puma Biotechnology shares were up nearly 300% after the company last night reported positive results for its breast cancer treatment.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Brian SnyderAdage Capital is located on the 52nd floor of the John Hancock TowerShares of Puma Biotechnology (PBYI) were going absolutely bonkers Wednesday morning following a successful trial of a breast cancer drug.  The stock surged about 283%, or about $167, since the opening bell. At least one hedge fund is probably really pleased with this investment. The largest shareholder of Puma Biotechnology is Adage Capital Management, a Boston-based hedge fund founded by Phil Gross and Robert Atchinson. According to the latest 13F data, Adage last held 5,686,668 shares. That means they had made about $950 million on the position since the opening bell Wednesday. Adage first reported its position in Puma Biotechnology on Dec. 31, 2012. The fund held about 5.2 million shares then. From that time until Tuesday's market close, shares of Puma Biotechnology had risen 214%.  And all those who sold out of the position before this news broke are probably kicking themselves right about now.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstU.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet YellenPuma Biotechnology shares are going nuclear right now, surging by almost 300% after the company announced encouraging results from its recent breast cancer drug trial. Odds are, you've never heard of this company before. But that's the nature of these tiny biotech firms that are developing drugs. They typically are very small, they lose lots of money, and they deal in a business riddled with the terrifying chemistry jargon. But here's what you need to know about these biotech firms: sometimes they find success. And when they do, the sky's the limit. These firms don't start making money until they're able to get their drugs approved for the market. As a result, valuations often seem extraordinarily high. For example, the price-earnings ratio, the most widely cited measure of value in the stock market, will be inflated because the denominator is so low. However, those valuations quickly collapse when a drug goes from making $0 to making a billion dollars after approval. Goldman SachsGoldman Sachs' Jami Rubin recently estimated the potential revenue that could come from the drug development pipelines of seven major biotech firms. By 2020, Rubin said that they could add between $72 billion to $113 billion in annual revenue on top of the roughly $205 billion coming from existing drugs. When you consider this upside, you can begin to understand why people pay so much for a piece of the action. But, it's also a mistake to characterize the biotech sector as a bubble. "It's certainly very speculative, but speculation alone doesn't make a bubble," said stock market expert Richard Bernstein earlier this year. This is not to say you should start buying these stocks haphazardly. Indeed, many if not most of these companies see their stock prices fall to zero as their drug pipelines go nowhere. However, traditional measures of valuation are probably not the best way to judge the state of the industry. "Valuation metrics in some sectors do appear substantially stretched—particularly those for smaller firms in the social media and biotechnology industries, despite a notable downturn in equity prices for such firms early in the year," said Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen earlier this month. Yellen can say what she wants about social media stocks. But her assessment on biotechs is arguably just wrong. FREE AppDownload
Yahoo FinanceShares of Puma Biotechnology are up 296% right now. On Tuesday evening, the company announced encouraging results from its recent breast cancer drug trial. "[A] clinical trial of its experimental drug blocked the return of breast cancer in women with a type of early-stage disease," reported Bloomberg's Robert Langreth. "The drug, neratinib, improved disease-free survival by 33 percent compared with a placebo in a trial of 2,821 women with early-stage HER2-positive breast cancer, Los Angeles-based Puma said today in a statement." In its statement, management said it planned to file for marketing approval in the first half of 2015. Today's rally gives the company a market value of $7 billion. Here's the language from Puma for you biotech geeks: LOS ANGELES, Calif., July 22, 2014 - Puma Biotechnology, Inc. (NYSE: PBYI), a development stage biopharmaceutical company, announced top line results from the Phase III clinical trial of Puma's investigational drug PB272 (neratinib) for the extended adjuvant treatment of breast cancer (ExteNET Trial). The ExteNET trial is a double-blind, placebo-controlled, Phase III trial of neratinib versus placebo after adjuvant treatment with trastuzumab (Herceptin) in women with early stage HER2-positive breast cancer. More specifically, the ExteNET trial enrolled 2,821 patients in 41 countries with early-stage HER2-positive breast cancer who had undergone surgery and adjuvant treatment with trastuzumab. After completion of adjuvant treatment with trastuzumab, patients were randomized to receive extended adjuvant treatment with either neratinib or placebo for a period of one year. Patients were then followed for recurrent disease, ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), or death for a period of two years after randomization in the trial. The primary endpoint of the trial was disease free survival (DFS). The results of the trial demonstrated that treatment with neratinib resulted in a 33% improvement in disease free survival versus placebo. The hazard ratio was determined to be 0.67 which was statistically significant with a p-value of 0.0046. The secondary endpoint of the trial was disease free survival including ductal carcinoma in situ (DFS-DCIS). The results of the trial demonstrated that treatment with neratinib resulted in a 37% improvement in disease free survival including ductal carcinoma in situ versus placebo. The hazard ratio was determined to be 0.63 which was statistically significant with a p-value of 0.0009. Based on these results from the ExteNET study, Puma plans to file for regulatory approval of neratinib in the extended adjuvant setting in the first half of 2015. Full results of the ExteNET trial for PB272 will be presented at a future scientific meeting “We are very pleased with the results of the ExteNET trial with neratinib. This represents the first trial with a HER2 targeted agent that has shown a statistically significant benefit in the extended adjuvant setting, which we believe provides a meaningful point of differentiation for neratinib in the treatment of HER2 positive breast cancer,” said Alan H. Auerbach, Chief Executive Officer and President. “While the use of trastuzumab in the adjuvant setting has led to a reduction in disease recurrence in patients with early stage HER2-positive breast cancer, there remains an unmet clinical need for further improvement in outcome in order to attempt to further reduce this risk of recurrence. The results of the ExteNET study demonstrate that we may be able to provide this type of improvement with neratinib to further help the patients with this disease. FREE AppDownload
On Wednesday, Yahoo launched a new blogging platform for Wall Streeters. There's only one condition — you have to be at the top of the game. "We’re opening up Yahoo Finance in a scalable way and socializing expert-generated financial content through the awesome powers of Tumblr, bringing on board some of the very smartest minds on the street,” Yahoo Interactive Editor Phil Pearlman said. So think hedge fund managers like Carl Icahn, Chairman of Icahn Enterprises; Jon and Pete Najarian of optionMONSTER; buy-side research site, Estimize; Barry Ritholtz, CIO of Ritholtz Wealth Management; Dragonfly Capital Management President Greg Harmon; Dan Nathan, CNBC contributor and editor of Risk Reversal; and more. The platform is simple, easy to navigate and powered by Tumblr. Here's the page of Ritholtz Wealth Management CEO Josh Brown. It's called The Kindergarten. Yahoo Finance screenshot Every contributor has a Tumblr page that they can update at their leisure. That content is then pulled onto the Yahoo finance page and any platform on which you consume it. Of course, you can also follow specific bloggers on your own Tumblr dashboard. You can check out the full list of contributors here. Yahoo plans to grow it — and you can e-mail a submission to Pearlman at pearlman@yahoo-inc.com — but they only want you if you're an "accomplished and seasoned financial pro." So you better be good. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarWhitney TilsonHedge fund manager Whitney Tilson, who runs Kase Capital, says he has "more confidence" in his Herbalife position following Bill Ackman's latest presentation.  On Tuesday, Ackman presented a 250-plus slide presentation that he had billed as a "death blow" to Herbalife. Ackman has been loudly and publicly short Herbalife for more than 18 months. So far, the short position hasn't played out in Ackman's favor and he's racked up hundreds of millions in paper losses.  On Tuesday, Ackman gave what he called "the most important presentation" of his career. However, shares of Herbalife's stock soared throughout his talk ending the day up 25%. Despite the stock surge, Tilson writes that he's more confident in his short. Before, he thought there was a 63% chance of his position working out. Now he thinks his odds are 76%.  Here's an excerpt via [ValueWalk]:  To be short this stock (as I am), you have to believe two things: 1) That the majority (not all) of this company’s operations are based on a pyramid scheme, false and deceptive marketing, etc.; and 2) That regulators will act to shut the company down or at least seriously rein it in. On these two measures, I have more confidence in this investment now than I did before his presentation. To put rough numbers on it, before today I thought there was a 90% chance #1 was true and a 70% #2 would happen, so that’s a 63% chance of this investment working out. Now I think the odds are 95% and 80%, meaning I think my odds have improved to 76% — so I’m perfectly happy to have a 25% larger short position (which the market took care of today – I didn’t have to do a thing!). The main reason for my increased confidence is that I think Ackman showed convincingly that nutrition clubs (which he estimates account for as much as 50% of Herbalife’s U.S. business and nearly all of its incremental profits) are fundamentally not about genuine consumption of Herbalife products by people pursuing healthy lifestyles and weight loss (as the company would have you believe) but almost entirely by: a) Those pursuing the business opportunity (i.e., building a downline rather than real sales as, for example, Amway, Tupperware and Pampered Chef); and b) Their friends and family who are trying to support them. And, critically, the business opportunity is being sold in a false and deceptive way in which mostly vulnerable, unsophisticated people are promised that if they just work hard and invest their time and money they are likely to become President’s Club members and earn $500,000 annually forever. There is, of course, no disclosure whatsoever about how much time and money the average person invests, the real financial characteristics of the average nutrition club (almost all lose money), and the likelihood of anyone ever earning $1 in revenue, much less breaking even, much less earning enough money to make it worth one’s time, and much less becoming a President’s Club member (approaching 1 in 100,000). In short, Ackman present voluminous evidence that Herbalife is aggressively selling millions of people a promise of the American Dream but is instead giving them the American Nightmare – bleeding them dry and discarding them. This is the very definition of fraud. FREE AppDownload
Oil is the lifeblood of the Russian economy.  The EIA has a chart out this morning showing how dependent Russia's economy is on oil and gas. The data come in the context of new sanctions imposed by the U.S., and threatened by Europe, for Russian muscle-flexing in Ukraine. Russian oil firms have brushed them off for now but their longer term impact is more uncertain. In total, oil and gas comprised 68% of all Russian exports, with crude oil and petroleum products netting them almost four times as much revenue as from natural gas.  In other words, it's pretty easy to know exactly what part of the Russian economy to pinch if you want to get the country's attention. EIA For comparison, here's the U.S. export breakdown. Sixty percent of U.S. exports comprise 122 different items. Fuel or heating oil and petroleum products make up just 8%. Raw crude exports are banned in the U.S.   Rob Wile, data from U.S. Census FREE AppDownload
BIIFifteen months ago, when Apple investors gave up on the stock, I bought it.  Happily, I still own it. I don't think the stock is grossly undervalued anymore, the way it was when it was at $56 ($391 in the old split). On the contrary, I think it's overvalued. But I also think that the iPhone 6 upgrade cycle is going to be monstrous and that, as launch day approaches, the excitement is going to be so great that the stock will surge even higher. I still have long-term concerns about the sustainability of Apple's gargantuan profits (and profit growth), so after the orgasmic iPhone 6 climax, I will likely take a breather. I also recognize that the iPhone 6 launch may already be reflected in the stock price, so I may just be being greedy by hanging on. In any event, here's what I thought about Apple's second quarter results: BII BII So that's what I thought of the quarter. I love Apple's products, I think Tim Cook's doing a good job, and I think the company will be able to maintain its "premium" positioning, but I still think the relentless pressure on global gadget prices will eventually put pressure on its profit margin and profit growth. So I doubt I'll own the stock much longer. But in the meantime, bring on the iPhone 6! SEE ALSO: The iPhone 6 Is Going To Nuke iPad Sales—And That's Great! FREE AppDownload
Chances are you look at your trips to the supermarket as pretty routine events. For grocery store owners, it's anything but routine. They've planned everything out to get you to spend as much as possible. Here's how they do it. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
KCNA KCNA/ReutersEveryone's heard about North Korea, the hermit kingdom that hangs off the east coast of China. Condoleezza Rice called it an "outpost of tyranny." George W. Bush said it was one-third of the "axis of evil." And now James Franco and Seth Rogen are releasing a comedy about it, much to Pyongyang's disapproval. Despite all of that, we really don't know that much about North Korea. But what we do know is rather mindblowing. FREE AppDownload
This chart from Benedict Evans of Andreessen Horowitz has the Apple bulls feeling pretty good this morning. After multiple quarters of margin declines, Apple has stabilized, and even grown its margins.  Benedict Evans "Apple's performance in the margin department was one of the best over the past couple of years relative to our estimates, driven by stronger-than-expected cost improvements and solid product quality," said Brian White of Cantor Fitzgerald. "For example, Apple delivered 3Q:FY14 gross margin of 39.4%, much better than our 38.0% estimate and the company's outlook of 37% to 38%." Katy Huberty at Morgan Stanley says Apple's gross margin was the "highlight" of the quarter, and it "removes the margin bear case." This was one of those problems that dogged Apple. Nobody believed it could maintain its margins. As the margin compressed last year, the stock fell. When the margin falls, do Apple's profits. Clearly, Apple has eliminated the margin concerns. Gene Munster of Piper Jaffray says this will help Apple's stock in the quarters to come. He's expecting further margin compression as the iPhone 6 rolls out.  However, he says, "We believe the strength in gross margin in the June quarter will serve as a reassuring data point for investors as we enter what will likely be a couple quarters of sequential declines in gross margin." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas PeterA man holds a suitcase with the logo of the German lender Deutsche Bank during a protest, September 5, 2013. (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve Bank of New York has found serious problems in Deutsche Bank AG's U.S. operations, including shoddy financial reporting, inadequate auditing and oversight and weak technology, the Wall Street Journal reported. In a letter to the German lender's executives last December, a senior official with the New York Fed described financial reports produced by some of the bank's U.S. arms as "low quality, inaccurate and unreliable," the report said. "The size and breadth of errors strongly suggest that the firm's entire U.S. regulatory reporting structure requires wide-ranging remedial action," the Journal said, quoting documents reviewed by it. (http://on.wsj.com/1r3VIn3) The Dec. 11 letter said the bank had made "no progress" at fixing previously identified problems, WSJ said. Deutsche Bank was not immediately available for comment. This was a "systemic breakdown" and "expose the firm to significant operational risk and misstated regulatory reports," according to the letter from Daniel Muccia, a New York Fed senior vice president responsible for supervising Deutsche Bank. The letter ordered senior Deutsche Bank executives to ensure steps were taken to fix the problems. It also said the bank might have to restate some of the financial data it has submitted to regulators, the Journal reported.   (Reporting by Avik Das in Bangalore; Editing by Joyjeet Das) FREE AppDownload
Carlos Barria/ReutersWhen a Chinese customer asked for the interior of his new Bombardier Challenger 850 jet to be covered with pricey black carbon fibre, the designer was shocked -- but happy to oblige. "We'll do whatever you want, as long as it's within the realm of certification," said Sean Gillespie, executive vice president for sales of Flying Colours, a North American aviation services firm. "But carbon fibre, we've used it before, but usually it's used as a trim." The market for private jets -- sometimes called business or executive jets -- is a small but fast growing aviation segment in China, where rapid economic development has created a surge of new wealth. The first US Gulfstreams only arrived in the country in 2003 but a decade later there were 248 business jets in China, a 28 percent leap on 2012's figure, according to consultancy Asian Sky Group. AFPA bedroom inside of a private jet.Customers include Jack Ma of e-commerce giant Alibaba, in the process of a multi-billion dollar share offer in the United States, and Wang Jianlin of Wanda Group, which bought the US cinema chain AMC. "Buyers can be in their 20s, in their 70s. They can be in real estate, investment, oil and gas. They are from all over China," said Jason Liao, head of consultancy China Business Aviation Group. "There is no typical Chinese buyer," he said. One thing they have in common: tens of millions of dollars available to buy their own planes. European firm Airbus has just started offering an $80 million budget version of its corporate jet in China, with a pre-designed cabin instead of a fully-customized one. They can be swayed by the little details. So Gulfstream has a place for a rice cooker on board, Brazil's Embraer can sync an iPad to adjust lights and climate control and Airbus offers a round table for playing mah-jong. Chinese billionaires' most common destinations are nearby Asian cities such as Hong Kong, Macau and Singapore for gambling and entertainment, but they nonetheless prefer "long range, big cabin" aircraft with the ability to cross the Pacific and bring North America within reach, Airbus and Ledbury Research said in a report. Even so, manufacturers are quick to promote planes as a business tool, rather than a toy of the rich. There are some dark clouds on the horizon for the market: more moderate economic growth and limits on flight paths since most of China's airspace is controlled by the military, along with a lack of infrastructure for private planes. AFPA bathroom is seen in this private aircraft. China has just 286 landing sites suitable for these types of aircraft, according to state media. "There are some challenges with airspace, with airport take-off and landing restrictions," said Scott Neal, senior vice president for sales and marketing at Gulfstream. At the moment, potential buyers are also eager to keep a low profile amid an on-going government austerity campaign and anti-corruption drive launched after Chinese leader Xi Jinping took over as head of the ruling Communist Party at the end of 2012. "If you back up two years ago, this market was really happening very fast and was kind of electric," said Stephen Taylor, president of Boeing Business Jets. "It definitely has been less aggressive and a more subdued market ever since the new administration came in and started pushing against some of the luxury items." Asian Sky's general manager Jeffrey Lowe added: "Maybe not getting into the biggest and flashiest airplane is certainly the best approach these days." AFPBut, he said, "other than that, they still have a definite need for the aircraft and most of them are finding ways to buy". At a recent air show in Shanghai a middle-aged man sat near a Gulfstream display but declined to give his name and attributed his presence to his tall companion, introducing her as a fashion designer. "I only came along because my girlfriend wanted to look at planes," he said. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
The E.U. already imposed sanctions on Russia in March over its stealth invasion and annexation of Crimea, but those lacked teeth. In the week after Russian-backed separatist accidentally shot down Malaysia Flight MH17 on July 17, killing 298 people, some E.U. members have urged much tougher sanctions. But that is unlikely for a number of reasons, including the fact that London is a hotbed for Russian money, and France is in the process of selling Moscow two warships. Further, imposing sanctions requires agreement from all 28 E.U. member states. REUTERS Another key factor is Europe's reliance on Russian gas. Interestingly, several countries that import a significant number of Russian gas are pro-sanctions while others that do not import any Russian gas are still against sanctions.  Nevertheless, there's no collective political will to truly punish Vladimir Putin as long as Russian companies are supplying about 30% of Europe's gas. In fact, Ukraine claims that E.U. energy companies are sending less gas to Ukraine because of threats from Russian state oil giant Gazprom. REUTERS Consequently, Putin remains relatively undeterred, railing against NATO while continuing to train and arm separatists in eastern Ukraine. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alex KuzminUkrainian parliamentary deputies tussle during a session in Parliament in Kiev July 22, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know: Apple Beats On The Bottom Line. Apple reported Q2 earnings jumped 22% year-over-year to $1.28 per share, beating expectations for $1.23. Revenue was a bit light, climbing just 6% to $37.43 billion; analysts were looking for $38 billion. During the quarter, iPhone sales jumped 13% to 35.2 million units, iPad sales fell 9% to 13.3 million units, and Mac sales jumped 18% to 4.4 million units. Apple Huge In China. On the earnings conference call, CEO Tim Cook said iPhone unit sales spiked 48% in China. Cook said China was surprising because its a market that's actually contracting as a whole. Microsoft Blames Nokia. Microsoft reported Q2 revenue of $23.38 billion, which was a bit higher than the $23.01 billion expected. Earnings, however, was disappointing at $0.55 per share; analysts were looking for $0.60. Management blamed its Nokia acquisition for taking $0.08 off the bottom line. Bing! Bing search ad revenue was up a whopping 40%, and Microsoft says it now has 19.2% of the U.S. search market share. Global Chemical Giant Beats. Dow Chemical reported earnings of $0.74 per share, beating expectations for $0.71. Dow is bellwether of global economic activity. "Gains were reported in all operating segments, led by Performance Plastics (up 4 percent) and Electronic and Functional Materials (up 5 percent)," said management. "Agricultural Sciences also increased sales, rising 3 percent in the quarter and achieving a first-half sales record of $4 billion." PepsiCo Beats, But Takes A Swipe At The Economy. Global beverage and snack giant PepsiCo reported Q2 earnings of $1.32 per share, beating expectations for $1.23. Organic revenue grew 3.6% during the quarter. "Despite operating in what continues to be a challenging and volatile macro environment, we are delivering consistent, strong results," said CEO Indra Nooyi. Markets Are Up. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.3%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.5%, and Germany's DAX is up 0.6%. In Asia, Japan closed down 0.1% while Hong Kong's Hang Seng rose 0.8%. U.S. futures are up with Dow futures up 25 points and S&amp;P futures up 3.3 points. On Tuesday, the S&amp;P 500 touched an all-time intraday high of 1,986.24. Demand For Mortgages Pick Up. The MBA Mortgage Applications Index climbed 2.4% last week, driven by a 4.1% jump in refinancings. Purchase applications rose 0.3%. This comes as the average 30-year fixed rate mortgage holds steady at 4.33%. Deutsche Bank's Got Problems, Says Fed. "An examination by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York found that Deutsche Bank AG's giant U.S. operations suffer from a litany of serious financial-reporting problems that the lender has known about for years but not fixed, according to documents reviewed by The Wall Street Journal," reported the WSJ's David Enrich, Jenny Strasburg and Eyk Henning. "In a letter to Deutsche Bank executives in December, a senior official with the New York Fed wrote that reports produced by some of the bank's U.S. arms 'are of low quality, inaccurate and unreliable. The size and breadth of errors strongly suggest that the firm's entire U.S. regulatory reporting structure requires wide-ranging remedial action.'" Chrysler Recall. "Chrysler Group LLC said on Tuesday it is recalling 792,300 older-model Jeep SUVs for ignition switch problems, the second recall of its kind for the No. 3 U.S. automaker this year," reported Reuters Bernie Woodall. "This brings to 1.68 million the number of vehicles Chrysler has recalled for ignition switches that can be bumped out of the "on" position by a driver's knee, which can cause the engine to shut off and disable air bags." FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Joe Camporeale-USA TODAY Sports/ReutersIt’s been a good day on the ASX with the 200 index up 33.41 points or 0.60% to 5,576.70, its highest point since the global financial crisis. That’s a good result but earlier in the day the ASX200 made a run at 5,600 with a high of 5,598.20. Over many months the local market has been grinding higher but today the ASX 200 tested a key level and it seems traders decided to sell. Business Insider spoke to Ric Spooner, Chief Market Analyst at CMC Markets: “It’s a tough grind being an optimist in this market. The fact that sellers came in again at this resistance level reflects the fact that valuations are pretty full and a strong Aussie Dollar is dragging on sentiment.” But Spooner says the next couple of days will be interesting and he thinks the ASX200 is “yet to see a trend peak at this resistance and may still break to the upside”. CMC Markets This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWhirlpool appliance manufacturing plant located in Cleveland(Reuters) - Whirlpool Corp &lt;WHR.N&gt; on Wednesday reported a lower quarterly profit as sales fell in every region except North America. The company also cut its full-year earnings outlook, citing expenses from two pending acquisitions. The world's largest maker of home appliances posted a second-quarter profit of $179 million, or $2.25 a share, down from $198 million, or $2.44 a share, a year earlier. Shares are down 5% in pre-market trading. Whirlpool, which sells its washers and dryers, stoves, and refrigerators under a variety of brand names including Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid and Jenn-Air, said it had sold $4.7 billion in goods during the quarter, unchanged from a year earlier. The Benton Harbor, Michigan-based company said sales gains in North America were offset by weakness in the rest of the world, including Latin America, Europe and Asia.     Whirlpool said it now expected to report full-year net earnings of $10.30 to $10.80 a share, down from a previous forecast range of $11.50 to $12.00. The company said the outlook cut reflected costs associated with its pending acquisitions of majority stakes in Hefei Rongshida Sanyo Electric Co Ltd &lt;600983.SS&gt; and Indesit &lt;IND.MI&gt;.                   (Reporting by James B. Kelleher in Chicago; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA boy ties a yellow ribbon dedicated to the missing and dead passengers of the sunken passenger ship Sewol, on a wire at Seoul City Hall PlazaSUNCHEON/INCHEON South Korea (Reuters) - South Korea's most wanted man, whose heavily decomposed body was found in an orchard last month, had evaded arrest by hiding in an upstairs wall of a wooden cabin, with suitcases of cash at hand, prosecutors said on Wednesday. The body of Yoo Byung-un, 73, wanted in connection with a ferry sinking in April, was only identified this week more than a month after he was found lying next to a copy of a book he had written, empty bottles of alcohol nearby. When prosecutors returned to the cabin last month, acting on testimony given by an assistant, police found two suitcases that between them contained 830 million won ($810,800) and $160,000, prosecutors said. The cabin is on the outskirts of Suncheon, in the south of the country, about two km from the plum orchard where the corpse was found. Yoo headed the family that owned the company that operated the Sewol, a ferry that capsized on April 16 on a journey to the holiday island of Jeju, killing about 300 people, most of them schoolchildren. The disaster triggered grief and outrage across the country - especially when video footage emerged of crew members abandoning ship while the children stayed in their cabins as instructed. Yoo had managed to evade the country's largest manhunt in what had become a political headache for President Park Geun-hye, whose government came under heavy criticism for its handling of the disaster. On Tuesday, police said a badly decomposed body found on June 12 by a farmer in the orchard had been identified with DNA and fingerprint evidence as Yoo. Police said that beside the body was a book written by Yoo, along with an empty bottle of a shark-liver-oil health tonic, made by a Yoo family company, and empty bottles of alcohol nearby. The police chief in charge of the case was sacked on Tuesday for not recognizing the book, or putting two and two together, and for not identifying the corpse earlier. ($1 = 1025 won)   (Writing by Tony Munroe; Editing by Nick Macfie) FREE AppDownload
USPTOAt the final AllThingsD conference last May, Apple CEO Tim Cook said he saw wearables as “a very key branch of the tree,” adding “I think the wrist is interesting. The wrist is natural.” Since then, there’s been a flurry of rumors about what Apple’s potential smartwatch might look like or do, but nobody really knows for sure. However, a new patent published by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (via PatentlyApple and AppleInsider), which describes an electronic device called “iTime,” might offer some hints at what we’ll see when the iWatch launches later this year. Following in line with previous reports, the iTime patent — filed to the USPTO in 2011 but published on Tuesday — describes a wrist device that can connect with other Apple portables like iPhones and iPads. But while many are expecting a smart watch, much of this patent describes an advanced wristband system, where a “central electronic device” is “removably secured” to the wrist strap. This might mean the iWatch’s display could be removed at any given time, similar to the way the sixth-generation iPod nano could act as a wristwatch. (The patent, as AppleInsider notes, even mentions the iPod nano by name.) USPTOAccording to the patent, the watch’s straps would contain most of the sensors and other circuitry needed to bolster performance of the device, including accelerometers, WiFi and cellular packages, GPS modules, and haptic feedback mechanisms. But the wristband would also be able to interact with what Apple describes as a “personal wireless environment,” which allows the device to exchange information with nearby cellular- or internet-connected devices like iDevices and Mac computers. One embodiment of the patent shows how the watch could receive notifications from a nearby phone, and then alert the user with some form of audio, visual or haptic feedback, which would likely be a wrist vibration. At that point, the notification can be addressed directly on the watch by interacting with the display or through audio feedback via a set of headphones or “system speakers,” meaning the iWatch may come with a built-in microphone. USPTO The wristband, according to the patent, can also tell the user when it’s out of range with one’s iPhone, which is likely accomplished with Bluetooth 4.0, though the patent does not mention that particular technology. In another embodiment of the iTime patent, the wristband wouldn’t need to connect with any additional devices, as the display would provide all of the additional components needed to sense and communicate with the environment. USPTO The end of the patent describes potential smartwatch gestures, where one could control their iWatch by shaking, bouncing, or tapping. One may also assign a combination of those gestures to control certain actions on the device. For example, one could shake their wrist once to answer a phone call, or shake twice and tap once to decline the call. The patent credits Albert Golko, Mathias Schmidt and Felix Alvarez as the inventors. Two of those three authors — Schmidt and Alvarez — currently work for Google (Schmidt works as a product designer for Nest Labs, which is owned by Google). The third author, Golko, works within Apple’s product development team for the iPod and iPhone. Another Apple patent published last February described a flexible display that conforms to one’s wrist, similar to a “slap bracelet,” consisting of “layered flexible steel bands sealed within a fabric cover.” That patent also described the device's ability to communicate with mobile devices, even at a basic level, and solar panels — known as “ambient light collectors” — on the watch to boost the device’s battery life. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA member of the Kurdish security forces takes up position with his weapon as he guards a section of an oil refinery, which is being brought on a truck to Kalak refinery in the outskirts of ArbilBAGHDAD (Reuters) - Islamic State militants seized four small oilfields when they swept through north Iraq last month and are now selling crude oil and gasoline from them to finance their newly declared "caliphate". Near the northern city of Mosul, the Islamic State has taken over the Najma and Qayara fields, while further south near Tikrit it overran the Himreen and Ajil fields during its two-day sweep through northern Iraq in mid-June. The oilfields in Islamic State hands are modest compared to Iraq's giant fields near Kirkuk and Basra, which are under Kurdish and central government control. Most of the Islamic State-held oil wells - estimated by a Kurdish official to number around 80 - are sealed and not pumping. But the monopoly over fuel in the territory it has captured gives the Islamic State leverage over other armed Sunni factions who could threaten its dominance in northern Iraq. Iraqi officials say that in recent weeks the group has transported oil from Qayara to be processed by mobile refineries in Syria into low quality gasoil and gasoline, then brought back for sale in Mosul, a city of 2 million people. Larger shipments of crude, some of them from Najma, are also sold via smugglers to Turkish traders at vastly discounted prices of around $25 per barrel, they said. "We have confirmed reports showing that the Islamic State is shipping crude from Najma oilfield in Mosul into Syria to smuggle it to one of Syria's neighbors," said Husham al-Brefkani, head of Mosul provincial council's energy committee. "The Islamic State is making multi-million dollar profits from this illegal trade." Petrol stations in Mosul are now selling fuel supplied by traders working with the Islamic State, which charges either $1.0 or $1.5 a liter depending on quality - a huge increase on previous prices, one petrol station owner in the city said. "The fuel is brought from Syria ... It’s triple the price before, but drivers have to buy it because subsidized government fuel was halted," he said. Brefkani said the Islamic State was the sole sponsor of the imports from Syria, where the group also controls oilfields in the Syrian province of Deir al-Zor. "They use part of it for their vehicles and sell the rest to their traders in Mosul." Najma and Qayara had been operated by Angola's state-owned firm Sonangol, but it pulled out last year declaring force majeure amid rising development costs and security concerns over Sunni militants in the area, even before last month's assault. Qayara, which has estimated reserves of 800 million barrels, had been producing 7,000 barrels per day of heavy crude before the Islamic State took over the field and a nearby 16,000 bpd refinery. Qayara refinery and second smaller plant at Kasak, northwest of Mosul, stopped operating when staff fled. But Qayara oilfield itself has kept pumping after the militants asked Iraqi employees to stay at their posts, promising to protect them - as they have done at most oil facilities in order to maintain production. Iraqi official gave the example of the battle to seize Baiji refinery in the north, Iraq’s largest, where the Islamic States and other insurgents have been trying since mid-June to control the site without damaging its facilities. "(The Islamic State) were keen to keep energy installations inside Qayara intact. We did not realize why they did not destroy facilities, but a week later they started to fill the trucks with Qayara crude. They were planning from the beginning to profiteer the field," said an engineer who works at Qayara, speaking on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals. Iraqi government sources said it was hard to assess how much money the group makes from selling crude or the fuel refined in Syria as the number of trucks fluctuates daily. One source said that a separate - and now terminated - smuggling operation into the Kurdish enclave and into Iran generated nearly $1 million a day earlier this month. One dealer and shipping company owner in Mosul said he buys 250-barrel truckloads of crude from the militants for $6,000. "The next step depends on our cunning in dealing with the Turkish traders," he said.    As another revenue earner, the Islamic militant group levies taxes on all vehicles and trucks bringing goods into Mosul. A large truck must pay $400, while small trucks are charged $100 and cars $50 if they are also carrying goods. Ahmed Younis, a Baghdad expert on armed groups, said the Islamists were in effect establishing an economic state based on the increasing resources and infrastructure under their command. Considering its spread across the Syria-Iraq border, its grip over oilfields there and its growing economic activity, the Islamic State will "transform into an economic giant with assets of billions of dollars," he said. "In future, will they buy shares in NYMEX? Everything is possible," Younis said. Further south Islamic State fighters control another two oilfields east of Tikrit, home town of Saddam Hussein. One of them, Ajil, produced 25,000 bpd of crude that were shipped to the Kirkuk refinery and 150 million cubic feet of gas per day piped to the government-controlled Kirkuk power station. The gas is still pumped - albeit at lower volume of about 100 million cubic feet daily - because, according to energy experts, Kirkuk power station supplies many towns in the region and the militants want to avoid energy shortages. The militants are moving only small amounts of oil from Ajil because of fears that their primitive extraction techniques could ignite the gas, according to an engineer at the site. The other small oilfield captured by the Islamic State is Himreen, with a capacity of 5,000-6,000 barrels per day from five operating oil wells. "The militants brought technicians from outside Tikrit to deal with crude from Himreen and they started to dig up craters and siphon crude out of the wells using small water irrigation pumps," said an oil ministry employee working at the field. An Iraqi security official said trucks used to smuggle crude from Ajil and Himreen into Iraqi Kurdistan and Iran. Kurdish peshmerga forces used to turn a blind eye. But Iraqi national security forces as well as the peshmerga began to halt the trade on July 12, he said. The army used helicopters to bomb trucks heading east from Tikrit, while Kurdish security forces seized trucks with smuggled crude crossing into territories under their control. "We have managed to destroy more than 50 trucks as of July 12," Iraqi counter-terrorism spokesman Sabah Nouri said. "Our helicopter strikes hit the smuggling process hard and cut a vital source of finance to the terrorists." An oil ministry adviser estimated that in the first two weeks of July, before the operation was halted, the Islamic State made around $10 million - nearly $1 million a day. The mayor of Tuz Khuramto, a town on the route between Tikrit, the Kurdish enclave and Iran, said the smuggling route had been shut down 10 days ago. "Before that, between 30 to 60 trucks moved into the Kurdish region, but now we can say number is zero," Shallal Abdul said.  (Additional reporting by Isabel Coles in Arbil and a reporter in Tikrit whose name is withheld for security reasons; Editing by Dominic Evans and Giles Elgood) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/James MitchellSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Apple Inc's iPad is losing steam just four years after its release, but an alliance with International Business Machines Corp could rejuvenate a flagging product by entering into a largely untapped corporate market. Apple shipped 13.2 million iPads in the June quarter, 8 percent fewer than a year earlier and lagging Wall Street's forecast for 14 million or more. Sales of the device, which accounted for 15 percent of revenue, fell short of Wall Street's expectations for the second quarter in a row. Apple helped create the tablet market in 2010 with its first iPad. But growth has plummeted from 2012, as larger phones became more popular and people delayed replacing their tablets. And it is ceding market to mostly cheaper Android offerings from Samsung Electronics Co Ltd and Chinese manufacturers using Google Inc software. Chief Executive Officer Tim Cook described iPad sales as "very bifurcated" - they continue to grow at 50 percent or above in emerging markets such as the Middle East and China, but in developed countries like the United States, the "market is weaker." Research firm IDC lowered its forecast for 2014 worldwide tablet demand growth to 12.1 percent - a fraction of the 51.8 percent expansion of 2013. The first quarter of this year also saw Apple’s market share slide to 32.5 percent, from 40 percent a year earlier. "The tablet market globally has really hit a wall," said Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Brian White. Another threat to iPad sales may come from within. Apple is expected to introduce a larger 5.5-inch (14.0-cm) iPhone in the fall. At those dimensions, the iPhone would begin closing in on the 7.8-inch (19.8-cm) iPad mini. “You have the negative impact of the larger screen iPhone and what that would do to iPad mini,” said Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster. “You’re going to get a larger screen iPhone before you’ll get contributions from the IBM partnership.” Investors hope the partnership with IBM announced this month will help bolster sales in the largest global enterprises, which could provide a boon to U.S. tablet sales. Cook cited IDC figures showing that iPad penetration among businesses stood at about 20 percent, versus 60 percent for notebook computers. Analysts say the alliance, in which the two companies will work on a suite of secure business apps, may take years to show up in the bottom line. But they see potential in marrying IBM's business-software expertise with Apple's hardware and services. "I do believe Apple can leverage IBM's channel," said White. Growth areas include the retail sector, where employees may increasingly use tablets for inventory management, as well as financial services, and transportation, he said. Other promising sectors included education and healthcare. "We see the importance of the customer ... and both feel that mobile and enterprise is just an enormous opportunity," Cook, a former IBM executive himself, said on a conference call. "And we're not competing with each other so a partnership in that case is particularly great." (Reporting by Christina Farr and Edwin Chan; Editing by Mohammad Zargham) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiAn employee of a foreign exchange trading company walks past a monitor showing Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko, as other monitors displaying the Nikkei share average (top), the exchange rates between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar (L) and the yen against the euro (R), in Tokyo July 18, 2014.LONDON (Reuters) - Like so much in the investment world of late, it's what financial markets are not doing right now that is most intriguing. Over the course of the past month, conflicts, superpower standoffs and economic sanctions have flared in Iraq and Syria, Israel and Gaza, Ukraine and Russia. All are at least potential threats to world energy supplies, if not globalized business links and supply chains. What's more, a September referendum looms on the potential breakup of the world's sixth largest economy as Scots vote on secession from the rest of the United Kingdom. Yet the world's main financial markets have barely blinked. Crude oil prices gyrated briefly on the upsurge in the Iraq/Syria violence but net moves have been slight to non-existent. At around $108 per barrel, Brent crude is roughly where it was at the start of this year - and where it started last year and even the year before that. In the face of all this seeming uncertainty, energy price volatility has in fact sunk to its lowest on record. For some, energy prices moved to discount this more economically integrated but less politically stable globe more than 10 years ago, when they quadrupled in the early 2000s. And the persistence of $100 plus per barrel oil in itself reflects that more fragile state of affairs. Little of what's happened this year will have materially altered that picture beyond a relatively small $1 or $2 pop in futures markets premia for near-term supply disruptions. For all that strategists puzzle over the lack of price reaction to last week's downing of a Malaysian airliner over Ukraine, many acknowledge that recent history does not support a view of either spiraling conflict or direct links between political violence and lasting market or economic fallout. "In my mind, the market is not assigning a high enough probability of this situation escalating to uncomfortable levels but the reality is the most likely outcome is that it doesn't," said Deutsche Bank's Jim Reid. Even if western sanctions on Russia - the world's eighth largest economy - are ratcheted up and Russian markets are as exposed as their near 10 percent drop over the past 10 days suggests, investors know that seeing through periodic spikes in political tensions would have paid off time and again. "Russia has oil and gas; it is inconceivable that the West will take any meaningful macro sanctions that would endanger the supply of Russian energy to Europe," said Jim Wood-Smith at Hawksmoor Investment Management. "So there will be all the usual huffing and puffing ... with politicians all hoping everything will have calmed down in a few months." That may sound too relaxed or even complacent given the stakes at hand. But if wars, coups and conflicts in energy-critical hotspots can't even excite oil prices for more than a few days, then it's hard to see how the wider economic and financial universe would be materially affected. "The simplest way to measure geopolitical risk is to look at the price of energy. Energy is everything for the macro economist," said Steen Jakobsen, chief economist at Saxo Bank. The reaction on world equity markets would appear to confirm that. For all the short-term wobbles, world equity indices &lt;.MIWD00000PUS&gt; are up 0.6 percent for July and 5.6 percent in the black for the year. As for any dash to "safe" assets such as U.S. Treasury bonds, dollars, gold or Swiss francs, 10-year T-bond yields are down 3 basis points this month but those on two-year paper are up by the same. The dollar has strengthened 1 percent in July, but gold and Swiss francs have fallen almost as much. But what of other transmission mechanisms from international conflict to the real economy? One potential route would be business or consumer anxiety that crimped spending, hiring or investment due to lack of visibility on demand or job security. Surveys measuring sentiment will not yet have captured the period since flight MH17 was shot down but there was already a marginal ebbing of euro zone economic sentiment in June from three-year highs. Some economists point to soft manufacturing data across Europe in May as partly a function of the Russia/Ukraine standoff and the western sanctions imposed on Russian companies after Moscow's annexation of Crimea in March and its subsequent support for separatists in eastern Ukraine. Europe's dependency on Russian gas, the large relative exposure of German and European companies to the Russian economy and the already fragile state of many euro zone economies does mark it out as a likely underperformer. That's been borne out by a breakdown in correlation since early July between the Euro STOXX 50 &lt;.STOXX50E&gt; index of euro zone blue chips and the 4 percentage point outperformance of the Dow Jones Industrial Average &lt;.DJI&gt;. But while Russia's already ailing economy and specific western European companies and sectors may be in the firing line, any reading of the global economic disturbance pales in comparison to the weather-related shock of a first-quarter U.S. economic contraction, for example. That's certainly true as long as oil prices remain unimpressed. Investors will most likely choose to see through sometimes shocking events to more mundane but dominant drivers such as the - currently distorted - U.S. interest rate cycle, and when those rock-bottom interest rates will start to rise. While that's unlikely to be this year, it's only the volatility associated with that event that would finally see geopolitics and energy prices amplified to the point of impact. (Editing by Catherine Evans) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Olivia Harris People wait to place flowers at a vigil for victims of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 in Kuala Lumpur July 22, 2014. Hello! Here's what people will be taking about on Wednesday. 1. Airlines in the United States and Europe, including American Airlines and Air Berlin, have suspended flights to and from Tel Aviv over concerns related to rocket strikes near the airport. The FAA is operating with caution to protect the safety of its passengers, even though Israeli officials maintain that the airport is safe.  2. Investigators say the crash site of the downed Malaysia airlines plane has been "significantly altered." Michael Bociurkiw, a spokesman for the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, told ABC News that "major pieces of the front of the plane appear to have been cut away." 3. International efforts to end the fighting between Israel and Hamas in Gaza continues, while Israel says one of its Israeli soldiers has gone missing. Capturing an Israeli military official can have a more "powerful impact on Israeli society" than even death, The New York Times explains. "Hamas has recognized the pull such incidents have over the Israeli psyche and clearly has moved to grab hostages," the Times adds.  4. A national day of mourning is being held in the Netherlands on Wednesday for the 193 Dutch victims of the Malaysia airlines plane crash, Prime Minister Mark Rutte said in a statement. The first bodies recovered from the crash are being flown to the country on Wednesday.  5. Russian oligarchs are moving their money out of London in anticipation of economic sanctions, the Telegraph reports. The move to punish Vladimir Putin's "cronies" follows the downing of the Malaysia passenger jet over eastern Ukraine.  6. The U.K. government will hold a public inquiry into the death of Alexander Litvinenko, a former KBG spy who was poisoned at a London hotel in 2006 after drinking tea laced with polonium-210. Litvinenko was meeting with two Russian men at the time, but both have denied involvement in his death, the BBC says.  7. Herbalife shares soared as hedge fund manager Bill Ackman delivered "the most important presentation of his career" on the nutritional supplement company, which he claims is a fraud. Ackman has spent $50 million trying to prove that Herbalife is running an illegal pyramid scheme.  8. The U.S. patent office awarded Apple a patent for an electronic wristwatch. The so-called iTimes patent describes a smartwatch-like device that attaches to the wrist and can communicate with other Apple portables, like the iPhone or iPad.  9. Typhoon Matmo made landfall on the east coast of Taiwan on Tuesday and is expected to moved toward China on Wednesday. The storm comes just a week after Typhoon Rammasun slammed southern China, leaving at least 100 dead. 10. Officials said five people are being held in an investigation into the Shanghai factory that allegedly supplied expired meat to several foreign fast food brands in China, including McDonald's and KFC.  And finally... Authorities are looking into who raised two giant white flags on the Brooklyn Bridge on Tuesday, briefly replacing the two American flags that normally fly there. "I'm not particularly happy about the event," police commissioner William Bratton said, according to the BBC.  FREE AppDownload
