Wikimedia CommonsIs anyone trading? Not really. Except HFT players and corporate CFOs executing the buybacks that generate their compensation packages. You got a 7%+ gain in the S&amp;P this year on basically nothing and for no reason other than float-shrink initiatives that have zero to do with fundamentals. For every Disney, a company that is truly killing it right now, there are a dozen stagnant names masking slowing growth with a smaller overall pie to spread profits across. If IBM and McDonalds were trading on the actual condition of their respective businesses, the Dow would be 500 to 1000 points lower. But they’re not, and this is why short-term price predictions based on fundamental research are moronic, generally speaking. Because this is not at all unusual. Distortions based on non-fundamental factors are a permanent feature of both bull and bear markets. 1 +1 doesn’t equal 2 in the short run. Back to Buybackpalooza… Wall Street Journal (emphasis mine): Corporations bought back $338.3 billion of stock in the first half of the year, the most for any six-month period since 2007, according to research firm Birinyi Associates. Through August, 740 firms have authorized repurchase programs, the most since 2008. The growth in buybacks comes as overall stock-market volume has slumped, helping magnify the impact of repurchases. In mid-August, about 25% of nonelectronic trades executed at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., excluding the small, automated, rapid-fire trades that have come to dominate the market, involved companies buying back shares. According to Barclays, companies in the second quarter spent 31% of their cash flow on buybacks, the most since 2008 and up from 14% at the end of 2009. At the end of the second quarter, nonfinancial companies in the S&amp;P 500 index held $1.35 trillion of cash, down from a record of $1.41 trillion at the end of last year, according to FactSet. LOL. If no one’s in, then theoretically whatever sell-off may come should do very little damage to the real economy. Comforting, a little. Source: Companies’ Stock Buybacks Help Buoy the Market (WSJ) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidRepresentatives from Alibaba Group Holding arrive for the company's roadshow meeting in New York September 8, 2014. Good morning! Let’s start Tuesday… 1. Alibaba, the giant Chinese online marketplace, is already making market waves. The company goes public on Friday and overnight it increased its pricing range for stock to $US66-68, which would raise around $21.4 billion and value the company at just over $165 billion. And get this: it may even be moving the market already. The Nasdaq shed more than 1% overnight while the other bourses were flat, and one of the theories is that brokers are selling out of competing stocks and clearing room in their portfolios for Alibaba. 2. Edward Snowden has waded into the New Zealand election. Days from the country going to the polls, New Zealand Prime Minister John Key is fighting allegations he was planning to conduct mass domestic surveillance in league with the US last year. Snowden told US journalist Glenn Greenwald of a project dubbed “Speargun” which saw an undersea cable between the US and NZ tapped and an alleged planned move by Key’s center-right government to exploit amended spying laws to sharply widen domestic spying. Key has denied the claims. 3. To the markets and while the Nasdaq lost just over 1%, possibly from the Alibaba factor mentioned above, the other main US bourses were largely flat – the Dow closed up 0.2% and the S&amp;P shed 0.1%. It’s a light data calendar in Asia today but the Federal Reserve’s FOMC starts its latest two-day meeting on Tuesday in the US, and the outcome of that – and any guidance on the taper or rates – will be the focus of global markets toward the back end of the week. We get ANZ consumer confidence in Australia at 9.30am AEST. ASX futures are up a tiny two points ahead of the start of trade in Australia. 4. The VC industry in Australia can struggle with its reputation among entrepreneurs, who feel like they’re small fish in a big pond and will be pressured into making a quick buck once money is thrown at a project. One US entrepreneur, Grace Choi – who has an exciting startup for 3D printing of makeup – has some views that would sound familiar to a lot of entrepreneurs and (dare you say it) investors in Australia. She won’t meet a VC again because, she says, she has ended up in shouting matches with some over the future direction of the company and finds they’re too rushed. Now yes it’s familiar, but VCs can make things happen and there are few solid people in the community in Australia too. Entrenched views aren’t going to help either side. 5. The count for the Scottish referendum will unfold during the Friday workday here in Australia. There’ll likely be some exit polls to wake up to in the Asian time zone. But Credit Suisse has also put together this handy schedule of when different districts will declare their results – and how significant each will be to the Yes movement. The first results are expected 2am local time, so 11am AEST. 6. The hated Employee Share Scheme is about to be dumped. It was  flagged last monthbut the Abbott government is reportedly putting the finishing touches on the changes which will put an end to staff in startups having to pay up-front taxes on shares issued to them by management, something that has killed one of the key incentives for people to join new enterprises. 7. There’s lots of hate for the Apple Watch. A former Apple designer says it looks like it was “designed by committee”, one of the worst things you can say in the industry. And UBS thinks the Watch is bogged down with too many features – they say Apple should focus on a couple of key benefits. 8. The Chinese street for people using their mobile phones. This is Foreigner Street in Chongqing, China, which has been segregated off so that people can continue to amble along safely staring at their phones while other traffic zooms past. There’s a good case for these on Bridge Street in Sydney… 9. What great leaders don’t say. From “Don’t bring me any bad news” to “Failure is not an option”, here are 10 phrases you’ll never hear from the most successful leaders. 10. Are we all aliens? On or about November 11, a space probe called Rosetta will complete a 10-year mission to land on a comet. When the comet – nicknamed “Pitbull” – gets close enough to the sun so Rosetta’s solar array can power up, a lander will detach, fire two harpoons into the surface and anchor itself. Then the drilling and photography begins, as scientists at the European Space Agency search for the elements which could validate a theory that life on Earth was seeded by a comet collision. And you thought your KPIs were tough… This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Charles Schwab27-Year Dollar ChartLately, the US dollar has been on a tear, thanks to an improving economy and a Federal Reserve expected to soon normalize loose monetary policy. A stronger dollar makes exported US goods more expensive to overseas buyers in the global market. Furthermore, money earned by multinational corporations overseas loses value when it gets converted to dollars. With the economy becoming increasingly globalized, some fear that a stronger dollar is bad news for US stocks. But the story isn't that simple. Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders identified some benefits of a stronger dollar (verbatim): So, there are tradeoffs. "In general, a stronger dollar is likely to be both an economic and market positive," Sonders argues. Regarding stocks, Sonders pointed to historical data provided by FactSet. As you can see, stocks typically do better during dollar bull markets than dollar bear markets. Then again, it's also worth noting that stocks, on average, went up during the dollar bear markets too. Charles Schwab FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn employee walks behind the logo of BNP Paribas in a company's building in Issy-les-Moulineaux, near Paris(Reuters) - Two senior BNP Paribas energy traders in New York have left, but the Paris-based bank said on Monday it was not downsizing its U.S. commodity and energy businesses. Keith Shoemaker, managing director of North American natural gas trading, and William Hartz, head of financial oil trading, have resigned, BNP Paribas' head of commodity derivatives Catherine Flax told Reuters. She did not give a reason for their departures. Shoemaker, who had been with BNP Paribas for six years, is a veteran energy trader who has held senior positions at J.P. Morgan &lt;jpm.n&gt;, Sempra Energy, Phibro, Louis Dreyfus and Mobil, among others, according to his LinkedIn page. Hartz joined BNP Paribas in 2005 from Bank of America, where he managed the petroleum trading book, according to a profile of him by Risk.Net magazine. Energy news website Sparkspread was the first to report on Monday that the two had quit. The report also cited the August resignation of Dora Sung, BNP Paribas' head of commodities trading for the Americas, and the earlier departures of two other senior commodity team members, including Marc Fontaine, former head of commodity derivatives. BNP Paribas' Flax said the report gave the impression that the bank was downsizing its commodities and energy desk in New York, but noted "that's not the case at all". "For sure, we're expanding and we're in a growth mode. There are a number of ways to expand the business and that includes adding clients and adding personnel," she said, without elaborating. A source at BNP Paribas said Sung retired after more than a two-decade career at the bank. Fontaine's LinkedIn page said he quit in 2013.   (Reporting by Barani Krishnan; Editing by Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
jasonwoodhead23/flickrCalpers — the California Public Employees’ Retirement System — has announced that it will completely divest itself from hedge funds, taking $4 billion out of the game, says Bloomberg.  Interim Chief Investment Officer Ted Eliopoulossaid that the problem is not that the 24 hedge funds and 6 fund of funds Calpers was invested in did/do not perform well. The problem is that they are simply too expensive and complex. Calpers paid $135 million in fees to hedge funds during the last fiscal year. Hedge fund investments earned the pension 7.1% during that time period (overall the pension returned over 18%). As the fifth largest pension fund in the world, and the largest in the United States with about $300 billion in assets. It wouldn't be out of this world to think other pension funds and institutional investors may follow in Calpers' footsteps. It shrank its hedge fund investments by 40% earlier this year citing the same concerns. At that point, a Calpers representative said that the fund was going to start taking a more "back to basics" approach to investing. That means Wall Street firms like Och-Ziff Capital Management, Bain Capital, Rock Creek Group LLC and Pacific Alternative Asset Management Co. will see some money fly out the door. Check out Calpers' full press release below: CalPERS Eliminates Hedge Fund Program in Effort to Reduce Complexity and Costs in Investment PortfolioDecision not based on performance of program SACRAMENTO, CA – The California Public Employees’ Retirement System (CalPERS) today announced that it will eliminate its hedge fund program, known internally as the Absolute Return Strategies (ARS) program, as part of an ongoing effort to reduce complexity and costs in its investment program.  The staff recommendation, supported by the Investment Committee, will exit 24 hedge funds and six hedge fund-of-funds valued at approximately $4 billion.  “We are always examining the portfolio to ensure that we are efficiently and cost-effectively achieving our risk-adjusted return goals,” said Ted Eliopoulos, CalPERS Interim Chief Investment Officer. “Hedge funds are certainly a viable strategy for some, but at the end of the day, when judged against their complexity, cost, and the lack of ability to scale at CalPERS’ size, the ARS program doesn’t merit a continued role.”  Following the 2008 global financial crisis, CalPERS began examining ways to ensure it was less susceptible to future large drawdowns. The System restructured its investment operations, improved its internal oversight and control functions, and refocused some of its investment programs. In February 2014, the CalPERS Board adopted a new asset allocation mix that reduces risk to the portfolio, while still being able to achieve its return goal of 7.5 percent. CalPERS earned 18.4 percent during the 2013-14 Fiscal Year and has averaged a 12.5 percent return for the past five years and an 8.4 percent return for the past 20 years.  In September 2013, the CalPERS Board adopted a set of Investment Beliefs to inform the strategic decision making of the System. Investment Belief 7 states that “CalPERS will take risk only where we have a strong belief we will be rewarded for it.” Investment Belief 8 notes that “Costs matter and need to be effectively managed.”  “The Investment Beliefs exist to provide a compass for the System’s work to achieve its strategic goals,” said Henry Jones, CalPERS Board Member and Chair of the Investment Committee. “While certainly a complex issue, when applied to this decision, the Beliefs have served their purpose.”  CalPERS will spend approximately the next year strategically exiting current investments in a manner that best serves the interests of the portfolio. Existing ARS staff will be reassigned within the Investment Office.  “The staff dedicated to our program have worked diligently and we will ensure that their talent can continue to help CalPERS meet its investment objectives,” said Eliopolous.  CalPERS is the largest public pension fund in the U.S., with approximately $300 billion in assets. CalPERS administers health and retirement benefits on behalf of 3,090 public school, local agency, and state employers. There are more than 1.6 million members in the CalPERS retirement system and more than 1.3 million in its health plans. For more information about CalPERS, visit www.CalPERS.ca.gov.   FREE AppDownload
Nuveen Asset ManagementBob DollFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Economic Expansion And Bull Market Aren't Over Yet (Nuveen Investments) This week during the FOMC meeting, the Fed is expected to "drop the phrase 'considerable time' when discussing how long it intends to keep the fed funds rate anchored at zero", according to Bob Doll. This decision will give the Fed more flexibility in its approach to monetary policy, and many now believe that the Fed will begin increasing rates next year. "Typically, economic expansions and bull markets come to an end when inflation pressures are building, which cause the Fed to begin tightening monetary policy in an effort to curb growth. We are expecting the central bank to begin gradually tightening next year, but this move would not come as a result of higher inflation, but rather as an acknowledgment of improved growth," according to Doll. In other words, the economic expansion and the bull market run aren't over yet. There will be "episodes of volatility and periodic equity market setbacks" but overall, the economic backdrop remains "supportive of economic and earnings growth" — which will lead to rising equity prices. On the flip side, the ECB is "still ramping up its easing policies" and Nuveen Investments anticipates that the Bank of Japan will "engage in additional easing measures as well." Nuveen attributes the US's differing stance as the primary reason why the US dollar has experienced "notable appreciation over the last few months", while the eurozone and Japan are still struggling. Advisers Need To Focus On Clients' Wealth Preservation Because Retirement Isn't The End Goal Anymore (Investment News) "For decades, the financial services industry has positioned retirement as the ultimate goal, the end game. Today we're discovering that retirement is just another life event, like a 'graduation' from work," wrote Jan Blakeley Holman, director of advisor education for Thornburg Investments, in a series of articles for advisers. Prior to a client's retirement, advisers must focus on helping him/her accumulate wealth. Afterwards, they need to help  operate the more complicated part of wealth management: namely, the preservation and distribution of accumulated money during retirement. In order to help navigate a client's post-retirement finances, advisers need to take into consideration a client's household income, sources of income, desired lifestyle, and health considerations, among others. Such factors will analyze what a client's financial future could look like. Additionally, "rather than generate predictions about a portfolios probability of success or failure, financial services firms should focus on answering specific questions about how much clients can spend in retirement and how they should alter their investment strategies to accomodate their needs." Financial Advising Firms Are Starting To Hire Younger Recruits Because Veteran Advisers Are Nearing Retirement Age (Wall Street Journal) In the past, big brokerage firms "typically steered clear of the student set and sought out recruits who weren't so young," according to the WSJ's Corrie Driebusch. But now, many veteran advisers are "nearing or at retirement age" and there's been a shortage of talent to replace them. As a result, firms such as Merrill Lynch have started to offer internship programs to college students. Additionally, colleges have started financial planning programs where students work with the Certified Financial Planner Board of Standard, Inc. to "provide students with the education requirement for the group's financial planner certification." However, there's a problem. Only about one-third of students "who graduated from a college program that prepares them for the CFP certification actually choose to sit for the CFP exam" and programs have noticed a recent decrease in enrollment. Only approximately 50% of students get a passing grade, which is definitely a contributing factor to why less and less are taking the courses..  Scottish Independence Could Lead To A Falling Pound, And Your UK Investments May Be Impacted (Morningstar) The possibility of Scottish independence is worth paying attention to, according to Josh Peters. Right now, we're already seeing an immediate impact from the vote: the British pound is dropping relative to the dollar, which is "a reversal of a trend that's been in place here for a while." For those invested in British stocks, you're looking at a short-term loss of value in dollar terms. That's because the price of the stock of British companies is effectively set on the LSE. Although it's always difficult to predict currency trends, this trend could potentially continue. In the past, Britain's economy is better than continental Europe's, and it has "had the advantage of performing a lot better". But if Scotland votes yes, "you may see a period where the pound is no longer going up but maybe going sideways or going down," which will impact UK investments. Global Real Estate Stocks Are A Way Better Choice Than REITs (AllianceBernstein) US Real Estate Stocks (REITs) "have been strong performers since the global financial criticism" according to AllianceBernstein's Eric Franco. The stock index has nearly quadrupled since March 2009, and has outpaced global property stocks and the broader US market. "But although the US property market fundamentals remain quite healthy, the valuation of US REITs isn't nearly as attractive as a few years ago — even when compared with government bonds." On the flip side, non-US real estate stocks look relatively attractive. While the cash-flow yield for US real estate stocks versus the 10-year Treasury is now "only slightly above its long-term average", while the cash-flow yield for non-US real estate stocks relative to a composite 10-year sovereign bonds remains "well above its long-term average." Additionally, "non-US real estate stocks prices have recently been less sensitive to changes in sovereign yields." On the flip side, US REITs have "reliably" outperformed the S&amp;P500 when Treasury rates declined and have "reliably" underperformed when rates rise. Finally, non-US REITS are also exposed to diverse interest-rate environments. Places like Japan, Australia, and Europe are "unlikely" to see rising interest rates anytime soon.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile of a Tesla S electric car and a charging station are displayed during the press preview day of the North American International Auto Show in DetroitBy Jonathan Stempel (Reuters) - Massachusetts' highest court on Monday threw out a lawsuit seeking to block Tesla Motors Inc  from selling its luxury electric cars directly to consumers in the state, enabling it to bypass traditional dealerships. The state's Supreme Judicial Court unanimously concluded that the Massachusetts State Automobile Dealers Association and two dealers lacked standing to block direct Tesla sales under a state law designed to protect franchise owners from abuses by car manufacturers. Justice Margot Botsford wrote that the law was aimed at protecting dealers from unfair practices of manufacturers and distributors "with which they are associated, generally in a franchise relationship," rather than unaffiliated manufacturers. The law "was intended and understood only to prohibit manufacturer-owned dealerships when, unlike Tesla, the manufacturer already had an affiliated dealer or dealers in Massachusetts," she wrote. "Contrary to the plaintiffs' assertion," she added, "the type of competitive injury they describe between unaffiliated entities is not within the statute's area of concern." The trade group had accused Tesla of operating a showroom in Natick, Massachusetts without a license and in violation of a law prohibiting a manufacturer from owning a dealership. Neither the trade group nor its lawyer immediately responded to requests for comment. "It's a great decision," Todd Maron, deputy general counsel at Tesla, said in a telephone interview. "The statute is very similar to statutes in other states," he said. "We have battles in New Jersey and other states with similar constructs, and we hope and expect the same interpretation would carry over to those venues." In March, New Jersey's Motor Vehicle Commission effectively revoked Tesla's license to operate two stores. The General Assembly in June passed legislation that would, if enacted into law, allow sales to resume. Tesla also cannot conduct direct sales in Arizona, Maryland and Texas, the company said. Last week, Nevada let Tesla make direct car sales to residents, as part of an arrangement to provide $1.3 billion of tax breaks for the company to build a giant battery factory. In an unusual blog posting in April, three top U.S. Federal Trade Commission officials expressed opposition to laws banning direct sales, saying they could harm consumers. The case is Massachusetts State Automobile Dealers Association Inc et al v. Tesla Motors MA Inc, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, No. SJC-11545.  (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Additional reporting by Bernie Woodall in Detroit; Editing by Jonathan Oatis) FREE AppDownload
Chance Chan/ReutersAn employee is seen behind a glass wall with the logo of Alibaba at the company's headquarters on the outskirts of Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, April 23, 2014.Alibaba has raised the price range for its initial public offering.  The Chinese e-commerce giant has raised its IPO pricing range from to $66-$68 from $60-$66, according to an amended filing with the SEC. The IPO price range is what investors who buy shares before the stock begins trading on an exchange — usually large institutional investors like mutual funds or hedge funds — are expected to pay for the stock. Alibaba shares may still open for trade on the NYSE at a price higher than where the IPO prices. At the midpoint of the new range, the company would raise about $21.4 billion, with the value of the company set at a bit more than $165 billion. At the midpoint of the new range, the 121 million shares Yahoo is set to sell would be worth more about $8.1 billion. Following the offering, Yahoo is set to still hold a 16.3% stake in Alibaba; Yahoo currently holds a 22.6% stake in the company. According to Bloomberg, Alibaba is expected to price its IPO on Thursday night trading in New York set to being Friday morning.   FREE AppDownload
America has always been a land of immigrants. In our ongoing search for demographic outliers in the US, we found the place in every state with the highest proportion of foreign-born residents. The American Community Survey is conducted annually by the Census Bureau to better understand the changing demographics of the US population. One of the many questions on the survey asks whether the respondent was foreign-born. Using estimates from the 2008-2012 ACS, we found the place (a legally incorporated town, city, or village, or a Census-designated statistical equivalent) with at least 1,000 population that had the highest proportion of residents born in another country. Here are those places, color coded by the world region where the largest part of the place's residents were born: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2008-2012 American Community Survey There's a very large spread in the top places among the states: while 74.4% of the residents of Sweetwater, FL were born in another country, in Montana, only 4.7% of Bigfork's residents were foreign-born, and yet this is the highest rate in the state. Unsurprisingly, in most of the places, Latin America is the most common birthplace among immigrants. However, in some places in the northeast and midwest, and in Alaska and Hawaii, immigrants from Asia were most common in the towns with the most immigrants. Madawaska, ME and Bigfork, MT are both quite close to the Canadian border, and their biggest source of foreign-born residents was Northern America. Here's a table showing the places and the percent of their populations that was foreign-born: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from 2008-2012 American Community Survey
Jewel Samad/AFPWhat goes up must come down? Tesla closed down over 9% on Monday, to $253 per share.  The collapse is largely being chalked up to a note that Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas published Monday in which he reiterated an overweight rating on the stock but expressed four "sobering factors" to consider about the stock: 1. The electric vehicle (EV) market is collapsing worldwide. 2. Tesla will struggle to meet demand in China. 3. Tesla isn't going to capture the mass market. 4. People won't even buy cars in the future — and Teslas are cars! Jonas continues to think that Tesla is worth $320 per share, but his note is full of caution, not just about CEO Elon Musk's carmaker but the entire future of EVs. Maybe we shouldn't be surprised. Musk himself has suggested in recent weeks, as he has before, that Tesla's stock may have climbed too high, too fast.     FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVLaszlo Birinyi. Over the weekend, Barry Ritholtz sat down with Wall Street legend Laszlo Birinyi for his Masters in Business program on Bloomberg Radio. Among the topics addressed: the current bull market. Birinyi defines bull markets in four stages: reluctance, acceptance, consolidation, and exuberance. Currently, we're in the exuberance phase. But though the market is in what Birinyi sees as its final stage, we're not done yet, as we haven't gotten a real take-off, or what many in the market would call a "blow off top."  Birinyi and Ritholtz's conversation was recorded in early June, and at that point the S&amp;P 500 had made 14 new highs in 2014, which Birinyi says wasn't yet making front page news. They talk about the exuberance that surrounded the market in 1999 and 2000: when the Nasdaq was ripping to all-time highs, when Michael Lewis came out with his book "The New New Thing," and everyone couldn't stop talking about the stock market.  Birinyi says history would indicate that this is period coming. "We're still going to have that time when the public comes back, and the barista is going to ask what [stocks] you're buying," Birinyi said. And for Birinyi, this lack of public participation and overwhelming press coverage means that the rally in stocks isn't going anywhere just yet.  Birinyi's take: "Leave the door open, and let the good times roll." You can listen to Ritholtz and Birinyi's full conversation at Bloomberg here.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby Yip Alibaba Executive Chairman Jack Ma (L) reacts beside a host as Ma meets journalists ahead of an IPO roadshow, inside a hotel in Hong Kong September 15, 2014.Stocks were mixed on Monday with the blue-chip Dow gaining and the tech-heavy Nasdaq falling more than 1% ahead of the anticipated Alibaba IPO later this week. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. Monday saw a couple economic data points come in mixed, with the Federal Reserve's latest report on industrial production missing expectations while the Empire Fed Manufacturing report beat estimates. Industrial production unexpectedly fell 0.1% in August, against expectations for a 0.3% increase, and capacity utilization also fell to 78.8% from 79.1% in July.  2. The Empire Fed Manufacturing index surged to 27.5 in September, up from 14.69 in August and topping expectations for 15.95. "The September 2014 Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that business activity expanded at a robust pace for New York manufacturers," the NY Fed said in its report. "Optimism about future business conditions remained high." Following the reports, Ian Shepherdson said the underlying trend remains strong, though the echo of the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy still impacts seasonal adjustments.  3. Olive Garden owner Darden Restaurants released its own presentation answering some of the concerns raised by hedge fund Starboard Value in its 294-slide presentation released late last week. Among the concerns addressed by Darden were Starboard's criticisms of its unlimited salad and breadsticks offering, which Darden says, "conveys Italian generosity."  4. Business Insider went to an Olive Garden in Manhattan on Monday, and found a number of problems clearly plaguing the company. Ranging from a difficult-to-decipher menu, to a 20-minute wait amid tables that appeared empty, Business Insider's Ashley Lutz wrote that, "Our experience revealed some big problems at Olive Garden, and confirmed Starboard's allegations that the brand needs help." Shares of Olive Garden parent Darden gained more than 4.5% on Monday.  5. The tech-heavy Nasdaq fell about 1% on Monday, and some attributed the sell-off in tech stocks to the impending Alibaba IPO which is set for later this week. In his afternoon commentary, NYSE floor governor Rich Barry said that one veteran trader told him, "some of our analysts to suspect that at least a good portion of this action is a kind of pre-Alibaba setup – pruning some competitive exposure and/or raising funds for the IPO." Alibaba is expected to price on Thursday afternoon and begin trading Friday morning. Notable tech stocks under pressure on Monday included, Yelp, LinkedIn, Twitter, FireEye and Elon Musk's Tesla and SolarCity.  6. This weekend, Wall Street legend Laszlo Birinyi sat down with Barry Ritholtz for Ritholtz's Masters in Business program on Bloomberg Radio, and Birinyi said that while we are in the exuberance phase of the bull market, there isn't the broad popular support for stocks seen in 1999 and 2000. "We're still going to have that time when the public comes back and the barista is going to ask what [stocks] you're buying, Birinyi said. But for now, Birinyi said, "Leave the door open, and let the good times roll."  7. The Federal Reserve's Federal Open Market Committee is set to kick off its latest two-day policy meeting on Tuesday, and a few changes are expected with Wednesday's policy announcement. Many expect the Fed to drop the phrase "considerable time" to describe how much time it expects will elapse between the end of its QE program and its first interest rate hike. The FOMC will also release its latest summary of economic projections, which will include its latest Dot Plot forecast of expected future interest rates.  8. Tom Lee, former Chief U.S. Equity Strategist at JP Morgan announced his latest venture on Monday, and among the predictions in his first note to clients was a call that by the end of this year, the S&amp;P 500 should get to 2,100. Lee also said that before the current bull market is over, the S&amp;P 500 could get to "2,700 or higher."  Don't Miss: Here's Everything That's Happened Since The Last Time Fed Chair Janet Yellen Gave A Big Press Conference » FREE AppDownload
ReutersFormer billionaire tycoon Eike Batista was always confident that he would break a lot of records for Brazil. Back in 2012, he was certain he'd be the first person from Brazil to be the richest man on the planet. Now there's a possibility that he could go down for insider trading. According the Dealbook, the Rio de Janeiro public prosecutor’s office has been investigating Batista since April and just filed charges. Batista is accused of insider trading and manipulating the stock price of his flagship oil and gas company, OGX. When the company went bankruptcy last year it was itself a first — the largest corporate bankruptcy in Latin American history. This is what went down according to the prosecution. As OGX's proverbial ship was going down back in 2012 Batista said that he would use his once-$34 billion fortune to buy up stock if management asked him to do so. That sent OGX soaring. When management did ultimately try to exercise that option, Batista refused to pay up.  Prosecutors say that he never intended to fulfill his promise and that he intentionally he manipulated the stock by publicly stating that he would. Prosecutors are also saying that Batista sold shares of OGX illegally when he found out about the problems that ultimately brought the company down — anemic output from oil wells that were supposed to be rich with black gold. Now a judge just has to give the go-ahead for the case to proceed. Batista could face up to 13 years in prison. In the meantime, $645 million worth Batista's assets have been frozen. Prosecutors say that's about the amount of damage his insider trading caused the Brazilian stock market. This after Batista already sold his prized Lamborghini, a helicopter, three jets, a hotel and a yacht for cash. Ugly. FREE AppDownload
Top sommelier and author Marnie Old gives tips on how to order a good wine in your price range. • Delicious Wine Cocktails • Gifts for Wine Lovers • Wine Experts to Follow on Twitter • Napa Valley Wineries to Visit  • Sonoma County Wineries to Visit This story was originally published by&nbsp;Food &amp; Wine.
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesHigh-yield municipal bonds seem to be the only fixed-income that is attractive relative to stocks.The track record of the so-called “Fed Model” is dubious at best. The relationship compares the S&amp;P 500’s earnings yield to the yield of the 10-year Treasury note, and there are many other indicators that have a better track record than does the Fed Model when attempting to predict twelve-month forward returns. Despite that caveat, we nonetheless thought it interesting to examine the yield relationships between stocks and a broader array of fixed-income categories. Among those categories, high yield municipal bonds seem to be the only fixed-income that is attractive relative to stocks. The charts in the appendix show the spreads between the yield on a fixed-income asset class and the earnings yield of the S&amp;P 500. If the spread is positive, that suggests that the fixed-income asset class is more attractive than are equities. If the spread is negative, it suggests equities are more attractive. Several points are worth considering: As mentioned, investors may be underestimating the risks of non-US debt and over-estimating the risks associated with high yield munis. Through time we have found some startling mispricings between these two asset classes. Our current example certainly fits that description. Iraq is in the midst of a serious and growing civil war but, as Chart 1 highlights, US high yield munis as an asset class currently trade with a spread more than 150 basis points OVER Iraq! The bond market seems to feel that the diversified aggregate of US high yield munis is actually riskier than are Iraq bonds. (Note that the durations are roughly comparable). Richard Bernstein Advisors We have argued for several years that the US stock market could be in the biggest bull market of our careers, and we don’t think there are many fixed-income asset classes that are attractive relative to stocks. However, high yield munis are very equity-sensitive and offer attractive yields relative to the stock market. We remain amazed that fixed-income investors, like equity investors, refuse to believe that some of the most attractive investments may be right in their own back yards. Richard Bernstein Advisors Richard Bernstein Advisors Richard Bernstein AdvisorsRichard Bernstein Advisors This article originally appeared at Richard Bernstein Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider To see whether these criticisms were warranted, we paid a visit to an Olive Garden in Manhattan. The waitstaff seemed unaware of the scathing hedge fund presentation, and things felt like business as usual. Our experience revealed some big problems at Olive Garden and confirmed Starboard's allegations that the brand needs help.  Here's a timeline: 12:21 p.m. We arrive at the restaurant, which is mostly empty. Several other parties are waiting. We're told there will be a 5- to 10-minute wait. Business InsiderThe restaurant was mostly empty, but we still waited for 20 minutes. 12:40 p.m.After walking through the mostly empty restaurant, we are seated at a booth. 12:41 p.m. The menu is confusing. There are complicated combinations and deals listed. Menu items include Spanish-style tapas, paninis, a burger, pasta, and meat dishes. Our party of four tries to determine what ordering the lunch combination will get us, and we come up stumped. We wait for our waitress to explain what's going on. Business Insider 12:50 p.m. We place our food orders, starting with the Lasagna Fritta appetizer. 12:55 p.m. Our breadsticks, soup, and salad arrive. We receive five breadsticks for a party of four (this is in keeping with the 'old' Olive Garden policy, according to Starboard). The breadsticks are slightly overdone but otherwise good. Business InsiderThe breadsticks were slightly overdone, but otherwise good. Business InsiderThe Lasagna Fritta was bland and greasy.  1:02 p.m. Our waitress checks on us.  We order more dressing for the salad, which is almost entirely dry.  1:04 p.m. Our food arrives. We split the final breadstick, which has been sitting out for almost 10 minutes. The consistency and temperature are still good. It doesn't taste stale. The spaghetti with meat sauce is extremely bland. The pasta is slick (and clearly not salted). The meat sauce is ladled on top of the dish, rather than mixed in. Our server doesn't offer to grate cheese on top of the entrees. Business Insider Another person in our party ordered Chicken Scampi, a chicken dish with peppers and onions. This dish was good except for the buttery sauce, which drenched the dish.  Olive GardenThe Chicken Scampi pasta includes grilled poultry, onions, peppers, and pasta in a butter sauce. The Capellini Pomodoro with grilled shrimp was less greasy. But the shrimp had a fishy taste that didn't feel fresh. Business InsiderThe Capellini Pomodoro with shrimp. The Five Cheese Ziti al Forno was good, but the sauce was ladled into the center of the dish. This left many of the noodles dry.  Business InsiderFive Cheese Ziti al Forno.  We also tried the fried Parmesan asparagus as a side dish. This was greasy, with no hint of the parmesan cheese promised.  Business InsiderParmesan Asparagus with a creamy lemon sauce. 1:08 p.m. We are out of breadsticks.  1:16 p.m. Our server asks if we need anything. We ask for more breadsticks. She asks whether we are paying together or separate. 1:22 p.m. Our server brings four breadsticks this time. They are very crisp, overdone, and salty. There is no consistency between the first and second baskets. We ask for the check. Business InsiderThe breadsticks were slightly overdone. 1:30 p.m. We receive the check and ask for a to-go box.  1:33 p.m. Our waitress comes and puts the leftover pasta into a to-go box right at the table. She takes our credit card for processing.  1:39 p.m. We get our check back. We do not receive the chocolate Andes mints that are customary after a meal. 1:40 p.m. We leave the restaurant. Business InsiderOur to-go breadsticks and pasta dish, ordered as part of the "buy one, take one" deal.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaJack Ma, chairman of China's largest e-commerce firm Alibaba Group.Alibaba is expected to begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday.  But on Monday the Chinese e-commerce giant was being blamed for the drop in the tech-heavy Nasdaq, which was down as much as 1.2% on Monday afternoon.  Rich Barry, floor governor at the New York Stock Exchange, wrote in his afternoon commentary on Monday: "Strange moves in the market today, and some astute market-watchers are attributing the moves to the anticipation of this Friday's ginormous Alibaba IPO... While financial and energy stocks are giving a little boost to the Dow today, the pressure on the tech sector, in particular, is striking... We made some calls to our people at various trading desks and the best reason we got for the divergence came from one seasoned vet: 'Nasdaq Comp, Social Media and China based ETFs are over three times weaker than Dow, S&amp;P, etc.  That leads some of our analysts to suspect that at least a good portion of this action is a kind of pre-Alibaba setup – pruning some competitive exposure and/or raising funds for the IPO.'" Amazing. Apple, the Nasdaq's largest component, was flat in afternoon trade on Monday, but Google was down 1%, and the pain was really being felt in trendy tech names like Twitter, Yelp, FireEye, and LinkedIn, which were all down more than 6.5% in afternoon trade. Elon Musk's Tesla and Solar City were also down more than 8.5%.  We're still three full trading days away from Alibaba's expected pricing on Thursday night, but reports have suggested that the $60-$66 per share range could be increased due to excess demand for Alibaba's IPO.  Regarding Monday's move in the Nasdaq, Barry was left saying, "Makes sense to us." Sure.  FREE AppDownload
Twitter.com/ScaramucciAnthony Scaramucci and Mitt RomneySkyBridge Capital's Anthony "Mooch" Scaramucci is fully on board Mitt Romney's still-hypothetical presidential campaign in 2016. Scaramucci, one of Romney's biggest backers on Wall Street during the 2012 race, predicted on Monday that Romney would ultimately end up running if other establishment favorites like former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush (R), back out. "I don’t think he’s 100% made the decision," Scaramucci said in a Fox Business interview. "But a couple of factors could happen: If Gov. Jeb Bush drops out or declares that he's not going to run, I think that puts Gov. Romney in ... position." Scaramucci, the Romney campaign's ex-national finance co-chair, also praised the former Massachusetts governor for maintaining a "very strong following" among Wall Street bigwigs like himself. "I can tell you right now. The governor has a very strong following, including myself. And he'd be my No. 1 draft pick," he said. Romney has repeatedly insisted he is not running and has aggressively touted the other expected candidates in the field. However, at the same time, Romney has hinted he could let himself be wooed into the race under the right circumstances. "I think he's going to do it," Scaramucci said. "I don't think there's any reason for him not to do it. His family is behind him." FREE AppDownload
Wall Street strategist and head of Fundstrat Global Advisors Tom Lee is bullish on the stock market. “This bull market has not showed any signs associated with a 'late-cycle' bull market, like investment spending hitting 27% of GDP or an inverted yield curve," Lee said in an email to Business Insider. "In fact, the current investment spend at 23% of GDP is normally a trough level in past recessions. "While we are not giving targets beyond YE2014, we see peak earnings at least at $150 and if P/Es reach 18X then, it would suggest an index level of 2,700 or higher." With the S&amp;P 500 trading at around 1,980 today, this means we could squeeze out another 36% out of the market. This guess puts Lee, the former chief US equity strategist for JP Morgan, a little behind Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker, who believes we could see 3,000. Lee currently has a 2,100 year-end target for the S&amp;P 500. The CapEx Story US corporations spent much of the post-crisis recovery shoring up their balance sheets, hoarding cash and scaling back leverage. However, this also came with a tightening of capital expenditures, that is business investment spending. Equipment aged and workers made due with whatever equipment they had on hand. But recent data has revealed that corporations are just beginning to loosen their purse strings. And there is almost no economist out there who doesn't see this as bullish. "Notably, with investment spending so low (still 1-standard deviation below the LT average), we believe there remains substantial pent-up demand for future growth," Lee wrote in a note to clients. Examining data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis, Lee found that the average age of consumer durable goods and business capital equipment is at the 99th percentile. "The argument against this normalization [of investment spending] is that businesses and consumers have become more capital efficient and are likely to exercise new caution and a reluctance to spend excessively following the severe downturn recently witnessed," Lee wrote. "However, can businesses and consumers really continue to delay spending if capital stock is this old?" Fundstrat Global Advisors FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Matt RourkeA student sprays a junior with shaving cream as he and others parade through the campus of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, Friday, April 20, 2007. Hey Day, which began as "Moving-Up Day" in 1916, is the day when juniors are proclaimed to be seniors. Hundreds of Penn juniors sport red T-shirts, canes and plastic foam hats as they picnic and then walk to College Hall for the declaration. The University of Pennsylvania is the top party school in the country, according to a new ranking released by Playboy Magazine. The Ivy League school tops Playboy's ninth annual list of party schools, its first appearance in the ranking. Last year's number one school, West Virginia University, fell to number three on Playboy's list. "Smarties can party too, and UPenn puts other Ivies to shame with its union of brains, brewskies and bros," Playboy writes. "Boasting a notorious underground frat scene that school officials have deemed a nuisance, these renegades pony up thousands of dollars’ worth of liquor for their parties—and competition among the houses means a balls-out war of debauchery."  College party video website I'm Shmacked took a trip to Philadelphia for UPenn's Spring Fling in 2012. The annual event is a huge party, with musical guests including Lupe Fiasco, Girl Talk, and Ludacris. You can watch video of the event below:  "This year's list was determined by Playboy's editors who considered a variety of factors in their selection process, including access to nightlife and musical events, and creativity when planning social gatherings. Information from the National Center for Education Statistics, the NCAA, and the US Economic Census was also considered," according to a press release. Here's the full top 10 party school list from Playboy:    FREE AppDownload
YouTubeHarvard professor Ricardo HausmannHarvard professor Ricardo Hausmann is a "bandit" on a mission to destroy Venezuela, says the country's President Nicolas Maduro. Last week he announced live on television that he ordered prosecutors to go after the Cornell-trained economist. "We have proof of the declarations and articles that you've [Hausmann's] written in those mansions that you live in over there — [proof] of the money you've taken from Venezuela," said Maduro.  Hausmann — a former planning minister for the Venezuelan government just before late President Hugo Chavez took over in 1999 — recently wrote an article for Project Syndicate that took the government to task for using money to pay back foreign investors as food shortages and inflation ravage the country's population. It's called "Should Venezuela Default" —  which is a particularly incendiary way to frame things. That 'D-word' conjures horrible memories in Latin America. It turns countries into pariahs. It brings economies to their knees. Hausmann, however, says the Venezuela is already on its knees. It has four separate exchange rates and a huge fiscal deficit. Instead of pretending to take the moral high ground by paying Wall Street and wealthy Venezuelan bondholders, the government should take care of its people, he argues. All of this chaos is the consequence of a massive fiscal deficit that is being financed by out-of-control money creation, financial repression, and mounting defaults – despite a budget windfall from $100-a-barrel oil. Instead of fixing the problem, Maduro’s government has decided to complement ineffective exchange and price controls with measures like closing borders to stop smuggling and fingerprinting shoppers to prevent “hoarding.” This constitutes a default on Venezuelans’ most basic freedoms, which Bolivia, Ecuador, and Nicaragua – three ideologically kindred countries that have a single exchange rate and single-digit inflation – have managed to preserve. Hausmann is the Director of Harvard's Center for International Development and Professor of the Practice of Economic Development at the Kennedy School of Government. He has also served as Chair of the IMF-World Bank Development Committee and was on the board of Venezuela's Central Bank.  For his part, Hausmann doesn't seem worried at all about Maduro's threats. He told the Harvard Crimson that he was going to "disregard" them entirely and that he feels completely free.  “I know that this is the government that it is. I’m not surprised at that... My surprise comes from the stupidity of the president’s reaction," he said, adding, “I have the protection of the U.S.. I have the protection of Harvard. I feel a free man." Watch part of Maduro's speech (in Spanish) below:   FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesJoseph StiglitzNobel prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz wrote in the Sunday Herald newspaper that arguments against Scottish independence are missing the point. He says the vote is about the "shared vision and values" of the Scottish people and not "arcane issues about monetary arrangements or economies of scope." Given how close the vote is likely to be it is likely that the economic debates alone will not decide which way it goes, but Stiglitz's own economic case for independence skips over a major problem — drying up oil revenues. He says (emphasis added): Scotland can make investments in tidal energy, or in its young people; it can strive to increase female labour-force participation and provide for early-years education - both essential for creating a fairer society. It can make these investments, knowing that the country will recapture more of the benefits from them through taxation. Under current arrangements, while Scotland bears the cost of these social investments, the extra tax revenue resulting from the additional growth from these investments will go overwhelming south of the Border. So does Scotland really bear the cost and fail to reap the benefits of public sector investment? The answer to that very much depends on how you view the current situation. As the Institute for Fiscal Studies has pointed out, "spending on enterprise and economic development per person in Scotland was well over twice as high as the UK-wide average" in the 2012-2013 fiscal year. Indeed, capital spending per person has been consistently higher in Scotland than in the U.K. as a whole for over a decade, a trend that has sped up since 2010 as the Scottish Government elected to cut capital spending less than the rest of the U.K.. The decision to protect capital spending, which traditionally gets a higher economic bang for your buck, in the midst of a downturn is one that Westminster has (belatedly) conceded would have been sensible policy. As such, the Scottish Government's actions reflect the positive influence that devolution might have on the U.K. as a whole. Yet has Scotland failed to see the benefits of this foresight as Stiglitz suggests? Here we get to the contentious part. Excluding oil revenues, Scotland has consistently been running a fiscal deficit for the past 30 years, according to the University of Glasgow's Centre for Public Policy for Regions. Scotland’s mainland, or onshore, fiscal balance has been in deficit since at least 1980. Over the period 2007-08 to 2011-12, this deficit was between 10-18% of GDP. As such, Scotland has a noticeably higher fiscal deficit than the UK, by around an extra 5½ - 6½ % of GDP. However, if you include North Sea oil revenues the country ran consistent fiscal surpluses through the 1980s and has enjoyed a fiscal advantage over the rest of the U.K. that has only been ceded in recent years. That is, if you assume that an independent Scotland would have had rights over the oil revenues, the country has been a significant net contributor to the rest of the U.K. for decades. Office for Budget ResponsibilityOil is running out, obviously. This analysis, however, is somewhat academic. Scotland was not an independent nation when the oil was discovered and so the windfall that came of it was distributed across the nation as a whole. Moreover, while the revenues still accruing from oil are significant estimates from the Office for Budget Responsibility suggest they are set to decline sharply over the next few years. The question then is whether an independent Scotland is likely to be able to better maintain and benefit from its investment in its own people than under the status quo. On the one hand it is likely to receive a larger share of the oil revenues, but on the other this windfall may be short-lived. It will receive greater autonomy over its spending, but — if oil runs out — its money will have to go on building up reserves to protect its currency and its financial sector. Current estimates suggest oil revenues will make a negligible contribution to GDP by the end of the next decade. Turning around Scotland's economy from running huge non-oil deficits to a sustainable financial path would have been challenging task even in the absence of having to deal with separation from the rest of the UK. With independence thrown into the mix the scale of the ask both of policymakers and the public is daunting. FREE AppDownload
Daniel Berehulak/Getty ImagesREITs can typically offer relatively safe and secure cash flows.After a sharp five-year rally in US real estate stocks, investors are questioning whether they may be vulnerable to a rise in interest rates. Our research suggests that global real estate stocks may be more likely to weather a changing rate environment. US real estate stocks, commonly organized as REITs, have been strong performers since the global financial crisis. The FTSE NAREIT All Equity index of US real estate stocks has climbed 20% in 2014 through August. Since March 2009, the index has nearly quadrupled — outpacing both global property stocks and the broader US market. No wonder that US mutual fund investors have pumped $28 billion of net inflows into US real estate stocks over the last three years, in contrast to just $8 billion for their global peers. Why all the love for US REITs? Despite the recovery in global equities, investors still seem to prefer securities with relatively safe and secure cash flows, including both bonds and higher-yielding stocks such as utilities and REITs. US REITs have been especially prized for the relative safety of the US and improving cash flows of the stocks, bolstered by steadily improving demand in an environment of limited new supply of commercial properties such as office buildings and retail malls. But while US property market fundamentals remain quite healthy, the valuation of US REITs isn’t nearly as attractive as a few years ago — even when compared with government bonds. Outside the US, it’s a different story for two reasons. First, valuations of non-US real estate stocks look relatively attractive. For example, the cash-flow yield for US real estate stocks versus the 10-year Treasury — a widely used valuation metric — is now only slightly above its long-term average, even with interest rates at rock bottom. In contrast, the cash-flow yield for non-US real estate stocks relative to a composite of 10-year sovereign bonds remains well above its long-term average (Display). And, as in the US, fundamentals are generally healthy for property stocks outside the US, with improving demand and limited new supply in most major markets. AllianceBernstein Second, non-US real estate stocks prices have recently been less sensitive to changes in sovereign yields. We analyzed the correlation of changes in sovereign yields with the outperformance of overall equity-market returns relative to real estate stock returns, both inside and outside the US. The trend varies over time. But today, this correlation is near a record high in the US whereas it is about average outside the US (Display). In other words, US REITs recently have reliably outperformed the S&amp;P500 when Treasury rates declined and have reliably underperformed when rates rise, probably because investors are treating US REITs as bond substitutes given their perceived safety. But non-US REITs have generally not behaved as a sovereign-bond proxy in the same way. AllianceBernstein Non-US REITs offer another advantage because they are exposed to diverse interest-rate environments. Today, in several major markets like Japan, the euro area and Australia, low rates are still embedded in the financial landscape and are unlikely to rise soon. So by looking beyond the US, we believe that investors can stay in real estate stocks without returns being too tightly linked to sovereign yields. For those who still want the steady cash flows and dividends that real estate stocks can offer, we think global REITs may be a good way to maintain exposure to the asset class while reducing the vulnerability to rate hikes. This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Via Wikimedia CommonsToday's $90 million penthouses don't hold a candle to the grand mansion of Cornelius Vanderbilt II.New York City is constantly being rebuilt. In the 19th and 20th centuries, dozens of beautiful old buildings were demolished to make way for new development. It wasn't until 1966, with the passage of the National Historic Preservation Act, that historic buildings could be protected by federal law. Click through to see some of these vanished buildings, which include iconic hotels, businesses, and private homes.  Max Rosenberg contributed to this post. FREE AppDownload
APAir France-KLM chairman and chief executive, Alexandre de Juniac gives a press conference, in Paris.It's Monday morning and once again, the French are on strike. This time, it's Air France. Pilots for Air France have forced the country's national carrier to scrap half of its flights on Monday, reports the AFP. Should the strike continue into Tuesday, the Airline expects to cancel as much as 60% of its scheduled service. As a result, Air France-KLM stock has slipped 3.5%. This could cost the airline as much as $19 million a day.  The latest strike comes just months after the country's air traffic controllers walked off the job in June, causing the cancellation of 1,800 flights. This time, strikers are protesting Air France's plans to transition short-haul and domestic service to the company's low-cost and lower-salaried Dutch subsidiary, Transavia. REUTERS/Charles PlatiauA Transavia Airbus A320 passenger jet makes its way on the tarmac before taking off at Orly airport, near ParisThe strike comes just days after Air France-KLM announced it will pump up to $1.3 billion over the next five years into Transavia. According to the New York Times, the cash infusion will allow Europe's to third-most-traveled airline to buy more than 50 new jets and hire as many as 250 new pilots by 2017 for its Dutch subsidiary. These move follow those of Germany's Lufthansa, which has turned over large chunks of its short-haul flights to low-cost subsidiaries Germanwings and Eurowings. The overall business trend is a reaction to the growing need to cut costs due to mounting financial pressure from budget giants Ryanair and Easyjet.  REUTERS/Marcus DonnerAn Air France Boeing 777-300ER takes off.According to AFP, Air France has sent 65,000 text messages to passengers affected by the strike — called by its main pilots' union, SNPL — and deployed some 7,000 extra workers to help stranded customers. The airline has cancelled more 200 hundreds flight on Monday at its Charles de Gaulle hub in Paris. There is no word how negotiations are progressing between Air France and its pilots union. However, the strike is scheduled to last up to six days.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr / ErinIs the new bill destined for a wreck?Maxine Waters (D-CA) has introduced a bill in the House called the Fair Credit Reporting Improvement Act of 2014. The bill proposes sweeping changes to almost all aspects of the credit reporting and credit scoring environments. It contains two or three provisions that would reasonably improve the credit reporting environment, but it also contains many more that would radically alter credit report data and credit score capabilities. The bill is sure to get considerable opposition, and rightfully so. Here’s why … Today, bankruptcies can be maintained for 10 years and all other derogatory credit entries (collections, judgments, late payments, defaults) can be maintained for seven years. The act would require that bankruptcies be removed from a consumer’s credit report in seven years, and all other derogatory entries be removed after four years. The reason Ms. Waters gives for the reduction in credit reporting time frames: "Sweden limits the reporting period to three years and Germany limits the period to four years." The most unreasonable aspect of the Waters’ bill is a requirement for the credit reporting agencies to delete any adverse item within 45 days of it being paid or settled. That means if you settled your defaulted credit card debt or disposed of your home via a short sale, the item would be removed 45 days after the item was updated to show a zero balance, as if it never existed. This would act as an incentive for some people to game the system by taking out large amounts of debt, defaulting, and then settling the debt knowing their credit reports would be clean in less than seven weeks. Alex Wong / Getty ImagesRep. Maxine Waters (D-CA) has proposed the Fair Credit Reporting Improvement Act of 2014. Today, if you challenge information with the credit reporting agencies, they are required to perform a reasonable investigation, which almost always includes them going back to the lender or collector and asking them to confirm that what they’re reporting is accurate. This process is widely criticized by advocates as not being an actual investigation. The Waters bill would require the credit bureaus to perform an investigation independent of contacting the furnishing party, which makes no sense at all. How in the world would Equifax know the actual correct balance on your Chase credit card? How would Experian know if your Wells Fargo mortgage was or wasn't paid late? How would TransUnion know if you’ve never actually applied for an account with Verizon wireless? Of course the answer to all of these questions is, "they wouldn’t." Most of the incorrect information on credit reports isn’t caused by the credit reporting agencies but is, instead, incorrectly reported by the banks and/or collectors. It’s imperative that the credit bureaus be allowed to continue to go to those companies and ask them to check their records and documents to determine if what is on your credit report is accurate. If the Waters bill were passed, then credit scoring models would not be able to consider any derogatory credit entry that was subject to a "Federal credit restoration program." This one is especially confusing, because there is no such thing as a federal credit restoration program, which the bill defines as any federal program that assists a consumer to rehabilitate their credit. Are the feds really considering getting into the credit repair business? Further, credit scoring systems would have to treat all auto, mortgage, and student loan credit inquiries that occur within 120 days of each other as a single inquiry in the consumer’s score. No credit scoring model that is or was commercially available in the history of credit scoring has ever treated inquiries in such a way. If this became the new standard, then it would render all 60+ FICO scores and all three VantageScore credit scores illegal to use, because they don’t treat inquiries like that. FREE AppDownload
Twitter @nictradesThere are a bunch of ways to get high-speed information about markets. Most of them — like getting a Bloomberg terminal, for instance — will cost you an arm and a leg. Thankfully, there's Twitter. It's become a place where even the biggest names on Wall Street go to get a word (or 143 characters) out into the universe, and it can move markets. Business Insider has compiled a list of the best of financial Tweeters for you to use. These are people we follow all day, and if you're going to get serious about using this awesome tool, you should follow them too. Or even better, you join the conversation yourself. But you'd better add some value. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons Last week, activist hedge fund Starboard released an epic 294-page report attacking Darden Restaurants and its flagship chain, Olive Garden. The section that got the most hype was where they took issue with Olive Garden's free-breadsticks strategy. The media, of course, instantly seized on the narrative of a hedge fund telling Olive Garden to cut back on the unlimited breadsticks. But that really wasn't a fair characterization of Starboard's argument. As we explained already, Starboard did NOT tell Olive Garden to stop serving free breadsticks; instead, it said that the manner in which the free breadsticks were being delivered was problematic and wasteful. This slide from the presentation explains that the issue is the Olive Garden waitstaff just brings out a huge basket of breadsticks and a lot of them go to waste. Starboard says that Olive Garden should instead go back to bringing out enough breadsticks for everyone at the table (plus one) and then bring out more on request. Not only would this reduce waste, says Starboard, but it would also increase the number of interactions between waitstaff and customers, thus improving the experience at the restaurant. StarboardAnyway, Olive Garden is out with its response today to the whole presentation, and they even have a point about the breadsticks. But Olive Garden is distorting the debate here. The question is not the "endless" breadsticks — it's the manner in which they're brought out. Starboard likes the unlimited-breadsticks marketing; it just doesn't like the way they're delivered. Olive Garden FREE AppDownload
Alibaba is set to share publicly on the New York Stock Exchange very soon and Chairman Jack Ma is speaking up about why the company chose New York over Hong Kong. This while people in China are left to wonder what they're missing out on.
Reuters China released a bunch of grim economic data this weekend, the worst of it being industrial production, which slowed to its lowest level since doom year 2008. It's a flashback nobody in markets wants to experience and indicates that, unless the government wants to step in, China will be shrinking for the near term at the very least. Here's the big picture in the Societe Generale chart below: Societe GeneraleLet's do a quick fly-around of all the disappointing metrics. All of this spells trouble, and here's some more: Housing sales were 11% year over year through January to August, versus a 10.5% drop in the first seven months of the year. According to Bloomberg economist Tom Orlik, that slowing in the housing market has been the main driver of all of this discontent. "A sector that was once the main driver of China’s growth is now suffering a slump in sales and construction. The area of new property under development shrank 14.4 percent year on year in the first eight months of 2014," he wrote in a note. The Chinese government could always put a Band-Aid on this situation and stimulate the economy by cutting interest rates. However, the Xi administration has indicated that it's serious about fiscal reform this time. Earlier this month it passed a budget law that sets new guidelines for how governments can plan spending, financing, and revenue. These new measures would expand the bond market, but they come with more stringent requirements, says Societe Generale analyst Wei Yao: "Compared to other financing channels, bonds have many merits: they are cheaper and more transparent, and there is less maturity mismatch. Expansion of the government bond market can also facilitate general financial market deepening. However, many strings will be attached to this newly obtained freedom, and in our view imposing strict ex-ante regulations is reasonable, given the early stage of development of China's bond market." The "strings" Yao is talking about would ideally remove the punch bowl from the Chinese infrastructure development party — or at least there would be a bouncer checking identification at the door. "Formalizing local governments' off-budget borrowing should lead to lower borrowing costs for the state," said Yao. "However, the trade-off is a less expansive investment plan as local government off-budget borrowing and uses of land sales revenue will be under greater scrutiny." That means the Chinese government is trying to pull away gently, but these numbers indicate that even the gentlest pull is ripping the country's economy at its seams. The Xi administration has to either stimulate the economy — essentially back tracing on reform — or risk missing its 2014 growth target, according to some analysts. Tough choice. We know China doesn't like missing growth targets. The world won't like it either. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of General Motors logo outside its headquarters at the Renaissance Center in DetroitBy Julia Edwards WASHINGTON (Reuters) - General Motors Co  will pay compensation for 19 deaths linked to a faulty ignition switch, according to the lawyer overseeing the process, more than the 13 deaths the automaker had previously admitted were caused by the now recalled part. Outside attorney Ken Feinberg is still reviewing claims of death and injury that occurred due to the risk that an ignition switch installed in 2.6 million GM cars can slip out of the "run" position, stalling the vehicles and disabling the cars' airbags. Members of Congress and safety advocates have criticized GM for acknowledging only 13 deaths that were caused by the part, with some critics citing more than 100 cases. The victims' fund deputy administrator, Camille Biros, said expanding the number to 19 is a result of taking more evidence into account, such as photos of a crash. "The standard that GM used for their determination was an engineering standard. We have a much more liberal standard that we are applying," Biros said. Biros did not name the families of the victims who will be offered compensation, and said Feinberg's office has not yet determined the dollar amounts. The offers are expected to be high in order to persuade beneficiaries from filing a lawsuit against GM. In total, 125 death claims and 320 injury claims have been submitted to the fund, but Feinberg's firm has either rejected or is still reviewing 106 and 308 claims, respectively. Biros would not say how many claims have been rejected. Some plaintiffs' lawyers said they are waiting to see what kinds of offers GM will present to victims and families before submitting new claims. Plaintiffs' attorney Lance Cooper said he has continued to hear from potential clients "wherein someone died as a result of an accident that appears to be related to the defect."   (Reporting By Julia Edwards; Additional reporting by Jessica Dye in New York and Ben Klayman in Detroit; Editing by Karey van Hall and Susan Heavey) FREE AppDownload
LinkedinWes Calvert, an associate at Starboard Value LP. A 25-year-old worked on the epic presentation on Darden Restaurants — the parent company of Olive Garden, Business Insider has learned.  On Friday, Starboard Value LP, which is run by activist investor Jeff Smith, released a 294-page deep-dive report into Olive Garden's business.  We're told by two people that Wes Calvert, a 25-year-old associate at Starboard Value, played a major role in putting together the presentation. We're also told that a number of senior-level analysts worked on the presentation.  One value investor told us his presentation was "one of the best ever."  The slide-deck, which includes recommendations on how Olive Garden can fix its breadstick strategy and improve its pasta quality by cooking with salt, has been widely discussed on Wall Street. Business Insider's Joe Weisenthal called it a "true masterpiece." We reached out to Calvert and Smith for comment. Neither has responded. Calvert joined Starboard Value in February. He previously worked at Credit Suisse, his LinkedIn profile shows. He graduated from California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo, in 2012.  **Editor's note: A number of senior level folks at Starboard Value also worked on the presentation.  FREE AppDownload
APThe White HouseThe US tax code is falling behind its international peers and now has the third worst tax code in the developed world according a new report from the nonpartisan think tank Tax Foundation. Tax Foundation's report, which was released Monday morning, found 31 0f the 34 developed countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development have a better tax code than the US. Only France and Portugal ranked lower, the report said. Here is the full list showing all of the countries that rank above the US.  1. Estonia    2. New Zealand    3. Switzerland4. Sweden    5. Australia    6. Luxembourg    7. Netherlands    8. Slovak Republic    9. Turkey    10. Slovenia    11. Finland    12. Austria    13. Korea    14. Norway    15. Ireland    16. Czech Republic    17. Denmark    18. Hungary    19. Mexico    20. Germany    21. United Kingdom    22. Belgium    23. Iceland     24. Canada    25. Japan    26. Poland    27. Greece    28. Israel    29. Chile    30. Spain    31. Italy    32. United States    33. Portugal    34. France Tax Foundation attributed America's poor ranking to a high corporate taxe rate.  "The United States scores poorly largely because it maintains the highest corporate tax rate in the developed world at 39.1 percent and is one of the six remaining countries in the OECD with a worldwide system of taxation," the Tax Foundation said. "Its poorly structured property, individual, and capital gains and dividends taxes also contribute to the low ranking." At the other end of the list were Estonia, which ranked first, followed by New Zealand and Switzerland. The Tax Foundation praised Estonia for "having the most competitive tax system in the developed world" and a "relatively low" 21% taxation rate for corporations and individuals. The Tax Foundation, which has been accused by some groups of having a conservative bent, argued its findings should prompt the US and other countries into reforming their tax codes to be more like those its report identified as leaders on the issue. "No longer can a country tax business investment and activity at a high rate without adversely affecting its economic performance," a co-author of the report, Kyle Pomerleau, said in a statement. "In recent years, many countries have recognized this fact and have moved to reform their tax codes to be more competitive. However, others have failed to do so and are falling behind the global movement." The report comes as the debate over corporate inversions heats up in US politics. Major companies, most recently Burger King, have shifted their headquarters overseas in order to avoid US tax rates. View the full report below.  FREE AppDownload
Olive Garden's parent company has spoken out to defend the business after hedge fund Starboard published an epic, 294-page takedown last week. In Darden's rebuttal, the company notes that company-wide sales for all its restaurants, which includes the Capital Grille, Longhorn Steakhouse and Bahama Breeze,  are up. However, Darden's presentation doesn't address Starboard's most compelling argument — Olive Garden's comparable restaurant sales have been falling for some time.  Here's Darden's characterization of sales, which shows company-wide sales going up. Note how many brands are included to demonstrate rising sales. Darden Restaurants But Starboard notes that same-store sales at the core brand have declined considerably.  Starboard The company noted that traffic and sales were down in an earnings conference call last week.  Darden President and Chief Operating Officer Eugene Lee said the restaurant is relying on in-store makeovers and an expanded menu to improve business.  Darden's response today lays out how some performance metrics are improving. But ultimately, it comes down to sales. FREE AppDownload
Starboard Value Hedge fundLast week Jeff Smith and his hedge fund Starboard Value LP released a huge 294-slide presentation criticizing Olive Garden and its parent company Darden for wasting money, among other things. One of the things that Smith and his analysts went after was Olive Garden's to-go containers — which they estimate the company is wasting around $22 million on. These to-go containers are "specified to be microwave and dishwater safe," said Smith and his analysts. These are requirements which the hedge fund feels "over-engineer packaging and drive up costs signifcantly without necessarily driving any benefit associated with more foot traffic or increased pricing power on customers." And on one of the presentation slides, Starboard Value asked: "Why do the to-go containers need to be dishwasher safe?" Today, Darden released a 24-page slide show response. Included in that response was a comment on said to-go container. "Our packaging is primarily designed to maintain food quality. It meets competitive standards, is a more sustainable alternative to Styrofoam, and complies with local waste regulations. It has been specified to be microwavable — but not dishwasher safe." It seems like we're now splitting hairs. Here's the slide from Darden's presentation. Darden
YouTube / 4-traders.comThomas Lee"Stay bullish into year-end," Wall Street strategist Tom Lee writes in a new 28-page client research note obtained by Business Insider. "We see multi-year gains ahead for US equities, driven by the favorable combination of: (i) pent-up demand; (ii) repaired household, corporate, and bank balance sheets; (iii) attractive relative value for stocks and (iv) low conviction by investors," Lee wrote. "We believe recent equity weakness stemming from a shift in Fed expectations is a head fake, as improving growth supports asset prices (helping to initially offset higher rates)." Lee, formerly Chief U.S. Equity Strategist at JP Morgan, had a 2,075 year-end target for the S&amp;P 500 at the beginning of the year. At the time, Lee's was the most bullish call on Wall Street. But with the S&amp;P surging to as high as 2,011 recently, Lee's has proven to be one of the more accurate calls. Even after his abrupt departure from the JP Morgan, the details of his forecasts have proven prescient. Now at Fundstrat Global Advisors, Lee sees the S&amp;P 500 reaching 2,100 by the end of the year on earnings of $118 per share. But that's not all. Lee believes this already 5-year old bull market is far from mature. He writes that there are typical four signs seen prior to market peaks. Here's his discussion (verbatim, emphasis ours): "Naturally, if this bull market is not late-cycle (due to the factors outlined above), it would seem to suggest that the current bull market is mid-cycle," Lee wrote. US corporations spent much of the post-crisis recovery shoring up their balance sheets, hoarding cash and scaling back leverage. However, this also came with a tightening of capital expenditures, that is business spending. Equipment aged and workers made due with whatever equipment they had on hand. But recent data has revealed that corporations are just beginning to loosen their purse strings. "Notably, with investment spending so low (still 1-standard deviation below the LT average), we believe there remains substantial pent-up demand for future growth," Lee wrote. Lee's report included this chart showing that there's plenty of room for more business spending. Fundstrat Global Advisors The potential for further business spending growth supports Lee's expectation that corporate earnings, at least for the S&amp;P 500, has much more room to run. "We remain comfortable that S&amp;P 500 EPS growth is not yet at peak levels, despite concerns that profit margins are excessively high today," Lee wrote. "As shown on Figure 12, since 1950 S&amp;P 500 profits have grown at 6.5% annually, which is about the rate of nominal GDP growth during that time." Check it out: Fundstrat Global Advisors "If EPS continues to grow from the 2007 high at a pace similar to that seen during prior expansions, this would imply that EPS should reach approximately $145-$165 at the cycle peak," Lee wrote. "The point is that there is still plenty of room for profit growth in our view." $165 implies 39% growth from the $118 level Lee estimates for 2014. Everyone's sounding bullish lately. Just this month, we've heard strategists from Morgan Stanley, RBC Capital Markets, and Deutsche Bank make their cases for many more years of stock market gains. Even famously bearish strategists like Nomura's Bob Janjuah, Wells Fargo's Gina Martin Adams, and Gluskin Sheff's Dave Rosenberg all see further gains for stocks. And the points we highlighted above just scratch the surface of Lee's meaty 28-page note. However, without a recession to turn things around, it'll take a big shock to kill this rally. "What could go wrong?" Lee asks rhetorically. "The biggest risk to our thesis, in our view, remains an external shock—either an inflation type shock (ie, a spike in oil prices from a geopolitical crisis) or financial system stress (possibly from Europe)." For now, Lee clearly remains bullish. Corporate profits (as measured by S&amp;P 500 EPS) tend to surpass the prior cycle peak by 53%. The 2006 peak was $92.15 per share, implying that current profits could be expected to peak around $141 per share (53% above the prior peak); FREE AppDownload
Darden Darden Restaurants, the parent company of Olive Garden, just issued a response to the 294-slide presentation filed last week by activist hedge fund Starboard Value LP.  Darden's presentation totals 24 slides, a lot fewer than the behemoth filed by Starboard, with the company giving an update on its "Renaissance Plan," as well as responding to a number of the points raised by Starboard.  Darden responds to Starboard's assertion that its endless salad and breadsticks promotion creates food waste, saying that the promotion "conveys Italian generosity and our salads have the highest loyalty rating of any menu item based on the menu satisfaction surveys we conduct" [emphasis Darden's]. Darden also says that the "dishwasher-safe" take-out packaging Starboard took issue with is not, in fact, dishwasher safe. "Our packaging is primarily designed to maintain food quality," Darden said. "It meets competitive standards, is a more sustainable alternative to Styrofoam, and complies with local waste regulations. It has been specified to be microwavable – but not dishwasher safe" [emphasis Darden's] As for a number of the Olive Garden plans laid out by Starboard, Darden says it is already carrying them out, with the actions "delivering results," the company said.  When a hedge fund files a 294-slide presentation on a company, that company is surely not going to go long without comment. Additionally, when a hedge fund files a 294-slide presentation on a company, it is unlikely that the story goes away quickly.  In morning trading on Monday, Darden shares were up 2%.  FREE AppDownload
Microsoft said in a statement it expects the acquisition to be break-even in fiscal year 2015 on a GAAP basis. The deal is expected to close in late 2014. "Gaming is a top activity spanning devices, from PCs and consoles to tablets and mobile, with billions of hours spent each year," said Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella. "Minecraft is more than a great game franchise – it is an open world platform, driven by a vibrant community we care deeply about, and rich with new opportunities for that community and for Microsoft." Microsoft said it plans to continue to make Minecraft available across all the platforms on which it is available today: PC, iOS, Android, Xbox and PlayStation.   (Reporting by Mia Shanley, editing by Niklas Pollard) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nacho DoceIndustrial production unexpectedly fell 0.1% in August. Capacity utilization also fell, to 78.8% from a revised 79.1%.  Expectations were for production to grow 0.3% with capacity utilization expected to tick up to 79.3% from 79.2%. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "The underlying trend is rising, but surveys like the ISM and today's Empire State report are overstating the pace of growth because their H2 seasonals are distorted still by the echo of the Lehman bust." FREE AppDownload
Martin Prosperity InstituteThe United States is now a nation of singles. Single people make up just over half of all American adults for the first time since statistics have been collected, according to a study reported by Bloomberg last week. But which states and metros have the highest and lowest shares of singles? My Martin Prosperity Institute (MPI) colleague Charlotta Mellander crunched theU.S. Census figures on the share of American adults who are single, divorced or never married. According to these data, there were 128.2 million singles in the U.S. last year, or 51.2 percent of the population. These figures are similar to those in the study reported by Bloomberg, which was based on data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics and estimated that roughly 125 million Americans over the age of 16, or 50.2 percent, are currently single. That’s up from 37.6 percent in 1976. Singles make up more than half of the population in 27 of the 50 states. And the share of single adults ranges from a low of 43.7 percent to a high of 55.7 percent, as the map above shows. The table below lists the top and bottom ten states. Louisiana has the greatest share of single adults, followed by Rhode Island, New York, Mississippi, and New Mexico. California, Florida, Massachusetts, Nevada and Maryland round out the top 10. At the opposite side of the spectrum, the states where singles make up the smallest shares of the adult population include Utah, Idaho, Wyoming, Iowa and Nebraska. Martin Prosperity Institute Singles make up more than half of the population in more than six in ten of all U.S. metros (230 of 366). The share of single adults ranges from a low of 38.8 percent to a high of 62.1 percent, as the map above shows. The table below lists the top and bottom ten metros. College towns dominate the list of metros where singles make up the greatest share of the adult population. Topping the list is Gainesville, Florida (University of Florida), followed by Ithaca, New York (Cornell and Ithaca College), College Station, Texas (Texas A&amp;M), Tallahassee, Florida (Florida State and Florida A&amp;M), and Lawrence, Kansas (the University of Kansas). In those cities, singles make up more than 60 percent of the population. This is not surprising given the large number of younger students in these metros. The metros where singles make up the smallest shares of the adult population include St. George, Ogden, Provo, and Logan, Utah; Holland, Michigan; and Appleton, Wisconsin. Singles make up more than half the population in more than 46 of the 51 largest U.S. metros. The table below lists the large metros with the largest and smallest shares of singles. New Orleans tops the list, followed by Memphis, Miami, Los Angeles, Buffalo, Las Vegas, Providence, Philadelphia, New York, and Baltimore. While the nation’s two biggest metros, New York and L.A., are on the list, Chicago fails to crack the top ten. And knowledge hubs, like San Francisco, Boston and Washington, D.C., known for attracting large numbers of highly educated young workers, also fall outside the top. This is likely because these places are home to and attracting younger people who fall in the prime years for getting married and forming families. The top ten is basically a mix of fast-growing Sun Belt metros and older Rust Belt metros with older populations, where widows and widowers likely make up larger shares of the single population. At the opposite end of the spectrum, the large metros where singles make up the smallest share of adults are mainly faster-growing metros in the South and West, with younger populations overall and likely a bigger cohort of people in prime marriage and family-rearing age groups. The large metros where singles make up less than half of all adults include: San Jose, Salt Lake City, Raleigh, Minneapolis-St. Paul, Kansas City, and Dallas. The presence of San Jose (the hub of Silicon Valley), Denver, and Raleigh (in North Carolina’s Research Triangle) may come as something of a surprise. But again, these places are home to more younger people in their prime marrying years. This is the new geography of our "solo nation”, in sociologist Eric Klinenberg’scoinage. If families prefer the suburbs for schools and safety, singles prefer denser urban neighborhoods with more to do and greater opportunities to meet and connect with other singles. Our changing demographic reality is an increasingly important component of the ongoing “great inversion” away from the suburbs and back to cities. FREE AppDownload
APApple SVP of marketing Phil Schiller announces the new iPhone line. Apple just announced iPhone 6 preorder numbers. In the first 24 hours that the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus were available for preorder, Apple says it got 4 million preorders. For some context, the iPhone 5 did 2 million preorders in 24 hours when it launched in 2012. (Apple did not report preorder numbers last year.)  The stock is up just 0.7% on the news. The iPhone 6 is the biggest story in tech right now. Apple updated the iPhone, giving it a new design and a much bigger screen. The current iPhone has a 4-inch screen. The iPhone 6 has a 4.7-inch screen, and the iPhone 6 Plus has a 5.5-inch screen.  Apple CEO Tim Cook predicted that this upgrade would trigger the "the mother of all upgrades." It seems he's right. iPhone owners have been eagerly waiting for Apple to produce a phone with a bigger screen. Now that it's here, consumers are upgrading to one of the new iPhone 6 phones. Here is Apple's press release: CUPERTINO, Calif. --(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Apple® today announced a record number of first day pre-orders of iPhone® 6 and iPhone 6 Plus, the biggest advancements in iPhone history, with over four million in the first 24 hours. Demand for the new iPhones exceeds the initial pre-order supply and while a significant amount will be delivered to customers beginning on Friday and throughout September, many iPhone pre-orders are scheduled to be delivered in October. Additional supply of iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus will be available to walk-in customers on Friday, September 19 at 8:00 a.m. local time at Apple retail stores. Customers are encouraged to arrive early or order online from the Apple Online Store (www.apple.com) to pickup in-store or receive an estimated delivery date. Both models will also be available on Friday from AT&amp;T, Sprint, T-Mobile, Verizon Wireless, additional carriers and select Apple Authorized Resellers. “iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are better in every way, and we are thrilled customers love them as much as we do,” said Tim Cook, Apple’s CEO. “Pre-orders for iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus set a new record for Apple, and we can’t wait to get our best iPhones yet into the hands of customers starting this Friday.” iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus will be available in the US, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Puerto Rico, Singapore and the UK beginning this Friday, September 19 and in more than 20 additional countries beginning on Friday, September 26 including Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Isle of Man, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Turkey and United Arab Emirates. iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus are the biggest advancements in iPhone history, featuring two new models with stunning 4.7-inch and 5.5-inch Retina® HD displays, and packed with innovative technologies in an all-new dramatically thin and seamless design that is still comfortable to hold and easy to use. Both models are better in every way and include: the Apple-designed A8 chip with second generation 64-bit desktop-class architecture for blazing fast performance and power efficiency; advanced iSight® and FaceTime® HD cameras; ultrafast wireless technologies; and Apple Pay™, an easy way to simply and securely make payments with just the touch of a finger.* The new iPhones include iOS 8, the biggest release since the App Store<U+2120>, featuring a simpler, faster and more intuitive user experience with new Messages and Photos features, predictive typing for Apple’s QuickType™ keyboard and Family Sharing. iOS 8 also includes the new Health app, giving you a clear overview of your health and fitness data and iCloud Drive<U+2120>, so you can store files and access them from anywhere. Pricing &amp; Availability Every customer who buys an iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus at an Apple retail store will be offered free Personal Setup to help them customize their iPhone by setting up email, showing them new apps from the App Store and more, so they’ll be up and running with their new iPhone before they leave the store. iPhone 6 comes in gold, silver or space gray, and will be available in the US for a suggested retail price of $199 (US) for the 16GB model, $299 (US) for the 64GB model and, for the first time, a new 128GB model for $399 (US) with a two-year contract.** iPhone 6 Plus comes in gold, silver or space gray, and will be available in the US for a suggested retail price of $299 (US) for the 16GB model, $399 (US) for the 64GB model and $499 (US) for the new 128GB model with a two-year contract.** Both models will be available from Apple retail stores, the Apple Online Store (www.apple.com), and through AT&amp;T, Sprint, T-Mobile, Verizon Wireless, additional carriers, and select Apple Authorized Resellers including Best Buy, Target and Walmart. * Apple Pay will be available to iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus customers in the US as a free update to iOS 8 this October. ** For qualified customers only. Check with your carrier for details. Apple reinvented the mobile phone with its revolutionary iPhone and App Store, defined the future of mobile media and computing devices with iPad and has announced Apple Watch, its most personal device ever. Apple leads the digital music revolution with its iPods and iTunes online store, continues the rapid pace of innovation of mobile software with iOS and integrated services including Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple designs Macs, the best personal computers in the world with OS X, and free iOS and OS X apps like iWork and iMovie. NOTE TO EDITORS: For additional information visit Apple’s PR website (www.apple.com/pr), or call Apple’s Media Helpline at (408) 974-2042. © 2014 Apple Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Mac, Mac OS, Macintosh, iPhone, Retina, iSight, FaceTime, Apple Pay, App Store, QuickType and iCloud Drive are trademarks of Apple. Other company and product names may be trademarks of their respective owners.        FREE AppDownload
NY FedThe Empire State Manufacturing index surged to 27.5 in September, the highest level since October 2009. This was up from 14.69 in August, and it crushed economists' expectations for 15.95. "The September 2014 Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that business activity expanded at a robust pace for New York manufacturers," the NY Fed said in its report. "Optimism about future business conditions remained high." "The buoyant headline index is based on a general question of business conditions," Capital Economics' Paul Diggle noted. "The more specific sub-indices that are derived from actual activity were a bit weaker. Here's the NY Fed on the reports sub-indices: "The new orders index moved up three points to 16.9, and the shipments index advanced two points to 27.1. The unfilled orders index fell three points to -10.9. The prices paid index declined three points to 23.9, indicating a slower pace of input price increases, while the prices received index climbed nine points to 17.4, suggesting a pickup in the pace of selling price increases. Employment indexes showed a slight increase in employ- ment levels and hours worked. Indexes for the six-month outlook conveyed a high degree of optimism about future business conditions." "The manufacturing sector clearly is in good shape, but we doubt it is as strong as this survey seems to suggest, at least at the headline level," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson said. "We wonder if the Empire State is suffering from seasonal adjustment distortions similar to those boosting the ISM and Philly surveys." FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesWarren BuffettNo, Buffett and Co. are not jumping into the production or distribution of marijuana, but they are trying to help those already in those lines of work. Cubic Designs Inc., a small, Wisconsin-based subsidiary of Berkshire specializing in the development and installation of “free-standing structures that add needed space to…facilities,” has reached out to over 1,000 Colorado and Washington pot dispensaries in an effort to help them maximize their functional space for growing and harvesting marijuana. The marketing-friendly fliers feature pictures of pot plants growing in confined spaces with captions reading "Double Your Growing Space" and "Grow Your Profits". As the demand for legal weed increases, growers — already having difficulty keeping up with existing orders — in urban areas like Denver and Seattle are frantically seeking ways to increase production while avoiding rising real estate costs for additional space. It’s exactly that need Cubic Designs hopes to capitalize on with their array of “pre-engineered steel mezzanines and work platforms,” allowing growers to make far better use of their existing production areas. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile of William Ackman, founder and CEO of hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management, speaks to audience about Herbalife company  in New YorkAMSTERDAM/LONDON (Reuters) - Pershing Square Holdings, a fund managed by activist investor Bill Ackman, hopes to raise $2 billion from a listing on the Euronext Amsterdam stock exchange, the company said in a statement on Monday. The company expects the fund to have a market capitalization of at least $5 billion after the share offering, which will be priced at $25 a share. New York hedge fund manager Ackman, famed for aggressive moves including a $1 billion bet against US nutrition firm Herbalife, is currently engaged in a battle to broker a sale of Botox maker Allergan to Valeant Pharmaceuticals. Pershing Square Holdings said it had already received commitments worth $1.5 billion from 30 cornerstone investors. It currently has more than 300 investors. The fund is run by Pershing Square Capital Management, a North America-focused equities investment manager founded by Ackman in 2003 which had $14.1 billion in assets under management at the end of June. Reuters reported earlier this month that UBS &lt;ubsn.vx&gt; and Deutsche Bank &lt;dbkgn.de&gt; were to run the listing. Credit Suisse &lt;csgn.vx&gt; is acting as joint bookrunner, the firm said. Pershing Square Holdings gained 31.2 percent during the first eight months of 2014, according to an investor with the fund, making it one of the industry's best performing funds of the year. It expects to be admitted for trading on Oct. 13.     (Reporting by Thomas Escritt and Freya Berry; editing by Jason Neely and Susan Thomas) FREE AppDownload
YouTubeBill Gurley at a Geekwire conference. Respected venture capitalist Bill Gurley is sounding the alarm on the startup industry. In an interview with The Wall Street Journal, Gurley says the current environment reminds him of the tech bubble that formed in the late 1990s. Every incremental day that goes past I have this feeling a little bit more. I think that Silicon Valley as a whole or that the venture-capital community or startup community is taking on an excessive amount of risk right now. Unprecedented since <U+0091>'99. In some ways less silly than '99 and in other ways more silly than in '99. Gurley adds, "No one's fearful, everyone's greedy, and it will eventually end." Gurley is a partner at Benchmark. He's invested in Uber, OpenTable, and Zillow. Benchmark has invested in Snapchat, Quip, Yelp, and many more. Private companies are raising giant sums of money — some as much as $500 million, says Gurley. When you have that much money, you have to spend it, so companies are upping their "burn rate," or the amount of money they're willing to lose to grow their businesses. Gurley thinks the burn rate for companies is the highest it's been since 1999. He also thinks that the number of people working at money-losing companies is the highest it's been since 1999. People think nothing of working at companies that are losing millions of dollars a year because there's an overwhelming feeling of optimism right now. If a downturn suddenly hits the startup world, Gurley thinks it's going to take "massive" amounts of "gymnastics" for companies to readjust their businesses to cut down on the burn rate. This is all being driven by the low cost of capital. It's relatively easy for startups to raise money right now. All the money sloshing around in the startup world is leading to secondary problems. Landlords in San Francisco are trying to lock in startups to 10-year leases. Gurley thinks this is a sign that landlords believe their rents are at a record high, and they want to lock in the rate. If landlords thought the price was going to be higher, they wouldn't be asking for 10-year leases.  Gurley isn't cutting back on his investment, though. He's trying to be selective. He also says he's trying to advise his companies to be smart with their money. But there's a problem with that. You can't afford to be conservative when all this money is flying around: That's really difficult because if you have a competitor that's going to double or triple down on sales and you just decide, "Oh, well I'm not going to execute bad business decisions, I'm just going to sit back," you lose market share. So, choosing not to play the game on the field doesn't work, so you're left with trying to advise someone to be pragmatically aggressive with some type of conservative backdrop or alternative strategy in case the world shifts. But it's hard. For what it's worth, this isn't the first time an investor has sounded the alarm. Four years ago, venture investor Fred Wilson warned of storm clouds. Other people were concerned that we were in Bubble 2.0 then, too. But things have been pretty good since then.  And earlier this year, when Box tried to IPO, but couldn't make it to the public markets, some people wondered if the bubble was finally bursting. But it managed to raise money on the private markets. And then there's Square, which seemed to be struggling, but has managed to raise another $100 million.  A downturn is coming at some point, and companies should be prepared. But, figuring out timing of these things is nearly impossible. Read his full interview at The Wall Street Journal &gt;    FREE AppDownload
Getty Images LatamFrench filmmakers accuse Netflix of avoiding local taxes that subsidize French films.The American video streaming service Netflix launches in France today amid hostility from state-subsidized local media and fears that it will erode the French “cultural exception”. Netflix is trying to win over the French public and soothe anxious film and TV producers, accustomed to being sheltered from international competition, by financing a locally-made drama called “Marseille”. The eight-episode series, in French, is being billed as a Gallic answer to the internationally acclaimed Netflix remake of the political drama “House of Cards”. Filmed in Marseille and due to start showing next year, it will depict a vicious election battle between an ageing mayor, who has controlled the Mediterranean city for 25 years, and the young man he has chosen as his heir but who decides to challenge him, against a backdrop of corruption, violence and drug trafficking. The novelist Dan Franck, who is writing the screenplay, said: “Netflix has given us a blank page to create a House of Cards in French that breaks through unspoken hypocrisy.” However, the French film producers’ association accused Netflix of “fiscal dumping”. It claims it is deliberately avoiding local taxes paid by national television channels and streaming services, which subsidies French films, by setting up its European headquarters in Amsterdam. That will also exempt it from a requirement that 40 per cent of content on TV and radio must be of French origin. “Offering only American series would never work here,” said Pascal Rogard, the head of the French Society of Dramatic Authors and Composers. Frédéric Goldsmith, head of the French film producers’ association, said: “What is impressive with Netflix is its technological and marketing abilities, but its service isn’t new.” The local telecommunications operators Orange, owned by France Telecom, SFR, Bouygues and Free are refusing to host Netflix on their TV boxes as they do for rival French streaming services, because they have not agreed financial terms. A senior manager of one telecoms firm told the newspaper, Le Journal du Dimanche: “We receive between 20 and 35 per cent of the revenue to distribute a service but Netflix is offering us a ridiculously small share. No operator is interested in signing now.” Netflix will be accessible on the Internet. Governmental opposition to Netflix was removed last month when François Hollande purged left-wing rebels from his government. They included the former culture minister, Aurélie Filippetti, who had called the service a “stowaway” for entering the French market with its head office in a different country, and the former economy minister, Arnaud Montebourg, who had picked fights with several foreign investors. Ironically, the pair made headlines last week by being photographed on a romantic holiday in California, where Netflix is based. The service will face competition from French rivals such as the country's leading pay TV operator, Canal+, and Numericable, whose streaming service also launches today. Canal+ already owns the French rights to House of Cards and has just gone into partnership with the American TV company, HBO, in an attempt to head off competition from Netflix, which has 50 million subscribers worldwide. It plans to follow its move into the French market by launching its service in Austria, Belgium, Germany and Switzerland.  FREE AppDownload
Fundstrat.comUPDATE: Tom Lee's first research note is out, and it's bullish. After falling off of the radar for six months, Wall Street bull Tom Lee is back. CNBC's Carl Quintanilla just announced Lee would be on CNBC at 10 am ET. Lee, formerly the chief US equity strategist for JP Morgan, is now the founder and head of Fundstrat Global Advisors. From Fundstrat.com: "We are an independent research boutique, providing market strategy and sector research.  Our differentiated approach is based on what we call fundamental strategy.  That is, our research process combines a top-down strategy view and a bottoms-up fundamental view, to develop a roadmap of practical and useful investment insights for our clients." Lee has often been panned for being a permabull. However, many of his market forecasts have ultimately been winners. Before leaving JP Morgan, Lee published a 2,075 year-end target for the S&amp;P 500 at the beginning of the year. At the time, his was the most bullish call on Wall Street. But with the S&amp;P surging to as high as 2,011 recently, Lee's has proven to be one of the more accurate calls. Even after his abrupt departure from the JP Morgan, the details of his forecasts have proven prescient. Is he still bullish? We'll soon find out. FREE AppDownload
No matter how unselfish you are, you probably still find yourself trying to influence people to do the things you want them to do. So why fight it? Here are the four most effective words you can use to achieve your goals.
Dave Lutz of JonesTrading has the top topics about which traders are talking about today: Good Morning!   Equity Futures are starting on the back foot, but have been rallying from session lows as US traders get into the office.   Fed, Scottish Referendum, Alibaba all adding to the angst building early this week – but the focus right now is on weaker growth – China’s factory output comes in very light and OECD Cuts Growth Forecasts.   We will also continue to see BABA fundraising (prob thru tomorrow) as Alibaba is upsizing the deal and Closing books for US Investors Tuesday, and EU/Asia Wednesday.  The FTSE is under slight pressure in light volume as polls this weekend show a race too close to call in Scotland.  The DAX is gaining 20bp as their consumer stocks outperform, while Spain remains under pressure.    Quiet session in Asia, as Japan was closed while Shanghai rallied on dovish hopes.  The Aussie $ weighed on Aussie’s equity market – Miners outperformed but Fins and Industrials hit sharply.  Overall Emerging Markets look to be setting their 6th straight day of losses.The US 10YY is slightly lower, and German 10’s are off 2bp and near session lows.    Flows continue into the Greenback, as the Rouble is at a record low as tensions linger, Sweden’s krona at a 2Y low after an inconclusive general election, GBP is weaker on Scotland and Euro is rolling to test recent lows.    Gold is showing a bit of a bounce after last week’s weakness – but the Oil complex remains under sharp pressure on global growth angst - Brent 2Y Lows into contract expiry and WTI was off 1.6% earlier this AM.   Zero bounce in the Grains, with both Corn and Wheat under sharp pressure again – What has lost 7% in the last week.     Scheduled Catalysts today include Empire Manufacturing at 8:30, Canadian Home Sales at 9, US Industrial Production at 9:15, and a $1B POMO at 11.     FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Seth Perlman, FileAn Illinois Department of Revenue employee offers assistance to income tax payers at the Illinois Department of Revenue in Springfield, Ill. WASHINGTON (AP) — Income inequality is taking a toll on state governments. The widening gap between the wealthiest Americans and everyone else has been matched by a slowdown in state tax revenue, according to a report being released Monday by Standard &amp; Poor's. Even as income for the affluent has accelerated, it's barely kept pace with inflation for most other people. That trend can mean a double-whammy for states: The wealthy often manage to shield much of their income from taxes. And they tend to spend less of it than others do, thereby limiting sales tax revenue. As the growth of tax revenue has slowed, states have faced tensions over whether to raise taxes or cut spending to balance their budgets as required by law. "Rising income inequality is not just a social issue," said Gabriel Petek, the S&amp;P credit analyst who wrote the report. "It presents a very significant set of challenges for the policymakers." Stagnant pay for most people has compounded the pressure on states to preserve funding for education, highways and social programs such as Medicaid. Their investments in education and infrastructure have also fueled economic growth. Yet they're at risk without a strong flow of tax revenue.The prospect of having to raise taxes to balance a state budget is a politically delicate one. The allure of low taxes has been used by states to spur job creation, by attracting factories, businesses and corporate headquarters. "If you've got political pressure to spend more money and pressure against raising taxes, then you're in a pickle," said David Brunori, a public policy professor at George Washington University." Income inequality isn't the only factor slowing state tax revenue. Online retailers account for a rising chunk of consumer spending. Yet they often manage to avoid sales taxes. Consumers are spending more on untaxed services, too. S&amp;P's analysis builds on a previous report this year in which it said the widening gap between the wealthiest Americans and everyone else has slowed the U.S. economy's recovery from the Great Recession. Because consumer spending fuels about 70 percent of the economy, weak pay growth typically slows economic growth. Some states are scrambling for new revenue sources. Pennsylvania has raised fees for vanity license plates and other auto expenses. Colorado and Washington legalized recreational marijuana, in part on the promise that the proceeds would be taxed. Adjusted for inflation, government data show that median household income rose by a few thousand dollars since 1979 to $51,017 in 2012 and remains below its level before the recession began in late 2007. By contrast, the top 1 percent has thrived. Their incomes averaged $1.26 million in 2012, up from $466,302 in 1979, according IRS data. The combination of an increasingly global economy, greater productivity from technology and outsize investment returns has shifted a rising share of money to the wealthy. Of all the dollars earned in 2012, more than 22 percent went to the top 1 percent. That share has more than doubled since 1979. Before income inequality began to rise consistently, state tax revenue grew an average of 9.97 percent a year from 1950 to 1979. That average steadily fell with each subsequent decade, dipping to 3.62 percent between 2000 and 2009. State tax revenue growth has risen slightly since then as the economy has recovered and some states — California, Connecticut, New Jersey and New York, for example — have adopted higher top marginal income tax rates, according to S&amp;P. In 2012, California voters backed a ballot measure to raise taxes. That measure boosted California's sales tax to 7.5 percent for four years and income taxes rates to between 10.3 and 12.3 percent for seven years on income over $250,000. Plus, there's an additional 1 percent tax on millionaires. More than half the income tax the state collected in 2012 came from the top 1 percent, compared with 33 percent in 1993. And in 2013, state tax revenue in California surged 15.6 percent. Seven other states have also raised top marginal rates since 2009. This marks a reversal of the trend from 1985 to 2009, when average top marginal tax rates across all states fell slightly. The most affluent Americans typically receive most of their income from profits in stocks and other investments, rather than wages. This means that swings in financial markets can cause state revenue to gyrate from year to year. Some states — including Arizona, Florida, Nevada, Texas and Washington — rely primarily on sales taxes for funding. They're more dependent on consumer spending and don't benefit much from the gains that have flowed mainly to the wealthiest Americans. Across all states, sales taxes account for 30.1 percent of all state revenue, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. Personal income taxes make up 36.6 percent. The rest comes from other sources, such as taxes on fuel, alcohol and cigarettes. As consumers have spent more online and on untaxed services, many states have tried to tax items like Netflix subscriptions and iTunes downloads. Washington state now taxes services at dating centers, tanning salons and Turkish baths. Kim Rueben, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute, said the rise of untaxed purchases might have squeezed state revenue even if income inequality hadn't widened. "Sales taxes are being eroded by the fact that we're moving to a services economy, and people are buying far more on the Internet," she said. Research by Lucy Dadayan, a senior policy analyst at the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government, notes that income tax collections have become more volatile from year to year, making it harder for states to plan budgets, provide services and launch programs. She endorses an overhaul of state tax codes to produce a more balanced revenue flow. But S&amp;P says its findings suggest that the wealth gap derives from many factors and that state tax-code revisions don't fully address the consequences. "Changes to state fiscal policy alone won't likely fix what's wrong," S&amp;P concludes. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungFormer U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and her husband former U.S. President Bill Clinton hold up some steaks at the 37th Harkin Steak Fry in Indianola, Iowa, September 14, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know: China Is Slowing. The world's second largest economy is decelerating at a much sharper rate than economists have been forecasting. Here's the roundup of the latest crummy data dump from Westpac's Jonathan Cavenagh: "Over the weekend, China released industrial production (IP), fixed asset investment and retail sales data for August. All prints came in weaker than expected but the very sharp deceleration in year-on-year (yoy) IP growth will draw the most attention. IP rose just 6.9% versus 8.8% expected and a 9.0% print in July. Retail sales rose 11.9% versus 12.1% expected and 12.2% previously, although the month-on-month number improved from July. Fixed asset investment was up 16.5% versus 16.9% expected and 17.0% previously. In addition, the national statistics bureau released other data on Saturday, which showed that house sales dropped close to 11%yoy through January to August, versus a 10.5% drop in the first 7 months of the year. It also came after weaker monetary aggregate figures on Friday." Chinese Policymaker's Have A High Tolerance For Pain. Considering the stunning deceleration in growth, there seems to be a growing need for stimulus to prevent a hard landing. So far, we've heard very little from Chinese policymakers. "What is more suprising is the calm response from Beijing, which emphasized the resilience of the labour market and once again downplayed the importance of the short-term growth target," Societe Generale's Wei Yao said. "The new leadership’s tolerance level for short-term pain appears to have just jumped up by another big notch, making even our below-consensus growth and policy forecast look a tad too sanguine. Q3 GDP growth looks set to clock in at around 7% yoy." Markets Are Mostly In The Red. Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 0.9%. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is down 0.2%, France's CAC 40 is down 0.2%, and Spain's IBEX is down 0.3%. U.S. futures are in the red with Dow futures down 24 points and S&amp;P 3.6 points. Scottish Independence Gets Set Back. According to a new poll, the "no" votes pulled ahead with 54% of respondents saying they would vote against independence from the UK. Scots head to the voting booths on Thursday. Let's Not Forget About Spain. "A trickier, potentially more explosive situation is unfolding in Spain, where the region of Catalan (which includes Barcelona) is scheduled to vote on November 9 on whether it is to leave Spain," Business Insider's Joe Weisenthal writes. Here's The Spain Report's Matthew Bennett: "Catalonia is 19% of Spanish GDP, 26% of exports, and more than 50% of land exits to Europe. Catalonia is systemically important to Spain's economy, and Spain is systemically important to Europe's economy. I can't imagine bond traders would find that scenario positive in the short term." Germany's Got That Separatist Feeling. "Germany's fledgling anti-euro party won parliamentary seats in elections in two eastern states on Sunday, heightening an emerging threat for Chancellor Angela Merkel's conservatives," the AFP reported. "The Alternative for Germany (AfD), formed early last year, gained 10 percent in Thuringia state and 12 percent in Brandenburg, two weeks after also entering parliament in Saxony state, said exit polls by public broadcasters ARD and ZDF." Economists have warned that the separatist mood in Scotland would be contagious. Sweden's Far Right Is Rising. Even though they ultimately lost the election, Sweden's far right, anti-immigration, anti-Europe Sweden Democrats party took a large 13% of the vote. This is yet another sign of rising discontent for the status quo in Europe. The Alibaba IPO Is Looking Red Hot. "Alibaba Group Holding Ltd plans to increase the size of its U.S. initial public offering because of "overwhelming" demand  for the deal, people familiar with the deal said on Monday," Reuters' Supriya Kurane reported. "The Chinese e-commerce company launched the IPO last week and had enough investor demand to cover the entire deal within two days, people familiar with the process said last week. Alibaba could set a new record for the world's biggest IPO if underwriters exercise an option to sell additional shares to meet demand, pushing it as high as $24.3 billion and overtaking Agricultural Bank of China Ltd's $22.1 billion listing in 2010." Heineken Turns Down SABMiller. "SABMiller Plc was rebuffed in an attempt to buy smaller brewer Heineken NV, a deal that would have strengthened it against a potential bid by Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, people with knowledge of the matter said," Bloomberg's David Welch, Matthew Campbell and Manuel Baigorri reported. "Heineken, the brewer of Amstel Light, confirmed in a statement that it turned down the offer and said it intends to remain independent." US Econ Check. At 9:15 a.m. ET, we'll get the August industrial production report. Economists estimate the production climbed 0.3% in August while capacity utilization ticked up to 79.3% from 79.2%. "With regional purchasing manager surveys continuing to firm and the solid jump in the ISM manufacturing index in August, we expect another monthly gain in manufacturing output in August," Wells Fargo's John Silvia said. "However, the flat reading in average weekly hours of production workers in the factory sector suggests there could be some downside risks to the forecast. That said, average weekly hours declined in June and July while manufacturing output eked out gains in both months." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Russell CheyneThe massed pipe bands play at the annual Braemar Highland Gathering in Braemar, Scotland September 6, 2014. In the U.S., all eyes will be focused on the Federal Reserve as it holds its Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Tuesday and Wednesday. Not much is expected in terms of policy shifts. But with U.S. economic activity picking up, everyone will be parsing the Fed's words for clues regarding the exact timing of interest rate hikes. Meanwhile, Scotland has attracted the attention of the world. On September 18, Scots will vote "yes" or "no" to Scottish independence from the U.K. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Deutsche Bank's David Bianco and Wells Fargo's Gina Martin Adams came into 2014 betting the S&amp;P 500 would end the year at 1,850. Those calls made them tied for most bearish strategist on Wall Street. In the past week, both pulled the plug on their calls. Here's Bianco, who now sees the S&amp;P at 2,050 by year end and 2,150 in 2015: "We still expect a long lasting economic expansion of moderate growth, which should rival the US record of 10 years with S&amp;P EPS growth averaging 6% until the next recession, on 5% sales growth, flat margins, 1% share shrink. Despite entering the latter years of a typical expansion and high margins vs. history, we now think the trailing S&amp;P PE should average 17 vs. 16 until elevated recession risk returns." Here's Adams, who sees the S&amp;P at 2,100 12 months from now: "Our earnings growth estimates continue to improve given improving domestic economic data and the Fed continues to signal they will tread very carefully in their attempt to unwind accommodative policy... Tactically, we continue to believe that equity investors should be on guard for a more challenging investment climate in the near term, as monetary policy certainty fades to uncertainty this autumn... In sum, we think it wise for investors to remain relatively selective toward stocks in the short term, but buy any policy-related weakness that develops over the next few quarters." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
ChinaFotoPress / Getty Images(Reuters) - Alibaba Group Holding Ltd plans to increase the size of its U.S. initial public offering because of "overwhelming" demand  for the deal, people familiar with the deal said on Monday. The Chinese e-commerce company launched the IPO last week and had enough investor demand to cover the entire deal within two days, people familiar with the process said last week. Alibaba could set a new record for the world's biggest IPO if underwriters exercise an option to sell additional shares to meet demand, pushing it as high as $24.3 billion and overtaking Agricultural Bank of China Ltd's $22.1 billion listing in 2010. The company and some shareholders offered 320.1 million American depositary shares at a $60-$66 per share indicative range. Alibaba will likely file an amendment to its IPO later on Monday with a higher price range after discussing the new price with large U.S. mutual funds and institutional investors, one of the people said. "Demand has been overwhelming since the launch," said the person, who couldn't be named because details of the IPO aren't yet public. "Increasing the price range was already on the cards from the beginning." Bloomberg earlier reported that Alibaba plans to increase the top end of the price range to above $70. (http://bloom.bg/1q6cHTi) Reuters reported on Friday that Alibaba plans to close its IPO order book early after it received enough orders to sell all the shares in the record-breaking offering. The company launched its IPO last week and is expected to price the deal on Sept. 18. It will start trading a day later. Alibaba spokeswoman Florence Shih declined to comment.              (Reporting by Elzio Barreto and Fiona Lau of IFR; Additional reporting by Supriya Kurane in Bangalore; Editing by Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China Daily An employee checks newly-assembled electric cars to be exported to South America at an electric vehicle factory in Zouping county, Shandong province September 24, 2013.  China reported a bunch of ugly economic data over the weekend. You can read the details here, but everything from industrial production to retail sales to fixed asset investment was weak. The surprise is not that China is slowing — after all, to some extent China wants to slow down — but that authorities are letting the economy slow as fast as it is. They seem to be showing a lot of willpower not stimulating the economy. Anyway, anything associated with China is going down. Oil — which has been weak for three months — is tanking, down over 1%.  Here's oil: FinVizOIl has been tanking all summer. Copper is weak too. The Aussie Dollar fell, briefly, below 0.90 against the US dollar.  FinVizThe Aussie dollar — which often moves based on China's economy — has been getting slammed. The Hong Kong stock market, which is on a 6-day losing streak, lost nearly 1%. Emerging markets, many of which have their fortunes tied up to China in some way due to trade, are on their largest losing streak since 2012, according to FT. That's the story of the moment: Weak China taking down a bunch of other stuff. FREE AppDownload
Pascal Le Segretain/Getty ImagesToday's sign that Europe is coming apart. Sweden held an election this weekend, and the number 3 party was the Sweden Democrats, which took nearly 13% of the vote, doubling their share from last time. The Sweden Democrats are a far right party, which blasts immigration, and the euro "elites." Fraser Nelson at UK's The Spectator explains them like this: They call themselves “Sweden’s only opposition party”, the implication being that the Stockholm elite is one indistinguishable blob of vested interest.  Like UKIP, they say they are neither left or right. I’d put them closer to Maine Le Pen’s National Front in being anti-immigration and protectionist. Is Ms Romson fair to compare them to racists? There is no doubt that the Sweden Democrats have moved towards the mainstream in recent years and tried to address racism within their ranks. Their language is a mixture of Salmond/Farage-style anger at the elite and populism. Overall, the election was won by the left, though barely, and controling parliament will be difficult. Still, the success of the Sweden Democrats is just the latest in a trend, from the UK to France to Germany, where ultra-right, anti-Europe or Eurozone parties are performing quite well. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn employee walks past oil tanks at a Sinopec refinery in Wuhan, Hubei provinceShanghai (AFP) - Chinese oil giant Sinopec will sell a 30 percent stake in its marketing arm to outside investors for more than $17 billion, the company said, as the government pushes key economic reforms. China's Communist Party pledged at a meeting in November to allow the market to play a "decisive" role in the allocation of resources through a number of policies, including prodding state companies to operate on more commercial terms.  The move by Sinopec, initially proposed by the firm in February, has been hailed by state media as the first among the nation's three largest energy firms to introduce more diversified ownership. However, investors were not impressed. In Shanghai, Sinopec was down 1.06 percent on Monday morning, slightly outpacing a fall in the benchmark index, while its Hong Kong-listed shares sank more than five percent. Under the deal's terms, 25 investors will buy a combined 29.99 percent share in the marketing company, leaving Sinopec with 70.01 percent, for 107.09 billion yuan ($17.42 billion), Sinopec said late Sunday in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange. The marketing unit is engaged in the distribution of petrol, diesel and jet fuel through more than 30,000 service stations, it said. The stakeholders were mainly Chinese investment firms and insurance companies, including vehicles of Shanghai-based conglomerate Fosun, Internet giant Tencent and China Life Insurance Co., the list showed.  Foreign-linked investors include a subsidiary of ICBC Credit Suisse Asset Management Co., a joint venture between China's largest bank and the Swiss financial services giant.  No foreign oil firms were among the investors. Sinopec said previously it would not accept investors which could have a "conflict of interest" with the marketing arm or the parent company. The official Xinhua news agency said investors included 11 privately-owned companies.  The deal still requires approval by China's Ministry of Commerce, according to the statement. Parent Sinopec last month announced its net profit for the first half of 2014 rose 7.5 percent year-on-year to 32.54 billion yuan, despite weaker domestic demand for oil products.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo on a Wells Fargo bank building is seen in downtown San DiegoBy Peter Rudegeair NEW YORK (Reuters) - Getting a mortgage in the United States may be easier than many borrowers think, according to a survey released Monday by Wells Fargo &amp; Co , the largest U.S. mortgage lender. Nearly two-thirds of respondents thought that a very good credit score was necessary to buy a home, and more than 40 percent thought they needed a down payment equal to at least 20 percent of the purchase price to buy a home. Under government-backed programs, first-time home buyers with subprime credit scores can get a mortgage insured by the Federal Housing Administration, and they can put down as little as 3.5 percent of the purchase price. Since the financial crisis, lenders have clamped down on mortgage credit. The Mortgage Bankers Association’s Mortgage Credit Availability Index, which measures the ease with which borrowers can take out a home loan based on credit scores, loan-to-value ratios and other factors, fell by more than 80 percent from early 2007 through August 2014. But there are other reasons why consumers are not taking out loans like they once did, including the fear of being turned down. In 2013, those fears kept 19 percent of families from taking steps to get a consumer loan, up from 18.5 percent in 2010 and above the 16.4 percent rate of families who were actually turned down for credit, according to the Federal Reserve’s most recent survey of consumer finances. Even if mortgage credit is hard to come by, there is demand for homes: more than two out of three respondents in Wells Fargo's survey said it was a good time to buy. Franklin Codel, Wells Fargo’s head of mortgage production, said his bank has taken steps to expand the pool of eligible home buyers. Earlier this year it lowered the minimum credit scores, or FICO scores, for loans that are backed by the government the Federal Housing Administration, Fannie Mae, or Freddie Mac. “When we expanded FICO ranges, we saw not only an increase in applications but we also saw an increase in approval rates,” Codel said, without providing specifics on application volume or approval rates. Codel also said that the federal government, along with Wells Fargo and the realtors and consumer groups with whom it works, can play a role in dispelling these myths through some kind of outreach program along the lines of what they did with the government-subsidized Home Affordable Refinance Program and the Home Affordable Modification Program. Because Wells Fargo’s survey is the first of its kind, it is difficult to say how attitudes toward home ownership have changed over time. Fannie Mae’s August national housing survey found a similar number of borrowers – 64 percent – thought it was a good time to buy a home, though tied an all-time low and was down from the 71 percent response rate in the August 2013 survey.  (Editing by Eric Walsh) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPedestrian and cars are reflected in a Nissan Motor logo at the company's dealership in TokyoPARIS (Reuters) - Nissan boss Carlos Ghosn is preparing to cut battery manufacturing, people familiar with the matter said, in a new reversal on electric cars that has reopened deep divisions with alliance partner Renault. The plan, which faces stiff resistance within the Japanese carmaker, would see U.S. and British production phased out and a reduced output of next-generation batteries concentrated at its domestic plant, two alliance sources told Reuters. In what may also prove a politically sensitive blow to Japan Inc., Nissan would follow Renault by taking cheaper batteries from South Korea's LG Chem &lt;051910.KS&gt; for some future vehicles, including models made in China. "We set out to be a leader in battery manufacturing but it turned out to be less competitive than we'd wanted," said one executive on condition of anonymity. "We're still between six months and a year behind LG in price-performance terms." A decision on the Nissan battery plants in Sunderland, England, and Smyrna, Tennessee, is due next month, the sources said, following a tense procurement review with 43.4 percent shareholder Renault, the smaller but senior partner in their 15-year-old alliance. "Renault would clearly prefer to go further down the LG sourcing route, and the Nissan engineers would obviously prefer to stay in-house," another insider said. "The write-off costs are potentially huge." Renault-Nissan "remains 100-percent committed to its industry-leading electric vehicle program" and has no plans to write down battery investments, spokeswoman Rachel Konrad said. "We have not taken any decision whatsoever to modify battery sourcing allocation," Konrad said, adding that the alliance "does not confirm or deny procurement reviews." But Nissan is already negotiating with manufacturing partner NEC Corp. &lt;6701.T&gt; on the shift to dual sourcing, with Chief Executive Ghosn's backing, the sources said. Nissan currently makes all its own electric car batteries. One option being explored would see LG, which supplies some Renault models, invest in its own battery production at one of the overseas Nissan plants as the carmaker halts operations at the sites. The alliance is also in talks with LG on a deal to supply batteries for future Renault and Nissan electric models in China, one of the sources added. NEC and LG declined to comment. Under Ghosn, who heads both companies, Renault-Nissan bet more on electric cars than any mainstream competitor, pledging in 2009 to invest 4 billion euros ($5.2 billion) to build models including the Nissan Leaf compact and as many as 500,000 batteries per year to power them. Nissan and NEC invested 23 billion yen ($215 million) in their Zama, Japan battery plant and electrode manufacturing, backed by government aid. U.S. and British taxpayers also helped with the $1 billion invested in Tennessee and 210 million pounds ($341 million) in Sunderland. But the mass consumer was largely unmoved - or deterred by the sluggish rollout of recharging networks - despite generous sales incentives in key markets. Global electric car sales will remain shy of 1 million in 2020, according to forecaster IHS Automotive, less than one percent of the total vehicle market, and one-tenth of the demand Ghosn had predicted. "Renault-Nissan were definitely ahead of their time - in a bad way," said Stuart Pearson, an Exane BNP analyst. "There's nothing wrong with ambition, but when that involves excess investment then it's also a risk," he said. "Their targets were really excessive on volume and battery capacity." The alliance has begun a belated push into faster-selling hybrids, combining electric and combustion-engine propulsion. Upscale electric rivals such as Tesla's &lt;tsla.o&gt; Model S meanwhile hog the limelight, backed by big investments in newer, cheaper battery technologies.  en.wikipedia.orgA Nissan Leaf electric car Ghosn dropped extra battery sites planned for both alliance carmakers, leaving Nissan with the entire production capacity of 220,000 power packs through the NEC joint venture, AESC. But that still far exceeds the 67,000 electric cars Renault-Nissan sold last year, and even the 176,000 registered to date. A pledge to reach 1.5 million by 2016 has been scrapped. The coming hybrids will fill some of the excess plant capacity, although they use fewer power cells per vehicle. An all-electric Tesla rival is still planned for Nissan's premium Infiniti brand in 2018 with batteries as big as 60 kilowatt-hours (kWh), more than twice the energy capacity of the Leaf, which is due for replacement the previous year. Nissan is seeking to unwind a ruinous NEC contract that requires it to purchase electrodes for the full capacity of 220,000 Leaf-sized 24 kWh batteries regardless of actual sales, sources said. The joint venture partner's consent is also needed to bring LG production or other activities onto the Tennessee or Sunderland sites, which together employ 500 workers. The financial hit for Nissan "will depend on what else we can do with the plants", with heavy charges likely if both are closed, one manager added. Renault has already taken at least one writedown of 85 million euros on its over-investment in electric cars following the collapse of Better Place, a charging startup that had ordered 100,000 of its battery-powered Fluence sedans. The Nissan procurement shift could still be thwarted by capacity-cutting costs including repayment of U.S. and British government support. Next-generation battery manufacturing at Zama would also likely need fresh Japanese aid to compete with LG and its subsidies from Seoul, sources said. Navigating the battery backtrack is a key test for CEO Ghosn as he demands closer Renault-Nissan integration from executives mandated to pursue savings across the alliance. For Nissan, the plant cuts would be a partial retreat from the automotive battery market - expected to top $20 billion by 2020 - just as California-based Tesla builds its $5 billion "Gigafactory" with Panasonic &lt;6752.T&gt; in Nevada. Japanese engineers are still smarting from Renault's 2010 move to drop Nissan batteries and purchase LG for its flagship Zoe model, worsening the overcapacity problem. "It was a 15-20 percent cost gap," said one of the people involved in the Renault decision. "In purchasing, 3-4 percent is usually enough to choose a partner for." Today's Nissan batteries come in at $270 per kWh, based on replacement prices thought to be below cost, according to consulting firm AlixPartners. The true manufacturing cost is believed to be over $300, inflated by the amortization of unused plant capacity and the burdensome electrodes deal. The next generation will have lithium nickel manganese cobalt oxide (NMC) cathodes, as used by LG, rather than the current lithium manganese oxide (LMO) chemistry. The alliance cost target is $200/kWh, whether made or bought, sources said. With a clean slate and sufficient volume, Nissan engineers insist, their next generation of batteries could be competitive on price as well as keeping crucial know-how at the company. "When you're developing cutting-edge technology, the best way to know about that technology is to build it in-house," said one. "That's what Tesla is doing." Many of the past missteps can be traced to internal rivalries of the kind Ghosn is only now moving to stamp out. Former Nissan second-in-command Carlos Tavares, racing to beat the Renault Zoe to market, cut Leaf development by a year and skipped a critical battery redesign, according to alliance veterans. Nissan later cut prices, settled a class action and offered retroactive warranties to answer customer concerns about battery deterioration. Tavares now heads PSA Peugeot Citroen. His Renault archrival at the time, Patrick Pelata, signed a confidentiality deal with LG that meant Nissan battery engineers never even knew what they were up against. Against that backdrop, the atmosphere may be charged when Nissan engineering boss Hideyuki Sakamoto puts final arguments against the outsourcing plan in a presentation to Ghosn as soon as this week. But the CEO's mind may be all but made up. "We're in the process of opening up battery sourcing to a range of suppliers," Ghosn said last week when asked whether Renault could buy batteries from France's Bolloré &lt;boll.pa&gt;. In future some batteries will likely be outsourced "within the framework of alliance procurement", he added. "What's important to us is that electric car performance fully meets customer expectations." (Additional reporting by Yoko Kubota in Tokyo and Gilles Guillaume in Paris; Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA huge euro logo is pictured past next to headquarters of ECB in FrankfurtBRUSSELS (Reuters) - The euro zone's trade surplus rose year-on-year in July as exports grew faster than imports, pointing to a positive contribution to economic growth at the start of the third quarter, the European Union's Statistics office data showed. Eurostat said the non-seasonally adjusted external trade surplus of the 18 countries sharing the euro was 21.2 billion euros (27.39 billion US dollar) in July, up from 18.0 billion in July 2013. Exports increased 3 percent year-on-year while imports only 1 percent. Adjusted for seasonal swings, however, and on a month-on-month basis, exports edged 0.2 percent lower in July against June while imports rose 0.9 percent. The seasonally adjusted trade balance was a 12.2 billion surplus, down from 13.8 billion in June and 15.2 billion in May. There was no detailed data for July yet, but Eurostat said that in the first six months of the year the euro zone's trade deficit narrowed to 144.9 billion euros from 157.8 billion in the first six months of 2013. The trade deficit with Russia, Europe's main oil and gas supplier, rose slightly to 31.7 billion euros in the January-June period from 29.5 billion in the same period of 2013, because euro zone experts to Russia tumbled 14 percent and the value of imports fell only 6 percent. The biggest contributions to the euro zone trade surplus came from a strong exports increase to Britain and the United States and as well as China. Germany remains Europe's biggest exporter with a trade surplus of 100.7 billion euros in the first six months of the year. Britain is Europe's biggest importer, with a trade deficit of 60.2 billion euros in the first six months.  (Reporting By Jan Strupczewski; Editing by Martin Santa) FREE AppDownload
AFPZurich (AFP) - Loose monetary policies have created an "illusion of permanent liquidity" that is spurring investors to make risky bets and push up asset prices, the Bank for International Settlements said Sunday. "The longer the music plays and the louder it gets, the more deafening is the silence that follows," Claudio Borio, who heads the BIS's monetary and economic unit, told reporters. "Markets will not be liquid when that liquidity is needed most," he warned, urging "sound prudential policies (and) extra prudence on the part of market participants themselves". Many central banks have kept their rates at record lows and pumped their economies full of liquidity first to stave off recession during the financial crisis and then to boost recent anaemic economic growth. This month the European Central Bank cut its key interest rates to new all-time lows and promised to launch a programme of asset purchases to inject cash into the eurozone's stalling economy. The BIS, the so-called central bank to the world's central banks, has long warned such moves are whetting investors' appetite for short-term, high-risk investments and froth in property markets, potentially creating the bubble conditions for a new market crash. Borio said that markets have shown "exceptionally subdued volatility" at levels similar to before the financial crisis in recent months, which could be "a sign of high risk-taking".  Unease over the conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East can caused a spike in volatility in early August, but that has since died down and "the search for yield has resumed in force," he said. Borio stressed that "a common mistake is to take unusually low volatility and risk spreads as a sign of low risk when, in fact, they are a sign of high risk-taking". "The illusion of permanent liquidity is just a prevalent now as in the past," Borio said, pointing out that years of "unusually accommodative" monetary policy has left investors feeling secure low interest rates would continue or only be gradually tightened. That confidence has also spread to the international banking industry, where claims rose by $580 billion between January and March, BIS said. That marked "the first substantial quarterly increase since late 2011," it said. While this was not enough to offset preceding quarterly declines, it halved the year-on-year drop from 4.0 percent at the end of 2013 to 2.0 percent at the end of March, the report said.   FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Laura HaddenGoodbye, Scotland!Investment is already pouring out of Scotland ahead of the independence referendum on Sept. 18, the Financial Times reports. The best quote in the story is from this unnamed money manager: “Most professionals are cacking themselves. They are terrified of independence and a new regulatory regime.” Indeed, Credit Suisse issued a note last week warning of a "negative feedback loop" if Scotland goes independent. One fund, Kennox Asset Management, has put out a statement to its clients asking them to keep calm. But a lot of investors are simply asking, why bother with the risk? The FT reports that $186 million has left the country recently, after net inflows in the billions came to a screeching halt: Scotland’s six biggest fund houses posted collective net outflows of €144m [$186 million] in the first seven months of the year, according to figures compiled for FTfm by Morningstar, the data provider. This is a sharp decline on the collective inflows recorded in the preceding four years of between €3bn and €10bn for the companies, which are Aberdeen Asset Management, Scottish Widows Investment Partnership, Baillie Gifford, Kames Capital, Martin Currie and Standard Life Investments. Read the whole thing here. FREE AppDownload
APAir France-KLM chairman and chief executive, Alexandre de Juniac gives a press conference, in Paris.It's Monday morning and once again, the French are on strike. This time, it's Air France. Pilots for Air France have forced the country's national carrier to scrap half of its flights on Monday, reports the AFP. Should the strike continue into Tuesday, the Airline expects to cancel as much as 60% of its scheduled service. As a result, Air France-KLM stock has slipped 3.5%. This could cost the airline as much as $19 million a day.  The latest strike comes just months after the country's air traffic controllers walked off the job in June, causing the cancellation of 1,800 flights. This time, strikers are protesting Air France's plans to transition short-haul and domestic service to the company's low-cost and lower-salaried Dutch subsidiary, Transavia. REUTERS/Charles PlatiauA Transavia Airbus A320 passenger jet makes its way on the tarmac before taking off at Orly airport, near ParisThe strike comes just days after Air France-KLM announced it will pump up to $1.3 billion over the next five years into Transavia. According to the New York Times, the cash infusion will allow Europe's to third-most-traveled airline to buy more than 50 new jets and hire as many as 250 new pilots by 2017 for its Dutch subsidiary. These move follow those of Germany's Lufthansa, which has turned over large chunks of its short-haul flights to low-cost subsidiaries Germanwings and Eurowings. The overall business trend is a reaction to the growing need to cut costs due to mounting financial pressure from budget giants Ryanair and Easyjet.  REUTERS/Marcus DonnerAn Air France Boeing 777-300ER takes off.According to AFP, Air France has sent 65,000 text messages to passengers affected by the strike — called by its main pilots' union, SNPL — and deployed some 7,000 extra workers to help stranded customers. The airline has cancelled more 200 hundreds flight on Monday at its Charles de Gaulle hub in Paris. There is no word how negotiations are progressing between Air France and its pilots union. However, the strike is scheduled to last up to six days.  FREE AppDownload
 Good morning! Here's what people will be chatting about on Monday. 1. More than 30 countries will convene in Paris on Monday to discuss a strategy for defeating Islamic State militants. U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry will try to gather support to carry out airstrikes against the Jihadist group.  2. Ten Arab states, including Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and Egypt, will attend the Paris conference. A source told The Guardian that Saudi Arabia feels threatened enough by the Islamic State to consider joining US-led military action against the group: "There is a very real possibility that we could have the Saudi air force bombing targets inside Syria. That is a remarkable development, and something the US would be very pleased to see." 3. British Prime Minister David Cameron reacted on Sunday to the killing of British aid worker David Haines saying "we will hunt down those responsible and bring them to justice." Britain has not yet agreed to join the U.S. in launching air strikes on the militant group in Syria and Iraq.  4. With just 3 days to go before the Scottish independence referendum, Cameron will also be sending out last-minute warnings in Scotland about the ramifications of severing ties with the U.K. 5. The Queen gave No voters in the Scottish independence debate a subtle boost on Sunday, telling one person outside church after services to "think carefully about the future," The Guardian said. This is the first time the Queen has publicly spoken on the independence referendum, as Buckingham Palace has been trying to keep her out of the debate.  6. The leader of Sweden's center-left Social Democrats, Stefan Lofven, defeated prime minister Fredrik Reinfeldt in Sunday night's election. According to the Times: "Mr. Reinfeldt’s departure is a serious blow for Mr. Cameron, who needs every ally he can get to achieve the meaningful reforms he has promised should he win next year’s election and call a referendum on EU membership." 7. The whole world might be focused on Scotland on right now, but BI's Joe Weisenthal says a "potentially more explosive situation is unfolding in Spain," where Catalan activists are preparing for a Nov. 9 vote to decide whether the region will secede from Spain. 8. President Barack Obama is expected to outline a strategy for fighting the Ebola outbreak in a visit to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta on Tuesday, The Wall Street Journal reports. "Mr. Obama also is expected to urge Congress to approve the request he made last week for an additional $88 million to fund his proposal," the Journal said.  9. Hurricane Odile made landfall on the southern Baja California peninsula Sunday night. "Forecasters predicted a dangerous storm surge with large waves as well as drenching rains capable of causing landslides and flash floods," The Los Angeles Times reported.  10. Heineken rejected a takeover bid from SABMiller, Bloomberg News reported. "Heineken family members are resistant to any sale because they want to keep control of the 34 billion-euro ($44 billion) Amsterdam-based brewer," sources told Bloomberg.  And finally... Miss New York Kira Kazantsev is super-excited after being crowned the winner of the 2015 Miss America Competition by in Atlantic City. REUTERS/Adrees Latif Miss New York Kira Kazantsev (front) reacts as she is crowned the winner of the 2015 Miss America Competition by Miss America 2014 Nina Davuluri in Atlantic City, New Jersey September 14, 2014.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGerman airline Lufthansa aircrafts are parked during pilots' strike at Munich's airportFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Lufthansa  pilots will hold an eight-hour strike on Tuesday, union Vereinigung Cockpit said on Monday. The pilots are trying to increase the pressure on Lufthansa in negotiations over an early retirements scheme. The strike on Tuesday will run from 0700-1500 GMT, the union said, adding that there will be no flights from Frankfurt.  (Reporting by Kirsti Knolle; Editing by Harro ten Wolde) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn employee walks past oil tanks at a Sinopec refinery in Wuhan, Hubei provinceHONG KONG (Reuters) - State-controlled oil giant Sinopec Corp  plans to use the $17.5 billion it is raising from the sale of a stake in its retail unit to optimize its retail fuel business, boost non-fuel sales and pay down debts owed to its parent, an executive said. Sinopec, Asia's largest refiner, on Sunday unveiled a plan to sell a $17.5 billion stake in its retail unit to 25 domestic and foreign investors, marking the country's biggest privatization push since President Xi Jinping came to power almost two years ago. The retail unit will use part of the proceeds to "strengthen and develop" its existing network of petrol stations, partly by adding stations in newly developed urban areas, Chai Zhiming, deputy chief executive of the retail unit, told Reuters on Monday. It will also use the funds to pay down debts owed to Sinopec Corp and expand its non-fuel business - convenience stores plus services such as fast food and car washes - that currently accounts for less than 1 percent of the retail arm's revenue, he said. The retail unit plans to appoint 11 directors, including four from Sinopec, three representing the 25 investors, three independent non-executive directors and one director representing its employees, a company source familiar with the matter told Reuters.  (Reporting by Charlie Zhu; Editing by Ryan Woo) FREE AppDownload
