HSBCChina's HSBC Flash Manufacturing PMI fell to a six-month low of 49.6 in January. This compares to a 50.5 in December. This was worse than the 50.3 economists were expecting. And any reading below 50 signals contraction. This is a preliminary reading. The final numbers will be released on January 30. Still, this is unwelcome news for those who fear China's economy is slowing to rapidly. As the table shows, orders, employment and prices all fell during the period. "The marginal contraction of January’s headline HSBC Flash China Manufacturing PMI was mainly dragged by cooling domestic demand conditions," said HSBC's Hongbin Qu. "This implies softening growth momentum for manufacturing sectors, which has already weighed on employment growth. As inflation is not a concern, the policy focus should tilt towards supporting growth to avoid repeating growth deceleration seen in 1H 2013." The market reaction to the news has been negative. US futures are lower. Japan fell 0.79% during its trading day. FREE AppDownload
YouTubeProfessor Jeff Bergen explains the simple math. Billionaire Warren Buffett and Quicken Loans are sponsoring a bracket challenge for the NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament. If you can fill out a perfect bracket, you will win a billion dollars. So, what are your odds of winning? The probability "one in 9.2 quintillion" has been cited quite a few times in various articles about the bracket challenge. Before the 2012 tournament, DePaul University math professor Jeff Bergen posted a video on YouTube explaing where this number comes from. There are 63 total games in a tournament bracket. For each of those games, two teams play, and one team wins. So, filling out a bracket consists of picking 63 winners. So, you have two options for the first game, two options for the second game, two options for the third game, and so on, for all 63 games. To get the total number of possible ways to fill out a bracket, you multiply together all 63 of these twos, giving us 263, or about 9.2 quintillion, possible brackets. If all of these brackets are equally likely — if each game in the entire tournament is a 50-50 tossup, and picking the winner is basically a coin flip — we then get the odds of a correct bracket at one in 9.2 quintillion. Of course, flipping a coin 63 times is probably not a very good strategy for deciding how to fill out your bracket. Most of the games are not 50-50 matchups. Consider the first round (the round of 64) of the NCAA Tournament.  Of the 32 games in the first round, there are four games in which four of the best 64 teams (1st seeds)  play four of the worst 64 teams (16th seeds). Since 1985, when the tournament first expanded to 64 teams, no 16th seed has ever beaten a 1st seed in the round of 64. If we're comfortable assuming that this trend continues, we can safely fill in the four 1st seed vs. 16th seed games on our brackets. Now we have 59 games to pick, and if we flip coins for all those, we have a one in 259, or about one in 576 quadrillion, chance of winning the tournament. Still pretty terrible odds, but by making this one assumption, we have boosted our chances by a factor of 16. Professor Bergen suggests that by taking a more nuanced approach to the tournament along these lines, we can improve our odds to around one in 128 billion. That is still insanely unlikely — you are about 500 times more likely to win the lottery. And Quicken and Mr. Buffett probably have very little to worry about this coming spring. Watch Bergen's video here:    FREE AppDownload
By Marin Katusa, Chief Energy Investment Strategist, Casey Research: Investors who want to know how the energy sector will be doing this year are, in my opinion, asking the wrong question. There really is no such thing as "the energy sector," because the performance of the different resources—from oil and gas, to uranium, to coal, to renewables—can vary dramatically. To find out which investments will deliver the greatest profits for well-positioned investors in 2014, my team and I have identified three trends that are hot… and may become even hotter in the course of this year. The oil and gas production in the United States is mature. Rather than looking for new basins, companies are looking to "rediscover" the past by applying new technology to increase economic production from known oil and gas fields. This new technology comes in a variety of shapes and sizes: better software, bigger rigs, more efficient drilling processes. And it's being applied everywhere, onshore and offshore, conventional and unconventional alike. Just as an example, today we're seeing operators drill more than 50 horizontal wells from a single well pad, a far cry from just a decade ago. Exploration and production companies know that the focus moving forward is not just the amount of oil they can pump out of the ground, but the profit they can extract from every barrel (what we call the "netback"). This is even more true in the mature unconventional basins such as the Bakken, Eagle Ford, and the Marcellus shale plays, where the margins are tight and require an oil price of more than US$70 per barrel in order to be economic. This means E&amp;P companies have to use the best ways to increase production from every well—while at the same time reducing their drilling costs. Failure to do so would be to guarantee a firm's demise. The dilemma for E&amp;P companies is having to prioritize what their shareholders want in the short term—growing production and dividends—over whatever may be best for the company in the long term. At the same time, they have to fight the natural decline of oil coming out of their wells. All the while, service companies continue to extract fees for their tools and services. Drillers, pumpers, frackers, and other oilfield-service guys make money regardless of whether E&amp;P companies find oil or produce it at economic rates. We've said it before: Many E&amp;P companies are running on a treadmill, and the incline is going higher and higher, which means higher costs to produce the same amount of oil. Of course, not all service companies will rake in the dough. The ones that will do the best are the ones that can consistently stay at the forefront of technology and keep signing contracts with the supermajors like Exxon, Chevron, and Shell. Russia's grip on European energy continues to tighten, and there's a push to produce oil and gas within their own borders all around Europe. 2014 looks to be an exciting year for companies like one of our Casey Energy Reportstocks, a TSX-V-listed oil and gas explorer and producer with a 2-million-acre concession in Germany. We call the deposit it's sitting on the "Next Bakken" because we believe that its potential to deliver exceptional output could rival that of the famed North American formation. This development is still in its early stages, but investors who position themselves now could see outsized gains for years to come. It's not really a question of "if" the oil is there—previous oil production in the very same location yielded more than 90 million barrels—but of "how much" oil can be extracted with the modern methods not available the last time companies worked on this field. The company has completed its first well and will continue to drill additional wells (both vertical and horizontal) next year. While the initial well cost more than anticipated, it's a good start that indicates economic oil can be produced in Germany. We're also confident this company's experienced management team is applying the lessons of its first foray to reduce drill costs on future wells. As our Energy Report pick proves up any of its projects in 2014 and early 2015, we can expect another of our holdings, which has just entered the German oil and gas scene, to either farm into the company or even buy it out. We predict that by the end of 2015, our "Next Bakken" play, and others like it, will have attracted a lot of attention, not just from individual speculators, but from institutional investors as well—and investors who have gotten in early will be very happy indeed. Another of our portfolio holdings is just beginning to drill on its Romania projects after a series of delays due to politics and bureaucracy. We have reason to be optimistic because its JV partner, a Gazprom subsidiary, has drilled successful wells on the same basin on the other side of the border in Serbia. If our pick has anything close to that level of success, the markets will surely take notice and its shares will go much higher. As the "Putinization" of the global energy markets continues and Russia's dominance grows, European countries become increasingly more desperate to escape from under Putin's heavy thumb and to start developing their own energy resources. The European Energy Renaissance is real, and we continue to monitor companies that are funded and have the permits and ability to drill game-changer wells in Europe in 2014. During a recent trip to London, I spoke with Lady Barbara Judge, chairman emeritus of the UK Atomic Agency and an advisor to TEPCO on the Fukushima nuclear disaster in Japan. I asked her point-blank whether Japan was willing to bring any nuclear reactors back online in 2014. Her answer was an unequivocal "Yes." The Japanese have no choice, really, because the alternative—importing liquefied natural gas (LNG)—is far too expensive. Japan is the world's largest importer of LNG and has had to double its imports since the Fukushima incident. For that privilege, the country pays some of the highest rates on the planet—almost four times more than what we pay for natural gas in North America. South Korea also shut down its nuclear plants post-Fukushima to do inspections and maintenance upgrades, and it, too, has had to import a lot of LNG. Both countries are looking to restart their nuclear reactors so they can stop paying a fortune to foreign energy suppliers. When these countries restart their reactors, they'll also restart the uranium market, so we expect uranium prices to begin to shake loose of the doldrums this year. Another driver will be throwing the switch at ConverDyn, the US uranium facility that is slated to start converting natural U3O8 to reactor-ready fuel in late 2014 or early 2015. We currently hold two solid uranium companies in the portfolio—one is a US-based small-cap producer (one of the very few in America), the other is the lowest-risk way to play the uranium market that I know of. Both, we believe, will take off in 2014 on the renewed interest in uranium and the associated stocks. If you want to know more about our thoroughly vetted energy stocks and their potential for amazing gains in 2014 and beyond, give the Casey Energy Report a try. You'll find all my"What's Hot" predictions and the full names of the stocks I've mentioned above in our January forecast issue… plus the energy sectors you should avoid like the plague this year… as well as a feature article on elephant oil deposits in the Gulf of Mexico and anew stock pick ready to profit from them. Giving the Casey Energy Report a try is risk-free because it comes with a 3-month, full money-back guarantee. If the Energy Report is not all you expected it to be, just cancel within those 3 months and get a prompt, full refund. Or cancel any time AFTER the 3 months are up for a prorated refund. Getting started is easy—just click here. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michelle McLoughlinRobert Shiller, one of three American scientists who won the 2013 economics Nobel prize, poses at his home in New Haven, Connecticut October 14, 2013. Robert Shiller won the Nobel Prize in economics last year for his financial market studies, which helped him successfully predict the dotcom bubble and the housing bubble when very few people were doing so. Basically, we should pay attention to anything he says. This evening, the Yale professor Tweeted his thoughts on Google Glass. After trying it at the World Economic Forum in Davos, he found them so-so (which is basically how BI feels). But he provided a brilliant suggestion for how they could be improved: facial recognition.  Here's Shiller's Tweet: I try on Google Glass for first time at WEF. I might like them, especially with face recognition, which would really change events like this But if you think about it, facial recognition would help overcome one of the main complaints about Glass right now: that wearing them makes you look obnoxious. What's even more embarrassing, though, is forgetting the name of someone you know you're supposed to know.  You wouldn't want Glass to allow you to look up personal details about your local barista. But if you could commodify Glass so that it could be given out conferences like Davos, and then create an app that allows for uploading event-specific information, it seems like the privacy concerns would be negligible.   FREE AppDownload
Former First Round Capital principal Charlie O’Donnell has branched out on his own with a small, Brooklyn-based investment fund to be known as Brooklyn Bridge Ventures. Working solo, the New York native gathered up $8.3 million from the likes of Josh Kopelman, Howard Morgan, Brad Feld, and David Rose. O’Donnell gained investors’ confidence via a string of success stories, like being early to express confidence (and recommend investments) in companies like Foursquare and Twitter, he told VentureBeat via email. With Brooklyn Bridge Ventures, O’Donnell will lead or co-lead quarter-million-dollar investments with a strong or exclusive focus on the New York City innovation community across a range of verticals. As a seed investor, O’Donnell said he’s open to “pre-product and pre-deck” investments, as well. Interestingly, in his initial pitch to us, O’Donnell emphasized his willingness to work with female entrepreneurs, stating that in his new portfolio, 75 percent of the startups have at least one woman cofounder. “It’s not easy to raise a first-time fund from complete scratch without corporate backing or family money,” he told VentureBeat. “I just went around hat in hand for over a year — literally running around in the process.” So far, the BBV portfolio includes home security device Canary, 3D modeling company Floored, and mobile-for-kids startup Tinybop. “After just a year’s worth of work, the new Brooklyn Bridge portfolio is worth about twice what was paid into it for a 130 percent plus IRR [internal rate of return],” said O’Donnell. This article originally appeared at VentureBeat.  Copyright 2014. Follow VentureBeat on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
In an August earnings conference call, Tesla Motors CEO Elon Musk was asked about for his thoughts on BMW's new all-electric car, the i3. Musk broke out laughing.  He eventually pulled it together enough to say, "I'm glad to see that BMW is bringing an electric car to market. That's cool. There's room to improve on the i3 and I hope that they do." Well, BMW has an answer, and it's better argued than Musk's point. In an interview at the 2014 Detroit Auto Show, President and CEO of BMW North America Ludwig Willisch explained to Business Insider why the i3 is "the ultimate driving machine among the EVs." When we asked Willisch how the i3 compares to the Model S, he started off by explaining how BMW makes its little electric ride. "You need to look at the whole concept," he said. "We start off by producing carbon fiber in Moses Lake, Washington, with hydropower. Then we use fully recyclable materials to build the car. We build the car with wind power. So the whole production cycle is fully sustainable." Meanwhile, he said, "others build electric cars the conventional way," he said, adding, "you need to look at the carbon footprint of the whole thing. I would dare say that nobody's at this point in time where we are, as far as the whole production process is concerned." (We got Willisch to mention Tesla by name only once.) Tesla has never talked much about cutting emissions in the production process. In a 2010 blog post, VP of Manufacturing Gilbert Passin explained that Tesla uses powder paint instead of traditional liquid paints, to "substantially reduce factory emissions" without compromising on quality. We reached out to Tesla spokespeople for comment, but got no reply. The i3 will hold its own on the road, too, with a price tag well below that of the Model S. Willisch said. With a body made of carbon fiber reinforced plastic, the i3 weighs in under 3,000 pounds. The Model S tips the scale at just over 4,600 — that's a lot for a sedan. Less weight means you get more out of each kilowatt. "What you feel is a normal feel of a car, yet you have the instant acceleration that an electric motor will give you," including the instant torque, Willisch said. "That's really great fun." Here, Tesla can defend itself. The Model S is an absolute blast to drive, and you don't notice the extra weight when you hit the accelerator. It deservedly won Motor Trend's Car of the Year award in 2012, and Consumer Reports gave it its best score ever. We haven't driven the i3, but the reviews have been positive. Car and Driver wrote, "Other than a shifter that seems designed to enrage, though, it’s hard to find fault with the i3 ... Capable and thoughtful, the i3 only strays from BMW’s core values in its daring design." Then there's the question of cost. The i3 starts at $35,325. after a $7,500 federal tax credit. The cheapest Model S comes in at $63,570. The Tesla can go farther on a full battery than the BMW (208 miles vs. 80-100 miles). But BMW is marketing the i3 more as a city car, so that range will do just fine. Plus, you can take the $30,000 you save and buy a 3 Series for those road trips. We'll withhold final judgement until we drive the i3, but give credit to Willisch/BMW for presenting a real argument, instead of just chuckling. FREE AppDownload
IBM's revenues have been shrinking. That was the major theme of 2013, which became crystal clear on Tuesday when IBM released earnings: it was a four-in-row miss on revenue expectations. With that as a backdrop, CEO Ginni Rometty announced what shouldn't be a shocker: IBM's senior executives, including herself, would not be getting their bonuses. "In view of the company’s overall full year results, my senior team and I have recommended that we forgo our personal annual incentive payments for 2013," she said in the earnings press release. This could be a sizeable hit to their 2013 incomes. Executives apparently actually earned their bonuses, but opted to turn them down, an IBM spokesperson tells us: "Ginni and her senior team would have been eligible for annual incentive payments, but have recommended that they forgo them for 2013 for the reasons stated in Ginni's quote. These executives are forgoing their annual incentive payment, which in last year's proxy constituted 27% of Ginni's compensation and on average 17% of the SVP's compensation. 2013 Proxy, page 21." Specifically, in 2012 Rometty received a nearly $4 million cash bonus ($3,915,000), according to documents filed with the SEC. Her base salary for 2013 was $1.5 million. She also received $9.3 million in stock awards which IBM calls "Performance Share Units" as part of her total $16.2 million pay package. The PSU's are used as bonuses, too, IBM says, though they are also used to encourage executives to stick around. For 2103, CFO Mark Loughridge who retired on Dec. 31, was slated to earn a $1,046,000 in cash and $5.75 million worth of shares of stock as a bonus. Steve Mills, who runs the Software unit (the one that did show a bit of growth), was slated to get $968,000 in cash and $5 million worth of shares as a bonus. J. Randall McDonald, the top HR guy, was scheduled to earn a $788,000 cash bonus for 2013. The documents didn't disclose executive pay on some of Rometty's newest brain-trust members, such as Erich Clementi, promoted in 2013. He runs IBM's largest business unit, its Global Technology Services business. Clementi has been specifically tasked with getting IBM's cloud business to blossom. In June, when IBM bought cloud provider SoftLayer, it promised the cloud would become a $7 billion business for IBM by the end of 2014. It's still not clear how much of the stock incentives senior execs are forgoing. But if these executives don't get any of their PSU's, that would something. This chart illustrates IBM's growth trend: FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFu Xi and Nüwa represented as half-snake, half-human creaturesFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Advisors Need To Dispel 2 Key Myths About IPOs For Their Investors (The Wall Street Journal)  Retail investors love IPOs because they believe that they are getting in at the start, writes Brian Hamilton, of North Carolina-based Sageworks in a new WSJ column. However, he thinks it is important for advisors to remind them of the harsh truth, which is, that at the time of the IPO the investor is "at the end of a long line behind angel investors, venture capitalists, and private-equity firms." While both groups face risks, the "upside of the investment is capped because the value has already been tapped out." Investors are also prone to believe that only "financially sound companies go public." But many are not profitable and this raises the risk in owning that stock. "Once you help them shake this notion of winning the lottery, clients can see that the offering, while still appealing, has to be approached just like any other investment." Defined Maturity Bond Funds Have Been Growing But Investors Need To Be Aware Of Trade-Offs (Vanguard) Defined-maturity bond funds (DMFs) made up less than 1% of the $3.3 trillion U.S. bond fund market as on June 30, 2013, but have seen "notable growth" in recent years, according to Vanguard's Joel Dickson, John Escario, and Samantha Choa. DMFs combine the "best features of individual bonds—such as known maturity date and return of principal in the form of final investment value—with the diversification benefits    associated with    mutual funds and ETFs." But there are "trade-offs" when it comes to DMFs. Trading costs will have a higher drag on return, and these also have more concentrated reinvestment risk because maturity proceeds are typically reinvested all at once, rather than being staggered," they write.       "Although DMFs may be helpful to investors who have highly predictable, near-term liabilities that they wish to pre-fund, traditional bond funds generally provide cost and structural advantages for investors implementing and maintaining fixed income exposure in their asset allocation approaches. " The Next Big Investment Story Will Be About Who Gets The Larger Slice Of The Market (Richard Bernstein Advisors) Many are worried about a stock market correction and are in part basing it on the notion that record-high profit margins will eventually contract. But, "a myopic focus on profit margins may miss an important investment consideration," writes Richard Bernstein, CEO of Richard Bernstein Advisors. "Whereas most investors remain fearful of margin compression, we prefer to search for an investment theme that could emerge if margins do indeed compress." Instead Bernstein thinks that market share rather than profit margins will be the next major investment theme. "Basic economics states that profits are not solely a function of margins, but also of the number of units sold. Companies often fight for market share (i.e., a greater number of units sold) when margins contract. Accordingly, our investment focus has shifted toward themes based on companies who might gain market share." For now Bernstein sees market share stories in the American Industrial Renaissance, Japan, and small US banks.  This One Chart Shows Why Predicting Stock Market Moves Is Ridiculously Hard (Business Insider) The S&amp;P 500 returned a whopping 30% in 2013 closing at an all-time record high of 1,848. Yet, at the start of the year, the median-year end S&amp;P 500 target was 1,560, a 9% gain. Forecasters largely got their earnings forecasts right, but valuation proved to be much harder to nail down. "In a simple return decomposition, this reversion has been the largest driver of the movement of long-term equity returns over time," said Vanguard's Joseph Davis, Roger Aliaga-Diaz, Charles Thomas, and Andrew Patterson. "This supports our long-held view that valuations, not growth, are the most significant drivers of returns." Unfortunately valuations are very hard to predict. Vanguard Group SEC BarsFormer Oppenheimer Fund Manager, Brian Williamson (Investment News) The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has barred former Oppenheimer &amp; Co. fund manager Brian Williamson after he was accused of falsely inflating the value of a fund he managed, reports Mason Braswell at Investment News. "Investors rely on truthful and complete disclosures about valuation methodologies and fund fees and expenses, especially when committing to a long-term private-equity investment," Julie M. Riewe, co-chief of the SEC Enforcement Division's Asset Management Unit said. "Williamson misled prospective investors by marking up the fund's interim valuations and concealing his role in enhancing its reported performance." Williamson left Oppenheimer in 2011. Oppenheimer was not a respondent in this case and settled all the issues tied to this in May 2013, according to Williamson. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingThe Treasury Department has begun examining whether Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway is systemically important to the U.S. financial system, Bloomberg reports. The designation, which Treasury has already given to AIG, GE, and Prudential, means Berkshire would come under Federal Reserve regulation. Under Dodd-Frank, Treasury can decide that the scale and nature of these nonbank financial companies could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability if they became distressed.  Berkshire's class-A shares have a market cap of $285 billion, and the firm is the fourth-largest reinsurer in the world. Bloomberg says any decision would be months away. FREE AppDownload
Asa Mathat | All Things DigitalCEO John DonahoeeBay has used its Q4 earnings investor slideshow to begin making its case that Carl Icahn is wrong to propose splitting off PayPal from the rest of the company. The context here, as eBay's Q4 earnings show, is that PayPal is the real economic engine driving the company right now. Although eBay's auction biz is healthy, payments — and especially mobile payments — are super hot. PayPal revenue was up 19% to $1.8 billion in Q4, whereas the company as a whole grew only 13% to $4.5 billion. Icahn has taken a 0.82% stake in eBay and is demanding two seats on the board prior to breaking up the company. eBay, however, is countering that it's already considered and rejected this move; and that the company is best positioned in its current state as a portfolio of units that offer various marketing services (auctions, payments and enterprise marketing solutions). Its board is also just dandy as it is, eBay says. Here are the anti-Icahn slides in today's investor deck: This summary states eBay's "portfolio" case for keeping the company as one conglomerate: eBay eBay is proud of its board and doesn't need Icahn's people to join it: eBay A big part of eBay's argument is that eBay auctions actually fund PayPal's growth: eBay That's it! FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fabrizio BenschIf you need more evidence that 3-D printing and additive manufacturing are viable business sectors, try this. A Credit Suisse research team led by Jonathan Shaffer has revised the firm's 2016 projection for the market up 357%, to $800 million from $175 million. The reason: overlooked opportunities among consumers and "pro-sumers," which Shaffer defines as engineers, architects and educators. 3-D printing and additive manufacturing are basically used interchangeably to describe printing readymade objects and components from your own office or home, short-circuiting the normal, capital-intensive industrial production process.  Shaffer explains how this technology could gain widespread use:  We think eventually there could be near ~100% penetration amongst engineers as it becomes a common element of the engineer's toolkit...The number of registered architects in the US [now stands at 222,500]. We think this represents another potential growth driver, although we acknowledge the computer design proficiency amongst architects is likely lower than among recent engineering graduates...We think children under 18 will be a primary driver of adoption; they are more likely to have heightened computer proficiency, and technological awareness is high in this age group. "Pro-sumers" are the key. Shaffer says that professional and dedicated but amateur tinkerers will find great use for on-the-spot printing to help them realize prototypes. "We think eventually there could be near ~100% penetration amongst engineers as it becomes a common element of the engineer's toolkit," he says.  This group is also less sensitive to costs than regular consumers. "Reliability, print quality, build size and service are key pro-sumer concerns rather than simply price, and the new generation of printers do more to address these concerns," he writes. Shaffer says the prices pro-sumers would be willing to pay for a new desktop unit tops out at $7,500 versus $1,500 for consumers. Shaffer concludes by upgrading Stratasys to "outperform" from "neutral" with a target price $144 from $128, while downgrading 3-D Systems to "neutral" from outperform, holding the price target at $90. That's because Stratasys bought MakerBot, which is among the leading brands in the market: Shaffer estimates sales doubled in the second half of 2013 alone, and will have more than tripled by 2016. He adds he was impressed by two new MakerBot models at CES he had not accounted for in his models. The note came out Tuesday and caused the share prices of the companies, which had been trading in tandem, to instantly diverge. 3-D is in red: Yahoo FREE AppDownload
APThe U.S. is likely to exhaust its borrowing authority on the earlier side of what Treasury Secretary Jack Lew had estimated, he said in a letter to Congressional leaders on Wednesday.  Lew warned in the new letter that Congress will likely need to raise the debt ceiling by late February to avoid a potential default on the country's obligations.  As part of the bill to reopen the government in mid-October, the debt limit was suspended through Feb. 7. The Treasury can use so-called "extraordinary measures" after that point to keep borrowing and paying the nation's bills for a few weeks thereafter."While this forecast is subject to inherent variability, we do not foresee any reasonable scenario in which the extraordinary measures would last for an extended period of time," Lew wrote in the letter, which was addressed to House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio), House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.), and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.). In the letter, Lew urged Congress to raise the debt ceiling before Feb. 7, and "certainly before late February." "The Speaker has said that we should not default on our debt, or even get close to it, but a 'clean' debt limit increase simply won’t pass in the House," Boehner spokesman Michael Steel said. "We hope and expect the White House will work with us on a timely, fiscally-responsible solution." Lew had said in a December letter to Congressional leaders that the deadline would be sometime in late February or early March. In the new letter, Lew wrote that a unique set of circumstances in February would only provide the Treasury with a few weeks of wiggle room through "extraordinary measures" after Feb. 7.  Lew said that the Treasury's capacity to use some extraordinary measures is more limited than in 2011 or last year. And there will be significant cash outflows in February due to the payment of tax refunds. "The significantly smaller amount of headroom that can be freed up now will quickly be exhausted by the large obligations of the government that occur in the month of February," Lew wrote. Here's the full letter:   FREE AppDownload
eBay reported its Q4 2013 earnings and the stock popped up 9% immediately in after-hours trading. The company is proposing a $5 billion stock buyback, and has received a proposal from activist billionaire investor Carl Icahn to split off PayPal into a separate unit. Icahn also wants two of his people added to the board of directors. eBay says it has previously considered and rejected this idea, and that Icahn has a 0.82% stake in the company. Here are the results: See the full numbers below or read the official press release. Separately, here's the investor slideshow. This is what Donahoe is telling Wall Street on the conference call right now, in reference to the Icahn proposal: I spoke with Mr. Icahn briefly last week to hear his views ...  our board's nominations and governance committee will consider Icahn's nominations in the ordinary course of business. We have an exceptionally strong board... In fact we have a world-class board. ... this is the standard by which all future candidates will be addressed. ... you won't be surprised to hear that this [splitting the company] is not a new idea. ... for example, in 2009, we divested Skype because synergies did not exist. ... based on what we see today we continue to believe that the company, our customers and our shareholders are best served by keeping PayPal and eBay together. ... Our board is unified in its view on this. See eBay's investor slides arguing against the Icahn proposal here. Here is what the company says about the Icahn proposal: Proposal from Carl Icahn — The company also announced today that it has received a notice from Carl Icahn indicating that he has nominated two of his employees to its Board of Directors and submitted a non-binding proposal for a spinoff of its PayPal business into a separate company. The notice stated that companies controlled by Mr. Icahn had, earlier this month, acquired shares and derivative securities that give him an economic interest of approximately 0.82% in the company.eBay welcomes the opportunity to listen to the perspective of all of its shareholders, including Mr. Icahn. His Board nominations will be passed on to the Board's Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, which will consider them in the ordinary course of business. We would note that eBay has a world-class board of directors with directors who have significant experience in technology and financial services.Regarding Mr. Icahn's separation proposal, eBay's Board of Directors routinely assesses the company's strategic direction and has explored in depth a spinoff or separation of PayPal. eBay's Board of Directors has concluded that the company and its shareholders are best served by the current strategic direction of the company and does not believe that breaking up the company is the best way to maximize shareholder value. As part of eBay Inc., PayPal is able to leverage the company's technology capabilities, commerce platforms and relationships with retailers, brands and large merchants worldwide. Payment is part of commerce, and as part of eBay, PayPal drives commerce innovation in payments at global scale, creating value for consumers, merchants and shareholders.eBay Inc.'s Board of Directors and management remain focused on delivering sustainable results and driving long-term value for all shareholders.The company will provide additional perspective during and after its quarterly earnings call scheduled for Wednesday Jan. 22nd at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time/5:00 p.m. Eastern Time. PayPal, frankly, is the revenue engine driving eBay right now: Sales went up 19% in both the quarter and the full year, to $6.6 billion for all of 2013. The unit gained 5.2 million new active accounts in Q4 to end the year with 143 million, up 16%. eBay's Q4 and full-year results: eBay This pretty picture makes that easier to understand: eBay This is a breakout of the PayPal/payments' revenue segment: eBay And the guidance: Analysts were expecting eBay to post a 16.1 percent profit increase from Q4 2013, with decelerating growth from its "Marketplaces" (auction) segment and increasing revenue growth from PayPal. The PayPal numbers are particularly crucial because eBay is late to the mobile payments game. It recently acquired Braintree for $800 million and is in the process of acquiring StackMob. Investors are watching for a new sales platform for brands that want to sell directly to consumers, according to the Wall Street Journal: CEO John Donahoe is looking to expand eBay’s marketplaces segment, the namesake business through which customers buy and sell items online. Watch for any announcements on new initiatives. Earlier this month, an analyst said the company was working on a new marketplace site, called “The Plaza,” for brands to sell directly to consumers. Here is what analysts expected prior to the call from the top and bottom lines, per Yahoo Finance: FREE AppDownload
Photo by Kevin Winter/Getty ImagesRobert Hanson. American Eagle CEO Robert Hanson is leaving the company, effective immediately. For now, board chairman Jay Schottenstein will serve as interim CEO, the company said in a news release.  Hanson was considered to be a rising star in the retail industry. Before joining American Eagle in 2012, he worked for Levi's.  The company doesn't say why Hanson is leaving or what he'll do next.  It's been a tough year for American Eagle and other teen retail competitors like Abercrombie &amp; Fitch and Aeropostale.  The companies have struggled with slowing sales amid competition from fast-fashion chains like Forever 21.  American Eagle recently announced that holiday sales plunged 7% this year.  The company's shares are down 4% in after-hours trading.  FREE AppDownload
Get ready for the next era in retail — one that will be characterized by far fewer shops and smaller stores. On Tuesday, Sears said that it will shutter its flagship store in downtown Chicago in April. It's the latest of about 300 store closures in the U.S. that Sears has made since 2010. The news follows announcements earlier this month of multiple store closings from major department stores J.C. Penney and Macy's. Further signs of cuts in the industry came Wednesday, when Target said that it will eliminate 475 jobs worldwide, including some at its Minnesota headquarters, and not fill 700 empty positions. Experts said these headlines are only the tip of the iceberg for the industry, which is set to undergo a multiyear period of shuttering stores and trimming square footage. Shoppers will likely see an average decrease in overall retail square footage of between one-third and one-half within the next five to 10 years, as a shift to e-commerce brings with it fewer mall visits and a lesser need to keep inventory stocked in-store, said Michael Burden, a principal with Excess Space Retail Services. "I believe we're going to hear a lot more announcements in the coming months," Burden said. It's "an indication that there is a shift in the retail environment and it's one that will continue." January is typically a busy month for retailers to announce store closings. According to the International Council of Shopping Centers, 44 percent of annual store closings announced since 2010 have occurred in the first quarter. But this year's closings are likely indicative of a new trend, sparked by more and more shoppers turning to the Web, experts said. This holiday, online spending increased by 10 percent on desktop devices—a number that will likely grow another 2 percentage points when factoring in the role of mobile devices, according to data tracker comScore. Paired with a compressed holiday shopping calendar and a spate of freezing weather across much of the U.S., online shopping contributed to a nearly 15 percent decline in foot traffic this past holiday season, according to ShopperTrak. "Stores are making a long-term bet on technology," said Belus Capital Advisors analyst Brian Sozzi. "It simply doesn't make strategic sense to enter a new 15-year lease as consumers are likely to continue curtailing physical visits to the mall." Sozzi said that after a profitable but below-expectations holiday season, the retail industry will face its second "tsunami of store closures across the U.S.," only a few years after what he called the "fire sale holiday season of 2008." During the recession, the number of shopping center vacancies rose by 5.5 percentage points to 11 percent, according to ICSC data, and has since recovered only 2.1 percentage points. In addition to J.C. Penney — which announced last week that it will close 33 stores — there are about a dozen retailers that still have too many stores, Sozzi said. Among them: American Eagle, which needs to move some of its aerie lingerie locations into its main stores; Aéropostale, which is on track to close 175 stores over the next few years; and Wal-Mart, which has about 100 stores in the U.S. producing same-store sales declines deeper than 3 percent, Sozzi said. As for Penney's, Wells Fargo analyst Paul Lejuez said that its store closures are a step in the right direction, but they barely scratch the surface of how many are needed. "With mall traffic trends very challenging and J.C. Penney facing its own significant company-specific issues, we do not believe a 1,000-plus store fleet is appropriate," Lejuez said in a research note. "In our view, the company needs to close several hundred stores to operate more efficiently, but that is not easy to accomplish overnight." Retailers need a new approach That's not to say there aren't a number of young retailers who still have plenty of room to build their store base, Lejuez said. Among them: Lululemon and the fashion-forward Michael Kors and Vince brands, which both recently went public. Kors, which increased its store base by nearly 100 stores last year, is on track to open 50 U.S. stores in 2014. In a separate note, Lejuez said that the ideal way for young brands to build a retail business today is very different than it was 20 years ago. These days, he said, it makes more sense for a retailer to have half the number of stores they once thought appropriate, and instead concentrate on a small store network and e-commerce business. This will take time to accomplish, however, as the vast majority of store locations are leased and not owned, making them harder to unload, he said. "There is often a mismatch between the number of stores retailers operate today compared to how many they would choose to operate if they had to do it all over again," Lejuez said. But it's not just the number of stores that are shrinking — it's also their size, said David Birnbrey, chairman of retail real estate advisory group The Shopping Center Group. As fewer shoppers buy items at the physical store, retailers don't require the same inventory levels to be kept in an attached storage room. Sozzi said that after a profitable but below-expectations holiday season, the retail industry will face its second "tsunami of store closures across the U.S.," only a few years after what he called the "fire sale holiday season of 2008." During the recession, the number of shopping center vacancies rose by 5.5 percentage points to 11 percent, according to ICSC data, and has since recovered only 2.1 percentage points. In addition to J.C. Penney — which announced last week that it will close 33 stores — there are about a dozen retailers that still have too many stores, Sozzi said. Among them: American Eagle, which needs to move some of its aerie lingerie locations into its main stores; Aéropostale, which is on track to close 175 stores over the next few years; and Wal-Mart, which has about 100 stores in the U.S. producing same-store sales declines deeper than 3 percent, Sozzi said. As for Penney's, Wells Fargo analyst Paul Lejuez said that its store closures are a step in the right direction, but they barely scratch the surface of how many are needed. "With mall traffic trends very challenging and J.C. Penney facing its own significant company-specific issues, we do not believe a 1,000-plus store fleet is appropriate," Lejuez said in a research note. "In our view, the company needs to close several hundred stores to operate more efficiently, but that is not easy to accomplish overnight." Retailers need a new approach That's not to say there aren't a number of young retailers who still have plenty of room to build their store base, Lejuez said. Among them: Lululemon and the fashion-forward Michael Kors and Vince brands, which both recently went public. Kors, which increased its store base by nearly 100 stores last year, is on track to open 50 U.S. stores in 2014. In a separate note, Lejuez said that the ideal way for young brands to build a retail business today is very different than it was 20 years ago. These days, he said, it makes more sense for a retailer to have half the number of stores they once thought appropriate, and instead concentrate on a small store network and e-commerce business. This will take time to accomplish, however, as the vast majority of store locations are leased and not owned, making them harder to unload, he said. "There is often a mismatch between the number of stores retailers operate today compared to how many they would choose to operate if they had to do it all over again," Lejuez said. But it's not just the number of stores that are shrinking—it's also their size, said David Birnbrey, chairman of retail real estate advisory group The Shopping Center Group. As fewer shoppers buy items at the physical store, retailers don't require the same inventory levels to be kept in an attached storage room. By placing more of their stock in fulfillment centers, they can shrink their stores to cut back on commercial real estate expenses, Birnbrey said. Although retail rents are still well below where they were prior to the recession, they have begun to stabilize, and are expected to show a slight uptick in 2014, according to CB Richard Ellis. "I think stores are typically downsizing right now, and I think they're doing it because they had unsustainable inventory levels," Birnbrey said. Steering clear of traditional malls One big shift in store closings has come from retailers shying away from indoor malls, instead favoring outlet centers, outdoor malls or stand-alone stores. Although new retail construction completions are at an all-time low, according to CB Richard Ellis, the supply of new outlet centers has picked up in recent quarters. "There's no question that mall stores are closing quicker than open air, as far as the department stores," Birnbrey said. Rick Caruso, founder and CEO of Caruso Affiliated, said at the recent National Retail Federation convention that without a major reinvention, traditional malls will soon go extinct, adding that he is unaware of an indoor mall being built since 2006. "Any time you stop building a product, that's usually the best indication that the customer doesn't want it anymore," he said. But retailers aren't throwing in the towel just yet. Turning brick-and-mortar shopping into a retail experience was one of the main topics discussed at the NRF convention this month, with retailers brainstorming ways to integrate targeted mobile couponing and high-tech gadgets to entice shoppers who may have been lost to the web. "They're not giving up at all," Birnbrey said. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesBillionaire activist investor Carl Icahn owns eBay, the company announced in its fourth quarter earnings release. [via CNBC's David Faber].  Icahn owns 0.82% of eBay shares.  He has nominated two directors to the board.  Icahn submitted a non-binding proposal for a spinoff of PayPal into a separate company, the release states.   Icahn told Bloomberg TV's that a PayPal spin-off is a "no brainer."  This is something that a lot of folks in the tech community agree with.  Icahn told Bloomberg TV that eBah has done much worse than its peers recently.  Shares of eBay are up more than 9.2% in the after-hours trading session.  From eBay's earnings release:  Proposal from Carl Icahn — The company also announced today that it has received a notice from Carl Icahn indicating that he has nominated two of his employees to its Board of Directors and submitted a non-binding proposal for a spinoff of its PayPal business into a separate company. The notice stated that companies controlled by Mr. Icahn had, earlier this month, acquired shares and derivative securities that give him an economic interest of approximately 0.82% in the company.eBay welcomes the opportunity to listen to the perspective of all of its shareholders, including Mr. Icahn. His Board nominations will be passed on to the Board’s Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, which will consider them in the ordinary course of business. We would note that eBay has a world-class board of directors with directors who have significant experience in technology and financial services.Regarding Mr. Icahn’s separation proposal, eBay’s Board of Directors routinely assesses the company’s strategic direction and has explored in depth a spinoff or separation of PayPal. eBay’s Board of Directors has concluded that the company and its shareholders are best served by the current strategic direction of the company and does not believe that breaking up the company is the best way to maximize shareholder value. As part of eBay Inc., PayPal is able to leverage the company’s technology capabilities, commerce platforms and relationships with retailers, brands and large merchants worldwide. Payment is part of commerce, and as part of eBay, PayPal drives commerce innovation in payments at global scale, creating value for consumers, merchants and shareholders. FREE AppDownload
 Netflix reported its earnings for Q4 2013, and stock is surging 17% in after-hours trading, beating analysts expectations. Here are the results for Q4: Revenue: $1.18 billion EPS: $0.79 Subscriber adds: 2.33 million Analyst Q4 predictions for Netflix were $1.17 billion in revenue, $0.66 earnings per share, and 2 million new subscribers for the last half of 2013, but Netflix ended up defying most expectations. International growth had slowed during the last half of 2013 and was a big concern for analysts, but Netflix wrote in its letter to shareholders that it plans a significant expansion overseas this year.  Netflix is continuing its investment with original content. The second seasons of "House Of Cards" and "Orange is the New Black" will come out in winter and summer 2014, respectively. A new original animated series for adults called "BoJack Horseman" is on its way, and it will exclusively premiere episodes of "Better Call Saul" in foreign territories but make U.S. customers wait for it to finish airing on AMC. Also, 2015 will see "The Daredevil" pop up, which is the first show from the partnership between Netflix and Marvel TV. In an earnings call, CEO Reed Hastings says Netflix is less driven for mobile experiences. The focus is on tablets and larger screens. The 2014 Winter Olympics may hamper the success of "House of Card's" second season, since most viewers will be tuning in to the various competitions on live TV.  Currently, the company is testing single-stream and triple-stream options, as well as high-def and standard-definition streamings. Hastings explained that the $6.99 single-stream plan that was introduced at the end of 2013 is still an experiment, and the company hopes to eventually introduce three simple options meant for everyone. The company ended the year with over 44 million members. Here are Netflix's predictions for the first quarter of this year: Netflix FREE AppDownload
Last year, truck rental giant Penske told us the No. 1 moving destination in America was Atlanta.  The year before that, they told us the No. 1 moving destination in America was Atlanta. And the year before that. And now we learn that this year, everyone is ... still moving to Atlanta. Some notable facts about Atlanta according to Penske: Here's the full list of the top moving destinations in America for 2013 according to Penske, gathered from reservations data. The 2012 ranking in parentheses. 1.     Atlanta (1) 2.     Tampa, Fla./Sarasota, Fla. (new combined entry) 3.     Dallas/Fort Worth (2) 4.     Orlando, Fla. (4) 5.     Phoenix (3) 6.     Houston (6) 7.     Seattle (8) 8.     Chicago (5) 9.     Denver (7) 10.   Las Vegas (new!) And in map form: Penske FREE AppDownload
REUTERSWorld chess champion Garry Kasparov studies the board shortly before game two of the match against the IBM supercomputer Deep Blue (R), May 4, 1996.It was another one of those days where the Dow Jones Industrial Average did one thing and the rest of the market did another. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
APTarget is cutting 475 jobs from headquarters amid slowing sales and disappointing profits.  The Minneapolis-based company also won't fill 700 open positions, reports Adam Belz at the Star-Tribune.  The headquarters employs 12,000 people in all. Target employs 360,000 people around the world.  A laid-off employee, who wished to remain anonymous, told Belz that the positions would be "replaced by workers in India and contractors." Target reported that sales were slowing last year because cash-strapped Americans were hesitant to go shopping. The brand's Canadian expansion was also a bigger challenge than executives planned.  Most recently, consumer perception of Target crashed after a data breach that affected millions of shoppers.  FREE AppDownload
It is well known that corporate profit margins are at record highs. US margins, developed market margins, and even emerging market margins are generally either at or close to record highs. Most bearish market observers cite the inevitability of margins contracting as a prime reason for caution. We don’t dispute that the probabilities favor margin contraction. It seems reasonable to forecast margin contraction given the combination of a stable-to- stronger US dollar and growing political pressures to better reward labor. However, the expansion or contraction of profit margins has historically had a relatively weak relationship with the direction of the stock market. A myopic focus on profit margins may miss an important investment consideration. Whereas most investors remain fearful of margin compression, we prefer to search for an investment theme that could emerge if margins do indeed compress. Market share Basic economics states that profits are not solely a function of margins, but also of the number of units sold. Companies often fight for market share (i.e., a greater number of units sold) when margins contract. Accordingly, our investment focus has shifted toward themes based on companies who might gain market share. Our major secular positions are all market share stories: American Industrial Renaissance, Japan, and small US banks are just three examples. American Industrial Renaissance Small and mid-cap US-focused industrial and manufacturing companies are gaining market share. There are many factors contributing to this shift: RBA Currency wars: emerging markets lose market share In our recent year-ahead report “10 for ‘14”, we mentioned the increasing probability of currency wars. The global credit bubble has left the global economy with significant overcapacity, and production in many parts of the world is becoming a commodity. Commodities tend to compete on price. Productivity is critical to compete globally, and many emerging markets offered manufacturers greater profitability through productivity. However, productivity growth is now slowing meaningfully in most emerging markets, and the emerging markets now have the highest inflation rates in the world (see Chart 2). When productivity fails to be a competitive advantage, then countries have to compete purely on price and devalue their currencies. Devaluing a currency often results in higher inflation rates because the prices of imported goods, both input raw materials and consumer goods, go up. Emerging markets’ current high inflation rates will likely limit emerging market countries’ exchange rate flexibility. Some EM countries are already starting to lose market share as a result. We strongly doubt that the idea of market share has been factored into forecasts for emerging market economic or profits growth. Despite that the emerging markets have been leading the world in negative earnings surprises for nearly two years, growth forecasts have been remarkably downward sticky. RBA Japan – “blessed” with deflation Our interest in Japan is based on the country’s new-found competitive advantage versus the emerging markets. Whereas the emerging markets have among the highest inflation rates in the world, deflation has been the dominant theme within the Japanese economy. Because the Japanese economy is in need of some inflation, Japan seems to have plenty of flexibility to manage a lower exchange rate without risking abnormally high inflation. Japan’s productivity growth, like most of the world’s, has been slowing, and the Japanese government has decided to depreciate the Yen as a result. We think the odds are that Japanese manufacturing will gain market share because Japan has the flexibility to manage a lower exchange rate and Japanese production will become more competitive. This competitive advantage is unlikely to occur quickly. Rather, we see Japan gaining market share as a secular investment theme, and not one that is likely to occur quickly in a matter of months. RBA Small US banks The history of bubbles shows that bubbles create capacity that is typically not needed after the bubble deflates. For example, the California gold rush in the 1800s created many towns that become ghost towns once the gold rush subsided. Some have suggested that the recent increase in North Dakota’s population as a result of the shale boom is oddly similar to that of the California gold rush. Capacity expansion during a credit bubble is not physical capacity as it would be during a bubble in the real economy. Rather, the expansion of capacity during a credit bubble is represented by the expansion of bank balance sheets, i.e., banks’ increased ability to lend. We have argued for many years that the history of post-bubble overcapacity meant that bank balance sheets would inevitably shrink as the credit bubble subsided. Larger banks around the world have tried to fight the rationalization of balance sheet capacity. The arguments against increased regulation and against stricter capital requirements are attempts by the banks to delay the inevitable downsizing of their balance sheets. Smaller US banks, however, have already re-sized their balance sheets and are gaining market share as a result. Whereas large bank lending in the US is contracting, smaller bank lending is accelerating (See Charts 4 &amp; 5 below, courtesy of Cornerstone Macro). Growth expectations for larger banks still seem overly optimistic, whereas those for smaller banks may be too conservative. RBA Market share is the story Concerns regarding profit margin contraction might be well founded. The key question for us is not whether they will contract or not, but rather how should one invest if they do. We think that market share, rather than profit margins, will be a major investment theme over the next several years. Our portfolios are positioned accordingly. This article originally appeared at Richard Bernstein Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
YouTube/PIMCOPIMCO CIO Bill Gross.Bill Gross, chief investment officer of PIMCO, told Bloomberg News in an interview that he was shocked and discouraged to hear that PIMCO CEO Mohamed El-Erian would be departing the firm in March. PIMCO's parent company, Allianz, made the announcement yesterday. El-Erian will stay on as an adviser to Allianz after he leaves PIMCO. Bloomberg News correspondents Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam and Alexis Leondis write: Gross said he was shocked and discouraged when El-Erian told him several weeks ago that he wanted to leave to "recharge the batteries," write a second book and spend more time with his family. He, along with the firm's executive committee, tried to persuade El-Erian to change his mind, Gross said. El-Erian's "When Markets Collide: Investment Strategies for the Age of the Global Economy" came out in 2008. "From our standpoint he was doing a great job," Gross said in the phone interview. "The answer we gave him was basically, 'Hell no, you can't go.'" Gross's comments perhaps dispel one popular theory surrounding El-Erian's departure — that the two didn't see eye to eye. However, a report by Financial Times correspondents Tom Braithwaite, Chris Newlands, and Alice Ross adds a bit more to the picture. "A testy relationship with Mr. Gross, coupled with the extremely long days and demands of running the huge fund, convinced Mr. El-Erian it was time to step down, according to people familiar with the matter," they write. FREE AppDownload
Inflation was a big story in 2013 because it was so surprisingly low. Inflation could be the big story once again in 2014 as it could be the year when it comes back in a big way. For some context here's a chart of current inflation rates around the world from market guru Richard Bernstein. Bernstein believes that weak currencies and high inflation rates is bad news for the emerging markets. "When productivity fails to be a competitive advantage, then countries have to compete purely on price and devalue their currencies," wrote Bernstein. "Devaluing a currency often results in higher inflation rates because the prices of imported goods, both input raw materials and consumer goods, go up. Emerging markets’ current high inflation rates will likely limit emerging market countries’ exchange rate flexibility. Some EM countries are already starting to lose market share as a result." Richard Bernstein Advisors FREE AppDownload
The No. 1 topic of discussion at this year's World Economic Forum in Davos is inequality, so it seems every journalist is asking every noteworthy attendee — from CEOs to investors — about their thoughts on the matter. Naturally, that means Wall Street CEOs are getting questioned too. Tuesday, it was Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan's turn. Wednesday morning, Morgan Stanley's James Gorman was up. Both interviews were with Bloomberg TV. Both CEOs were asked about inequality. Both gave answers. The stark difference was that while Gorman sounded like he understood the question, Moynihan did not. Let's start with Gorman. First, he admitted that the industry had violated everyone's trust and brought the world into a recession — a mea culpa. Thank you. Then Gorman moved on to how his business was trying to become less harmful to the public good — shedding proprietary businesses, and taking less risk.  Finally, he admitted that inequality is a massive problem we have on all our hands — one that doesn't just date back to the financial crisis. It goes back decades, and it requires more than Morgan Stanley or any other institution's charitable giving programs. People want jobs, and more than that, they want to live in a society where they can work for a living wage. Here's how Gorman put it: "First of all, we have to get employment to a state, particularly in the U.S., where more people are in jobs ... And for better or for worse, a lot of the blame for the failure in the economy over the last several years is the financial crisis." Inequality, he added, is a "Legitimate issue. Look at the minimum wage, particularly in the U.S., since 1950 inflation adjusted. It's terrible. You look at the rest of the world, the minimum wage is a problem. We are clearly creating societies where we have large groups of haves and haves nots. That was expressed by the public during the financial crisis. And we need to address it." Now contrast that grasp of the problem with Brian Moynihan's answer the day before. Here's a quick preview — Moynihan just rattles off a bunch of facts and figures about how his bank is serving the country by doing business and expanding credit. "In the United States, we engage in everything we do," said Moynihan, "our small business lending is up 25 percent year-over-year. Our mortgage lending was up until revise trend off. Our credit cards are up. We are trying to participate in the economy, but the economy has to grow in fundamental ways and the banks are trying to help it. You have both of those issues. Industries are cover, capital letters and liquidity. Every one of us has work to do. On the other hand, we talk a lot about the role in the fundamental economies and we help growth and how we support both idea exchange and other information." What Moynihan said is part banking jargon, and adds nothing to a discussion about inequality. In fact, it's hard to figure out whether or not he understands the root of the problem. This, again, is more than just American jobs. It's a desire to live in a society where those who work have the opportunity to prosper. We're talking about a gap here. Moreover, Moynihan brought up a sore spot. The last thing a Wall Street CEO should bring up as a positive — if he's trying to explain his grasp of the inequality problem for his customers — is credit card (debt). The industry's track record on credit cards hasn't been great of late. Bank of America itself was sued last fall and paid out $32 million because it was sending harassing robocalls to credit card customers. A year before, after consumer advocates had claimed that credit card payment-protection products didn't actually help customers, the bank stopped selling them. Bank of America also paid a $20 million settlement and admitted that it mismarked those products.  It's unclear how much BofA was making off these products but in March 2011, the Government Accountability Office released a report that said consumers paid $2.4 billion in fees for payment-protection products in 2009. Regardless of whether or not Bank of America's practices (or Wall Street's for that matter) have changed, the trust has been lost, as Gorman said. So when it comes to the topic of inequality, it's not enough for anyone representing a Wall Street bank to rattle off what they know about their business. That's not going to end the banker-bashing, or change the country's perception of the industry. Inequality isn't about that, anyway. It's not an us vs. them. It's about the people (customers) who are listening, and would like to trust that your company understands the challenges we're facing as a society together. And this isn't about the kids at Occupy Wall Street anymore, or even the leaders at Davos. This is a problem people are beginning to see in their communities. In a recent survey, 58% of the affluent investors, traders, and other professionals polled about inequality by Bloomberg said it was a problem. Even more said it was time for the government to do something about it. It would be nice to know that the powerful leaders of America's major banks understand inequality, and can communicate that in English to their customers. It's likely that Moynihan meant no harm with his comment, but remember, when you're a leader trying to reach the masses, "it's not what you say, it's what people hear."   FREE AppDownload
Vanguard GroupThat purple line is ridiculous.No one predicted that the S&amp;P 500 would end 2013 up 30% for the year, closing at an all-time record high of 1,848. As we entered 2013, Wall Street's stock market strategists had the tough task of forecasting what the S&amp;P 500 would do after closing 2012 at 1,426, up 13% for the year and 114% from its March 2009 low. The median year-end forecast for the S&amp;P at the beginning of the year was 1,560, reflecting a modest 9% gain. Every stock market forecast ultimately comes down to two things: earnings and the valuation at which investors are willing to pay for them. For the most part, strategists were spot on with their earnings forecasts. According to Bloomberg, strategists began the year looking for $107 in earnings for the S&amp;P.  A year later, the S&amp;P is on track to earn $110. That's a tiny margin of error. So, it's pretty clear: everyone got the valuation wrong. The chart to the right represents a decomposition of what drives total stock market returns. As you can see, earnings growth looks stable relative to the wild swings in valuation. When stock prices outpace earnings growth like they did in 2013, experts say that the price-to-earnings (PE) multiple is expanding. Simply put, the stock market is getting more expensive. In other words, investors are paying an increasing premium for earnings. In the long-run, this valuation measure tends to revert to a long-term mean.  But in the short run, however, they will trend for long periods of time, which means it spends a lot of time moving away from the mean. Another way of saying this is that a market that looks expensive will get much more expensive before becoming fairly priced again. "Year to date, 75% of the S&amp;P return has come from its PE expanding to 16.5x from 13.7x trailing EPS at 2012 end," wrote Deutsche Bank's David Bianco late last year. "Excluding 2009, this is the largest PE contribution to market return since 1998." While valuations were a large part of 2013 returns, they've always played a pretty big role. "In a simple return decomposition, this reversion has been the largest driver of the movement of long-term equity returns over time," said Vanguard's Joseph Davis, Roger Aliaga-Diaz, Charles Thomas, and Andrew Patterson. "This supports our long-held view that valuations, not growth, are the most significant drivers of returns." Unfortunately, valuations are arguably the most difficult factor to forecast in the short-run. They reflect swings in sentiment and various psychological factors that play into investment decision-making, which rarely is very rational. "But to what level will valuations revert?" asked Vanguard. "[M]ost valuation metrics have been above their long-term averages for more than two decades, raising questions about the potential for structural shifts. Without certainty as to where exactly valuations will move in the future, it is very difficult to pin down a precise estimate of the equity risk premium. This is a key reason for our distributional approach to forecasting." Will valuations play a big role in 2014's returns? While most strategist agree that stocks will go up, they are totally split on whether the earnings multiple will expand or contract. "Only the hubristic deign to project the market multiple," said Adam Parker, Morgan Stanley top U.S. equity strategist. FREE AppDownload
On Tuesday, billionaire Warren Buffett announced his Berkshire Hathaway was backing a contest sponsored by Quicken Loans to reward anyone who filled out a perfect NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament bracket with $1 billion. The news had many people excited about the prospect of winning the astronomical sum of money, despite the nearly zero percent probability that a perfect bracket will be filled out. Earlier today, we received the following email from Rhonda Hess, a grandmother and retired kindergarten teacher from Ohio, responding to the announcement. It is co-signed by her husband Doug. Business Insider gets a lot emails from readers. But Rhonda's response to Buffett's prize was both heartfelt and sensible. She reminds us that there are better ways to throw around a billion dollars than to award it to someone effectively playing the lottery. We reproduce Rhonda's letter below. --- Our son in Colorado sent us your Warren Buffett March Madness column this morning. I know he did it because of a conversation we had with him over Christmas. I imagine you will never read this email because you will probably get thousands emails and ours will quickly be gone and deleted. I on the the other hand, will feel better for at least doing something I never do online and that is VENT. I am not one for face book or other social media stuff.  I read your Warren Buffett  March Madness article with a flood of emotions. Tears. Anger. Disgust. Sadness and alright even a bit of jealousy and then defeat.  My husband was a high school basketball assistant for years and at first I stupidly thought we can do this! Then, I read the article. One form per household. My chances are probably better with Publisher’s Clearinghouse. I have been filling those forms out since 1978 and that hasn’t worked out. I can’t even imagine a billion dollars, can’t imagine having that much money to give away, and never in a million years would want a billion dollars. But for an instant...I was tempted to grab a form and a pen and start writing. After I came to my senses, I did think that I could tell you what I could do for a lot less and it would mean a great deal more. More than you or Warren could ever imagine. Everyone has a story. This is ours. At Christmas, we asked our visiting son. Do you think there is a foundation related to education out there that would give us a grant to pay off you kid’s college loans? We have been thinking about it trying to find some outside help. According to our college loan payment schedules we will be paying until we are 78 and in a short period of time one of our loans is going to take another monthly jump of $200. Does not probably seem like much to a normal household budget. It will be for ours. You see my husband taught 4th graders for 35 years and retired. He actually taught in the same school he went to as a child. I am a retired kindergarten teacher and worked in the same building. Our three sons attended there, too. We put our three sons through private Christian colleges and will never ever in a million years regret that decision even though it has cost thousands due to inflated interest rates. All three of our sons teach. One is an adjunct professor at the college level and works for an organization that helps families, one teaches chemistry at a rural high school level, and one teaches math in and inner city middle school. We feel so blessed they chose careers to serve families and kids. We had always thought when our retirement years came we could volunteer helping children in other places through mission trips. Well, eighteen months ago, we retired in order to move closer to two of our sons. We have 5 grandchildren three years old and under and I babysit two of them as their mom works as a nurse. It has enables them not to go to daycare. My husband substitute teaches at the high school where one of our son’s teaches.  Life is good and don’t get me wrong, we are blessed. We have so much more than countless others in the world and we know that. We have the luxuries of a roof over our heads and a car and can pay our bills even though most months are tight.  However, the college loans drag on us like a ton of bricks. With them, we have no flexibility. Now we worry about things like how we are we ever going to replace the roof or the furnace when they quit. An any type of health issue would be devastating. Our finances depend totally on our prayer life and we are very thankful, God has been faithful. This is what got me going as I read your article. Why couldn’t Mr. Buffett’s organization instead of giving a billion dollars to one lucky person for something as frivolous as a basketball bracket (and I had three sons that played the game and love it) could help LOTS of families that struggle to always do the right thing and never seem to get a break on the hardwood court of life. A small amount of money that would never be missed by a billionaire could make all the difference in their lives. And I am not talking about going on vacation or buying new stuff. I am talking about just surviving and the ability to make choices. If you read this thanks for doing so. I am really struggling with hitting the send button. I do not want our sons to ever think we regret decisions we’ve made. Staying home with them in the early years was important to us, college was a fabulous experience for each of them, and moving later in life has been an adventure. And we dearly adore being close to our grandchildren! We have no regrets with decisions we have made in terms of our family and cherish the close relationships we have with each of them. That is really what life is about, isn’t it? You may also wonder about the email address. It is "snowday" because those were “special” days to our kids growing up. They got pancakes or a hot cooked breakfast on those days when school was cancelled  due to bad weather and we didn’t have to rush out the door to help other kids. Have a good day. Thanks for letting me vent. The blood pressure is slowly going down. And our kids call us...Diz and Riz. FREE AppDownload
1. It is doubtful that intermittent renewables actually reduce carbon dioxide emissions. It is devilishly difficult to figure out whether or not any particular energy source has a favorable impact on carbon dioxide emissions. The obvious first way of looking at emissions is to look at the fuel burned on a day-to-day basis. Intermittent renewables don’t seem to burn fossil fuel on day-to-day basis, while those using fossil fuels do, so wind and solar PV seem to be the winners. The catch is that there are many direct and indirect ways that fossil fuels come into play in making the devices that create the renewable energy and in their operation on the grid. The researcher must choose “boundaries” for any analysis. In a sense, we need our whole fossil fuel powered system of schools, roads, airports, hospitals, and electricity transmission lines to make any of type of energy product work, whether oil, natural gas, wind, or solar electric–but it is difficult to make boundaries wide enough to cover everything. The exercise becomes one of trying to guess how much carbon emissions are saved by looking at tops of icebergs, given that the whole rest of the system is needed to support the new additions. The thing that makes the problem more difficult is the fact that intermittent renewables have more energy-related costs that are not easy to measure than fossil fuel powered energy does. For example, there may be land rental costs, salaries of consultants, and (higher) financing costs because of the front-ended nature of the investment. There are also costs for mitigating intermittency and extra long-distance grid connections. Many intermittent renewables costs seem to be left out of CO2 analyses under the theory that, say, land rental doesn’t really use energy. But the payment for land rental means that the owner can now go and buy more “stuff,” so it acts to raise fossil fuel energy consumption. Normally the cost of making an energy-related product gives an indication as to how much fossil fuel energy is involved in the process. A high-priced energy product gives an expectation of high fossil fuel use, since true renewable energy use is free. If the true source of renewable energy were only wind or solar, there would be no cost at all! The fact that wind and solar PV tends to be more expensive than other electricity generation gives an initial expectation that the fossil fuel energy requirements for creating this energy source are high, rather than low, if a wide boundary analysis were to be done. There are some studies based on narrow boundary studies of various types (Energy Return on Energy Invested, Life Cycle Analysis, and Energy Payback Periods) that suggest that there are some savings (from the top of the icebergs) if intermittent renewables are used. But more broadly based studies show that the overall amount of fossil fuel energy used by intermittent renewables is really so high that we don’t come out ahead by its use. One such study is Weissbach et al.’s study in Energy called  Energy intensities, EROIs (energy returned on invested), and energy payback times of electricity generating power plants. Another is an analysis of Spanish installed solar power by Pedro Prieto and Charles Hall called Spain’s Photovoltaic Revolution: The Energy Return on Energy Invested. I tend to use an even wider boundary approach: what happens to world CO2 emissions when we ramp up intermittent renewables? As far as I can tell, it tends to raise CO2 emissions. One way this happens is by ramping up China’s economy, through the additional business it generates in the making of wind turbines, solar panels, and the mining of rare earth minerals used in these devices. The benefit China gets from its renewable sales is leveraged several times, as it allows the country to build new homes, roads, and schools, and businesses to service the new manufacturing. In China, the vast majority of manufacturing is with coal. ourfiniteworld.com Figure 1. Energy consumption by source for China based on BP 2013 Statistical Review of World Energy. Another way intermittent renewables raise world CO2 emissions indirectly is by making the country using intermittent renewables less competitive in the world market-place, because the higher electricity cost raises the price of manufactured goods. This tends to send manufacturing to countries that use lower-priced energy sources for electricity, such as China. A third way that intermittent renewables can raise world CO2 emissions relates to affordability. Consumers cannot afford high-priced electricity without their standards of living dropping. Governments may be pressured to change their overall electricity mix to include more very low-cost energy sources, such as lignite (a very low grade of coal), in their electricity mix to keep the  overall price in an affordable range. This seems to be at least part of the problem behind Germany’s difficulties with renewables. If there is any savings at all in CO2 emissions, it would seem to be from inexpensive intermittent renewables–ones that don’t really need subsidies. If renewables need a subsidy or feed in tariff, a red danger light should be flashing. Somewhere the process is  using a lot of fossil fuels in its production. 2. Wind and Solar PV do not fix our oil problem. Wind and solar PV both are used to make electricity. Our big problem is with oil. Oil and electricity are used for different things. For example, electricity won’t run today’s cars, and it won’t run tractors, or construction equipment, or aircraft. So even if we have more electricity, it doesn’t fix our oil problem. Wind and solar PV have been billed as solutions to our CO2 problem. Unfortunately, as we just saw in (1) above, it doesn’t really  do this either. The combination of (1) and (2) leaves wind and solar PV with relatively few purposes. I should mention that there is one small niche where intermittent renewables can substitute for oil. While oil is not generally burned to produce electricity, it is used for this purpose on some islands because of its convenience. These island communities do little manufacturing because their high cost of electricity makes them not competitive in the world market. On these islands,  intermittent renewables can be used to reduce the amount of oil used for electricity production, without driving up the cost of electricity, since electric costs are already very high. 3. The high cost of wind and solar PV doubles our energy problems, rather than solving them. The big issue with oil is its high cost of production. We extracted the easy-to-extract oil first, and now we are getting to the more-difficult to extract oil. Adding high priced electricity to our fuel mix means we have price problems with both oil and electricity, instead of only one of the two. Consumers’ wages don’t rise to pay for these high-priced fuels, so disposable income is adversely impacted by both. The two high-priced fuels also combine to make exported goods even less competitive in the world marketplace. 4. Even if wind is “renewable,” it isn’t necessarily long lived. Manufacturers of wind turbines claim lives of 20 to 25 years. This compares to life spans of 40 years or more for coal, gas, and nuclear. One recent study suggests that because of degraded performance, it may not be economic to operate wind turbines for more than 12 to 15 years. If we are expecting substantial changes in the years ahead, there are also issues with whether necessary repairs will really be available. Wind turbines are especially repair prone. These repairs can’t be made by just anyone, using local materials. They need the specialized world supply chain that we have today. Offshore wind turbines sometimes need helicopters for repairs. If oil is a problem, such repairs may not be available. 5. Wind and solar PV don’t ramp up quickly. After many years of trying to ramp up wind and solar PV, in 2012, wind amounted to a bit under 1% of world energy supply. Solar amounted to even less than that–about 0.2% of world energy supply. It would take huge effort to ramp up production to even 5% of the world’s energy supply. 6. Wind and solar PV create serious pollution problems.  Both wind turbines and solar PV use rare earth minerals, mostly from China, in their manufacture. Mining and processing these rare earths generates a tremendous amount of “hazardous and radioactive byproducts.” In the part of China where rare earth minerals are mined, soil and water are saturated with toxic substances, making farming impossible. If we were to try to increase wind and solar by a factor of 10 (so that they together amount to 12% of world energy supply, instead of 1.2%) we would need huge amounts of rare earth minerals and other polluting minerals, such as  gallium arsenide, copper-indium-gallium-diselenide, and cadmium-telluride, used in making thin-film photovoltaics. We could not expect China to take on all of this pollution itself. Instead, the rest of the world would need to produce these toxic materials as well. Presumably, many countries would require stringent pollution controls to do this extraction. These pollution controls would likely require greater use of fossil fuel energy. While pollution problems might be kept in check, the greater use of fossil fuels would likely raise both CO2 emissions and the prices of the wind and solar PV. There are many other pollution issues. China is a major center for renewables production, using coal as it primary fuel. Silicon-based solar cells require heating silica rock to high temperatures in 3000 F ovens, something that which can be done cheaply with coal. Wind is known for its noise pollution issues and for killing birds. Solar panels on the desert floor interfere with the local ecosystem. A major reason why wind and solar PV are considered clean is because it is hard to measure their true pollution costs, whether CO2 or other types. Electric cars have some of the same issues, because they also use rare earth minerals and have heavy up-front costs. 7. There is a danger that wind and solar PV will make the electric grid less long-lived, rather than more long-lived. This tends to happen because current laws overcompensate owners of intermittent renewables relative to the value they provide to the grid.  One point of confusion is what wind and solar PV really replace. Do they replace electricity, or do they replace the fuel that makes electricity? There is a huge difference, in terms of when an intermittent renewable achieves “grid-parity” in costs. Fuel costs are typically only a small share of retail electricity costs, so reaching grid parity is extremely difficult if intermittent renewables only replace fuel costs. In the US fuel costs average about 3 cents per kWh. For residential users, the retail price averages about 12 cents per kWh, or four times as much as the fuel cost. What we are interested in is the value of intermittent electricity to the companies that make and sell electricity–utilities or similar companies. In my view, the typical value of intermittent electricity is the value of the fuel the intermittent electricity replaces–in other words, the cost of coal, natural gas, or uranium replaced. This is the case because using intermittent electricity doesn’t generally reduce any costs for an electric utility, other than its fuel costs. It still needs to provide backup power around the clock to customers with solar panels. Because of the variability in production, it still needs pretty much the same capacity as in the past, and it needs the same staffing for each of the units, even though some of them might be operating for a smaller percentage of time. The value of the intermittent electricity to the utility may be greater or less than the first estimate of the fuel savings. In some instances, particularly if there is a lot of solar PV in a part of the world where maximum energy use is during the summer, peak capacity needs may be reduced a bit. This would be a savings above fuel costs. Offsetting such savings would be increased costs for new transmission lines to try to even out spikes in electricity production and to bring wind from sources where it is strongest to locations where its energy is truly needed. The problem that occurs is the fact that most plans reimburse users of wind and solar PV at a far higher rate than the cost of the fuel they replace. Often “net metering’ is used, so the user is in effect given credit for the full retail price of electricity for the electricity generated by solar panels. This higher reimbursements leaves a revenue shortfall for the companies involved in producing electricity for the grid. The danger is that some companies will go bankrupt, or will leave the system, endangering the ability of the electric grid to provide a stable electric supply for consumers. This is a potentially much more dangerous problem than any benefit that intermittent renewables provide. Also, funding for the additional electric transmission lines is likely to become a problem, because neither the electricity companies nor governments have sufficient revenue to fund them. The reason the electric companies cannot afford them should be clear–they are being asked to subsidize the costs through overly high reimbursement of the value of the intermittent renewables. I discuss the reason for the government lack of funds in (8), below. 8. Adding more wind and solar PV tends to make government finances less sound, rather than more sound. Around the world, extraction of inexpensive oil and gas has historically strengthened the finances of governments. This happens because governments have been able to tax the oil and gas companies heavily, and use the tax revenue to fund government programs. Unfortunately, the addition of wind and solar tends to act in precisely the opposite direction. In some cases, the reduction in governments revenue comes directly through subsidies for wind and solar. In other instances, the reduction in government revenue is more indirect. If the high price of intermittent electricity causes a country to become less competitive in the world market, this indirectly reduces government tax revenue because it leads to fewer people having jobs, and thus less taxable income. Even if the issue is “only” a reduction in discretionary income of consumers, this still cuts back on the ability of governments to raise taxes. 9. My analysis indicates that the bottleneck we are reaching is not simply oil. Instead, a major problem is inadequate investment capital and too much debt.  Ramping up wind and solar PV tends to make those problems worse, not better. As I described in my post Why EIA, IEA, and Randers’ 2052 Energy Forecasts are Wrong, we are reaching an investment capital and debt bottleneck, because of the higher extraction costs of oil. Adding intermittent renewables, in which huge costs are paid out in advance, adds to this problem. Because of this, ramping up intermittent renewables tends to make collapse come sooner, rather than later, to the countries trying to ramp up these energy sources. 10. Wind and Solar PV come nowhere near fulfilling the promises made for them.   Trying to substitute expensive energy for cheap is like trying to make water run uphill. It is virtually impossible to make such a system work. It makes everyone from governments to businesses to citizens poorer in the process. Promises that are made regarding future payments for electricity often need to be reneged on.  If there really were benefits from the program–other than making government officials look like they are doing something–it might make sense to expand the programs. As it is, it is hard to see much benefit to expanding intermittent renewables. Even if we wanted to, there would be no way we could expand intermittent renewables to cover our entire electricity program–they are just too expensive, too polluting, and don’t provide the liquid fuels we need. Summary While many people would like us to believe that wind and solar PV will solve all of our problems, the more a person looks at the question, the clearer it becomes that wind and solar PV added to the electric grid are part of the problem, not part of the solution. If capital is one of the limits we are up against, we need to spend that capital as wisely as possible.  Because solar PV is relatively long-lived, it is possible it may be a tiny part of the path ahead, but not as part of the electric grid. Individual citizens may want to buy a panel or two, as a way of providing some electricity, if we should have problems with electricity at a later date. But there is no reason the government should subsidize these purchases. We might better off spending our capital in more productive ways–for example, figuring out what path we will follow in the very near future, if we find we are reaching a financial bottle neck brought on the high cost of oil extraction. Do we need to be doing more in the direction of local agriculture, with seeds chosen for each area? Should we even be thinking about buying up farmland and resettling potential workers to different areas? Are there ways we can make soil more productive for the long term? The primary reason for intermittent renewables was supposedly to reduce CO2 emissions to prevent climate change. If we seem to be reaching Limits to Growth in the near term, the amount of carbon burned will be far lower than the climate models assume–even the “peak oil” model for future CO2. So perhaps from that point of view, our inability to make intermittent renewables work doesn’t really matter. We are already reaching the goal the intermittent renewables were trying to reach, in another, not very fortunate, way. We are now faced with the task of trying to figure out what we can do, in the world Nature gives us. The previous plan didn’t work. Perhaps we need to find a Plan B that will put us in a better position. Filed under: Alternatives to Oil, Financial Implications Tagged: carbon dioxide, climate change, CO2, renewables, solar energy, solar voltaic, wind  Read more posts on Our Finite World » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Chip EastHedge fund titan Carl IcahnBillionaire investor Carl Icahn said he's going to reveal his next big investment on Twitter.  "In the next few weeks, there will be another big one...and my Twitter followers will be the first to know," Icahn told CNBC's Scott Wapner.  Icahn said he doesn't own any shares of Twitter, but he's a huge fan of the social media network. He told CNBC, "it's great because you could get things out to the world. It's changed the world."  Icahn's Twitter handle is @Carl_C_Icahn. So far, he has more than 128,000 followers. He only follows nine people.  FREE AppDownload
So what's going on? Yesterday, the U.S. Department of Defense announced that it approved the use of 80,000 BlackBerry devices and caused the stock to close up a little over 9%. Last year, BlackBerry failed to capture regular consumers with its new BlackBerry 10 mobile operating system. It is now focusing on enterprise and government customers along with consumers in emerging markets like Indonesia where the brand is still very popular. Meanwhile, BlackBerry got a bit more aggressive this week, criticizing Samsung, which is relatively new to mobile enterprise, for being weak on security. FREE AppDownload
Target opened more than 100 stores in Canada last year.  But the discount chain's expansion up north has been a bumpy one. Company executives admitted that inventory didn't sell as quickly as they expected, which hurt profits.  Wall Street analyst Brian Sozzi at Belus Capital Advisors recently published photos of Target Canada that indicate why the business could be struggling.  His images portray understocked shelves and disorganized displays.  Take this freezer, which is looks understocked and empty:  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  "Look at the dominant clearance signs on the cheap chic items Target is known for in the U.S.," Sozzi writes.  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  This emptiness is also apparent in the beauty section:  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  And in home goods, one of the greatest triumphs of Target U.S.  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  "It looks as if workers are being told to push up merchandise on the shelves because the store is unsure on when new shipments will arrive," Sozzi writes.  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  These empty shelves are pretty bad in the apparel section.  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  "Why have a display wall at all?" he asks.  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  Where there should be multiple rows of products, Target Canada is thinly displaying just one or two bottles of detergent at a time:  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  The shoe display is no better:  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  Meanwhile, the clearance section offers products for 90% off.  "That type of discount is alarming at a newly opened business," Sozzi said.  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  Some shelves, like those in the paper towel aisle, appear empty:  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  And that emptiness even extends to food:  Brian Sozzi/Belus Capital Advisors  "One almost is overcome with this creepy feeling (at least we are given our close tracking of the situation) that Target will go the way of many U.S. brands that ventured into Canadian retailing…extinct," Sozzi writes.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesFox Business Network has officially announced that it has signed Maria Bartiromo, according to a release.  Back in November, it was reported that Bartiromo, affectionately known as the "Money Honey," was leaving CNBC after 20 years to join Fox Business. Fox had not made an official announcement until now.  Bartiromo has been named a Global Markets Editor at Fox Business.  She will anchor a daily show for Fox Business and a Sunday business-focused show for Fox News Channel.  She starts on February 1st. Bartiromo is currently in Davos, Switzerland for the World Economic Forum.  Here's the full announcement:  FOX Business Network (FBN) has signed veteran financial anchor Maria Bartiromo to a multi-year deal, announced Roger Ailes, Chairman and CEO of FOX News. In her new role, Bartiromo will serve as Global Markets Editor, anchoring a daily market hours program for FBN, as well as a Sunday business focused show on FOX News Channel (FNC). She will begin her tenure at FOX Business on February 1st with each program launching before the end of the first quarter.  In making the announcement, Ailes said, “I tapped Maria to report live from the floor of the New York Stock Exchange while at CNBC, and I am delighted to have her join me once again alongside our star lineup at FOX Business.” Most recently, Bartiromo anchored CNBC’s top-rated markets program, Closing Bell with Maria Bartiromo. In 2004, she took over as anchor of the weekly nationally syndicated show, The Wall Street Journal Report, which was later renamed On the Money with Maria Bartiromo. She joined CNBC in 1993, and made history in 1995 as the first journalist to report live from the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on a daily basis. Prior to tenure there, Bartiromo served as a producer, writer and assignment editor for CNN Business News.  A recipient of numerous prestigious awards, Bartiromo was the first female journalist to be inducted into the Cable Hall of Fame in 2011. In 2009, the Financial Timesnamed her one of the “50 Faces That Shaped the Decade.” She was honored with two News and Documentary Emmy Awards; in 2008 for her NBC Nightly News special, Bailout Talks Collapse, and in 2009 for her Inside the Mind of Google CNBC documentary. She also received a Gracie Award for her CNBC special, Greenspan: Power, Money &amp; the American Dream. Bartiromo is the author of several books, including The Weekend That Changed Wall Street and The 10 Laws of Enduring Success. She writes a monthly column forUSA Today and has written columns for Businessweek, Milano Finanza, Individual Investor, Ticker and Reader’s Digest magazines. She has also been published in theFinancial Times, Newsweek, Town &amp; Country, Registered Rep and the New York Post. In addition to being a member of the Board of Trustees of New York University, she is on the Board of Directors of the New York City Ballet, the Girl Scout Council of Greater New York, and the National Italian American Foundation (NIAF). She is a member of the Board of Directors of the Young Global Leaders of the World Economic Forum, the Council on Foreign Relations, the Economic Club of New York, and the Board of Governors of the Columbus Citizens Foundation.  A graduate of New York University, Bartiromo earned a degree in journalism and economics. She later served as an adjunct professor at NYU Stern School of Business in the fall semesters of 2010 through 2012. FREE AppDownload
APExplain this to investors.The Wall Street Journal has an interesting story about Magnum, a Hong Kong nightclub that'll be offering shares of its company on Thursday. Here's the thing. When a company goes public, there's an IPO prospectus. When there's an IPO prospectus, there are details about the company itself. And when that company is a night club, you have to explain clubbing to investors. That just sounds straight-up weird. Some fun nuggets from the prospectus via the WSJ:  Sounds fun! Read the full report at the Wall Street Journal » FREE AppDownload
Gates Foundation The notion that world poverty cannot be solved is not only wrong, it is dangerous, Bill Gates has said. The Microsoft founder, who has run the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation for the last number of years, released the foundation’s annual letter, in which he argues against the three “myths” that he says block progress for poor people. “By almost any measure, the world is better than it has ever been,” the letter begins. “People are living longer, healthier lives.Many nations that were aid recipients are now self-sufficient. "You might think that such striking progress would be widely celebrated, but in fact, Melinda and I are struck by how many people think the world is getting worse. “The belief that the world can’t solve extreme poverty and disease isn’t just mistaken. It is harmful.” Myths Gates first takes aim at the idea that “poor countries are doomed to stay poor”.  He points to improvements in infant mortality rates, as well as the dramatic overhaul of Mexico City as evidence that aid works, calling the Mexican capital a “miracle”. “By 2035, there will be almost no poor countries left in the world,” Gates says. He goes on to attack the myth that foreign aid is a big waste, enlisting the help of Bill Nye, Science Guy.   For the third myth, Gates enlists Professor Hans Rosling, who tackles the notion that treating poverty would lead to overpopulation.   The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation spends at least $1.5 billion to development causes yearly. FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Chip EastCorporate raider Carl Icahn continues his battle with Apple. Shortly after announcing on Twitter that he increased his Apple holdings to over $3 billion, Icahn appeared on CNBC with Scott Wapner to go on the attack. He said it's "disgraceful" that Apple is not raising its share buyback program. For months, he's been pushing the board to unleash some of its massive cash hoards in the form of a $50 billion stock buyback. "I think Apple is a no-brainer," he said about his investment.  He went on to tell CNBC that he's actually better off if Apple does nothing because he can buy more shares cheaply. It's "amazing" that Apple isn't higher, he said. FREE AppDownload
via Stribling & AssociatesLast October, Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich was in contract to buy three apartments in a gorgeous Fifth Avenue mansion for $75 million. But a new report in The New York Post says that the deal may be in jeopardy since the seller supposedly wants even more money. Abramovich originally wanted to purchase three of the five apartments in the building at 828 Fifth Avenue from the family of late British real estate developer Howard Ronson, which included the penthouse, a triplex, and a duplex apartment. But Ronson's widow — heiress Angelika Ivanc — is reportedly holding out because she believes she can get more money from the mogul. According to the Post: Ivanc is challenging the executors’ approval of the co-op sale in court in the English Channel island of Guernsey, where Ronson’s company had offices. While a European court ruling would not bar the sale in New York, legal experts say that the controversy would likely be enough to force the parties to hold off on the transaction until the court case is resolved. Even if the deal closes at the current price of $75 million, it would still be the most expensive co-op ever bought in the city beating out the previous record of $54 million, according to The Real Deal. Abramovich has reportedly bought another apartment in the building, and is trying to purchase the final unit so he can restore the mansion to its former glory, the Post reports. The eight-bedroom co-op is an interesting mix of classic and modern with tall ceilings and eight bedrooms. There's even a rooftop terrace that looks out over Central Park.
Joe Weisenthal, Business InsiderJapanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe just wrapped up a speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos. There's a ton of interest in him in part because of his big "Abenomics" experiment, but also because tensions are growing between Japan and China and everyone wants to hear what he has to say on that. In his introductory remarks, he declares that a "new dawn" is coming over Japan. He says Japan will completely liberalize the Japanese electricity sector, and that corporate tax cuts and labor market reforms are on the way. As he ended the speech, he sent a very big veiled message to China. Without naming any specific country, he said that military expansion in the region must be held in check, he called for transparent military budgets, and he said the "Law of the Sea" must be respected, which is an obvious reference to the island disputes. He promised that Japan has vowed never to wage a war again and that it plans to keep that vow. FREE AppDownload
MandarinOriental.comThe Presidential Suite at the Mandarin Oriental New York is one of the most expensive suites in the city.New York City is one of the most expensive places to live, but it can also cost a pretty penny just to visit.  According to NewYorkHotels.org, guests would have to shell out a whopping $40,000 to book the city's priciest suite for just one night. The hotel booking site recently released a list of the 10 most expensive hotel rooms in Manhattan, created by comparing the average rate throughout September 2013 (when the city's tourism was at its peak). FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueRemember back in 2011 when, during the first debt crisis, the U.S. lost its cherished "AAA" rating from Standard &amp; Poor's? It shouldn't be that hard to recall, seeing as the U.S. again teetered on the brink of self-imposed default just a few months ago, but at the time, losing the top credit rating was a pretty big story. Now it seems it was a big enough story for then-Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner to allegedly call up Harold McGraw, the chairman of McGraw-Hill Financial (which owns S&amp;P), and bully him over the phone, according to a new legal filing. Politico's Jon Prior reports: [McGraw] said that two days after this announcement, Geithner called and warned him that the ratings firm had made an error in its analysis and that “you are accountable for that,” according to a legal document filed Monday. McGraw said in his deposition that an angry Geithner said on the call that S&amp;P had made previous mistakes and would be “looked at very carefully.” McGraw added that Geithner told him “you have done an enormous disservice to yourselves and to your country” and that the downgrade had caused real damage to the struggling economy. Geithner denied the charges to Politico through a spokesperson. As Politico notes, the filing was part of S&amp;P's response to a Justice Department case. The DOJ says S&amp;P defrauded investors in the run-up to the financial crisis by marking mortgage-backed bonds with its top rating. The whole financial system came tumbling down, of course, as the risk of those bonds became evident. The S&amp;P claims the case is retribution for that 2011 downgrade. Read the full report at Politico » FREE AppDownload
For most finance novices, the language of mutual funds can be a mix of daunting, impressive, and suspicious. Every style of mutual fund offers something a bit different. But their explanations are often lacking and confusing. Enter Josh Brown, aka The Reformed Broker, with his mutual fund brochure decoder. In it Brown makes a less-than-serious effort to translate some of the jargon mutual fund clients are confronted by. More often then not, a typical actively managed mutual fund will do worse than a generic index fund, which cheaply replicates the performance of a major benchmark like the S&amp;P 500. It appears it's for this reason that Brown employs a snarky tone with all of these alternative styles. Check it out: @ReformedBroker FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesFacebook COO Sheryl SandbergCongratulations are in order for Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg, who officially became a billionaire yesterday after Facebook's stock closed at a record high.  At 44, she is now own of the youngest billionaires in the US, and one of the youngest female billionaires in the world, according to the Bloomberg Millionaire Index.  Sandberg owns about 12.3 million shares of Facebook, which closed at $58.51 yesterday. Her stake is valued at about $750 million. Sandberg also owns about 4.7 million stock options and has collected more than $300 million selling shares since the company's initial public offering.  Here's a chart from Bloomberg Billionaires' Twitter account that shows how Facebook stock has performed since the company's IPO:  Twitter / Bloomberg Billionaires FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoJapanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe (R) reviews Japan Self-Defence Forces' (SDF) troops during the annual SDF ceremony at Asaka Base in Asaka, near Tokyo October 27, 2013.Japan Prime Minster Shinzo Abe said the current tension between Japan and China is a “similar situation" as the rivalry Britain and Germany before World War I, Gideon Rachman of The Financial Times reports. From FT: The comparison, he explained, lies in the fact that Britain and Germany – like China and Japan – had a strong trading relationship. But in 1914, this had not prevented strategic tensions leading to the outbreak of conflict. The comparison of is a startling one, especially since any escalation that led direct military conflict would bring the U.S. to Japan's defense. Unfortunately, there are parallels between the situation. Both are regional powers with strong trading relationships.  Abe told Rachman that Chinese military spending, which he says is increasing by 10% a year, is a major source of instability in the region. Last year Japan boosted its military spending by the most in nearly two decades. Between 1908 and 1913, European powers increased military spending by 50% after Germany began building a navy to rival Britain's. And then there are the strategic tensions. The current Japan and China are centered around territorial disputes in the East China Sea that are exacerbated by sour memories of World War II. Japanese jets regularly scramble to intercept Chinese aircraft as China becomes more assertive in the area. When Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria was assassinated in June 1914, Germany backed regional allies Austria-Hungary and the Ottoman Empire in the Great War. Britain then led the Allied Powers (which included France, Russia, Italy, Japan, and eventually the U.S.). Abe noted to FT that any “inadvertent” conflict would be regarded as a disaster, and he again called for military-to-military communications between the two countries. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) The Canadian dollar is hitting another new 5-year low this morning following the Bank of Canada's decision to maintain its benchmark interest rate at 1%. "Although the fundamental drivers of growth and future inflation appear to be strengthening, inflation is expected to remain well below target for some time, and therefore the downside risks to inflation have grown in importance," said the Bank in a statement, causing traders to push the loonie lower to reflect greater chances of additional easing ahead. "Today the BoC has told the market in multiple ways that CAD weakness is desirable and the market should keep pushing on an open door," says Alan Ruskin, global head of G-10 FX strategy at Deutsche Bank. The move in the U.S. dollar-Canadian dollar exchange rate today is sizable — USD is up 0.8% against CAD — but CAD has lurched lower in several sessions since the turn of the new year on this theme, and USD is already up more than 4% against CAD in the year to date. Société Générale senior forex strategist Sebastien Galy hints that the environment is similar to that in which the U.S. dollar shot upward against the Japanese yen last year as expectations built for a substantial monetary easing campaign there. "USD/CAD is one the main trending currencies with TRY technically, and from a modeling perspective in a break of regime, which is the complicated way of saying it no longer trades as it used to for many years," says Galy. "This makes standard regression-based valuation metrics obsolete as they will largely follow spot as happened with USD/JPY under Abenomics." The chart below shows how much speculators have already piled into the trade. The net position of futures traders at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange is one of the largest shorts in years. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) FREE AppDownload
"Amazon is at the forefront of a larger trend that has seen demand for well-located logistics centers, very close to major urban centers increase sharply," said Sam Chandan of Chandan Economics. "It's some of the best performing space that we see in commercial real estate right now, across all property types." Warehouses are the strongest prospect for both investment and development in 2014, according to the latest PWC Investor Survey. Two thirds of respondents deemed warehouses a "buy." "That's the highest of all the real estate food groups," said PWC partner Mitch Roschelle. "The online retailers have struggled to figure out how to get the goods closer and closer and closer to where the people live." As Amazon starts moving its products closer to its customers, others will likely follow suit, meaning more need for those smaller distribution centers that are closer to major metropolitan areas. "They [Amazon] are probably the most creative and forward-looking people in this space, and seeing this type of thing doesn't surprise me," said Jack Cuneo, CEO of Chambers Street Properties. "It's a great model, so you're going to see more people emulating what they do and more need on their part for space." Chambers Street, a real estate investment trust based in Princeton, N.J., owns six Amazon fulfillment centers, three in the United States and three overseas. While these are larger properties, Cuneo says a system like Amazon is proposing might move the retailer out of some of the larger facilities and into smaller ones. (Read more: Construction up, but are we building too many houses?) That is already happening with smaller retailers. The warehouse industry can thank them for much of its recovery. "It started with big box retailers, but in the last several quarters we're seeing growing demand from the smaller businesses as well," said Frank Cohen, senior managing director in Blackstone's Real Estate Group. Cohen is responsible for Blackstone's industrial venture investments, which include over 45 million square feet of facilities across the U.S. "Small mom and pops are getting into the e-commerce game now as well," added Cohen, who says he looks for well-located properties and, "appropriate spaces." As demand and rents increase, it should come as no surprise that warehouse development is on the rise as well, especially speculative construction. About 62 percent of the 59 million square feet under construction at the end of the third quarter of 2013 was being built without signed tenants, according to a report from CoStar, a commercial real estate data firm. While it might seem like a better play to buy older, distressed warehouses, that is not where investors are heading. Today's modern distribution systems require state-of-the-art facilities. That is why new product is in the highest demand. "There will be more warehouse development because it's the easiest and quickest to build, and there's a tremendous amount of obsolescence in warehouse," said Roschelle. "You need a robotic kind of model." Bigger warehouses may actually be moving out of favor, as retailers continue their quest to expedite deliveries. Amazon tends to build big warehouses, further away from populated areas. (Read more: For the billionaire who wants it all: A fully loaded home) "When you lease to bigger tenants, there is a lot of risk if those tenants don't renew," said Alexander Goldfarb, a commercial REIT analyst at Sandler O'Neill. "As a landlord, you'd rather deal with smaller tenants, where there is more negotiating power." While Amazon has the scale to build its own space, they also sign some very big leases, and they are not alone. "Demand for logistics is growing faster than for other types of space because online retail sales are outperforming bricks-and-mortar in so many product categories," said Chandan. "Proximity to the customer and speed of delivery are a big part of the competitive equation for online retailers." All this recovery and demand in the warehouse sector is coming despite a still-weak housing recovery, but as builders and home improvement specialists come back to the market, they will only add fuel to the fire, needing more space to store their tile, pipes and lumber. California is already seeing it. (Read more: Builder sentiment falls slightly in January) This new shift to close-in markets will mean higher costs for land and construction. Developers will now be in competition with office and brick-and-mortar retailers, but given the potential rewards in the new age of e-commerce, they are unlikely to back away. —By CNBC's Diana Olick. Follow her on Twitter @Diana_Olick. Questions?Comments? facebook.com/DianaOlickCNBC FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Stephen Brashear/Getty ImagesWant a job that pays well and will have plenty of openings in the next decade? Consider one of these occupations. Business Insider compiled a ranking of the best jobs of the future based on how well they pay and how much they are projected to grow in the coming years. We took the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics' projections for the number of new jobs created between 2012 and 2022 and the 2012 median annual wage for each occupation and ranked them based on a combination (the geometric mean) of the two figures.  To focus this list on higher-quality jobs, we ranked only occupations with median wages higher than the 2012 median wage for all workers, which is $34,750. We used the total number of new jobs projected by 2022 rather than the percent rate of growth for the occupations, since some specialized occupations are expected to see steep growth but will provide a relatively tiny amount of job openings. FREE AppDownload
Coach shares tumbled by more than 6% after the company reported Wednesday that North American same-store sales plunged 13.6% in the most recent quarter.  Coach executives conceded in an earnings call that rivals such as Michael Kors and Tory Burch have taken market share. The company also said it's seeing "substantially lower traffic" in stores as the company tries to transform into a lifestyle brand by offering more than just handbags, such as footwear and accessories.  We saw evidence of this at Bloomingdale's during the holiday shopping season. We visited Coach's shoe display and found it empty, while the neighboring Tory Burch display was packed with customers. Here's a photo of the Tory Burch display: Business Insider/Hayley Peterson Now here's the Coach display with part of Tory Burch's department — marked by the green carpet — visible to the right: Business Insider/Hayley PetersonOne sales representative in the Tory Burch department appeared to be solely assigned to the task of running inventory between the display area and the stock room.  As he hustled back and forth with his arms full of Tory Burch shoe boxes, another sales representative followed customers around to replace shoes that never remained long on the display shelves. Here's another look at the Tory Burch display: Business Insider/Hayley PetersonMeanwhile, over in the Coach department, the shoes remained untouched. At one point, one lone customer sat on the leather couch in the display area and tried on a pair of Tory Burch shoes:Business Insider/Hayley Peterson Coach CEO Lew Frankfort said last month that the company's footwear category is driving "excellent growth," moving from 4% of the business last year to 8% this year. He did not go into further detail on footwear sales. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alvin BaezAdvertising covers the abandoned structure of an unfinished condominium in the Condado tourist district of San Juan, August 31, 2013.The New York Times' Michael Corkery reports Morgan Stanley is passing the till around to private equity firms and hedge funds to raise $2 billion to bailout debt-riddled Puerto Rico. The island nation could pay a coupon of up to 10% for the favor, Corkery writes. The yield on Puerto Rican 30-year bonds are now at 8.6% percent, according to Thomson Reuters Municipal Market Data. The average U.S. muni bond is about 4%.  Still, they may take the deal. Puerto Rico’s debt to personal income ratio is 83%, compared with 6% for California, Illinois and New York. The island was effectively locked out of credit markets last quarter after a large bond sell-off, though Reuters reported earlier this month they were planning a debt sale this or next month.  Its economy has been in and out of recession since 2006, when an earlier fiscal crunch caused the city of San Juan to shut down. That was also the same year federal tax breaks for an experiment designed to pump up the island's manufacturing sector expired. Several of its banks had to be bailed out by the U.S. government in the wake of the recession, and the country hasn't been the same since. The island's labor force participation hovers around 40%, and the public sector accounts for 20% of all employment. The Morgan Stanley deal would avoid an intervention from Washington, the prospect of which was raised this fall. Morgan Stanley declined to comment. Click here to read the full story on NYTimes.com » FREE AppDownload
Carl Icahn isn't done buying Apple! In a new tweet he says he bought $5oo million more Apple shares bringing his total to $3 billion: Since tweeting about our large position in $AAPL on Aug 13, when the stock was 468 per share, we’ve kept buying shares of this ‘no brainer.’ Having purchased $500 million more $AAPL shares in the last two weeks, our investment has crossed the $3 billion mark yesterday. We feel $APPL board is doing great disservice to shareholders by not having markedly increased its buyback. In-depth letter to follow soon. Icahn has been buying Apple shares since August. He's been pushing Apple to up its share buyback. He wants the company to commit to a $50 billion buyback.  Apple thinks this would be a big mistake. In a proxy filing Apple told shareholders that they should not vote for Icahn's proposal. Apple says it is already returning a lot of money to shareholders: "Dividends and share repurchases must be funded by domestic cash, and the Company has returned to shareholders or invested all of the domestic cash generated by its business and raised through the issuance of debt since the beginning of the program." To return more money would either require repatriating its cash and taking a tax hit, or raising more debt, which is not what Apple needs. Apple's stock jumped after the Icahn tweets, and is up 1.3% for the day. Icahn will now be Apple's 33rd biggest shareholder, according to Jeffery Cane. FREE AppDownload
How can that be? It’s because Google is late on everything. The latency on Google information relative to searches on Twitter (or hosts to the Twitter Firehose), Instagram, Tumblr, Pinterest, Facebook (although declining because they changed the search of public pages to hash tags), is long and important. Just a few short pre-Twitter, pre-app years ago, we could depend on the fact that if the information was important to even a small segment of the population someone would put it on a website and it would be indexed by Google and made available quickly if not in near real-time. That is no longer the case. When was the last time any of us updated a real website with current information? We say what we want to say on our social networks or on Twitter. I know the amount of posts I make on this blog has dropped considerably because it's far easier to present my thoughts elsewhere.  If Google isn’t indexing what is said on Twitter/Facebook/Pinterest/Tumblr/Instagram/SnapChat/all the topic&amp;affinity apps (your favorite team/band/etc.), and elsewhere, aren’t they missing most of the information that is being communicated in the world ? If I want to know if anything noteworthy happened in an NBA game, the last place I would search is Google. I would search Twitter first.  If I want to know if anything interesting happened at an event, the last place I would search is Google. I would search Instagram. The list goes on. That's not to say I don’t use Google. I use Google to keep up with my interest in what is happening with the Securities and Exchange Commission and their efforts.  If I want information about a company and their products, I will use Google. If I want to look up product information, I will use Google and the other sources as well to get the most relevant information. Google is still an important part of our lives. I’m not saying that Google is going anywhere soon. It is and will be dominant for at least the next few years. What I am saying is that I place a significant value on recency for many of my business and personal-related searches. Google does a very poor job of indexing and presenting real-time, near-time, or even recent information. Which in turn raises the question of whether this lack of recency will impact our ability to trust Google or other search engine results. Or will we just learn where to use Google and where not to use it?  Let me know what you think. Read more posts on Blog Maverick » FREE AppDownload
David Einhorn's Greenlight Capital has disclosed a new stake in Anadarko Petroleum, Bloomberg News reports citing the fund's fourth quarter letter.  Anadarko Petroleum was last trading up more than 2.4%.  According to the letter posted on ValueWalk, Einhorn's Anadaarko position is "medium sized."  From the letter:  APC is a global exploration and production company with a high-quality upstream portfolio comprised of U.S. onshore resources, deep-water Gulf of Mexico assets, and interests in other high-potential oil and gas basins around the world. The company also owns 91% of Western Gas Equity Partners (WGP), a publicly traded master limited partnership created in 2012 to hold APC’s limited and general partner interests in Western Gas Partners (WES). In mid-December the company suffered a legal setback stemming from its 2006 acquisition of oil and gas assets from Kerr-McGee, whose titanium dioxide unit went bankrupt. With APC facing potential damages of $14 billion or $5 billion, investors dumped the shares, which we then acquired at an average cost of $78.55. Assuming a worst-case legal outcome, APC’s core valuation net of its stake in WGP and its interest in an undeveloped, but valuable prospect in Mozambique, is less than 4x EBITDA. This is cheap compared to peers that lack APC’s valuable upstream assets and exciting exploration prospects, but nonetheless trade at higher valuations. Our legal analysis suggests that the ultimate payment is likely to be the lesser of the two amounts and will be partly tax deductible. APC shares ended the quarter at $79.32.We closed out positions in Airbus Group, formerly known as the European Aeronautic Defence Space Company (France: EADS), and ThyssenKrupp (Germany: TKA). Yahoo! Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Kim Kyung HoonGet back here!Weakening demand for servers and storage equipment dragged IBM earnings south, and the stock is down 3% this morning. While the S&amp;P 500 and Nasdaq are barely in the green, the Dow Jones Industrial Average — a price-weighted index in which stocks with higher per-share prices move the index around more — is in the red, basically thanks to IBM alone. IBM is acting as a 34 point drag on the Dow right now. This same kind of thing happened yesterday too, when three stocks (Travelers, Johnson &amp; Johnson, and Verizon) pulled the Dow down after earnings even though other indices were up. Once again, the Dow is weird and people tend to hate it. FREE AppDownload
At Harvard Business School, Tracy Britt Cool wrote an essay about her career hopes: "My goal is to work with a great investor, who even more importantly is a wonderful teacher and mentor." She got her wish. The 29-year-old has risen through the ranks at Berkshire Hathaway and is now one of Warren Buffett's top lieutenants, according to a new profile by Bloomberg's Noah Buhayar and Laura Colby. Some interesting nuggets from the story: This isn't the first press for Cool. This summer, the Wall Street Journal called her a "rising star." Read the full report at Bloomberg » FREE AppDownload
WikipediaI went to one of those fancy private dinners last night in Davos, Switzerland. Like most of the events here at the 2014 World Economic Forum, the dinner was conducted under what are known as "Chatham House Rules," which means that I can't tell you who was there. I can tell you what was said, though. And one thing that was said rattled a lot of people at the table. During the dinner, the hosts passed a microphone around the table and asked guests to speak briefly about something that they thought would interest the group. One of the guests, an influential Chinese professional, talked about the simmering conflict between China and Japan over a group of tiny islands in the Pacific. China and Japan, you may recall, each claim ownership of these islands, which are little more than a handful of uninhabited rocks between Japan and Taiwan. Recently, the Japan-China tension around the islands has increased, and has led many analysts, including Ian Bremmer of the Eurasia Group, to worry aloud about the potential for a military conflict. The Chinese professional at dinner last night did not seem so much worried about a military conflict as convinced that one was inevitable. And not because of any strategic value of the islands themselves (they're basically worthless), but because China and Japan increasingly hate each other. The Chinese professional mentioned the islands in the context of the recent visit by Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to the Yasukuni Shrine in Tokyo. The Yasukuni Shrine is a Shinto shrine where Japanese killed in Japan's many military conflicts over the centuries are memorialized — including the Japanese leaders responsible for the attacks and atrocities Japan perpetrated in World War 2. A modern-day Japanese leader visiting the Yasukuni Shrine is highly controversial, because it is viewed by Japan's former (and current) enemies as an act of honoring war criminals. That's certainly the way the Chinese professional at the dinner viewed it. He used the words "honoring war criminals," to describe Abe's visit to the shrine. And, with contained but obvious anger, he declared this decision "crazy."  He then explained that the general sense in China is that China and Japan have never really settled their World War 2 conflict. Japan and America settled their conflict, he explained, and as a result, the fighting stopped. But China and Japan have never really put the war behind them. The Chinese professional acknowledged that if China asserted control over the disputed islands by attacking Japan, America would have to stand with Japan. And he acknowledged that China did not want to provoke America. But then he said that many in China believe that China can accomplish its goals — smacking down Japan, demonstrating its military superiority in the region, and establishing full control over the symbolic islands — with a surgical invasion. In other words, by sending troops onto the islands and planting the flag. The Chinese professional suggested that this limited strike could be effected without provoking a broader conflict. The strike would have great symbolic value, demonstrating to China, Japan, and the rest of the world who was boss. But it would not be so egregious a move that it would force America and Japan to respond militarily and thus lead to a major war. Well, when the Chinese professional finished speaking, there was stunned silence around the table. The assembled CEOs, investors, executives, and journalists stared quietly at the Chinese professional. Then one of them, a businessman, reached for the microphone. "Do you realize that this is absolutely crazy?" the businessman asked. "Do you realize that this is how wars start?" "Do you realize that those islands are worthless pieces of rock... and you're seriously suggesting that they're worth provoking a global military conflict over?" The Chinese professional said that, yes, he realized that. But then, with conviction that further startled everyone, he said that the islands' value was symbolic and that their symbolism was extremely important.  Challenged again, the Chinese professional distanced himself from his earlier remarks, saying that he might be "sensationalizing" the issue and that he, personally, was not in favor of a war with Japan. But he still seemed certain that one was deserved. I'm far from an expert on the Japan-China conflict, and I'll leave the analyses of this situation to those who are. All I can tell you is that a respected, smart, and influential Chinese professional suggested at dinner last night that a surgical invasion by China of the disputed islands is justified and would finally settle the Japan-China conflict without triggering a broader war. And that suggestion freaked out everyone in the room. UPDATE: Around the time I published this post, Gideon Rachman of the Financial Times tweeted the following about an interview with Shinzo Abe, the Prime Minister of Japan. In case you've forgotten, 1914 is when World War 1 started. Just interviewed Shinzo Abe @Davos. He said China and Japan now are in a "similar situation" to UK and Germany before 1914. SEE ALSO: The Truth About Davos! FREE AppDownload
This year, I have a few resolutions. First and foremost: If it takes less than 5 minutes, do it now.  It’s surprising how many things we put off that could get done in 5 minutes. For example: calling to make a doctor’s appointment. Or unloading the dishwasher. Or deleting junk email. The list goes on and on. Turns out, most of the things that you procrastinate on aren’t actually difficult or time-consuming – you just avoid doing them because they feel like a pain in the neck. But crossing a small to-do off your list can offer an outsized peace-of-mind reward because it clears mental clutter and makes you feel that you accomplished something. There’s also some evidence that this approach sets you up to achieve bigger goals, too. In the spirit of making good on financial resolutions both big and small, here are 10 ways you can get your finances on track in the next 5 minutes or less. The clock starts now. What can you do in the next 5 minutes? Jessie Szymanski writes about personal finance for The Blog.  Click here to read the original article on ETFdb.com.  Read more posts on ETF Database » FREE AppDownload
But Tesla CEO Elon Musk said the defect — which was found in fewer than 3% of adapters — wasn't a "recall" at all. "Some confusion in media reports today," he tweeted. "No Tesla vehicles are being physically recalled by Tesla." A Tesla spokesperson confirmed to Business Insider that, indeed, "Tesla owners do not need to physically come to a Tesla store or service center." The software update would be mailed. "Recall" or "software update" — is this just a pointless game of semantics? Maybe not. David Strickland, the U.S.'s top auto-safety regulator until last week, told Bloomberg's Angela Greiling Keane that Musk has a point here. From Bloomberg: “As much as Tesla disagrees and Elon disagrees with the characterization of a recall, I would have to say he’s partially right there,” Strickland said about Tesla’s chief executive officer in an interview today. “What people think of in terms of a recall is you get a letter from the manufacturer to bring your car in to the dealership.” “Tesla is able to change vehicle dynamics and make vehicle changes from the sky,” said Strickland, who said he couldn’t remember a safety repair being made that way before. “You don’t have to impose an inconvenience on the consumer when that remedy comes in.” "The word 'recall' needs to be recalled," Musk tweeted at the time. Maybe, in Tesla's case, he'll get his wish. Read the full report at Bloomberg » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick Wilking Yesterday, Quicken Loans and Warren Buffett announced that they would be giving a prize of $1 billion to anyone who can fill out a perfect March Madness bracket this year. The thing is just a marketing stunt, but it's total genius. The odds of a perfect bracket being picked is 1 in 9.2 quintillion. A quintillion is a billion billion. So everyone on earth could fill out millions of brackets each, and there probably wouldn't be anyone to hit the prize. So given the odds, the prize is pretty small. But still, it's like a lottery ticket: You feel like if you're smart you might have a chance of winning. Technically, Quicken Loans is running the prize, and Buffett is offering Quicken Loans the insurance just in case someone wins the prize. This is a classic Buffett move. A key part of his business is using his gigantic cash pile to write insurance on events others can't afford to. He'll collect a nominal amount of money for this move, while also garnering some publicity for what he does (though he probably doesn't need it).  Furthermore, an oversized Bracket challenge is a quintessentially Buffett thing to get behind. His whole style is plain-folks activities but on a whole different level. For a marketing stunt, this is one of the best ones we've seen in awhile. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogSo far, the earnings season has been on the disappointing side. That’s somewhat surprising given the apparent strength of the economy at the end of last year. Yesterday’s Morning Briefing was focused on deflation. Perhaps this is becoming an issue for earnings. It certainly has for some retailers, as I noted yesterday. The big debate about earnings in recent months has focused on whether profit margins might get squeezed by more business spending on labor and capital. Perhaps we need to pay more attention to the pricing environment for signs of deflation. We intend to do just that in coming weeks. Productivity is a wonderful thing. It usually boosts both corporate profits and labor incomes. Historically, there has been a strong correlation between productivity and real pay per worker. However, the technology revolution may be putting productivity on steroids, leading to the commoditization of more and more goods and services. Commoditization is always bad for profit margins because it is fundamentally deflationary. To stay in business in a commoditized business, you have to use more technology to lower your labor costs. Let’s turn from theory to hard data: (1) Earnings during Q4-2013. It’s not over yet, but this is turning out to be a very unusual earnings season. During each of the previous three earnings seasons last year, analysts lowered their estimates as the season approached. That set up investors to be pleasantly surprised as actual earnings turned out to be a bit better than expected. So far, there has been no similar curve ball. Instead, during the week of 1/16, the blended actual/estimate for Q4 fell to a new low for the weekly series. The current projected growth rate for the quarter is just 6.6% y/y. (2) Quarterly earnings during 2014. Previously, I’ve argued that Q4-2013 earnings don’t matter unless they significantly change expectations for 2014 and 2015, the current and the coming years that we use to calculate forward earnings. The latest consensus estimates for each of the four quarters of this year have been on downtrends since mid-2013. However, during the first two weeks of January, the Q1 and Q2 estimates have stabilized, while the Q3 and Q4 estimates have continued to fall. So, it’s not clear that the latest earnings season is having much of an impact on this year’s estimates.  Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: (1)Valuation, Earnings, &amp; Deflation. A dull start to a dull year? (2) Good, not great expectations. (3) Stocks were a great buy during August 2011. Not so much now. (4) Slightly overvalued using forward P/E. (5) Some very pricey industries. (6) Earnings-driven stock market this year. (7) Earnings should be up 10% in 2014. (8) So why is Q4-2013 disappointing so far? (9) Deflation may be a problem for margins. (10) The commoditization challenge. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
APEric Schmidt says that Google's acquisition of the Nest home appliance business is "an important bet" which will lead to products that are "infinitely more intelligent". But Google's executive chairman, speaking at an exclusive event at the Guardian, also deepened the mystery over how and what data Google will use and swap with Nest, which it is buying for $3.2bn. Nest currently makes a thermostat and a smoke/carbon monoxide alarm, both of which collect user behavior data to produce a more tailored response. That data isn't shared outside Nest. Asked on Tuesday by The Guardian why Google had moved into hardware with the purchase of Nest, Schmidt replied: "We actually are already in the hardware business, in the sense that we have a [phone handset] business called Motorola - that's doing well with a lot of interesting phones - and we have a whole Nexus product line [of smartphones and tablets]. "The Nest is a natural evolution of those kinds of devices, and I think you should imagine that the Google technology applied to the things that Nest do will be infinitely more intelligent, and infinitely more usable. We're making an important bet and I'm very excited about it." Google completed its $12.4bn acquisition of Motorola in July 2012; since then the business has made cumulative losses of $1.6bn. The takeover of Nest has sparked questions about data use and privacy, and the extent to which a Google-owned Nest would pass user data to Google, and how that might be used. That follows Google's implementation of changes to its privacy policy in spring 2012 and in January to its Google+ social system which forced users to opt out, or abandon the system altogether. Some owners have expressed concerns about privacy and how data would be used, given Google's current business model which focuses on targeted advertising. At the takeover, Nest said in a statement that "Our privacy policy clearly limits the use of customer information to providing and improving Nest's products and services. We've always taken privacy seriously and this will not change." Tony Fadell, the former Apple staffer who founded Nest, said at the DLD conference in Munich earlier this week that "If there were ever any changes whatsoever [to the privacy policy], we would be sure to be transparent about it, number one, and number two for you to opt-in to it." This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
It's been a rough year for JP Morgan's CEO, Jamie Dimon, so while everyone will be rubbing elbows and taking meetings at Davos, he's laying relatively low. According to Bloomberg, he has no public appearances on his schedule. Now, of course, this isn't to say that he's not taking meetings at all. He's just being quiet about it. You might be too if your bank paid out $23 billion over the last year to settle charges ranging from mortgage fraud to manipulating electricity markets. This is especially ironic since last year Dimon made it clear that he was tired of all the banker-bashing, and said that regulators were “trying to do too much, too fast.” He also told reporters: "Everyone I know is trying to do a very good job for their clients," and that since 2008 the bank has  "lent or raised $7 trillion plus for people all around the world -- that's our job and we try do it very well." So he had swag then. Less now. And that makes sense. This year the main issue of concern at the World Economic Forum is inequality. Global leaders are supposed to be getting their heads together to discuss how to create more equity in society. If you ask Occupy Wall Street, Dimon doesn't need to be asked about it, he needs to be told. FREE AppDownload
St. Louis FedChart 1: Core PCE (blue line) versus core CPI (red line).The Federal Reserve's favorite measure of inflation — the year-over-year change in the price index of core personal consumption expenditures — has been diverging from the more widely-followed year-over-year change in the core consumer price index, as Chart 1 illustrates. The outlook for inflation is one of the key drivers of Fed monetary policy, so understanding the divergence — and especially why the central bank's preferred measure is so low — is becoming increasingly important. Part of the explanation relates to medical care costs, as Goldman Sachs economist Alec Phillips explains in a note to clients (emphasis added): Medical price inflation has been unusually restrained over the last several months, reaching a near-record low 1.1% year-on-year increase in August, and hovering just above that level since. While some of this reflects low inflation in the broader economy and it is possible that some of the slowing could signal an easing of medical price inflation for other reasons, we believe that much of the recent trend is also clearly due to exogenous policy influences: First, sequestration cut the price that Medicare pays for most services by 2%, along with the more publicized cuts to defense and non-defense federal spending. Second, the Affordable Care Act reduced payment rates for most segments of Medicare starting in late 2010.  We estimate that Medicare payment changes are holding down year-on-year inflation in the core PCE price index by 16bps, while the reduction in the core CPI index is a much more modest 2bps. To estimate this, we calculate the actual reduction in the reimbursement rate for each segment of Medicare (e.g., inpatient hospitals) as a result of the legislation. We then estimate the share of total spending for each healthcare service paid by Medicare and use these to estimate the effect on health care services inflation in each price index.  The effect on the core PCE index is much greater than the core CPI index mainly because of coverage differences. While PCE includes virtually all health spending, CPI includes only health spending paid by the consumer. Regarding Medicare, the distinction for inclusion in CPI is drawn by the source of financing: services financed by the Medicare trust fund ("Part A") are not included in the CPI, while services financed in part by monthly premiums ("Part B") are included. Chart 2 shows how cuts to Medicare have affected the medical services inflation component of both core PCE and core CPI. Without the cuts, medical services inflation would be significantly higher in the core PCE index. Dept. of Commerce, Dept. of Labor, Goldman Sachs ResearchChart 2. Phillips says most of the effects of the Medicare reimbursement reduction should fade in 2014. "First, sequestration should have only a one-time effect on medical price growth," writes Phillips. "The effect on the level of prices resulting from the cut will remain in place through the end of the decade, but no further reductions will take place under sequestration so there will be no further effect on the growth of payment rates. Sequestration for Medicare took effect in April 2013 — a month later than for other categories of spending — so the year-on-year effect of sequestration should disappear in April 2014." FREE AppDownload
CrowdStrikeThe cybersecurity firm CrowdStrike has published a report detailing a program dubbed "Energetic Bear" that is linked to Russia's government and conducts intelligence collection operations around the world. If true, it would be the first time Moscow has been connected to cyber attacks for alleged economic (as opposed to political) espionage. "They are copying the Chinese play book," Dmitri Alperovitch, chief technology officer of CrowdStrike, told Reuters. "Cyber espionage is very lucrative for economic benefit to a nation." The primary focus of the attacks appear to be the energy sector, CrowdStrike states, which makes sense since the oil market comprises 70% of Russia's economy. CrowdStrike has tracked Energetic Bear since August 2012 and states that the malware has been operated by the attackers since at least 2011. The investigation found that one implant, dubbed HAVEX RAT, had more than 25 versions as of October 2013. Here's a breakdown of the victims in each countries. As you can see, the U.S. is by far the top target (followed by Spain, Japan, and France). Crowdstrike Other targets include European governments; European, U.S., and Asian academia; European, U.S., and Middle Eastern manufacturing and construction industries; European defense contractors; U.S. healthcare providers; European IT providers; and research institutes. FREE AppDownload
The stock is down by over 6%. Earlier today, the company announced fiscal Q2 earnings of $1.06 per share, missing expectations for $1.11. Comparable store sales in North America collapse 13.6%. Analysts were looking for a 6.8% decline. "We continued to be disappointed by our performance in North America, which was impacted by substantially lower traffic in our stores and by our decision to limit access to our e-factory flash sales site," said CEO Victor Luis. "At the same time, China results remained resilient with total sales growing about 25% and comparable store sales rising at a double digit rate." Net sales for the company fell 6% year-over-year to $1.42 billion. FREE AppDownload
After speaking on a panel at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Ray Dalio joined the folks at CNBC this morning. In his interview, he explained where things stand in the global economy right now, and how investors should act accordingly. Dalio is the head of Bridgewater Associates, the world's largest hedge fund with $150 billion assets under management.  He's known for his deep understanding of market cycles. Last year, Dalio released a video how the world's money machine works. It's a machine in which the use of either credit or money and the generation of debt creates different market cycles — recessions, depressions, boom years etc.  "I think we go so quickly thinking 'where does the economy go next' instead of thinking how it works," he told the Squawk crew. So here's today's engineering lesson — some of which he talked about on his panel — it's about the United States, Southern Europe, China and you (the investor). Dalio said that the US right now is in the middle of a post-recession short term debt cycle where assets will return about 4%. He calls this, "the boring years," and compared it to the economy in 2004 or 2006. We won't boom, we won't bust.  Southern Europe, on the other hand, is still struggling out of a nasty debt bubble — with debt rising faster than income — but unlike the United States, the region couldn't print money to inflate itself out of trouble. No one would fund Southern Europe's debt.  But still, that debt must be rolled over. To do that, Southern Europe's economy will remain depressed for quite a while — a very different position in the cycle from the U.S. Then there's China, which Dalio said is going through a much-needed tightening of monetary policy. The country's break-neck growth speed is slowing. Sunday its Q4 GDP number came in at 7.7%. That's a slow down from the same quarter the year before when the number came in at 7.8%. Economists expect full year growth to come in at its lowest number since 1990 at 7.4%. China's President, X Jinping, expected this slowing. In fact, instead of slowing, it's more of an attempt at normalization. The problem is that getting things to normal will be bumpy, if it's achievable at all. As China tries to find balance in its economy the tightening can get too tight  — as in, there isn't enough money floating around the economy to keep money flowing freely. Consumers can't do it with their purchasing power alone. That's when the government steps in and injects money into the system again. It's a tough place to be in because the government doesn't want the economy to freeze, and Dalio believes it's a bubble. We've already seen that happen this week. On Tuesday the Chinese government injected some cash into the banking system ahead of the Lunar New Year. It's a time of year when businesses pay a lot of Chinese migrant workers their yearly wages, people buy presents for each etc. The entire country needs cash. While doing this, the government also announced that smaller loans would be written off bank balance sheets. That's not tightening, but it is the country trying to find a balance between keeping money flowing through its economy and not drowning in cheap money as it tries to mature. And "balance" leads us to what Dalio talked about next — how to build a solid portfolio in our interconnected world. How do you invest in this environment? China's tightening, the U.S. is growing slowly, Southern Europe's depressed — we're in a world where people want to buy financial assets. It's a hunt for returns. There's a lot of demand for cash. At the same time, Dalio pointed out,  longer term debt and liabilities are eating money.  "If I could say one thing to your investors, it's try to achieve balance," he said. As an investor you need to diversify your portfolio and understand that in the type of world we're living in, your returns are going to look like this: 1% on cash, 3% on bonds, 4% on equities. It's a low yield world, and you should plan accordingly.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Darren OrnitzThe original 'Naked Cowboy' rocks out in the snow storm on the streets of Times Square.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. — The UK unemployment rate dropped to 7.1% from 7.4%. Economists predicted it would fall to 7.3%. The pound surged on the news. The Bank of England's previous forward guidance said that it would review its interest rates policy at 7.0%. This suggests the era of easy monetary policy could end sooner than later in the region. — Just a week after leaving office, former Virginia Governor Bob McDonnell and his wife Maureen have been indicted by a federal grand jury for charges related to their acceptance of more than $135,000 in gifts, vacations, and loans from then-Star Scientific CEO Jonnie Williams Sr. in exchange for business opportunities. — Mohamed El-Erian unexpectedly announced his resignation from PIMCO, the $2 trillion money management firm. El-Erian will stay at PIMCO until mid-March and then remain affiliated with Allianz, PIMCO's parent company, in an advisory role. "What happens longer-term is an open question," El-Erian wrote PIMCO colleagues in an internal memo obtained by Business Insider. "I have no plans as of now. What I do know is that I am looking forward to something different after an initial 15 year career in international public policy (at the International Monetary Fund, and straight out of universities) and an immediate second 16 year career in finance and investment management (overwhelmingly at PIMCO)." — Asian were higher in overnight trading. Japan's Nikkei climbed 0.16%, Korea's KOSPI was up 0.33%, and Hong Kong's Hang Seng finished 0.21% higher. European markets were relatively mixed, and U.S. futures were pointing lower. — Police forces in Russia killed one Islamist leader and searched for another ahead of the Sochi Olympics. "In Sochi, which plans to host hundreds of thousands of visitors during the games, security forces were searching for Ruzanna Ibragimovaya, 23, who may have arrived to the Olympic host city on January 11-12," Reuters reports. Russian police are searching for Ibragimovaya and other s0-called "black widows," wives of killed extremists who they believe may carry out attacks at the Games. — Tech companies eBay and Netflix will report earnings later today. Wall Street analysts are expecting an EPS of $0.80 and $0.64 respectively for the two companies. "The future of net neutrality and increased competition are valid and substantial concerns. Simultaneously Netflix’s DVD rental by mail service is being converting to streaming video subscriptions, which puts more of Netflix’s eggs in 1 basket which is going to come under enormous pressure," wrote Estimize. "On the other hand, the more optimistic are looking forward to NFLX’s further expansion to overseas markets." This morning, IBM missed Q4 revenue expectations due to "weakening demand for its servers and storage equipment, particularly in growth markets like China," Reuters reports. — Bitcoin mania continues, this time with two Las Vegas casinos announcing they will become the city's first to accept the digital currency. Executive Director Derek Stevens said the D Las Vagas Casino Hotel and the Golden Gate Hotel and Casino (both owned by the same company) will begin accepting bitcoins after customers requested it. — Australian inflation surged unexpectedly. Consumer prices climbed 0.8% last quarter, "reducing the chance of another cut in the official cash rate by the Reserve Bank of Australia in the near term," reported the Sydney Morning Herald. — The Bank of Japan maintained its easing program. The BOJ will stick to its plan to grow the monetary base by an annual $671 billion, a move largely expected by market analysts. But: "The strength of Japan’s economic recovery will be tested after the sales tax is increased to 8 percent in April from 5 percent, a move that economists forecast will trigger a 4.1 percent annualized contraction in the second quarter," Bloomberg reported. And Canada's central bank will make its policy announcement today, with no change expected. "We suspect, given the extreme market positioning (evident in the futures market) a neutral Bank of Canada statement could spur a bout of short-covering in the Canadian dollar," wrote BBH's Marc Chandler. — Unrest in Thailand continues as a "key leader of the pro-government Red Shirt movement shot and wounded outside his house in the country's north-east," ABC reports. "The government issued the 60-day emergency decree late on Tuesday (local time), handing security agencies wide powers to detain suspects, impose a curfew and limit gatherings," according to the report. FREE AppDownload
Jung Yeon-Je/AFPSeoul, South KoreaSouth Korea, already one of the most wired countries on earth, Wednesday announced a 1.6 trillion won ($1.5 billion) plan to roll out a next-generation 5G wireless service quick enough to download full-length films in a second. The science ministry said it aims to implement the technology -- about 1,000 times faster than the 4G services currently available -- within six years. "We helped fuel national growth with 2G services in the 1990s, 3G in the 2000s and 4G around 2010. Now it is time to take preemptive action to develop 5G," the ministry said in a statement. "Countries in Europe, China and the US are making aggressive efforts to develop 5G technology ... and we believe there will be fierce competition in this market in a few years," it said. Under the roadmap, a trial 5G service will be rolled out in 2017 and a fully commercial service in December 2020. Priority will be given to developing key features for the new network, including Ultra-HD and hologram transmission as well as cutting-edge social networking services. Related industries will be able to rack up sales of 5G-related devices and infrastructure equipment worth 331 trillion won from 2020 to 2026, the ministry estimated. The government hopes to implement the plan with investment and cooperation from operators such as SK Telecom and Korea Telecom as well as handset makers like Samsung and LG. It also aims to expand the telecom infrastructure equipment industry, which is relatively weaker than the mighty mobile device sector. Led by Samsung -- the world's top handset maker -- South Korea has a leading 30-percent stake in the global mobile device market. "But the (telecom) infrastructure equipment industry has only a 4.4 percent share in the global market, with exports very limited," the ministry said. Chinese equipment makers including Huawei have expanded their presence in the global market from 12 percent in 2007 to 26 percent in 2012. Huawei announced in November that it was looking at a 5G commercial rollout by 2020, with a minimum investment of $600 million to develop the technology. Seoul intends to take up to a 20 percent stake in the world's telecom infrastructure equipment market by 2020, according to the ministry. New opportunities South Korea is renowned for being at the forefront of internet technology with broadband speeds that consistently out-pace those in Europe or the United States. 5G technology will allow users to download a 800-megabyte movie file in one second, compared with 40 seconds using 4G, the science ministry said, adding that such speeds would help South Korean firms win overseas deals. Officials said the new service would also mean people on bullet trains running faster than 500 kilometres (310 miles) an hour would even be able to access the Internet, compared with 300 kph currently. "Bullet trains around the world keep getting faster, with some in China running as fast as 500 and 600 kilometres per hour," said one ministry official who declined to be named. "If we have the technology to allow fast Internet access in these trains, it can open new opportunities for us globally," he said. Samsung Electronics announced back in May that it had successfully tested 5G technology, managing data transmission of more than one gigabyte per second over a distance of two kilometres. Samsung said it had found a way to harness millimeter-wave bands which have proved to be a sticking point for the mobile industry to date. The test used 64 antenna elements, which the tech titan said overcame the issue of "unfavorable propagation characteristics" that have prevented data traveling across long distances using the bands. However, it made clear that the technology would not be available commercially before the end of the decade. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason LeeA security guard walks past an IBM poster at China International Software Exhibition in Beijing June 2, 2006.(Reuters) - IBM Corp missed revenue expectations for the fourth consecutive quarter as the world's biggest technology services company grappled with weakening demand for its servers and storage equipment, particularly in growth markets like China. As a result of the disappointing results, Chief Executive Officer Ginni Rometty and her team will forego their annual incentive payments for 2013 as IBM's total revenues fell 2 percent to $99.8 billion for the year. Total revenue for the quarter ended December 31 fell 5 percent to $27.7 billion, missing analysts expectation of $28.25 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Hardware revenue plunged 26 percent, leading to a $750 million collapse in profit for that segment. IBM shares fell 3.5 percent to $181.68 in after-hours trade. IBM's results are certain to accelerate the company's restructuring. "As we look forward to 2014, we will continue our transformation," Martin Schroeter, IBM's chief financial officer, told analysts. "We will acquire key capabilities, we will divest businesses and we will rebalance our workforce as we continue to return value to shareholders." IBM, which has been expanding its higher-margin services and software businesses over the last decade, is expected to relinquish more of its lower-margin hardware business. Revenue in that business, which includes server and storage products, fell for the ninth consecutive quarter as more companies switched to the cloud from traditional infrastructure. Emerging market sales dropped 6 percent, led by China, where IBM reported a 23 percent collapse in revenue. A backlash against U.S. government spying in emerging economies and a move by Beijing to encourage state-owned companies to buy domestically-branded products contributed to plummeting demand, some analysts said. "Their growth markets were everything but growth," Forrester analyst Andrew Bartels said. "They have had quite a bit of success with sales of hardware in these emerging markets, but these markets are not doing well. They're facing competition in those markets." Asia-Pacific revenue fell 16 percent, while that from Brazil, Russia, India and China fell 14 percent in the quarter. "China is going through a very significant economic set of reforms," Schroeter said on the earnings call. "While they have slowed, we don't think that this opportunity has gone away." Schroeter said that revenue in the world's second-biggest economy, which accounts for about 5 percent of IBM's sales, will take several quarters to recover. "It's not going to rebound immediately," he said. IBM's China difficulties, coupled with the company's ongoing weakness in hardware sales, may accelerate IBM's sale of the its low-end servers business to Lenovo Group Ltd, said Steve Zhang, a senior technology analyst at Macquarie Bank in Hong Kong. Sources said IBM and China's Lenovo have revived discussions about a sale of the company's low-end server unit, but executives did not mention that on Tuesday. "Theoretically, if IBM does sell is low-end hardware business, there should be some upside because they will be able to sell into government agencies and state-owned enterprises," Zhang said. IBM will be "on a trajectory to growth" in emerging markets by the end of the year, Schroeter said. "We're comfortable that we get back to mid-single digits across the growth market regions by the end of the year." IBM forecast that full-year 2014 adjusted profit would beat analysts' expectations and also affirmed its 2015 target for operating EPS of at least $20 per share. Edward Jones analyst Josh Olson told Reuters the company would need solid performance in software and services to meet its target, since expectations are that hardware will not contribute to profit in 2014. "Assuming a normalized tax rate, this doesn't leave a lot of room for error," he said. "In view of the company's overall full-year results, my senior team and I have recommended that we forgo our personal annual incentive payments for 2013," CEO Rometty said in a statement. For 2013, her base pay was $1.5 million and annual incentive payment target was $4 million. Revenue from IBM's system and technology unit, which includes servers and storage, fell 26.1 percent to $4.26 billion. Revenue from global technology services, its largest business, fell 3.6 percent to $9.92 billion. Software revenue was the only bright spot. It grew 2.8 percent to $8.14 billion in the quarter. IBM and rivals such as Oracle and SAP are racing to meet surging demand for web-based software products, better known as cloud computing. Moving to the cloud allows businesses to cut costs by ditching bulky servers for network-based software and using remote data centers run by technology companies. The global cloud services market last year grew by almost a fifth to an estimated $131 billion, according to research firm Gartner. IBM Markets Intelligence estimates the market could be as big as $200 billion by 2020. Net income for the fourth quarter rose to $6.2 billion, or $5.73 a share, from $5.8 billion, or $5.13 per share a year earlier. It got help though from a lower tax rate of 11.2 percent in the fourth quarter, down 14.3 points from a year ago. On an adjusted basis, it earned $6.13 per share, above analysts' estimates of $5.99 per share. Before its after-hours decline, the stock closed at $188.43 on Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange. It has gained about 2 percent since it reported third-quarter results in October. (Additional reporting by Matthew Miller in BEIJING; Editing by Savio D'Souza, David Gregorio and Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
Feng Li/Getty ImagesRelatives of top Chinese leaders including President Xi Jinping and former premier Wen Jiabao have used offshore tax havens to hide their wealth, according to a mammoth investigation released Wednesday. The International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), citing information culled from 2.5 million leaked documents, said that Xi's brother-in-law and Wen's son and son-in-law were among those with offshore holdings. It is the latest revelation to shine a light on the hidden wealth of family members of China's top officials, a topic considered off-limits by Communist Party leaders. Offshore entities can be legal and there was no evidence that the politicians were aware of their relatives' actions. The release came on the same day that China put leading activist Xu Zhiyong on trial for his part in protests calling for officials to disclose their assets. It also came days after Wen reportedly penned a letter to a Hong Kong columnist proclaiming his "innocence" over previous claims that his family amassed huge wealth during his decade in power. The ICIJ cited nearly 22,000 offshore clients from mainland China and Hong Kong, including relatives of former president Hu Jintao, former premier Li Peng and late leader Deng Xiaoping, the man credited with opening up China's economy in the 1980s. Also included were members of China's National People's Congress, heads of state-owned enterprises and some of the country's wealthiest men and women, including real estate mogul Zhang Xin; Pony Ma and Zhang Zhidong, co-founders of Chinese Internet giant Tencent; and Yang Huiyan, China's richest woman. ICIJ said it sent letters to the government officials, wealthy individuals and others named in its report. "Their response in most cases was to not respond, a standard practice in China," it said. Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Qin Gang told reporters at a regular briefing that "the logic of the article is unconvincing, which cannot but raise questions of ulterior motives". Asked if the government planned to follow up on the report, Qin responded: "What I want to point out is, the clean will be proved clean and the dirty will be proved dirty." The confidential files leaked to ICIJ also include the names of 16,000 clients from Taiwan. Ninety percent of the mainland Chinese clients set up offshore entities in the British Virgin Islands, often with the help of Western firms such as UBS and PricewaterhouseCoopers, the investigation said. Seven percent were established in Samoa and three percent in other areas. The British Virgin Islands was the destination of choice for Xi's brother-in-law Deng Jiagui, a wealthy real estate developer and investor who married Xi's older sister in 1996. According to the report, Deng owns a 50 percent stake in BVI-based company Excellence Effort Property Development. While such offshore trusts and companies "may not be strictly illegal", they are often linked to "conflict of interest and covert use of government power", Minxin Pei, a political science professor at Claremont McKenna College in California, told the ICIJ. In 2012 the New York Times and Bloomberg news agency published investigations into the vast wealth said to have been amassed by family members of Wen and Xi. Both news organisations have since had their websites blocked in China, and authorities have denounced the reports as an effort to "smear" China's leadership. The ICIJ website was in turn blocked within China on Wednesday. Last November the New York Times found that US bank JPMorgan hired Wen's daughter as a consultant, part of a broader strategy that the newspaper said was aimed at accumulating influence in China by employing relatives of leaders. According to the Times report, JPMorgan paid a total of $1.8 million to Fullmark Consultants, a firm set up by Wen's daughter Wen Ruchun, who also goes by the alias "Lily Chang". The files leaked to ICIJ purported to show Fullmark Consultants was set up in the British Virgin Islands in 2004 by her husband, who was its sole director and shareholder until 2006. The ICIJ said it collaborated with more than 50 partner organisations across the globe in sifting through the data, including The Guardian, Le Monde in France and Hong Kong's Ming Pao newspaper. The websites of all three were not accessible within China on Wednesday. Ming Pao on Saturday quoted Wen as writing in a letter to a columnist: "I have never been involved and would not get involved in one single deal of abusing my power for personal gain. "I want to walk the last journey in this world well. I came to this world with bare hands and I want to leave this world clean." It headlined its story on the ICIJ revelations about Wen but omitted any reference to Xi.   Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
The chart below, one of a number of excellent long-term charts put together by @Macro_Tourist, shows interest rates going back to 3000 BC. A PDF with more charts as well as the one below can be found here. @Macro_Tourist
YouTube/The Secret World of GoldLONDON (Reuters) - Deutsche Bank's decision to put its seat at the gold fixing table up for sale has raised questions about the future of the price benchmark. One stands out: who, after the Libor scandal, will want it? Gold price setting or 'fixing', determining the benchmark for the billions of dollars traded every day, is nearly a century old. The modern twice-daily system launched in 1968. Unlike most commodities which are dominated by futures trading, gold is chiefly a cash market. Involvement in the fix offers little financial benefit to members, but a seat at the table is prestigious. However, that may not be enough. "It's a tough sale at the moment," one source in the London precious metals market said. "There's nothing really in it for the banks, except the opportunity to say that they're a fixing member, which carries a certain kudos." Increased scrutiny, with regulators pushing for new rules on commodity benchmarks after the Libor scandal, threatens to outweigh that benefit, the source said. Regulators including German's Bafin, Britain's Financial Conduct Authority and the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission have all increased scrutiny of commodity indices after the London Interbank Offered Rate, Libor, was rigged by British banks. The International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) issued guidance in July covering all benchmarks that are central cogs in the global economy, from interest rates to equities and gold. A handful of banks getting together to decide the benchmark gold price twice each business day is seen by detractors as anachronistic and opaque. "It is a very old-style, archaic system and it is amazing that such a way of doing business has survived the modern day and age, where everything is so fast and electronic," Saxo Bank senior manager Ole Hansen said. Gold market participants say concerns about opacity reflect a fundamental misunderstanding of how fixing works. "The fix, unlike LIBOR, is a key pricing mechanism that involves the whole of the interested parts of the market at any one time, from jewelers up to central banks participating in pricing through the fix," Rhona O'Connell, head of research at Thomson Reuters GFMS, said. "Any market participant can change his order at any time, and the market is fully transparent." "It's not as if it's a majority vote on the price, after all, it's the whole of the interested market that's involved." Apart from Deutsche, four other banks take part in the fixing - Barclays, HSBC, Societe Generale and ScotiaMocatta. At the start of each fixing, the chairman announces an opening price to the other four members, who relay that to their customers and, based on orders received from them, instruct their representatives to declare themselves as buyers or sellers at that price. The gold price is adjusted up and down until demand and supply is matched, at which point the price is "fixed". LIKELY CONTENDERS Increased regulatory scrutiny looks like the stumbling block in finding a new buyer for Deutsche's seat. "There could be quite a few contenders but it also depends on what effect all the regulatory focus has," one gold market source said. "If regulators are going to say 'well the fix doesn't work as it is, and we have to find another way of doing it', nobody is going to want to buy that seat." It is Deutsche's responsibility to find a buyer for the seat, who would have to meet with the approval of the other members. The price would be negotiated between the buyer and the seller. The last time a seat was sold in 2004, it cost around one million pounds, sources said. A logical possibility would be for another of the London Bullion Market Association's market-making members, who quote two-way prices to each other during the London business day for agreed minimum quantities, to take a place at the table. The market makers not currently involved in fixing - Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Merrill Lynch, Mitsui Precious Metals and UBS - all declined to comment on whether they would be interested. A candidate is more likely to emerge among the Asian banks, sources say, as these look to raise their profile in the London market at a time when Asia is taking a more important role in the gold industry as physical metal moves eastward. Chinese banks have increased their profile in the London gold market. Bank of China (BoC) and Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) are both already members of the LBMA. ICBC is also about to complete the acquisition of the London commodity arm of Standard Bank, another member of the London Bullion Market Association. Both banks declined to comment on whether they were interested in joining the fixing group. If no buyer is found, it could potentially continue with just four members, but that is unlikely to happen. Gold traders say the benchmark still has value, helping them to hedge risk, which would be more difficult if they were negotiating sales privately with each client. "There isn't really another way you can get a fair snapshot of the market twice a day," one gold trader said. "If the fixers step away, it leaves it open to questionable prices being put through, with no reference to where the actual gold price is." (Additional reporting by A. Ananthalakshmi in Singapore; Editing by Veronica Brown and William Hardy) FREE AppDownload
APHedge funder Ray Dalio spoke on a panel at the World Economic Forum in Davos focusing on the current outlook for the economy. When asked by Tom Keene about the state of the economy, he characterized the U.S. as being in the "boring years." He likened the current state of the cycle to 2004 - 2006, years which hardly anyone remembers in the economy. China is just the opposite, he says, putting it bluntly that the economy is in a bubble.  Dalio expects global central bankers to keep a bias toward easy money for some time. He is also anticipating further pain for emerging markets thanks to worsening investment flows. That's something we've already seen quite a bit of, but Dalio doesn't think that's over, in part because EM was seen as a no-brainer for so long. FREE AppDownload
Societe GeneraleThe UK unemployment rate just plunged. It fell from 7.4% to 7.1%. It was only expected to fall to 7.3%. The pound is surging on the news, as traders wonder whether the BOE will be pressured to begin the tightening cycle. The Bank of England has said that a 7.0% unemployment rate is the level at which it would review its rates policy. This is not dissimilar to the situation in the US, where a plunging unemployment rate is seen as putting more and more pressure on the Fed to act. Here's a chart of the British Pound. FinViz FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Christinne MuschiBank of Canada governor Stephen Poloz.Stock markets around the world are heading higher again. In Asia, the Japanese Nikkei and the Hong Kong Hang Seng both closed up 0.2%, while the Shanghai Composite advanced 2.2%. In Europe, markets are rising across the board, led by Italy's FTSE MIB, up 0.7%. In the United States, futures point to an unchanged open. Today is another light day for economic data. No major releases are scheduled in the United States. Perhaps the most notable event on the calendar is the Bank of Canada's interest rate decision, due out at 10 AM ET. FREE AppDownload
Here's a fantastic chart that basically explains all of economic history. It was tweeted out and annotated by James Plunkett and it's based on a chart from inequality economist Branko Milanovic. What it shows is income growth between 1988 and 2008 for every income percentile. The chart allows you to see how various income groups have thrived or stagnated over the past few decades (it stops at 2008, but it's safe to surmise the chart doesn't look much different right now).   James T Plunkett In the chart you can see how lower income percentiles have seen monster growth since the late '80s. This growth represents the emerging economies and the rise of the Chinese middle class. Then you have the developed world middle class, which has seen almost no real income growth over the last few decades (which probably explains a lot of the current angst over inequality). And then you have the rise of the ultra-elite, the global 1%, which has done fantastically well during all this time. As Plunkett puts it, every elite in Davos ought to see and understand this chart. (Via @bondvigilantes) FREE AppDownload
