Facebook/Loews Regency HotelIt’s been 54 weeks since New York’s power brokers and political elite could do business over coffee and eggs benedict at the Loews Regency Hotel, known as the original birthplace of the “power breakfast.”  Under the reigning Tisch family, the hotel reopened January 16 following a $100 million renovation. “I got a lot of comments the morning of the opening that people were starving and hadn’t had breakfast since we’d closed,” Leigh Wynn, the restaurant’s majordomo, told us. Wynn, who ran the breakfast when the Regency closed last year (she trained under the restaurant’s previous manager, who held that position for 20 years), is back—and she makes it her job to know exactly where her guests are sitting, what they’re eating and what they’re reading Monday through Friday. “We start at 7 a.m. and officially it’s over around 10:30, but the power breakfast is from 7:30 to 9 a.m. By 8:30, we’re completely full,” she says.  “It’s not that we don’t necessarily want walk-ins (the bar is first come first serve), but we have a completely booked room.  Two days out, we’re usually completely booked.” For such high-powered mornings at the Park Ave hotel, we wanted to know how Wynn does it—and what she’s observed so far. What time do you wake up?  Facebook.com/LoewsRegencyPeople attend the power breakfast after the reopening of the Loews Regency Hotel.I wake up so early! I have to go to bed at about 9 p.m. to wake up—and look good—at 4 a.m. and shower, blow dry my hair and get dressed. Not to mention I have to eat before I go to breakfast, which is funny, because I know I will not sit down until at least 10:30 a.m. I’ll be on my feet all morning—in heels! And what are you wearing on top? I wear all black clothes because I probably will have food all over me by the end of the day. Once you’re at the restaurant, what happens? I’m usually at the restaurant by 6:15 a.m., and it’s just mapping out the room and making sure it all makes sense. You know, we get a lot of political figures, CEOs and celebrities in the room, and it’s all about making sure the right people are sitting next to the right people so business is done properly—you don’t want someone sitting next to someone if they don’t like each other. Then, after going through reservations, I’m communicating to our staff and our kitchen the guest preferences and special requests. Each of our guests have things that they like to have in the morning like special coffee or special cereal, even the timing and that sort of thing. What are some specific special requests you get? It’s funny you ask, because actually our clientele is pretty basic in terms of menu items since this is their breakfast meeting and they’re there literally three times a week. So they will have eggs and toast and oatmeal that’s just bland. They’re not really into the eggs benedict or the pancakes or the waffles; they want healthier options. You’re not going to have eggs benedict four times a week because you’d be huge. What I’m seeing right now is that a lot of guests are on diets, so it’s more like whole wheat toast and tea and fruit, Cheerios. We get a lot of requests for just plain, bland items.  Jon Tisch is on this diet right now and he’s very lean; he’s pretty much eating just fruit and whole-wheat toast at the moment. Do you have special tables reserved for certain people? Facebook.com/LoewsRegencyPeople attend the power breakfast after the reopening of the Loews Regency Hotel. Yeah, people have specific tables that they like. The higher-ups prefer to be seen, and they like window tables. Even when we were closed, they were emailing me saying “make sure I get a window table,” and I was thinking to myself, well, the room doesn’t look the same.  We have notables that like to sit specifically in a booth because that’s where they feel most comfortable. Also, we do have newspapers out every single morning. Wall Street Journal and New York Times are obviously the first things to go, but people love The Post, let me tell you that! They’ll hide it under their Wall Street Journal and pretend that it doesn’t exist, but we all know they read The Post.  It’s a guilty pleasure. Once breakfast is over, what does the rest of your day look like? I’m also the hotel’s event sales and services manager, so I run our event space through the hotel. Since I’m in a unique position where I’m communicating constantly with all of these really great guests and powerful people, I’m able to pull them into our private areas at the hotel and host their events as well.  They trust me with their mornings, and to have that trust throughout their entire business experience, even into an event, is pretty cool. Do you have a favorite moment that’s happened at a power breakfast? I think one of my favorite moments was when Bill de Blasio was not yet mayor, and he came in and we just talked about random stuff. Then he shook my hand and said “Can’t wait to see you again soon,” and I think that was really special. And then there was another moment when Rudy Guiliani came in for breakfast and started talking about Game of Thrones with me.  Just to be in touch with these powerful people and have conversations about family, your day, television—it’s pretty special to be able to have that sort of rapport with our guests.  Their guards are a bit more down at 7 a.m., before they get that morning coffee in them.  This article originally appeared at DuJour.  Copyright 2014. Follow DuJour on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
TwitterAngela KovaleskyThe big corporate law firm Schulte Roth &amp; Zabel no longer employs an associate named Samir Tabar, who's accused in a lawsuit of relentlessly harassing and terrorizing his ex-girlfriend, the American Lawyer reports. "Mr. Tabar had been on leave and now no longer works for the firm," said a representative for Schulte, a respected firm that specializes in mergers and acquisitions, securities, and corporate law. Tabar's ex-girlfriend, Angela Kovalesky, filed a shocking lawsuit against him in New York state court last week, which accuses him of engaging in "vicious and vindictive conduct" after she ended their relationship in 2013 when he allegedly pulled a knife on her and beat her up. She claims she was ultimately diagnosed with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, was forced to see a chiropractor because of his alleged physical abuse, and lost out on getting a new job because she was so traumatized by Tabar's alleged harassment. Her lawsuit seeks $3.75 million in damages. Kovalesky, whose Twitter profile describes her as a women's rights advocate, says Tabar had tried to "dominate and intimidate her" during and after their relationship. He allegedly put a dog tracker in her purse so he could know her whereabouts when she was out of town. Later, she claims, he told her family that she was a drug addict (which she says she wasn't) in an alleged attempt to ruin her reputation. Tabar even got in touch with her religious employer after their breakup, she says. The pair met in 2010, but Kovalesky broke up with Tabar after several incidents of abuse, according to the lawsuit. She allegedly felt sorry for him and started dating him again in the summer of 2012. On Feb. 6, he allegedly pulled the knife on her and beat her. Two days later, she told him she didn't want to have anything to do with him anymore — spurring an onslaught of threatening messages, according to the lawsuit. "I will be teaching you a real lesson," he allegedly wrote. Tabar also allegedly sent this text: "There are some people in this world you just do your best not to cross." The lawsuit claims that Tabar eventually pleaded guilty to disorderly conduct, and that Kovalesky won a two-year order of protection. However, Justin Sher, a lawyer for Tabar, told The American Lawyer that his client never pleaded guilty to any criminal conduct. "Simply, any allegation of physical violence against Ms. Kovalesky or her property was either dismissed or never prosecuted," Sher told The American Lawyer. "Ms. Kovalesky's claim that a tracking device was placed in her pocketbook by Mr. Tabar is as delusional as it is dishonest." Read the full complaint here. FREE AppDownload
In recent weeks, fears of economic weakness have resurfaced as a bout of risk aversion has swept across global markets. Economic data surprise indices have turned decisively lower, indicating that economic data are now coming in below consensus forecasts. "It is hard to avoid the reality that the overall macro data picture is bleaker now than a few months ago," says Aleksandar Timcenko, a vice president on the global macro strategy team at Goldman Sachs. Haver Analytics, National Sources, Goldman Sachs Global Investment ResearchHow individual components of Goldman's proprietary "Global Leading Indicator" index changed in January.In a note to clients, Timcenko examines the recent underlying data that go into Goldman's proprietary "Global Leading Indicator" index, a measure used as a proxy for global growth. "Our Global Leading Indicator now suggests that the period of accelerated growth ended in September of 2013," he writes. "The ensuing four months of 'Slowdown' — positive but sequentially declining global growth — reduced the monthly rate of growth to a half, from around 0.40% per month to 0.20% per month." Timcenko walks through how it all unfolded in recent months: The first time the GLI pointed to Slowdown was in the Advance November 2013 print, released in mid-December. At that point, the weakness was concentrated in EM-exposed components, including Korean exports, and the industrial metals price index. Also, Global PMIs — while still improving — were quite sharply split between improving DMs and weakening EMs. And at that time, our interpretation was that the weakness was localised.  But now, with the January reading, which we released earlier in the week, the weakness seems to be broader. Six components declined: the Baltic Dry index, global new orders-to-inventories spread, global PMIs, the AUD and CAD trade-weighted index, Korean exports and the Japanese inventory/sales ratio. Four components improved: the Belgian and Netherlands manufacturing surveys, consumer confidence aggregate, S&amp;P GSCI industrial metals index®, and U.S. initial jobless claims.  Although the large decline in the U.S. PMI, and the U.S. new orders-to-inventories spread in particular, was quite extreme, before entering the index, like all data, it undergoes a battery of statistical transformations — de-trending, filtering and standardising. And when looking at the components of the GLI, our read of the evidence suggests that the ongoing GLI Slowdown — which we now date to have started in November — is still mild, but spread broadly across components.  Relative to the start of the Slowdown phase, the global new orders-to-inventories spread is about flat, and global PMIs fell only by a small amount relative to their historical volatility. Over the last month, the declines here have become more pronounced: the global new orders-to-inventories spread fell by about one standard deviation and global PMIs fell about half a standard deviation, hardly dramatic declines. Korean exports and the Japan inventory-to-sales ratio both fell modestly too, also by around half of their respective standard deviations.  A component that fell particularly sharply over last three months is the AUD/CAD trade-weighted index. On a three-month horizon, the index fell by more than two standard deviations. It continued to retreat last month, although at a somewhat moderated pace.  Offsetting the widespread weakness, the global consumer confidence aggregate was particularly strong, increasing at times by more than a standard deviation on a monthly basis.  Overall, the cross-sectional dispersion of GLI component moves is close to its historical averages, suggesting that there are no 'outliers' that have skewed the final print in their own direction, and that the most recent weakness, while not unusual and still not alarming, is likely a fair reflection of the current macro landscape. It wasn't until mid-January that global risk markets — most notably, the S&amp;P 500 — began to take notice and adjust accordingly to the first part of the slowdown. While Goldman and most other shops across the Street don't expect the slowdown to persist, the worry is that recent volatility in financial markets could feed back into the real economy, and the slowdown could enter a new phase. "If — against our expectations — this market turbulence persists for several more weeks, there will naturally be some ripple effects," says Andrew Cates, an economist at UBS. "Global financial instability will inevitably lead to economic instability via channels concerning balance sheets, risk premiums, the cost of capital, confidence, spending and trade. Simulation analysis for the record suggests that if the recent EM-induced turmoil does not reverse itself — but equally does not extend itself — global industrial production growth would be around 0.1-0.2 percentage points lower than otherwise in the year ahead." FREE AppDownload
The perceived strength of the economy in the 2nd half of 2013 was not soundly based and is unsustainable. A large part of the growth was a result of unwanted inventory increases and foreign trade.  In addition the rise in consumer spending was mostly financed by a decreased saving rate while disposable income continued to languish.  In seems likely that growth, at best, remains in the 2% range, and even that is subject to disappointment without QE, and with all of the other problems throughout the world. Contrary to the consensus view, we believe that the market is significantly overvalued.  The majority are looking for 2014 S&amp;P 500 operating earnings of $120, resulting in a P/E of 14.8, supposedly in line with past norms.  However, the long-term P/E average of about 15 is based on reported (GAAP) trailing earnings rather than forward-looking operating earnings.  Profit margins are about 70% above the long-term average, and  are likely to return to the mean.  As calculated by Ned Davis Research, cyclically smoothed earnings for 2014 are about $81, resulting in a P/E of 21.9, a full 46% higher than the long-term average.  We note, too, that the forward-looking P/E in late 2007 was about the same as it is now, and did not preclude a 50% drop in the market.  Furthermore, the ratio of total market value to GDP is the highest of any time in the post-war period with the exception of the late 1990s internet bubble. Bullish sentiment is historically high.  The Investor’s Intelligence Survey shows the highest percentage of bulls in 25 years, while margin debt as a percentage of GDP is the highest ever.  Anecdotally, market opinion going into this year was almost unanimously bullish. The withdrawal of QE is negative for stocks. The market soared on the implementation of QE1, and declined when it ended.  The same happened with QE2.  The market again rose at the start of QE3.  The ending of QE is tantamount to tightening, and that is not good for stocks. China’s economy is slowing down at a time when it also has severe credit problems that restricts its options.  The slowdown puts downward pressure on global commodities that are the major exports of emerging nations, which are also undergoing significant currency problems caused by an outflow of funds.  A worldwide economic slowdown or recession is likely to create headwinds for the U.S. as well.  All in all, the market looks a lot like it did in early 2000 and late 2007 when the consensus was also uniformly optimistic and valuations were stretched on the high side.  In our view the risk of a substantial market decline is high FREE AppDownload
Similarly, the forces driving the second major emerging market selloff of the past year are not exactly a surprise. The first bout of investor flight occurred last summer, after the Federal Reserve indicated that it would start reducing asset purchases in 2013, and the prospect of higher rates in the U.S. started to look more attractive than the riskier developing markets where investors had sought out yield. Now that the Fed has actually begun reducing those asset purchases, it’s no shock that those market pressures have returned. This time around, though, concerns about the health of China’s economy have been added to the mix. And although markets have expected China’s shift to a consumer-driven, slower-growing economy for years, data released Jan. 22 that showed China’s manufacturing sector shrinking for the first time in six months seemed to catch everyone off guard. Not only that, Credit Suisse analysts say there is little indication that the Chinese government intends to intervene with stimulus, as it did both at the beginning of the financial crisis and last year. That’s bad news for emerging market economies in Asia and Latin America that rely heavily on exports to the world’s second-largest economy. Exacerbating matters: Disappointing manufacturing data in the U.S. on Monday that prompted a rush into everybody’s favorite “risk-off” asset, U.S. Treasuries. Over the past two weeks, emerging market currencies from the Russian ruble to the Brazilian real have weakened against the U.S. dollar. Stock markets from Mexico to South Africa have also taken a nosedive, with the MSCI Emerging Markets Index down more than 3 percent during that time. The developed world has not been immune, either. The S&amp;P 500 is down 47 points—roughly 2.5 percent—since the China data came out, and yields on U.S. 10-year Treasury notes have dropped 14 basis points to 2.71 percent. But do we have a full-blown crisis on our hands? Credit Suisse analysts and economists say no, largely because, as we’ve told you before, many developing economies are much better situated than they were during the financial crises that swept through Latin America in the 1980s and 90s and Asia in the late 1990s. “When I think of a crisis, I think about large external debts, currency depreciation that sparks defaults and banking system failures,” Ray Farris, Credit Suisse’s Head of Asia-Pacific Macro Product Research, told investors on a call this week. “We just don’t see [those kinds of] external debt exposures…and foreign exchange reserves are much more comfortable than we’ve had in a couple decades in most countries.” What’s more, even in what seems on the surface to be a widespread freak-out, it’s clear that not all emerging economies are facing equal challenges. Ukraine, Turkey and South Africa, which all have large current account deficits, are in the tightest spots. Turkey’s external debt, which is 44 percent of GDP, makes it the most vulnerable economy of the bunch, and the Turkish lira sold off dramatically against the dollar between January 21 and 27. But on Jan. 28, the central bank stunned financial markets by raising its benchmark one-week repurchase rate from 4.5 percent to 10 percent, and in a single day, the lira made up its losses. Some of the effect has worn off since then, but the lira looks stable for now. Tight monetary policy has also protected the Indian rupee and Indonesian rupiah in recent weeks. Indonesia’s central bank raised rates five times in 2013, while India did so on Jan. 28. At the peak of their respective slides, the rupiah and rupee weakened less than 1 percent and just under 2 percent, respectively, against the dollar since Jan. 21. In Chile, on the other hand, where analysts expect the central bank to ease monetary policy to cushion the effects of a mining industry slowdown, the peso slid approximately 3 percent against the dollar. “Relative performance is increasingly being determined by where domestic policy is acting credibly to resist foreign exchange weakness, mainly through tighter monetary conditions,” analysts note in a report entitled “Macro Playbook: Riders on the Storm.” Considered in that light, currencies in countries with an easing bias look like attractive shorts against the dollar. By contrast, the currencies of countries running a current account surplus, such as Korea and Singapore, are starting to look like compelling sources of value. In response to the fundamental question in any market downdraft – have we hit bottom yet? – Credit Suisse’s Asia-Pacific Equity Strategy team points to one notable statistic. Net foreign purchases of stocks in emerging Asia are currently at 0.3 percent on a rolling 12-month basis – lower than at any point last year, but still higher than in 2012 or 2011. In other words, foreign investors may be pulling back, but they’re still buying more than they’re selling. The price-to-book value of non-Japan Asia stocks has also fallen to 1.45x. While not as low as the 1.42x seen during the 2013 selloff, the ratio has only been lower on four other occasions since 1998. Because Asian economies have relatively healthy current account balances, foreign exchange reserves, and inflation levels, the strategists recommended buying the dips, selectively. And what of developed-world equities? Credit Suisse’s global equities strategists sum up their position in the title of their latest note: “Equities: Hold Your Nerve!” Developed-world growth should keep the global economic recovery going this year. Though the U.S. did just post disappointing manufacturing and payroll numbers, the strategists still believe the economy will grow 3 percent this year, and manufacturing activity has been steadily improving in Europe and Japan. Emerging market troubles won’t likely spread to the developed world, they argue, unless China’s GDP growth falls below 5 percent or the yuan loses at least 10 percent of its value. They don’t believe either scenario is likely this year. In addition, American stock valuations are still attractive. At 6.7 percent, the U.S. equity risk premium is higher than the 4.7 percent Credit Suisse’s strategists reckon is fair value. The strategists also expect U.S. corporate profits to grow 8.5 percent this year and note that 65 percent of companies reporting earnings this quarter have surprised on the upside. For those seeking to capitalize on the sell-off but who are nevertheless reluctant to step into emerging markets, there may soon be a way to do so by domestic proxy. The emerging market selloff has spooked investors in U.S. small-cap stocks, Credit Suisse’s small- and mid-cap strategist, Lori Calvasina, noted on a recent conference call, because investors tend to use these smaller stocks as a way to quickly gain exposure to or rein in risk. The benchmark Russell 2000 index gained 37 percent in 2013, so stocks began the year way up, but it has fallen more than 7 percent since markets moved into risk-off mode. Calvasina recommends holding off from buying until there’s been a 10-15 percent retreat, noting that the average peak-to-trough pullback in the sector is 18 percent. Put it all together, and investors are facing what seems like a manageable situation – and even some opportunities. Of course, if U.S. employment data improve enough that markets start pricing in an early interest rate hike, but manufacturing activity fails to rebound, emerging markets’ chance for an export-led bounce will diminish, Credit Suisse says. It should be an interesting few weeks. FREE AppDownload
Huge areas of Japan, including the capital city of Tokyo, were hit by a rare heavy snowstorm on Saturday. The Japan Meteorological Agency issued the first heavy snow warning for Tokyo in 13 years, the AFP reports. Hundreds of flights have been canceled and thousands are without power due to the severe weather.  The Associated Press reports that the storm had already dumped about 4 inches of snow on the city by Saturday afternoon and a total of 8 inches is expected by Sunday morning. Tokyo averages around 4.3 inches of snow each year, according to Weather.com meteorologist Nick Wiltgen.  Below are some pictures of the snow-covered city: Visitors walk in the snow, in front of a full-size model of Japan's popular robot animation character Gundam at Daiba in Tokyo. AP Photo/Koji Sasahara People walk against blowing snow in Tokyo.  AP Photo/Koji Sasahara A woman walks past bicycles covered with snow at Tokyo's Ginza shopping district.  REUTERS/Toru Hanai A man takes a photo at a park near the Imperial Palace as snow falls in Tokyo. REUTERS/Toru Hanai A woman walks at a park near the Imperial Palace. REUTERS/Toru Hanai  A girl reacts to strong wind at a park near the Imperial Palace. REUTERS/Toru Hanai A man walks towards Tokyo Station building. REUTERS/Toru Hanai  Visitors take photos at the Imperial Palace as snow falls. REUTERS/Toru Hanai 
Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderValentine's Day is fast approaching, which means that men in relationships should have probably started to think about gifts by now. But men deserve gifts that show how much they're loved just as much as women do. So we asked our coworkers, fathers, and friends what they would want most for Valentine's Day. And though a lot of the suggestions were extremely practical, that doesn't mean they're not romantic. Just knowing what your guy likes or needs will let him know how much you care. FREE AppDownload
---- Chairman Murray, Ranking Member Sessions, and members of the committee, thank you for the opportunity to appear before you today to discuss the 2014 economic outlook and ways in which the Congress can enhance prospects for broad-based economic growth in the future. My name is David Rosenberg and I am the Chief Economist &amp; Strategist at Gluskin Sheff, a global wealth management firm based in Toronto, Canada. I have 30 years’ experience in economic analysis, largely in the financial sector, including a 10-year stint at Merrill Lynch, initially as the Toronto-based Chief Canadian Economist and Strategist, and then as Chief North American Economist in New York from 2002 to 2009. Over the past six months or so, I have become more optimistic over the durability of the economic expansion, and see the risks of a recession as minimal. The leading economic and financial indicators I pay most attention to tell me we can probably expect real GDP growth of 3% this year and slightly more than that in 2015. The most pronounced tailwinds are actually the fading of the many headwinds that held back the recovery for the past four years. Notable among these headwinds: 1. The end of the fiscal tourniquet at the state and local government level. 2. The end, at least for now, of the budgetary restraint at the Federal level. 3. What appears to be the end of the painful deleveraging cycle at the consumer level; and it is encouraging to see that the entire parabolic surge in debt-to-asset, debt-to-income and debt-to-net worth ratios that we saw during the household credit bubble from 2002 to 2008 completely unwind over the past five years. Gluskin Sheff 4. Considering that most real estate agents consider 6 months’ supply of unsold homes to be a balanced market, the current national housing unsold inventory backlog, which is now sitting at a tight 5 months’ supply, leaves me comforted that homebuilding will continue to contribute to the economic expansion. Housing has not been a headwind for years, but the sector should still play a key supportive role for the economic expansion this year. 5. The final headwind that has ended is the European recession. We are seeing signs of a pulse along the periphery, as tentative as they may be. Even a fragile recovery is far better than a contraction, which is what we endured over the past three years in a part of the world whose share of global GDP is as large as the United States. A return to European growth will act as an important offset to the sudden slowing and instability we are now seeing in the Emerging Market region. So with all that uplifting economic commentary, the question is what can go wrong and what is it that we could be missing? My principal concern actually comes down more to what I am seeing on the supply side of the economy as opposed to the demand side. Let me explain. When economists discuss their economic outlook, right away they talk about their GDP growth forecasts. But GDP is not the only measure of economic activity even though it is the one that we primarily focus on. GDP is all about spending — consumer spending, housing spending, business spending, government spending and the like. But there is also the supply side of the economy which receives scant attention but is equally important, and the reason it is ignored is because the Commerce Department doesn’t report on ‘aggregate supply’ every quarter as it does with ‘aggregate demand’ via the GDP report – for aggregate supply, we have to actually roll up our sleeves and do the work ourselves. The inputs that go into the supply side of the economy are basically two-fold: productivity growth and labor force growth. FREE AppDownload
The burgeoning digital currency Dogecoin — which is like Bitcoin except that the driving ethos is not libertarian but rather lolz — held a big party last night in NYC's Financial District. Well, to be more precise, the growing number of the currency's fans (who hang out on the R/Dogecoin page on Reddit) threw the party. We only had a chance to stop by for a minute, these photos should give you an idea of what it was like. There were people in costumes alongside the Shiba Inu puppies that are the coin's logo. Joe Weisenthal There was a DJ. Joe Weisenthal There were Dogecoin T-Shirts for sale, and apparently they were made in one day with the help of the Reddit community. Joe Weisenthal We had to leave early, so we probably missed some festivities (apparently there was a raffle). But then later on in the night, the party made its way to Wall Street's famous bull. These photos were sent in to us by Dogecoin enthusiast Justin Friedman. Joe Weisenthal Justin Friedman So there you have it, a glimpse of the future in our doge-based financial system. FREE AppDownload
Whether you a player on the field, or crunching number at headquarters, it's impossible to forget that sports are a business.  In the most recent OneWire Open Door interview, Brad Richards, center and alternate captain for the New York Rangers, sits down with OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade to discuss how the business side of the NHL has changed since he joined the league. "A lot of players have taken to Twitter, Facebook and websites to try to grow individually in their team and get more fans involved. I think it's really reached out and you get a lot more kids now that aren't going to stay up every night and watch the games but they can watch highlights and interact with you somehow on social media, that's the biggest change I've seen in the business in hockey since I've been around." What doesn't change, but what is most required to get through changes like this, is great leadership. “The biggest thing I always got from my leaders,” according to Richards, “was the passion and fun they still had for the game.  My captain was 41 years old when he retired but he still was out there every day having a blast, and I see players where it’s not like that and their game suffers.” What makes the NHL is a different kind of business, though, is the fact that it's so elite. Everyone who's in it knows there are thousands of other people dying to take their spot, and working hard for it every day. “There are only 700 of us in the world so to be able to do this for a living, perform here in New York and MSG, you have to really savor it and bring that fun, youthful passion every day.” Watch the full interview below and watch the interview series on OneWire.  FREE AppDownload
Bernt Rostad/FlickrEver find yourself sitting at your desk, calculating what a day’s work will get you in beers? Of course you have. Gathering data on the average price of a domestic draft beer in different countries and the minimum monthly wage in different parts of the world, Quartz was able to create a comprehensive beer index. After dividing the average price of a local brew by hourly minimum wage based on a 40-hour work week, they were able to find the approximate time it would take for someone to earn enough to buy a beer while making minimum wage. The results? Puerto Rico tops the list, as it take only 12 minutes to grab a beer. On the other hand, in Georgia it take half a day’s worth of work to rack up enough for a pint. The US fares off well at 24 minutes (priorities), while our neighbors upstairs average the same. Check out the full spread below. Quartz/Foodbeast The post This is How Many Hours of Minimum Wage Work it Takes to Buy a Beer appeared first on Foodbeast. FREE AppDownload
RabobankLikelihood and impact of key threats to the market, according to the Rabobank interest rate strategy team. Richard McGuire, head of rates strategy at Rabobank, warns in a weekly note to clients that the groundwork is being laid in Europe for a crisis accelerant down the road. The chart above maps risks to markets by impact and likelihood of occurrence. The most likely threat, according to McGuire, is that Eurosceptic politicians dominate European Parliamentary elections in May, leading to increased tensions next time there is a crisis. He writes: In terms of the risk we judge to be the most likely, at the top of this chart we have the threat of Eurosceptic parties enjoying a strong showing in the European Parliamentary elections on May 22. Certainly given their relatively positive performance in recent opinion polls, whether it be France’s Front National, Italy’s Five Star Movement, the Netherlands’ Freedom Party or Greece’s Syriza, this looks to be a significant risk. Note also that while there can sometimes be a notable divergence between voter intentions ahead of elections and how they actually vote in the election itself (as evidenced by the Freedom Party’s poor performance in the 2012 Dutch elections despite riding high in the opinion polls), this dichotomy is likely to much less marked here. Generally one might argue that voters respond to opinion polls with their hearts but vote with their heads when it comes to putting their cross on the ballot paper. However, given the supranational nature of the Euro-parliamentary elections, we suspect voters are less likely to be swayed by more prosaic local concerns and, hence, feel less constrained in casting a protest vote against the euro. In terms of the impact of this risk coming to pass, one of the most immediate threats is that regarding the planned banking union — this, as should the current parliament fail to ratify these plans ahead of the election, the makeup of the one subsequent to the poll will make this ratification that much more of a cumbersome process. As such, the ECB could find itself taking the tiller of a boat that has not yet been fully built when it comes to assuming its role of single supervisor in November (this possibly most notably evidenced by the possible absence of a single resolution fund). On a broader (but related) level meanwhile, a Eurosceptic shift within the European Parliament would stand to raise questions as to how easy it might be for the core to develop additional crisis-combating mechanisms should these become necessary once again. That said, though, given systemic concerns within the Eurozone have now shifted to the very edge of the market’s radar (or perhaps rather now stand outside of it altogether), these concerns are possibly less of a trigger for resurgent tensions and rather an accelerant for such tensions should they resurface. Friday, Germany's constitutional court refrained from issuing a ruling on the legality of the European Central Bank's Outright Monetary Transactions (OMT) program, which has been credited with restoring calm to eurozone financial markets since the summer of 2012. Instead, the court said it would refer the case to the European Court of Justice, which as Rabobank's risk map shows is a welcoming development from a market perspective, because the ECJ is viewed as less likely to rule against OMT, given the fact that it is a European institution. However, as Damian Chalmers, a European law professor at the London School of Economics, points out to Reuters, the German court has made clear that if the ECJ does not strike down OMT, it will. The German court decision reminds that while the eurozone has benefitted as of late from an improving economic picture, there is still a lot of work to be done at the institutional level, which could be complicated by the rise of the Eurosceptics. Germany has identified this as an existential threat headed into May's elections. Last month, in an interview with the Greek newspaper Ta Nea, German foreign minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said, "We must not avoid confrontation with populists, nationalists, with these brainless people who call themselves Eurosceptics." "I am concerned about the situation in our union," Steinmeier told Ta Nea. "The economic crisis could activate centrifugal political forces that could prove dangerous to the European Union as a whole." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Hugo CorreiaPortuguese prime minister Pedro Passos Coelho.Portugal is preparing to issue a 10-year bond for the first time since May, in what would be a major market test for the crisis-hit country, a weekly magazine reported Saturday. "The banks in charge of the operation have already been contacted and the issuance should take place in the coming days," the weekly Expresso wrote. Portugal is hoping to raise money on the financial markets at a relatively low price as its borrowing costs have been driven down amid an easing of the eurozone debt crisis. The issuance will be a crucial test of market confidence in Portugal, which hopes to exit its 78-billion-euro ($106-billion) international bailout programme in May. In January, Portugal was able to raise 3.25 billion euros in five-year debt at a rate of 4.7 percent -- better terms than at a similar operation in January 2013. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsNashville, TNYears after the recession took the life out of the U.S. economy, American cities are finally back on the growth track. In fact, 351 metro areas will see job gains this year, according to a new report published by the Conference of Mayors and produced by IHS Global Insight. "The North American energy boom will continue to create jobs, investment, and a competitive advantage in manufacturing," according to the report. A handful of cities are ahead of the pack. We pulled the cities from the report that saw GMP ("gross metro product") grow by 4% or more in 2013. FREE AppDownload
Although we don't believe in timing the market or panicking over daily movements, we do like to keep an eye on market changes -- just in case they're material to our investing thesis. Another up day for stocks, with the benchmark S&amp;P 500 index and the narrower Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJINDICES: ^DJI  ) rising 1.3% and 1.1%, respectively on Friday. According to Bespoke Investment Group, this marks the first back-to-back 1%+ up days since Jan. 2, 2013. If nothing else, this illustrates the fact that, despite a big run-up in the stock market, volatility was subdued in 2013, and we may be witnessing some sort of return to normalcy in that regard. Shares of Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL  ) outperformed (slightly), up 1.4% (see main story, below the picture). In an interview with the Wall Street Journal, published on Thursday evening, Apple CEO Tim cook revealed that the company has repurchased $14 billion worth of its own shares in the two weeks since its disappointing fiscal fourth-quarter earnings report on Jan. 27. (The stock fell 8% the next day, its second largest daily drop.) As I pointed out this morning, if you believe the shares are significantly undervalued at or below current prices, then this is excellent news for Apple investors. Unfortunately, buybacks are not well understood in the financial media; here are two misinterpretations of Apple's action found in the media coverage so far. Apple was trying to support the stock price with its repurchasesThere is no evidence to suggest this is the case. The interview in the Wall Street Journal[sign-up may be required] suggests that Tim Cook was unconcerned about the fact that the stock dropped near $500 after its Jan. 27 earnings announcement other than to observe that it was an overreaction on the part of the market, and that the shares now presented better value than they had at $550. There is a fundamental difference between ramping up share repurchases because one believes they offer better value, and defending a specific price level. Indeed, Mr. Cook reaffirmed his long-term orientation, stating that he wants to "be able to adjust for the long-term interest of the shareholders, not for the short-term shareholder, not for the day trader." If he were worrying about the stock price on a day-to-day basis, he would be doing long-term shareholders a grave disservice – that's not a good use of his time and mental resources. This latest round of repurchases has no lasting impactThis criticism is premised on the notion presented above that Apple accelerated its purchases in order to try to give the stock a "boost." The only question that Apple shareholders need to be asking themselves right now is whether or not the stock is significantly undervalued (as Carl Icahn believes). If it is, then, in the words of Berkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett, "no alternative action can benefit shareholders as surely as repurchases." Far from being fleeting, then, repurchases that meet that condition have lasting impact on per-share intrinsic value. Managements do not control the stock price, but a well-executed share buyback is a direct lever to increase a stock's intrinsic value – that's what they ought to aim for and that is a rational basis on which to assess them. On that score, I have Tim Cook doing a superlative job; Apple shareholders can feel very good about his stewardship. There’s a huge difference between a good stock and a stock that can make you rich. The Motley Fool's chief investment officer has selected his No. 1 stock for 2014, and it’s one of those stocks that could make you rich. You can find out which stock it is in the special free report "The Motley Fool's Top Stock for 2014." Just click here to access the report and find out the name of this under-the-radar company. Alex Dumortier, CFA has no position in any stocks mentioned; you can follow him on Twitter@longrunreturns. The Motley Fool recommends Apple. The Motley Fool owns shares of Apple. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
