Virtually everyone on Wall Street knows that Bill Ackman's big short bet on Herbalife has cost him so far. Now we know exactly how much it has declined: by half. Ackman's $11.96 billion hedge fund firm, Pershing Square Capital Management, first took a short position in the nutritional supplement company on May 1, 2012, according to a presentation at its annual investor dinner Feb. 13. Since then, the firm's cumulative loss on the stock has totaled 49 percent, representing Ackman's worst investment ever. The dollar amount of the loss is unclear. Ackman said the short position was worth $1 billion in December 2012, when he publicly announced the bet. But Pershing Square has since restructured the position using options. The stock price has appreciated by 23 percent, including dividends, from May 1, 2012, to Feb. 10, 2014, according to the presentation. A spokesman for Pershing Square declined to comment. A spokesman for Herbalife once again fought Ackman's assertions. "For the past 14 months, Bill Ackman has waged a sophisticated 'short and destroy' media and lobbying campaign against Herbalife. Despite his constant attacks, Herbalife delivered another year of record performance in 2013. During that time, shareholders who believe in Herbalife and our industry-leading products have been big winners," a statement from the company to CNBC.com said. "But because of his reckless $1 billion bet, Mr.Ackman and his investors at Pershing Square have been big losers. Herbalife's success is a testament to strong customer demand for the products, healthy lifestyle and financial opportunity the company provides." (Read more: Herbalife executives head to DC to explain business model) Ackman remains convinced that Herbalife's stock will fall to zero because it ultimately will be shut down by regulators. "The facts that we have learned since our initial investment reinforce our belief that Herbalife is an illegal pyramid scheme," the presentation said. Most recently, the firm has posted negative profiles of top Herbalife salespeople online in an effort to discredit the company. While Pershing Square lost money in Herbalife and two other positions—J.C. Penney long and a short on the Hong Kong dollar versus U.S. dollar—it gained overall last year. The Pershing Square International Fund rose 9.3 percent net of fees in 2013 and has produced net annualized returns of 15.7 percent since its inception in January 2005. (Read more: Ackman: Target's 'lost magic' ... and other thoughts) Pershing Square's second-worst investment ever was J.C. Penney, which declined 41 percent, according to the presentation. Citigroup was No. 3, with a loss of 31 percent. Ackman exited J.C. Penney in August 2013, and shares have continued dropping. The firm noted two lessons learned from its loss. First, it said, "extreme business 'transformations' are riskier and more difficult than business 'renovations' (e.g., Canadian Pacific or Air Products)." They "require control (or near-control) and a totally aligned board." Second, the experience was a "reminder of the importance of business quality," the firm said. " 'Fair' business at a 'wonderful' price can be a bad investment." —By CNBC's Lawrence Delevingne. Follow him on Twitter @ldelevingne. FREE AppDownload
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Two Strategies For Investors That Want To Hold Bonds (Advisor Perspectives)  Despite the concerns about rising interest rates, investors choose to hold bonds because it offers diversification. But what strategies can/should they use? Jeff Hussey of Russell Investments highlights two strategies.  The first strategy involves increasing credit exposure, but investors should keep two things in mind before doing so he writes. "Increasing credit exposure of a fixed income portfolio also increases its correlation to the equity market. This can become a harmful side effect for the overall portfolio," he writes in Advisor Perspectives. Also, "the current valuation of most credit sectors is slightly rich, as measured by credit spreads, compared to historical averages.[1] This calls for a selective, value-minded approach to adding a credit yield cushion to the portfolio." The second strategy involves looking for value opportunities outside of the U.S. This is partially because global central banks are moving in different directions when it comes to monetary policy and this should "create opportunities among currencies and bond markets." If You're In The Market, You Owe It To Yourself To Read This Paragraph (Musing On Markets)  Josh Brown has pointed readers to valuation guru Professor Aswath Damodaran's latest blog post. While dissecting the Facebook-WhatsApp deal he offered up an important reminder to investors. "My experience with markets has been that no one has a monopoly on virtue and good sense and that the hubris that leads to absolute conviction is an invitation for a market take-down. To investors to view deals like the WhatsApp acquisition as evidence of irrational exuberance, remember that there are traders who are laughing their way to the bank, with the profits that they have collected from their social media investments. Similarly, for traders who view fundamentals and valuation as games played by eggheads and academics, recognize that mood and momentum may be the dominant factors driving social media companies right now, but markets are fickle and fundamentals will matter (sooner or later)." The Financial Advisory Industry Is Facing A 'Brain Drain' (Reuters) 32% of financial advisors are expected to retire in the next ten years, and the industry isn't hiring at the pace needed to replace them, according to a report from Cerulli Associates. Firms used to have "big recruiting programs" until the financial crisis, Scott Smith, a Cerulli Associates director told Mark Miller at Reuters. "Now, they just recruit people from other firms instead of training their own - it's easier and more productive. They're all kicking the can down the road in terms of who will develop the next generation of advisers." Fidelity's New Head Of Asset Management Comes From The Fixed-Income Side (Morningstar) Charles Morrison has been named head of asset management at Fidelity, reports Katie Rushkewicz Reichart in Morningstar. Morrison has been with Fidelity for 27 years. "Choosing someone from the fixed-income side might seem unusual given that more than half of Fidelity's assets are in equity funds," writes Rushkewicz Reichart.  "However, Fidelity's fixed-income group is among the best in the industry, taking a risk-conscious, team-oriented approach that's produced strong long-term results. Morrison may bring more of a risk-management focus to the equity side, though it's hard to know exactly how that will play out." Morrison is replacing Ron O'Hanley. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nati HarnikBerkshire Hathaway will no longer let high frequency trading firms license content from the news wire company it owns, Business Wire. Cathy Baron Tamraz, Chairwoman and CEO of Business Wire announced that the firm came to the decision in conjunction with Berkshire Hathaway after a Wall Street Journal article cited Business Wire as one of the news sources high frequency traders can pay to get information seconds ahead of other investors. From WSJ: The traders are getting news releases from Business Wire, which distributes corporate-earnings releases and economic reports such as the Philadelphia Federal Reserve's monthly manufacturing survey, and from Marketwired, a Toronto company that distributes earnings releases and the ADP monthly employment report. The article, written by Scott Patterson, went on to say that while these practices aren't illegal, they do give high speed traders an unfair edge. "As the recent Wall Street Journal article and others have pointed out, there was nothing wrong in Business Wire serving these handful of HFTs directly," said Business Wire's news release. "These traders had absolutely no time advantage in receiving material news from Business Wire, which operates a patented internet delivery network that disseminates news simultaneously and in real-time to all market participants, and in accordance with Regulation Fair Disclosure." That Buffett was willing to get rid of high speed computer traders shouldn't shock anyone — he doesn't even have desk top in his office. FREE AppDownload
This winter, the big argument among market economists has been to what extent this season's batch of crappy weather has affected economic data. U.S. industrial production has decreased, retail sales disappointed, mortgage applications fell, housing data was lousy. "The good news is that this is likely only transient noise, and that rising temperatures in March and April should revive everything from auto sales to factory activity, helping the U.S. economy return to its improving trend," writes Guggenheim's Scott Minerd. "Pent-up consumer demand should re-accelerate growth in the spring after this short, sharp pain, setting the United States on course for solid growth in 2014 of 3.5 percent or more." The weak data is likely temporary, Minerd says. "Based on past experiences where cold weather depressed retail sales in January, there could be a meaningful rebound in consumer activity in the coming months as pent-up demand is released." Guggenheim Partners FREE AppDownload
Serjao Carvalho via FlickrHedge fund manager Daniel Loeb, who runs Third Point LLC, was on a panel this morning with His Holiness the Dalai Lama. The panel, hosted by American Enterprise Institute (AEI), was called "Moral free enterprise: Economic perspectives in business and politics." Each panelist spent a few minutes discussing an issue that mattered to them. Afterwards, the Dalai Lama would weigh in with his thoughts. Loeb said that our financial markets "make the world a better place." "I think there's a common view that financial markets are good in the sense...that if someone has a new idea and there's a venture capitalist they can invest in the idea. And that man or woman can create a business around that. There will be innovation and growth and new things will come. You'll get iPhones out of that type of system. You'll get medical advances. Everything from FedEx to you name it are businesses that have been started from this type of system. And that's key." Loeb said that more needs to be done to include folks from less privileged backgrounds.   "It's a great system. There's no other system that can create this sort of prosperity. It isn't perfect, though. Folks are left behind." Loeb, whose philanthropic work has focused on charter schools in New York City, sees education as one outlet helping people get involved in the system that allows people to flourish.  "My focus has been 'how do we get a broad base of less privileged people, kids and families who have been written off by the system?...I'll tell you one thing—It's a myth that poor people can't achieve at the same level as rich white kids."   "It is possible. We need to work hard on educating kids...We need a great safety net. We need to bring as many people into this system, so they can all flourish with us," Loeb said.  The Dalai Lama told Loeb he gave a wonderful presentation. "[After listening] yesterday and also today, I developed more respect about capitalism," he said as the audience clapped and laughed. "Otherwise, my impression—Only take the money, then exploitation," he said continuing to laugh.   FREE AppDownload
It's a beat. HP reported revenue of $28.2 billion, down only 1% from the prior-year period. Quarterly non-GAAP earnings per share of 90 cents, up 10% from the prior-year period. That beat also topped the company's guidance of 82 cents to 86 cents per share. (GAAP EPS was 74 cents up 17% from the year-ago period.) Analysts were expecting revenues to decline about 4% to $27.19 billion, while earnings per share were expected to increase 2.4% to 84 cents This is two quarters in a row that HP beat analysts expectations on both earnings and revenue. While expectations were modest, this is a good sign that CEO Meg Whitman's multi-year plan to turn HP around is going in the right direction. For its upcoming quarter, analysts were expecting 89 cents EPS and revenue of 26.93 billion. Here's what HP's is saying about the next quarter. The stock is down just a tad in after hours trading because this outlook comes in on the low-end of expectations. For the fiscal 2014 second quarter, HP estimates non-GAAP diluted net EPS to be in the range of $0.85 to $0.89 and GAAP diluted net EPS to be in the range of $0.62 to $0.66. Fiscal 2014 second quarter non-GAAP diluted net EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.23 per share, related primarily to the amortization of intangible assets and restructuring charges. For fiscal 2014, HP estimates non-GAAP diluted net EPS to be in the range of $3.60 to $3.75 and GAAP diluted net EPS to be in the range of $2.85 to $3.00. Fiscal 2014 non-GAAP diluted net EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.75 per share, related primarily to the amortization of intangible assets and restructuring charges. Here's a rundown of how each unit did. After a brutal 2013, PC sales were up this quarter, thanks to enterprises, if not consumers. FREE AppDownload
One perk of being an executive in the auto industry is that you're always driving a new, well-equipped car. But most of the folks running companies like GM, BMW, and VW didn't start out with anything fancy. In interviews over the past few weeks, we asked top execs from various companies about the first car they ever owned. Just as you'd expect from a bunch of car guys, the answers were detailed and packed with nostalgia. Mark Reuss, who took over new GM CEO Mary Barra's post as global head of product, started off as a GM man. He seemed to remember every detail of his first ride, a 1967 Camaro 327. Red with a white bumblebee stripe, it was a "pretty original car." He bought it in his dad's Illinois hometown for $1,300, and it came with air conditioning, power steering, and power brakes. GM's head of global design Ed Welburn also started off with a company car. His very first was a 1965 Buick Gran Sport. It was great, he said, since it had "all the power in the world, it was lightweight. But my parents never thought I was driving a hot rod like a [Pontiac] GTO." "My parents never would've let me buy a GTO," he said. "But a Gran Sport, I could get away with. And it was just as quick, if not quicker." Maybe this is the ad that won him over: Flickr / Alden Jewell Bob Ferguson, now head of Cadillac, drove a 1976 Mustang II, powered by a 302-cc V8 engine. Bill Peffer, Cadillac's U.S. VP of sales and service, also started off with a Ford, a 1987 Mustang GT. Filip Brabec, product planning manager for Audi of America, was born in Prague but moved to Wisconsin for high school after the Cold War ended. He got right into the American spirit, driving a 1989 Chevy Camaro RS, with a 5.5-liter V8 engine. "I put well over 100,000 miles on that car in college," he said. Wikimedia CommonsMinis were a popular choice when today's auto execs were young.Among other execs from Europe, there's a pattern. Rolls-Royce CEO Torsten Müller-Ötvös started off with a Mini 850, a "lovely car." Andy Goss of Britain, now president of Jaguar Land Rover North America, had a 1981 Mini, in russet brown. Infiniti President Johan de Nysschen's first car was a Mini — which he flipped over within 24 hours. His parents thought he was crazy, he told Business Insider. CEO of BMW North America Ludwig Willisch had a 1958 Beetle, about 20 years old by the time he got his hands on it. It was not a unique choice, he said: "In my generation, the probability of driving a Beetle is very high, because at that time Beetle had about 50% market share," he explained. "Especially for poor students, it had close to 100% market share." Kevin Rose, sales and marketing director for Bentley, almost got a Beetle, but went for a Lotus Cortina instead. It was "old and decrepit," he said, "but for an 18-year-old it was monstrously cool." FREE AppDownload
GrouponHK on FacebookGroupon shares spiked over 10% and the dropped into the red after the company published its Q4 financial results. Adjusted for nonrecurring items, the company earned $0.04 per share. This was stronger than the $0.02 expected by analysts. Revenue of $768.4 million smashed expectations for $718.0 million. "Our record performance in the quarter was led by strength in Goods, as shoppers increasingly looked to Groupon to fill their holiday needs,” said CEO Eric Lefkofsky. “Our mobile business continued to gain momentum as our worldwide mobile transaction mix increased more than 10% in the quarter, to nearly 50% in December. With another 9 million downloads this quarter, we now have nearly 70 million app downloads to date.” Management's guidance was mixed. It forecasts Q1 revenue of $710-$760 million, which is much higher than the $685.4 million estimated by analysts. However, that's expected to come with an adjusted net loss of $0.02-$0.04 cents per share. For the full year, management expects adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) to be above 2013 levels. Some Q4 highlights from the earnings release: The company also noted that it had repurchased 3,661,900 shares of stock under its current buyback plan at an average price of $10.26 per share. Here's a snapshot of the after-hours swing via MarketWatch.com. MarketWatch FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyGuo, a farmer in his 50s, drives his self-made scale replica of a Lamborghini past a car on a street in Zhengzhou, Henan province February 19, 2014.Stocks climbed. Here's the scoreboard: S&amp;P500: 1,839.77 +11.02 +0.60%Dow: 16,133.10 +92.54 +0.58%NASDAQ: 4,267.55 +29.59 +0.70% And now the top stories: — Markets shrugged off the nasty Chinese PMI reading that came in overnight and ran with the relatively solid U.S. economic data that came in today. U.S. flash PMI unexpectedly climbed. Jobless claims fell more than expected. Consumer prices came in in-line. The Philly Fed's survey unexpectedly collapsed, but the lagging data was concentrated in shipments, which was blamed on weather. — Facebook shares climbed 2.3% as investors digested their blockbuster purchase of messaging service WhatsApp for up to $19 billion. Henry Blodget explained why he likes the deal.  — Tesla shares rode yesterday's after-the-bell, post-earnings surge to an 8% gain as it raised guidance.  — Walmart fell more than 1% on a profits warnings, though Q4 earnings came in in-line. "Some of the factors affecting our consumers include reductions in government benefits, higher taxes and tighter credit. Further, we have higher group health care costs in the U.S," CFO Charles Holley said.  — Verizon and Blackberry both climbed 3%. The former benefited from a bullish Jefferies note, while the latter is riding the tailcoats of the WhatsApp deal — the FT's Richard Blackden says attention is now on the Canadian firm's own messaging service.  —  Prices for Bitcoin on MtGox fell 50% to $110. The firm said in a release that the recent protests outside its office had forced it to move to a new location, which further set back its progress on fixing its wallet issues. Prices on Coindesk dipped below $600. — Natural gas prices fell 1.75%, as the latest EIA storage report came in in-line with expectations.  — Stay tuned for Groupon and HP earnings! DON'T MISS » Valuation expert Professor Aswath Damodaran analyzes the Facebook-WhatsApp deal in his latest post. FREE AppDownload
Yesterday, Gap announced it was voluntarily raising the company minimum wage to $10 an hour.  The policy change will affect 65,000 of Gap's workers. The company is America's largest retailer.  While the move could reduce profits in the short term, it's actually a brilliant business move, according to a note by retail analyst Dorothy Lakner at Topeka Capital Markets.  Her reasoning? Gap's higher wages will result in better customer service—and a happy clientele.  "You treat people well, they’ll treat your customers well," Lakner told Bloomberg News. "Gap had a strong year last year compared to a lot of their peers. That sends a pretty strong message to employees that, "We had a good year, but you’re going to be rewarded too.'" Advocacy group Jobs for Justice also praised the retailer's decision, saying it would help the U.S. economy improve.  "We're thrilled to see The Gap joining the ranks of Costco and other companies who pay their employees a fairer wage," executive director Sarita Gupta said in a statement. "The facts speak for themselves: when workers are paid better, they're able to participate in and contribute to our economic recovery."  FREE AppDownload
Eric FisherFacebook profile of chief meteorologist Eric FisherWeather! Suddenly everyone is excited about it, fueled in part by an uptick in wacky weather events, but also by a new gang of weather experts and climate reporters that are reaching people through the Internet, namely Twitter. Many seasoned meteorologists are now using 140 characters or less to make normally complicated data accessible to the general public. They use terms that everyone can understand and push out maps that make snowstorms, hurricanes, and other weather-related happenings interesting. Below is a list of the some best weather people to follow on Twitter. You might even learn some meteorology. Eric Fisher — Chief meteorologist at CBS BostonHandle: @ericfisher Wooo boy that looks like fun. A wild couple days for parts of IA, MN, MI, WI. pic.twitter.com/GllIu3szOJ Mike Seidel — On-camera meteorologist and field reporter for The Weather Channel. He also covers breaking news for NBC, MSBC, and CNBCHandle: @mikeseidel WOW! Like a scene from @WalkingDead_AMC I-75 outside @weatherchannel is barren of vehicles today unlike 2 weeks ago. pic.twitter.com/VJ8jhaXTgi Cory Mottice — Meteorologist for AccuWeatherHandle: @EverythingWX Dust in the atmosphere sure can play tricks on your eyes. The sun looks like a spec in the sky in July of 2013. pic.twitter.com/AaYDWoZvOY Stu Ostro — Senior meteorologist at The Weather ChannelHandle: @StuOstro #context of cent-east U.S. cold MT @NOAA: January 2014 highest Jan. #global temp since 2007 http://t.co/Y6wKG58U0g pic.twitter.com/XSlgxndU99 Tornado probabilities tonight. Main threat is from straight line winds. #alwx pic.twitter.com/ijgdnxo8yQ Stephen Stirling — Data reporter for the Star-Ledger in New JerseyHandle: @SStirling While heavy snow could continue for a while in NJ as storm intensifies, this is New England's storm. NWS still forecasting 2-4 in. for NJ   Eric Holthaus — Meteorologist, currently writing for SlateHandle: @EricHolthaus At this moment, I was quite probably the coldest I've ever been. My photos of the ice caves: http://t.co/nm6bAVY9c5 pic.twitter.com/hUo0PW4K8q   Andrew Freedman — Senior climate reporter for MashableHandle: @afreedma To be crystal clear: NWS said today there is a 1-in-1,000 chance that Calif's rainfall deficit will be eliminated this winter. (1 of 2) Jim Cantore — Broadcast meteorologist appearing on The Weather ChannelHandle: @JimCantore Here's EURO 4cast RT @WSI_Energy 12z ECMWF snow bomb for I-95. 6-12" DCA to NYC, 20" BOS (WSI snow algorithm based) pic.twitter.com/mrBZH4VMqO   Stephanie Abrams —  Meteorologist for The Weather Channel who hosts the "Wake Up with Al" show with Al Roker.Handle: @StephanieAbrams Suriously? Another round of snow for the MW &amp; NE? This is becoming comical! #FeelForYa but also #HappyForSnowLovers pic.twitter.com/HicDXupCyp Tom Niziol — Winter Weather Expert at The Weather ChannelHandle: @TomNiziol Squall line of #thundersnow !! Check out KYNG. pic.twitter.com/5iGoxbkLS2 Ari Sarsalari — Broadcast meteorologist for WAAY 31 in Huntsville, AlabamaHandle:@AriWeather ALERT: If you see this pic, DON'T share. It's INACCURATE, and from an internet troll who is NOT a meteorologist pic.twitter.com/3dE3koGNKF Here are some general news sites that are also good to follow: Breaking News Storm — Real-time severe weather updatesHandle: @breakingstorm With today's 1.5 inches of snow in Central Park, 2nd snowiest February on record in New York; 7th snowiest season - @NBCNews National Weather Service — Weather updates for the entire country from NOAAHandle: @NWS Today's Weather: Severe wx threat from OH Vly to Gulf, winter wx form Midwest to New England: http://t.co/gD9vPulaQp pic.twitter.com/pdTU1aGXmn AccuWeather.com —  Breaking news and weather stories from AccuWeather.comHandle: @breakingweather Severe weather risk Thursday; make sure you know the difference between a watch and a warning: http://t.co/gmruOY2W6U   WeatherBugHandle: @WeatherBug // <![CDATA[Weatherbug// ]]> crazy! RT @smartinWNTV: #Iowa: nothing like #severe t'storm warnings and #blizzard warnings at the same time. #iawx pic.twitter.com/DC4z6WL6qx FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Edgar SuChina's economy grew 7.7% in 2013, its lowest rate of growth since 1999.   This comes as Beijing is making efforts to curb credit growth and rebalance the economy away from one being led by investment and exports to one being driven by consumption.  Concerns, however, continue to abound about China's massive shadow banking sector and the potential for a wave of  trust defaults. Some economists fear that Beijing's efforts to tighten credit could trigger an economic crisis. All of these risks are important for investors around the world as China is the world's second largest economy. It's also arguably the world's most important source of growth, having "contributed more than 25% to global GDP growth since 2010," according to UBS' Tao Wang. Despite all of this, most experts agree that the long-term outlook for China is very bright. In terms of GDP per capita China ranks about one hundredth and "there are still decades of catch up growth left to go," Alaistair Chan at Moody's told Business Insider. "Few seem to understand the historical significance of what is happening there,"  according to Jim Rogers. "As the US was rising to its power and glory during the 19th Century, we had a horrible civil war, 15 depressions [Yes, with a D.], few human rights, little rule of law, periodic massacres in the streets, etc., etc. yet we still became the most successful country in the 20th Century." "China will have plenty of setbacks along the way as does every country, company, family, and individual that rises," added Rogers. Policymakers appear to be willing to tolerate slower growth as it pushes for market-oriented reform. The Centre for Economics and Business Research (CEBR) expects China to overtake the US to become the world’s largest economy in 2028 for the first time since 1890. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg Television'Aswath DamodaranValuation expert Professor Aswath Damodaran analyzes the Facebook-WhatsApp deal in his latest post. Josh Brown points readers to this one key paragraph, which any market-watcher would be wise to keep bookmarked.  Here's Damodaran: My experience with markets has been that no one has a monopoly on virtue and good sense and that the hubris that leads to absolute conviction is an invitation for a market take-down. To investors [who] view deals like the Whatsapp acquisition as evidence of irrational exuberance, remember that there are traders who are laughing their way to the bank, with the profits that they have collected from their social media investments. Similarly, for traders who view fundamentals and valuation as games played by eggheads and academics, recognize that mood and momentum may be the dominant factors driving social media companies right now, but markets are fickle and fundamentals will matter (sooner or later). Read Damodaran's full take on the deal here » FREE AppDownload
Perhaps it would be rash to call it a spate or a trend, but in the past six months a number of financial professionals from the United States to London to Hong Kong have committed suicide. So it's time to talk about why. "Even if it's not a trend it's something that needs to be looked at closely," said one Wall Street source familiar with employee relations issues. "Each individual situation is going to be different; you never know what causes someone to reach this point in their life. It could be their job or their personal life, and when you have a big firm you're going to have a lot of different kinds of people." What makes Wall Street different from a lot of jobs, though, is that these different kinds of people are going to have different ways of dealing with the stress they all have in common — a high-pressure job that has been under even more scrutiny since the financial crisis. Imagine you're a highly competitive, results-oriented person whose job once rewarded your work with a fat check. Then the world's economy crashed. It's your fault. As a result you have new rules about what you can and cannot do. You're catching up with new compliance regulations and working harder than before, but you can't produce the money you once did. The means of production you once had are gone. This isn't just something that is impacting the high-octane traders and investment bankers who carry the desire to land a corner office one day. As the South China Morning Post points out, new regulation is taking its toll on the rarely-mentioned back office Wall Street employees as well. "Wall Street didn't clean up in terms of regulation until they found out there was a huge mortgage crisis," said Dr. Alden Cass, psychologist and author of "Bullish Thinking: The Advisor's Guide to Surviving and Thriving on Wall Street." "[Mental health] is the same thing; it's not a problem until somebody gets hurt." Cass specializes in treating patients with high-powered, high-pressure jobs. He says they're especially in danger of suffering when the job they consider a part of their identity doesn't match up with the lofty expectations they've set for themselves. Wall Streeters are often by nature highly competitive perfectionists who compare themselves to their peers. In an environment where people are getting fired left and right, says Cass, this can result in serious paranoia. "People feel replaceable," he said. Wall Street firms made mental health a serious issue after 9/11. It was okay for people to ask for help after witnessing or losing friends and family to such a tragedy. That attention was short-lived though, and the financial crisis turned the industry's attention to a totally different fire it had to put out. Unfortunately, the financial crisis fire was a major stressor on bankers too. Instead of seeking out the treatment that Wall Street firms may offer — often outside psychologists to whom the bank can connect them — bankers more often than not turn to drugs and alcohol. It's a cultural thing. Asking for help makes you seem weak. Talking to your colleagues about your stresses makes you seem weak. No one on Wall Street — a place where "you eat what you kill" is written on every heart — wants to seem weak. "The personality of the alpha male makes getting help hard, and Wall Street management is still struggling to get a comfort level on confronting employees who need help," said one veteran trader. The alpha male on Wall Street can work all day and party all night while still hauling in massive cash for his firm. Sometimes, they self-treat their stress with drugs and alcohol, or they blow their money on expensive whims. "Maybe the culture is finally breaking at the seams," said one young hedge fund analyst. Cass thinks that the only way to really change mental health is to go beyond having psychiatrists available (even on site) and tie it to the thing that bankers work for: their compensation. After all it's the main reason they seek him out. "The No. 1 reason I get a referral is that a patient says to me 'For some reason I'm not making as much money as I used to," said Cass. From then to recovery, it's real work trying to convince frustrated overachievers that their emotional health is tied to their performance, and that it's something that deserves their full attention. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry DowningPresident Barack Obama will drop from his upcoming budget proposal a previous offer of Social Security cuts, a move that is designed to head off a backlash from Democrats and grassroots liberal groups in an election year.  Obama will not include the "chained CPI" cost-of-living adjustment, which cuts Social Security benefits by recalculating the growth of benefits with an index that doesn't rise as quickly as inflation. Democrats applauded the move almost immediately, while Republicans framed it as another sign that Obama is unwilling to address the long-term deficit crisis. In a statement, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said, "House Democrats have stood behind President Obama’s honest efforts in recent years to forge a bipartisan grand bargain with congressional Republicans. In the course of those negotiations, he put chained CPI on the table as a gesture of good faith; yet Republican leaders were unwilling to budge or close a single unfair tax loophole, and decided to walk away from opportunities to find common ground.  "Democrats applaud the President for eliminating chained CPI from his budget, and we look forward to working across the aisle to adopt a responsible fiscal framework." House Speaker John Boehner's (R-Ohio) office had a different take. Boehner spokesman Brendan Buck said it was clear that Obama was "throwing in the towel" on the possibility of any negotiations. "This reaffirms what has become all too apparent: the president has no interest in doing anything, even modest, to address our looming debt crisis," Buck said in a statement. "The one and only idea the president has to offer is even more job-destroying tax hikes, and that non-starter won’t do anything to save the entitlement programs that are critical to so many Americans. With three years left in office, it seems the president is already throwing in the towel." Obama had painted the inclusion of Social Security cuts in previous budgets as an olive branch to Republicans. But after he released his budget last year, Republicans quickly used the benefit cuts to attack Obama. Rep. Greg Walden, the chair of the National Republican Congressional Committee, denounced the cuts as a "shocking attack on seniors." Obama also faced a revolt from the left. Democrats had publicly and privately urged Obama to drop the proposal, knowing that it would be an especially tough sell for constituents in an election year. Some liberal groups, like the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, made it a central theme of their advocacy.  "This is a huge progressive victory — and greatly increases Democratic chances of taking back the House and keeping the Senate," PCCC co-founder Stephanie Taylor said in an emailed statement.  "Now, the White House should join Elizabeth Warren and others in pushing to expand Social Security benefits to keep up with the rising cost of living." FREE AppDownload
Flickr/quintanomediaMarkets are higher this afternoon, with the S&amp;P 500 10 points, or about 0.6%. The Dow up 110 points, or 0.7%. This comes after a mix of economic data. The Philadelphia Fed index plunged 15.7 points to -6.3 in February, well below expectations. But U.S. manufacturing conditions improved, according to Markit's Flash U.S. PMI reading. Over in China, manufacturing conditions fell to a seven-month low. January U.S. inflation numbers came in right in line with expectations, as did weekly jobless claims. FREE AppDownload
Is the price of Bitcoin on MtGox going to zero? Prices have now fallen 50% in the last 12 hours to $120 on the once-dominant Bitcoin exchange. That is a spread of nearly $450 with prices on other sites. It would of course be a spectacular arbitrage to take advantage of, but no one can take their Bitcoins out of MtGox. There have been no updates about when they will resume. They did announce they'd moved offices, and it appears a new verification requirement may have been released.  There remains an outside chance that MtGox comes up with a technical fix to the issues affecting users' wallets and that withdrawals do resume — in which case anyone who purchased at this price will make a killing. For now, here's the chart via ClarkMoody.com: ClarkMoody FREE AppDownload
When I heard about Kevin Roose's new book, "Young Money," of course I wanted to read it — after all, "Liar’s Poker" lit the fuse on my own Wall Street aspirations.Although I do not know Kevin personally, I am fond of his work as a writer for New York magazine (and previously as a reporter for Dealbook), and I also enjoy following him on Twitter. What interested me most was the timing and uniqueness of Kevin's premise — shadowing a diverse group of young investment bankers (1st year analysts) for two years, as they started their careers on Wall Street in the immediate wake of the financial crisis. The book does not fail to deliver, and Kevin’s conclusions present a fascinating reality and perspective of young Wall Street life today that I think everyone will find intriguing. It’s also a great case study on entitled Millennials, or Generation Wuss, as Bret Easton Ellis has recently described them.There’s been a huge amount of fanfare and media attention around a few of Kevin’s observations and conclusions:  •  Wall Street culture is still somewhat odious (and possibly contagious).   •  The lives of young bankers tend to be pretty dreadful — where "glamour meets masochism" as Roose puts it, but the glamour and prestige are gone.  •  Worse, the prospects for a viable and fulfilling (personally and financially) career on Wall Street are "eroding."  •  Wall Street is no longer the default destination of our best, brightest, and most ambitious — a fact that is clearly supported by Roose, anecdotally and statistically. With all of the other glowing reviews, there’s not much for me to add ... So I thought I would take a stand, and make a defense of Wall Street.Young Wall Street Life is Hell ...Yes, the life of a young analyst on Wall Street can be miserable. With the help of his eight analyst-subjects, Roose paints a very accurate portrait of the often soul-destroying 100-hour workweeks, tyrannical bosses, and menial Excel and PowerPoint work that the job encompasses.I spent my first year in absolute misery, sitting in an analyst bullpen in M&amp;A, taking orders from my ass-kissing Associate staffer. I suffered through insanely and needlessly long hours, juggling face time, monkey work, and bogus fire drills initiated by an insecure VP, all while being stifled by an absurdly rigid hierarchy. But all of that bulls--- aside, the firm invested a significant amount of resources in developing and training me; Wall Street has one of the most prestigious training programs on the planet. They assigned me formal and informal mentors — people who make $3-$5 million dollars a year, at my disposal, to help guide me not only my career, but also in life.That’s why, when I hated M&amp;A, I stuck it out. I did my best. And then at the end of the year, I was ranked (and paid) at the top of my class. And so with the help of my mentor, rather than risk losing me, the firm happily made room for me in the team of my choice.Within no time, I was on the trading floor, with four screens, a dealerboard, a Bloomberg terminal, and near infinite resources at my fingertips. There was no hierarchy. Surrounded by so much energy, excitement, and hunger to make money, I was excited to come to work every day and loved every minute of it.I was ranked at the top of my class every year, was offered the 3rd year and the promotion to associate. Kevin explains the experiences of some of his analysts quite differently. Maybe it’s because they were placed on bulls--- desks (Municipal bonds or Public Sector Finance), were ranked and paid at the bottom of their classes, denied promotions, and in some cases made redundant. Last time I checked, the guy who never gets a date is usually the one who hates the prom most vocally. Wall Street is bad for you ...Not only that, the job can make you ugly and fat. Roose comments on the noticeable impact it’s having on the appearance and health of a few of his subjects.This is a fair point. No time or energy for the gym. Breakfast, lunch, and dinner at their desks. And, it’s not only the job that has contributed to the weight gain. For many of these kids, it’s the first time in their lives that they have more money than they have time to spend it. That means whenever they’re not eating at their desk, they’re dining (and drinking) out — lavishly.Work. Drink. Eat. Drink. Pass Out. Repeat. It’s 18th century sexy — pale skin, bloodshot eyes, a fat ass, but ... a fatter wallet.Even with all of that face time, I still made plenty of time for the gym. The best part was sneaking in time to go during the early evening, which enabled me to justify working late enough for the free NOBU take-out and the black car service home. Main Street Still Hates You ...Although the pendulum is gradually swinging back toward the rational, Wall Street bankers are still viewed by many to be social pariahs — so much so that a few of Roose’s subjects are actually embarrassed to tell their friends and family that they work on Wall Street. It’s amazing to me that "I work at Goldman Sachs" could be a source of shame for a kid coming out of college in 2010. You Will Destroy Relationships ...There are some great moments in "Young Money" about these kids watching their relationships fall apart in slow motion, or even having to decide between a relationship and a job. Boo-hoo. I wonder how many times they wrote "#firstworldproblems" in their late-night Facebook therapy sessions with their freshman-year roommate who actually did sign up for Teach For America.Last time I checked, that’s called life. My college relationship didn’t survive my analyst career. So I just started dating a banker. She knew all about cancelled plans, weekend conference calls, and skipping the post-coital cuddle and going straight to the Blackberry. The best part was that we never got sick of each other because we only had time to see each other a couple nights a week. And our independent schedules aligned so infrequently that I had plenty of "me time" for the nights that I just wanted to sit at home, drink a 12 pack, and play Mario Kart.You Will Go Directly To Hell ...<U+2028> Roose writes, "Jeremy came to Goldman a soft-spoken, cerebral kid, but in less than two years, he had developed [a] short temper and was quick to point out others’ mistakes in a way that was often unkind and had little patience for people whose intelligence he couldn’t respect."I remember this transformation vividly. When I went home for the Christmas holidays during my first year as an analyst, my sister told me that I was "simply an asshole." And on my next trip home, I was instructed to walk around Wal-Mart for fifteen minutes as a way of re-acclimating to the pace of "the real world," or as I saw it at the time, an attempt to regain a more forgiving attitude toward stupidity, inefficiency, and incompetence.In line with many of Roose’s conclusions, Wall Street can be an amoral, aggressive, and insular culture of elitist assholes that molds its disciples in that image. When it comes to work, I’m happy to be unemotional and pragmatic, and to reserve little patience for people who waste my time. I wish I had the luxury to be something else. "I leave the Hamptons on Sundays, so that my family doesn't have to."Over time, I learned to never let a job define me as a human being. Roose seems genuinely concerned that his subjects will be transformed into one of these vapid money and power-obsessed drones, "slower to smile, quicker to criticize." Toward the end, he even seems to chastise Derrick for possibly falling under Wall Street’s evil spell. I saw it coming — the kid kept tombstones (lucite deal trophies) in his bedroom, and seemingly uses douchey phrases like "models and bottles" to describe his nightlife.So Why Go to Wall Street ...Kevin gives some great insights on a point that I think is widely misunderstood: How and why do people (especially today) end up on Wall Street?Besides the influence of "Liar’s Poker" (and "Den of Thieves," "The Predator’s Ball," "Barbarians At The Gate," and "Highly Confident"), my enamorment with Wall Street was reinforced in prep school when all the parents came down from Greenwich for parents’ weekend. The Wall Street dads were the cool dads with the sports cars, and a propensity for profanity. They’d tell our Dean we were spending the weekend with them in Connecticut, only to let us to disappear into New York City. This, at the age of 14 was my first interaction with Wall Street and it taught me the No. 1 rule of life (from Douglas Bader): "Rules are for the obedience of fools, and the guidance of wise men"However, from what I have seen subsequently, and as Kevin clearly illustrates, my experience is not the norm. Most people go into investment banking because they obviously do well in school and are smart and ambitious, but they either have no clue what they want to do in life, or they just don't have the balls to go out there, be creative, and take a risk. But, Wall Street isn’t for everyone ...Roose picks an eclectic, diverse set of individuals to follow in terms of race, sex, and socioeconomic background. He even recruits a couple of kids from non-target schools who somehow manage to backdoor their way into their Analyst programs — all of which makes for great perspective in the book.It’s a big ask and I commend him for having been successful in putting it all together. But there is an argument to be made that clearly the type of person that he might gravitate toward would be the left-leaning, cynical, reluctant bankers ... And vice versa - the type of person who would take the considerable risk in collaborating with Roose would be similarly minded. "There are three sides to every story: Your side, my side, and <U+2028>the truth. And no one is lying." — Robert EvansThis does not make it any less true, or his conclusions any less relevant. But in my defense of Wall Street, it allows me to say that there are thousands of kids who have rewarding, fulfilling, and successful analyst experiences on Wall Street.What about the kids at the top of the analyst classes? One of his subjects (Chelsea) finds her co-workers boring and tedious. Maybe that’s because she got stuck on the f---ing Municipal bond desk. I’d bet her assessment might be quite different on the Emerging Market hedge fund credit sales. A few of the others are disenfranchised to the point of depression. If I sucked at my job and got paid at the bottom of my class, I’d be pretty depressed too.Generation Wuss ...This leads me to my next point. Perhaps this isn’t just about Wall Street, as it is about entitled Millennials, or "Generation Wuss."My father probably didn’t walk 8 miles to school, but I know that when I was an analyst, I had to go into the office at 2am, anytime some idiot from Asia called me wanting some US$ corporate comps, or a generic Eurobond market update. BlackBerrys had only arrived on the scene, and Bloomberg Anywhere was still a few years off.By comparison, these analysts have it easy ... And I don’t have to get into the hazing.In his book, the notion of "existential" comes up time and time again. The kids get high and think about life. They pound Bud Lights and think about life. They eat shroom sandwiches and think about life. Existential masturbation: a luxury of millennial generation. I don’t have a problem with that. Kids today don’t want to eat sh-t for two or three years, especially when the long-term guarantee of financial success and prestige on Wall Street has evaporated. That’s fine; there’s the door.Many kids today would be better off pursuing other career paths, and society would be better off too.I concede that there are plenty of douchebags on Wall Street ...Once again, full credit to Roose for making sure he looks at the picture from every possible angle, in what he calls his "douchebag deficit." To compensate for the fact that his subjects seem balanced in their cynicism, he crashes a Fashion Meets Finance mixer, in one of the more hilarious moments in the book. Just imagine listening to a guy talk about "joining The Street after B-school," and when referring to a new watch (probably a Hublot), saying something like, "Yup. You noticed, huh. Just test-driving the new piece." (I’m exaggerating Roose’s story, but it’s still fantastic.)Roose nails it ... And I wish I had been right there with him taking notes, to the extent that @GSElevator often highlight certain less flattering aspects of Wall Street culture:"Some chick asked me what I’d do with $10 million bucks.<U+2028> I told her I’d wonder where the rest of my money went."I guarantee every female in Manhattan will laugh out loud when they read this chapter.Wall Street is losing talent ...Roose points out some fascinating statistics. His trips to recruiting sessions at Wharton, Princeton, Yale, and Harvard make for some really insightful reading and perspective. And I credit Roose in his attempts to objectively look at all aspects of the story, well beyond the anecdotes and experiences of his eight subjects.I’m in full agreement with Roose. It’s clear that matriculation is down. Wall Street is still recovering and/or adjusting to the new paradigm — and smaller analyst classes will reflect that. And tech is as hot as I’ve seen since I let the Money Honey, David Faber, and Mark Haines dictate my intraday E*TRADE decisions in college.Roose is absolutely correct that this is great for society. But I would also say that it’s not so bad for Wall Street either. There’s no point wasting time on the people who can’t hack it, don’t know what they’re getting in to, or don’t want to be there (other than to suck out a six figure paycheck and bitch about it.)Kappa Beta Ph-uck You ...Kevin’s story about sneaking into the annual induction ceremony of Wall Street’s (somewhat) secretive and exclusive fraternity, Kappa Beta Phi is incredible:"What we learn isn't pretty. The event consisted of a stream of sexist and homophobic remarks, along with jokes mocking poor people and belittling Wall Street's critics. And, of course, there was a lot of bragging by the industry leaders about their wealth and status."This event, in January of 2012, isn’t particularly defensible. I’m broadly in agreement with everything that has been said about it. It’s vulgar, insensitive, and stupid.But really ... Sexist, bigoted, racist, homophobic, classist remarks from a bunch of rich, white guys getting drunk and celebrating themselves. Why is anyone surprised? That’s like being flabbergasted that some backwoods, redneck, duck hunting Christian zealot has some extreme and antiquated views on gays. There’s a shock.Don’t get me wrong. Having a roast and making fun of each other is one thing, but telling jokes about the 99% or having unlimited access to bailout money is just as Roose concludes, "a gargantuan middle finger to Main Street."But, in my opinion, the most offensive thing we learn from this is that their jokes are terribly stupid and unfunny. And it’s even more worrisome is that these Grand Wizards are so obtuse and self-absorbed that they allowed an unknown face, less than half the average age, to sit with them, unnoticed, for two hours, in a shitty rental tuxedo. But as I said, I’m not surprised. If anything, it sounds like some of our team dinners, or one of my tweets:"I never give money to homeless people. I can't reward failure in good conscience.""My garbage disposal eats better than most people""Riding the subway reminds me why I am pro choice"<U+2028>"He’s definitely gay. His 'EBITDA' sounds more like 'Ibiza’."Roose says he is scared that the "thoughtful, socially conscious young analysts" he knows will end up like that. But "if it becomes the kind of antiquated, pitiful event that draws grimaces and eye rolls, maybe’s there’s hope for the New Wall Street after all."Fat chance. He should read the endless stream tweets I get from college-aged kids in response to something particularly offensive or odious on @GSElevator — along the lines of "This makes me want to work at Goldman Sachs."In Conclusion ...Roose might just get a Nobel Prize for his contribution to society by convincing many of our best, brightest, and most ambitious minds not to waste their time and talents on Wall Street.Young Money should be required reading for any college student pursuing a career in finance, and especially for any student who is thinking about a career on Wall Street because they aren’t sure what they really want to do.I’m with Kevin; go out west and enjoy the cache of Silicon Valley. Forget about your tyrannical psychopathic boss on Wall Street, and then go work for the next Steve Jobs. (Because, he wasn’t like that at all.) It’s great to be creative. Just make sure you’re on the right side of the casting couch. Go ahead and join Google or Apple. Just make sure you’re not the guy trapped in a Foxconn compound or the slave digging up Europium. After all, yesterday's headline of "BofA Said to Boost CEO’s Compensation 17% to $14 Million" was quickly eclipsed by "Facebook Is Buying Messaging App WhatsApp For $19 Billion."Has Wall Street really changed? Yes, and no ... But we’ll be okay.That reminds me of a story from the early 2000s. We replaced the contents of a junior colleague’s suitcase with a metal spatula (bent into the shape of a gun) and a mountain of gay porn. It turned out to be quite a nice little surprise for some TSA agent and our unsuspecting associate. But today, in the softer, post-crisis Wall Street era, we’d probably think twice about a stunt like that .... This time around, we’d make sure to use gay, straight, and transgender porn. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot, CNBCCarter Worth, the Chief Technical Analyst at Oppenheimer has left the firm for Sterne Agee. This is big in the world of technical analysts. Worth is known for having predicted the 2007 market top to the week. He does a lot of media, and is widely known for writing what Ritholtz Wealth Management CEO Joshua Brown called The "Greatest. Research. Note. Ever." The note simply said: "We have no thoughts. Sell." The problem with that is that the note was dated June 24, 2013. Worth was making a strong bearish call on equities right as the stock market ripped up 30% for the year. Since June 24th, the S&amp;P 500 has climbed 16.35%. In August of 2013, he was still beating the same drum. If Worth's epic report had been published just a few months later, the whole Street might be talking about what a genius he is as we speak. Timing is everything. Not that he's short of fans: "He once told me that they only technical analysis book he's ever read was *Edwards &amp; Magee, and he read it 5 times," said Eagle Bay Capital founder and fellow technical analyst J.C. Parets. "I thought that was...cool." *Edwards and Magee is the Bible of technical analysis. Business Insider reached out to Worth for comment, we'll update this post if we hear anything. Read Worth's epic research report below: Oppenheimer FREE AppDownload
Araya Diaz/GettyBusinesswoman, model, designer, and reality TV star Kimora Lee Simmons has secretly wed her Goldman Sachs banker boyfriend, Tim Leissner, after a whirlwind romance. It was Kimora's ex-husband, Russell Simmons, who spilled the beans of the nuptials while trying to debunk rumors that his ex was dating rapper Birdman. All of us love @OfficialKimora but the fact is she is happily married. . Tim is has been family for a while now. #gossipcop.... Oh. And.. Tim is not Russian. Lol. According to The Wall Street Journal, Leissner is extremely accomplished in his own right. Leissner rose quickly in Goldman’s investment banking ranks after joining the firm in 1998. In 2002, he focused on Malaysia, a rapidly growing market where he saw little competition from other banks, a person familiar with the matter said. Tall and blonde, Leissner’s appearance stood out in Malaysia but, his manner meshed well with the Malaysian mindset and he developed a strong stable of clients, a person familiar with Leissner said. Leissner had become Goldman’s main contact in Malaysia, associating with the country’s top leaders. He developed a close rapport with Malaysian billionaire Ananda Krishnan in 2007 while advising him on his purchase of telecommunications company Maxis Communications Bhd, a person close to the deal said. Kimora has yet to confirm the news herself and it is still unknown exactly when the couple tied the knot. Russell and Kimora Simmons, who were married from 1998-2009, have two daughters together and remain on very friendly terms, often traveling together as one big happy family. FREE AppDownload
Gilman Louie3D printing companies have dominated the news headlines in 2013. As the technology continues to improve, investors can expect the relatively new technology to dominate the headlines even more in 2014 and beyond. Peter Misek, analyst at Jefferies, attended a recent 3D Printshow in New York and published a report to clients. Consumer market: Little differentiation Misek visited over 15 3D printer exhibitors and noted that many of the exhibitors had a difficult time describing why their product is different or superior to their competitors. As a result, the 3D printer market, according to Misek, has become a “word-of-mouth/branding game.” Chinese brands, despite a lower price tag, were poorly received by the 3D hobbyist community. Metals opportunity: Companies taking notice Misek wrote that at least six and as many as a dozen major industrial groups are in discussions with metal 3D printing companies. Several of the names mentioned by Misek include Johnson &amp; Johnson and Stryker. Misek said: “We expect 3D printers based on technologies that can process metal-like powder bed binding and powder bed fusion (SLS, EBM) to grow faster than the broader 3D printing over the next few years. Aerospace: Technology already exists According to Misek, aerospace parts already include at least one 3D printed part, which could lead to further regulatory approval. The largest potential purchaser in the aerospace field is General Electric, who plans to invest in 3D printing capabilities for its new LEAP engines. The company could chose a 3D printing supplier sometime in 2014 with initial production to begin in 2015 and a ramp in late 2015 or early 2016. General Electric is currently testing printers from 3D Systems and other private companies such as Concept Laser. The company has orders for $68 billion worth of LEAP engines and the company is expected to spend $3.5 billion on carbon fiber and 3D printing equipment over the next five years. Medical applications: More education needed Misek wrote that based on his conversations with medical panelists, “the field needs advances in education, training, and standardization of file types but feel that all the tools are there in the market to do everything.” 3D printing could save 60 percent of time for facial plastic surgery and 3D printing orthopedic sockets are stronger than traditional parts. FREE AppDownload
Despite the severe blow in 2009, the U.S. employment growth rate over the entire period 2009 to 2013 is the second highest in the G-7.  And if Australia was a member of the G-7, it would be Australia rather than Canada making the case for the best performance in the G-7. I have three figures.  Note that the employment numbers for 2013 are still estimates provided by the IMF rather than a final official tally.  Figure 1 ranks and then plots the percentage growth in employment from 2009 to 2013.  Canada (in dark blue) ranks eighth in this overall employment performance ranking, but is ahead of all the other G-7 countries (in red).  Australia substantially outperforms Canada during this period during this period with employment growth of 9 percent to Canada’s 6.5 percent.  Its not that Canada was doing anything wrong - given its trade dependence on the U.S. market and the steepness of the U.S. drop, Canada did do remarkably well. What is also interesting is that the United States ranks sixteenth but ahead of the remaining G-7 countries – even Germany.  After being one of the harder hit countries, the United States has rebounded quite well.  Worthwhile Canadian Initiative Figure 2 shows the extent of the rebound in employment growth performance by comparing employment growth in 2009 with employment growth in 2013 with the countries ranked in order of their employment growth rate in 2009.  In 2009, the United States saw one of the steepest drops in employment and its employment growth rate ranked thirtieth out of the 34 advanced IMF economies.  In 2013, the United States ranked tenth out of 34 advanced economies in terms of employment growth while Canada ranked seventh.  Australia, in the meantime had moved up to third place in 2013 – it was fourth in 2009.  Worthwhile Canadian Initiative Figure 3 presents the annual employment growth performance for the G-7 and Australia.  Along with Germany, Australia did not see an employment decline in 2009.  Since 2008 Australia has seen a pretty exceptional employment growth performance. Worthwhile Canadian Initiative This article originally appeared at Worthwhile Canadian Initiative.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
WSJ/ScreenshotWhatsApp co-founder Jan KoumThe American Dream is alive and well. Facebook's recent announcement that it would buy messaging app WhatsApp for a staggering $19 billion minted new billionaires, including co-founder and CEO Jan Koum who was once dirt poor. Koum's family immigrated to the U.S. from Ukraine two decades ago and lived on food stamps. Today, he's worth an estimated $6.8 billion. All from humble beginnings, these 16 people not only climbed to the top of their industries but also became some of the richest people in the world. These rags-to-riches stories remind us that through determination, grit, and a bit of luck anyone can overcome their circumstances and achieve extraordinary success. FREE AppDownload
(1) Global oil demand rose to a record 91.2mbd last month. However, the growth rate fell to 1.0% y/y, the slowest since September 2012. (2) Emerging economies must be slowing, as evidenced by the drop in the growth rate in their demand for oil from a recent peak of 3.5% a year ago to 1.5% this January, the slowest since October 2009. (3) Advanced economies have been reducing their oil demand since 2005. However, their demand has stabilized over the past year, with a very modest pickup in demand among the “Old World” economies (US, Western Europe, and Japan) offsetting some of the weakness in oil demand in the “New World.” (4) US oil usage has been rising over the past year after mostly falling since the spring of 2007. In Europe, it has stopped falling over the past year after mostly falling since 2006. Interestingly, within Europe, it is still falling in Italy and Spain, while it is edging higher in Germany and the UK. (5) China’s oil demand has stalled at a record high around 10mbd over the past seven months. Oil usage rates in Brazil and India continue to rise to new highs, though the pace of ascent may be slowing. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Running Out of Gas? (1) Deep freeze freezes economy. (2) An icy soft patch. (3) Weather may not be the only reason for economic weakness. (4) Real GDP outlook: Slow H1, faster H2. (5) Slowing global oil demand suggests slower global economic growth, depressing revenues growth. (6) Oil demand slowing mostly among EMs, especially China. (7) Oil demand rising in US. No longer falling in Europe. (8) After ice melts, there will still be plenty of potholes. (9) How do positive revenues surprises square with near-zero growth? (10) Focus on underweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Energy. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
APTom Steyer has the exemplar Wall Street resume — Phillips Exeter Academy, Yale undergrad, Stanford MBA, Goldman Sachs, hedge fund magnate. But these days Steyer — who has an estimated $1.5 billion fortune — spends his time doing non-billionaire things, like chilling out in San Francisco and driving a hybrid Honda Accord. More than that, Steyer has been "waging political warfare against climate-change deniers, eco-antagonists, and oil-industry sympathizer," according to a new profile from Men's Journal's Joe Hagan. Most of the article is about Steyer's activism against the Keystone Pipeline, but he also had some rather populist things to say about the financial crisis. From Men's Journal: When I bring up the controversial role of Goldman Sachs in the 2008 financial crisis, when then treasury secretary Hank Paulson, a former Goldman CEO and a pal of Steyer's, appeared to favor his old firm during the multibillion-dollar bailout, inspiring the 99 percent backlash, Steyer admits that his former employer "got deferential access and deferential outcomes, and that anybody who doesn't get that is a f--king idiot." It's a surprising populist outburst coming from a former Goldman Sachs man. But in the same breath, Steyer says Paulson did a good job and, all things considered, everything worked out pretty well for the U.S. economy. And anyway, "that's the power of finance in the world," he says, shrugging. "You're fighting city hall." It's a more candid response than you'll hear from a lot of people on Wall Street. Read the full profile at Men's Journal » FREE AppDownload
Simple is merging with BBVA. Simple isn't a proper bank in and of itself. Instead, it puts your money in FDIC-insured accounts maintained by Simple's banking partners and provides you with a really well-done app for checking your balance, depositing checks, tagging and categorizing your purchases, and even sending paper checks through the mail at no cost. The company is back in the news today to announce a merger with multinational Spanish banking group BBVA, the second-largest bank in Spain. The merger values Simple at $117 million. The company has been growing at a healthy clip. CEO Josh Reich writes that, "Simple now serves more than 100,000 customers. In 2013, we saw 330% growth and more than $1.7 billion in transactions. We’ve built a growing team of 92 talented folks and have helped tens of thousands achieve their financial goals." Reich told us over the phone that he's excited about the merger for three main reasons. "We remain independent. Our board of directors will continue to operate with the same governance. Then they're injecting a significant amount of cash into the business, which lets us do some really awesome things. And I've gotten to know the executives out of Madrid. We have similar backgrounds and outlooks on banking — a strong respect for technology and the belief that it is core to the future of banking." The practical impact of this merger will be felt "over the next couple months as Simple hires and takes on more customers." FREE AppDownload
Techcrunch TV screenshotMorgan Stanley technology banker Michael Grimes The two investment banks that worked on the $19 billion Facebook acquisition of popular messenger app WhatsApp could make more than $80 million in advisory fees, according to preliminary estimates. Dealbook reports that M&amp;A advisory firm Freeman Consulting Services estimates that Facebook's advisor Allen &amp; Co. could make $32 to $41 million. Morgan Stanley, the bank that advised WhatsApp, could make between $35 and $45 million, according to Freeman's calculations. Morgan Stanley's co-head of global technology banking Michael Grimes—who lead Facebook's problematic initial public offering— was the banker who helped advise WhatsApp on the sale, according to Dealbook.  FREE AppDownload
APWith very few exceptions, cash is cash and it's yours to keep if you choose. This is not the case for Bitcoin, the anonymous digital currency. Because it's possible to trace how individual Bitcoins move around the network, federal agencies may be able to link them to an illegal source, such as a Silk Road transaction. If tainted coins should travel around the network and ultimately end up in your hands (even legitimately), this means the Feds can swoop in to grab your digital money. Over at BusinessWeek, Peter Coy describes how that works: This is Bitcoin’s nemo dat quod non habet problem, that being Latin for an old principle of English common law: “No one gives what he does not have.” If the drug lord didn’t legitimately own the Bitcoins in question because he got them via crime, then he can’t legitimately give them to you. You must give them up even if you’re not at fault. The same principle is at play when certain unwitting art buyers are forced to surrender works that were seized by the Nazis in World War II. Alex Daley, chief technology strategist of Casey Research, a financial research firm, says that the FBI already owns between 5% and 10% of all Bitcoins. FREE AppDownload
APOne of the insane stories of Facebook's $19 billion acquisition of WhatsApp is that the CEO of WhatsApp, Jan Koum, was on welfare a few years ago, and is now a billionaire several times over. WhatsApp itself only has 55 employees, and several of the early ones are probably worth over $100 million. The speed of wealth accumulation here is breathtaking. And tech and the internet have a lot to do with it. A few weeks ago I interviewed MIT professor Erik Brynjolfsson, who has done a lot of research on how tech is changing the economy. He explained: ...it's the fact that technologies can leverage and amplify the special talents, skill, or luck of the 1% or maybe even the 100th of 1% and replicate them across millions or billions of people. In those kinds of markets, you tend to have winner-take-all outcomes and a few people reap enormous benefits and all of us as consumers reap benefits as well, but there's a lot less need for people of just average or above-average skills. Thanks to the internet, a few folks who had the right combination of skill and luck were able to create a gigantic business that spanned the globe in just a few years. And we're seeing this replicated over and over these days in ways that would have been hard to fathom in earlier generations. This doesn't mean what's going on in tech-land is "bad", but if you think inequality is an issue that should be addressed, then it's good to understand one of the key roots.   FREE AppDownload
Curtis Fry/Flickr The people blockading Google Buses to protest soaring home prices and a general sense of inequality in San Francisco aren't dreaming. San Francisco had the largest increase in inequality from 2007–2012 of any large city, according to a new report from Brookings. Meanwhile, New York City, home of Occupy Wall Street, did not even make the top ten. Brookings When it comes to total inequality, based on the household income ratio of the 95th to the 20th percentile, San Francisco is second only to Atlanta among large cities. Brookings FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Tesla is up 8% to $209. 40. It also hit a record intra-day high of $215.21. The stock surged after hours on Wednesday after the company unveiled its 2014 deliveries forecast and beat Q4 earnings expectations. Tesla sees weekly production rates rising to 1,000 Model S vehicles from 600. It expects more than 55% vehicle delivery growth in 2014 and sees production at 7,400 vehicles in the first quarter. Before the earnings announcement was published, the stock appeared to get a nice bump on speculation that Apple would buy Tesla. On Thursday evening, Musk confirmed to Bloomberg TV's Betty Liu that he was talking with Apple but would not say if it was about an acquisition. But he did say Tesla is "very unlikely" to go on sale. Deutsche Bank's Dan Galves downgraded the stock to 'hold' from 'buy' on valuation, but raised his price target to $220 from $200. "In addition to the tight valuation, we believe the ramp in operating expenses, uncertainty around the giga-factory, uncertainty around distribution network needs to support higher volumes, and multiple competitor vehicles entering the market will make it difficult for investors to get a clear picture of the true late-decade earnings power/margin profile of the company," Galves said in a note to clients. "We’d look to get more constructive again on pullbacks or if the stock remains range-bound for an extended period." The stock is up 40% year-to-date. Here's a look at Tesla's five day chart: Google Finance FREE AppDownload
APEconomists have spent a large chunk of the winter arguing if this season's batch of crummy weather effectively torpedoed recent economic data — namely, the January jobs, retail sales, and industrial production reports. In the last few weeks, for every "under consensus" report, there's a possible weather-related explanation (either in the report itself, or made afterwards by economists). There was the NAHB housing market survey, which took its biggest dive on record, citing "unusually severe weather conditions" as part of the reason. U.S. manufacturing data also suffered the worst drop since 2009. "Extremely cold weather led to slowdowns at some oil and gas extraction facilities," the Census explained in its report. Housing starts cratered 16% month-over-month in January. Pantheon's Ian Shepherdson wrote clients that these were "horrible numbers but they have to be seen in the context of the severe weather... That said, December was snowier than usual but starts were strong, so the weather perhaps is note the only source of Jan weakness." But as we pointed out, the Northeast — an area that should have been impacted by the bad weather — actually saw a major spike in housing starts. The point is, it's really hard to say just how much impact the weather has had on these reports. Retail sales might provide a clearer picture. According to Sven Jari Stehn and David Mericle at Goldman Sachs, "Our past work suggests that unseasonably cold weather in January — measured with the deviation in population-weighted heating degree days from seasonal norms — likely acted as a significant drag on core retail sales," which fell 0.3%. But how much of a drag? Based on the historical effect of unseasonably cold weather, here's what Goldman thinks should have happened to retail sales.  Goldman SachsNotice how, theoretically, bad weather should help nonstore (online) sales, as people are confined to their couches. So did it? Nope! Nonstore retail sales fell 0.6% month-over-month in January. On top of all this, China's manufacturing conditions fell to a seven-month low and Japanese exports came in lower than expected. You would think neither of those would have much to do with American weather, but they can of course prove a drag on American markets. All of this is to say that it's really hard to know what affect lousy weather has had, and we probably won't know for some time. FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesApple is the new Microsoft, says Barclays analyst Ben Reitzes.  He downgraded the stock from "overweight" to "equalweight" (which is like going from buy to hold). He sticks with his $570 price target.  He believes the stock will be stuck in a tight trading range for the next year or so.  "Frankly, we just couldn’t quite bring ourselves to use smart watches or TVs as reasons to raise numbers – nor were we fully convinced that these products could move the needle like new categories did in the old days," says Reitzes. "As a result, we believe it is time to step aside, given a maturing smart phone market." He says he's excited as a consumer for what Apple has in store, but as an investor, he doesn't see it doing much. "We believe Apple’s story is all about iPhones and 'new categories' seem to be designed to make the iPhone more useful – but don’t necessarily re-accelerate growth in the iPhone category to sustainable double-digit levels." He delivers a final dagger, saying, "We look at a valuation analogy vs. Microsoft from 2000 to about 2010 and see no precedent that large-size tech companies simply start to broadly outperform again after a tough year or two if the law of large numbers is catching up to them and margins have peaked." Oof! Microsoft has famously been flat for over a decade. Reitzes sees the same thing happening all over again, this time with Apple.  FREE AppDownload
The Philadelphia Federal Reserve says its business outlook survey declined 15.7 points to -6.3 in February. Consensus expectations was for a reading of 8.0, down from 9.4 prior. It's the lowest reading in about a year. Factory and new orders both dipped into negative territory. The employment sub-index remained positive but fell 5.2 ponits. The future outlook sub-index improved. The Phily Fed's website is currently down.  Here's what it's been looking like recently: Econoday FREE AppDownload
Tesla Motors announced Q4 earnings yesterday, announcing it expects to 55% vehicle delivery growth in 2014. It expects to raise weekly production rates of the its Model S sedan from 600 to 1,000, news that sent the stock soaring. On a conference call following the announcement, CEO Elon Musk was asked how demand looks for Tesla's Model X, the all-electric crossover that will go into production later this year. As usual, Musk was quite confident. Despite making no marketing push to promote the car, he said, Tesla has seen huge customer interest. Comparing it to a fishing trip, he said, "It's like the fish are jumping into the boat." Later in the call, Musk was asked how he expects sales of the X to compare to the S. With the caveat that this is just an early guess, he said, demand for the SUV will likely exceed demand for the sedan. You can now reserve a Model X for $5,000 and expect to get the car sometime in 2015. Pricing hasn't been announced yet, but Musk has said it will be slightly more expensive than the Model S, which starts for $63,570, after a $7,500 federal tax credit. According to users on the Tesla Motors Club forum, about 8,000 orders for the Model X have already been placed. In Q4 2013, Tesla accelerated engineering work on the X. This year, it plans to finish developing the car, and start early work on the third generation, "affordable" electric car, which will likely be revealed at the 2015 Detroit Auto Show. FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin prices fell below $600 for just the third time since December. They now stand at about $590, according to Coindesk. Prices on MtGox, meanwhile, continue to plummet on ongoing uncertainty over the company's future. Bitcoin was last quoted at $141 on that exchange. On Wednesday, the Winklevoss twins announced a new Bitcoin price index. Prices on that platform are also below $600. Here's the Coindesk price chart, with MtGox prices separated out. The Coindesk index does not include MtGox: Coindesk FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/George WidmanThe housing recovery has been cooling recently, and while severe weather is one factor, it's not the only one. The slowdown in home construction and the decline in homebuilder confidence has been partly attributed to the cost and availability of labor. Essentially, building a house takes a lot of people with specific skills, and after the housing crash, many people who had been in the industry set out for work elsewhere. Jeff Dworkin, president of JLD Custom Homes, has been in the homebuilding business for 25 years.  He was working on a single-family, 3,500-square-foot home for a young professional couple within 15 minutes of the business center of Dallas. He had hoped to get them in by Christmas, but a mix of weather delays and labor shortages meant they ended up closing the home 30 days later than expected. The delays in this case involved concrete slab contractors and at least six other subcontractors. Over in North Carolina, Rick Judson, president of Evergreen Development Group and former NAHB chairman, also faced a labor shortage issue when we was working on two townhomes with 24 units in Charlotte. Judson had a painter finish the first townhouse, but by the time he was ready for the second one, the painter wanted a 25% pay raise because the demand in the market had driven up prices. He eventually found a new painter and gave him a 10% pay hike. Judson's project ended up being delayed by about two weeks. Since four of those units were contracted, he had to take a hit on them. He could however raise prices on the others. Shortages first start to appear Economists and builders we spoke to said they believe the labor shortages first became noticeable in spring last year, as housing demand started to pick up. And it isn't just homebuilders. It can take 20 - 25 different tradesmen to get a home built — that includes everything from concrete preparation, to framing, to electricity, and plumbing. An NAHB / Builders' Economic Council (BEC) survey in March 2013, showed that about half of respondents experienced some or serious shortages of framing crews and carpenters. The same survey showed that labor shortages caused 54% of respondents to raise home prices and pay higher wages or subcontractor bids. Forty-six percent said it made it difficult for them to finish their projects on time. Twenty-eight percent said it made some projects unprofitable, and for 9% of respondents it resulted in lost or cancelled sales. The Demand-Supply Story Homebuilding peaked at 3.4 million jobs according to Robert Denk, senior economist at NAHB. The sector shed 1.4 million jobs after the bust, and about 200,000 jobs have been added back since the recovery gained traction in 2012. "We were decimated," Judson said. After the bust many homebuilders and subcontractors out on their luck moved to other parts of the country and other sectors. And once home prices started picking up in earnest in late 2012 and early 2013, demand returned but the labor-force is taking its time. FRED"I think part of that could be that there's friction left in the homebuilding industry," Bank of America's Michelle Meyer said. "Housing construction fell to historically low levels and stuck at these low levels for several years," after the bust. "So people who had been employed in the construction industry left that industry, found jobs elsewhere. It'll take time for those workers to enter the labor market again. There's real friction I think." Meyer pointed out that we've seen a jump in construction job openings in the JOLTS series but that the JOLTS hire series is trending lower. Construction Spending And Hires Decouple CoreLogicsWhile construction spending has increased significantly since the recession, construction hires have lagged in recent years. "The striking part of Figure 1 is the unanticipated difference in construction spending and hiring trends before and after the recession," writes Thomas Vitlo at CoreLogic. "Before the Great Recession, both series stayed fairly correlated. Construction hires fell as spending declined and vice versa. However, since early 2010, the two series have diverged." "But national data show that construction labor today is less tight than it was before the bubble," Jed Kolko, chief economist at Trulia told Business Insider. "What this means is that there are still many construction workers who are out of work." Construction hires have risen just 1% on average since June 2010. Now, even as inventory remains tight and home prices and demand for housing rise, many are headed elsewhere. Dallas-based Dworkin is seeing the labor force head to South and West Texas as the energy boom has taken hold of the nation. He sees why. They make $10-15 an hour in construction in Dallas, but make $30-40 in the fields. So where do we go from here? CoreLogicVitlo thinks we're seeing construction employment revert to levels seen in th early '90s. Following the recession construction employment has averaged 5.8 million, this compares with 7.1 million prior to the recession. "The share of construction jobs averaged 5.1 percent before the recession and now is averaging 4.1 percent," writes Vitlo. "After the peak-to-trough decline, the share of construction employment has plateaued for the past 50 months." "There appears to have been a level shift in the data, suggesting that the construction industry is either going through a fundamental change or it is self-correcting to a more sustainable level of employment." "I don't think we haven't seen the peak of the problem yet; it will worsen to some degree until labor comes back into the market to supply the demand," Judson said. Dworkin says in Texas they're trying to enhance trade schools. "Let's face it, not everybody is cut out to go to college. And those who are graduating with a regular high school degree, great they took geometry, they took algebra, they took these other things," Dworkin said. "What kind of jobs can they get with high school educations, without other skills? Flipping burgers, waiting tables? We need to train our 16-, 17-, 18-year-olds to go out into the workforce and make a decent wage. And the way to do that is to get them construction skills." Dworkin took shop classes back in the '80s and said schools need to go back toward that. "Rick Judson, former NAHB chairman, made a comment 'we are the survivors'," Dworkin said. "I remember having to take shop in the '80s, and we got away from that." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Kevork DjansezianWal-Mart announced Q4 adjusted earnings of $1.60 per share this morning, a penny higher than analysts' expectations. Guidance was fairly weak, and the early read on Q2 doesn't seem too promising. Management pointed to unfavorable external factors. But we can't ignore internal issues. Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors, points to "five shocking aspects" of the report. From his note to clients:  "Wal-Mart is not one to acknowledge operating missteps," writes Sozzi. "The company went onto express confidence in positive U.S. comps for 1Q14 after underperforming its goal consistently in 2013, and beginning the quarter with weather and economic impacted negative comps." FREE AppDownload
Online mortgage company HSH.com recently estimated the salaries needed to afford a house in 25 metropolitan areas across the United States. Because, the cost of real estate varies across cities and regions — you need to be making about four times as much money in San Diego as in Cincinnati to afford a house. The map illustrates these differences. The wider the circle over a city, the more you need to make to afford a house there: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from HSH.com Here is a table of the 25 cities and the salary you need to earn to afford the median-priced house, from HSH.com's estimates:  Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from HSH.com
MarkitMarkit says U.S. manufacturing conditions unexpectedly improved to 56.7 in February. It's the best reading since May 2010. Consensus expectations was for a reading of 53.6, down a tick from 53.7 last year. Hiring improved at the fastest rate since last March. Markit's Chris Williamson commented: “While the strong PMI reading in part represents a rebound from the temporary weakness seen at the start of the year, further growth looks likely in coming months, suggesting the underlying health of the economy remains robust. In particular, February  saw the largest rise in backlogs of work seen since prior to the financial crisis, as well as a further steep fall in inventories of finished goods. Both point to ongoing growth of production and hiring in March.” Here's the full run-down: Markit The big news today was that flash China PMI came in below expectations, showing worsening contraction and tanking global markets. We've been getting some shaky U.S. data recently, so a nasty figure here could exacerbate the picture. You can catch the release when it goes live here » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Chip EastHedge fund titan Carl IcahnSome people think Facebook's $19 billion purchase of WhatsApp is insane. This morning Henry Blodget explained why he thinks they're wrong. What is maybe actually "crazy" is the scale and extent of megadeals we've seen so far in 2014.   Via Dealogic, here are some figures to consider:  So yeah, it's a big sum. But perhaps it's more a sign that the 2014 deal pipeline has only just begun to flow. FREE AppDownload
Data validation in Excel allows you to create drop-down menus right inside individual cells. You can also restrict the types of values entered into different cells. This makes spreadsheets safer to share because you can avoid errors caused by invalid data entries. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Weekly initial jobless claims fell slightly to 336,000, from 339,000 last week. That was in-line with expectations. At 2.98 million, continuing claims were also in-line with expectations. ]It's been a rough morning for markets, so we'll see Here's what it's been looking like recently: FRED FREE AppDownload
APConsumer Price Index figures for January are out. CPI climbed 0.1% in January and 1.6% year-over-year, right in line with expectations. Core consumer prices — a measure that strips out food and energy — rose 0.1% from the previous month and 1.6% year over year (again, in line with expectations). "Retail gasoline prices rose 1% in January, but that was less than normal seasonality and should be converted into a 2% decline after seasonal adjustment," Morgan Stanley's Wieseman wrote clients ahead of the report. "Continued softness in food prices should also restrain the headline CPI," he wrote. CPI continues to be under close scrutiny from market-watchers as the Federal Reserve weighs the inflation rate in the context of its forward guidance on the likely future path of short-term interest rates. FREE AppDownload
Facebook made a breathtaking move yesterday, buying messaging app WhatsApp for $19 billion. Even for Facebook, that's a staggering amount to pay for a company with estimated 2013 revenue of only $20 million. It represents almost 10% of Facebook's overall value — for a "messaging app." So in the wake of the announcement, the usual chorus of keyboard pundits took to Twitter to snicker together and pronounce Facebook and its CEO, Mark Zuckerberg, brain dead. But Facebook buying WhatsApp for $19 billion isn't a brain dead move. It's just bold. Very bold. Like other bold moves, Facebook's WhatsApp deal could end up looking brilliant. Or moronic. That's what makes it bold. If it were guaranteed to end up looking brilliant, it wouldn't be bold. It would be obvious, safe, and boring. And Facebook hasn't built a service used by one-sixth of the world's population in 10 years by being obvious, safe, and boring. I don't know how Facebook's WhatsApp deal will end up looking — and neither, it's worth noting, do any of the pundits who are pronouncing it brain dead. Based on everything I do know, though, I think the odds are that it will end up looking brilliant. Here's why: Yes, but is WhatsApp really worth $19 billion? The short answer is: No one knows. There are some financial scenarios in which WhatsApp could end up being "worth" (in a limited financial sense) a lot more than $19 billion. There are other scenarios in which it could end up being worth a lot less. The only answerable question right now is whether WhatsApp was worth $19 billion to Facebook. And I think the answer is yes. The bottom line: This is a very bold move. Like other bold moves, it might end up looking stupid, but it also might end up looking brilliant.  It's also a long-term move, a bet on what the future will look like five to 10 years from now, not next quarter. In that way, this deal is a vintage Mark Zuckerberg move. Zuckerberg continues to be one of the few CEOs (Jeff Bezos is another) who is willing to sacrifice near-term earnings and expose himself to short-term ridicule in order to make bold long-term bets. This approach has worked out great for Amazon And it has worked out great for Facebook so far.  In short, Facebook buying WhatsApp for $19 billion isn't stupid. It's just bold. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Joshua Lott(Reuters) - Facebook Inc's purchase of fast-growing mobile-messaging startup WhatsApp for $19 billion stunned the markets but analysts said the deal made strategic sense as it will solidify the social network's position as a leader in mobile. Facebook shares were down 3.1 percent before the bell on Thursday, representing a loss of about $5.4 billion in market value. At least two brokerages downgraded their recommendations on Facebook to "hold" but the overwhelming majority of analysts remain positive on the stock. Facebook is paying more than double its annual revenue for a chat program that has little revenue. The purchase price is slightly more than the market value of Sony Corp. But analysts pointed out that WhatsApp currently has over 450 million monthly users - second only to Facebook - and boasts an even higher level of engagement. "Facebook is the leading global social-sharing utility. Now, it has a significant opportunity to be the leading global communications utility," RBC Capital Markets said in a note. WhatsApp is much stronger than Facebook Messenger in Europe, Latin America, Africa and Australia and has attracted lots of young users at a time when fears have been voiced that young people are tuning out of Facebook. Analysts said the price tag for WhatsApp, founded in 2009 by former Yahoo Inc employees Jan Koum and Brian Acton, seemed reasonable from the point of view of value per user. Facebook is paying $42 per user with the deal, compared with a market value per user of $170 for Facebook and $212 for Twitter, Deutsche Bank's Ross Sandler said in a note. WhatsApp has more than 450 million monthly active users, compared with 1.2 billion for Facebook. About 70 percent WhatsApp users are active on any given day, higher than Facebook's 62 percent. Of the 44 analysts who cover Facebook, 37 have a "buy" or a "strong buy" rating on the stock, according to Thomson Reuters data. None has a "sell" rating. "Facebook continues to demonstrate savvy-ness beyond its years as it pivots its business model, footprint and strategy to mobile," Deutsche Bank analyst Ross Sandler said. Analysts have commended Facebook's ability to make money from its mobile app even as investors fret over concerns of youngsters ditching the network. With the WhatsApp deal, all eyes are now on the monetization potential of the chat program's huge number of users. "While we don't expect messaging to be a meaningful near-term or even long-term revenue driver, the real value could be the evolution of the platform to incorporate new functionality such as payments, app distribution, social features ...," Macquarie Equities Research analyst Ben Schachter said. Some analysts, however, said Facebook was paying the high price to keep WhatsApp from being snapped up by a rival. "Facebook shares would have been pressured by more than single-digit percentages in after-market trading if Google Inc had purchased WhatsApp instead," Stifel analyst Jordan Rohan said in a note. Pivotal Research's Brian Wieser, who downgraded his rating on Facebook shares to "hold" from "buy," said he expects Facebook shares to face pressure in the near-term as investors come to terms with the risk of future acquisitions. Facebook shares were trading at $65.95 in premarket trading. (Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange February 19, 2014.Dave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a roundup of what traders are chatting about ahead of the U.S. market open: Good Morning!   US futures are off small, as many contemplate the technical sell signals received yesterday – Some would point the blame at the Fed Minutes, which were more hawkish than prior (Hilsenrath “Interest-Rate Increase on Radar”), despite their focus on the collapse of Inflation – While the DXY jumped, the Fed fund Futures showed no shift from assuming the first rate increase isn’t until Sept2015.   I was watching headwinds from Chicago into Expiry, as the VIX spiked 12% - and the EEM breaking down, as the situation deteriorated in the Ukraine – The EEM is marked off another 70bp this AM as Ukraine’s CDS is bid higher as Russia delayed a $2B bailout tranche yesterday due to “technical reasons”.   Markets are weaker over in Europe, as France’s light PMI weighs on € and markets.  Germany’s DAX is off over 1% in decent volume – the worst performing EU market.   In Asia, The Stronger Yen hit Nikkei for 2.2% - and futures are not rebounding this AM - China’s PMI printed weak again, but strength in their Oil complex (Sinopec News) held the Composite near unchanged - Interesting Aussie was unchanged despite the PBoC withdrawing more liquidity overnight.   Single Stock movers include TSLA up 10%+ (earnings) – and the moves from the FB deal:  MEET +16%, BBRY up 6%, TWTR + 2%.  FB is off 3% - would have been off more if GOOG had bought “WhatsApp” many think. The 10YY is lower in the States, but rebounded from the 2.7% level sharply overnight.   Eyes on the flattening yield curve, as globally, Banks are getting hit again - Eyes will be on the US Fins today as they have been big underperformers, with some majors hitting 2+ month lows as Citi shorted 15mln shares of the XLF yesterday for one client.  Despite it’s losses against the popping Yen, the DXY is higher this AM on the € weakness – causing a headwind for commodities.   Metals are under pressure, with Silver and Copper lower on China’s weak PMI – while Gold is retracing for a 200dma test.   The Oil complex is mixed, as sharp Cushing outflows in API data are steepening the WTI curve into Expiration and DOE data today.   Brent is slightly weaker, as Iran has agreed to a timetable and framework for continued discussions, and headlines slow from unrest in Syria and South Sudan.   Nat Gas is off 2% as the CME spiked Nat Gas Margins overnight.    Scheduled catalysts today include CPI and Weekly Jobless Claims at 8:30, Preliminary PMI at 9, Philly Fed and EU Consumer Confidence at 10, Natty Storage data at 10:30, Crude Storage data at 11, along with a decent size POMO operation – at 12 watch the Brazil Auction, and the US Treasury is selling $9B in TIPs at 1. FREE AppDownload
Wal-Mart announced Q4 adjusted earnings of $1.60 per share, which was a penny higher than analysts' expectations. Revenue climbed 1.5% year-over-year to $129.7 billion, which was a hair below the $130 billion expected. U.S. comparable store sales fell 0.4% during the period. And guidance was clearly weak. Management expects to earn $1.10 to $1.20 per share in Q1, which was lower than the $1.24 expected by analysts. "We expect economic factors to continue to weigh on our outlook," said Wal-Mart CFO Charles Holley."Some of the factors affecting our consumers include reductions in government benefits, higher taxes and tighter credit. Further, we have higher group health care costs in the U.S." "These concerns, combined with investments in e-commerce, will make it difficult to achieve the goal we have of growing operating income at the same or faster rate than sales," Holley continued. "In October, we forecasted a 3 to 5 percent net sales increase for fiscal 2015. Given these factors and the ongoing headwind from currency exchange, we expect to be toward the low end of the net sales guidance." The early read on Q2 isn't great. "Comp sales were down in the first two weeks of February due to continued severe winter storms," said Walmart U.S. president Bill Simon. "At the height of the storm, we had more than 200 stores closed. We’re optimistic about the balance of the quarter and believe we will have a positive sales comp for the rest of the period." The stock is trading down modestly. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Oswaldo Rivas A masked dancer performs during the International Poetry Festival in Granada city, about 45 km (28 miles) south of Managua, February 19, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. — China flash PMI came in at 48.3, a seven-month low that missed expectations for a less severe decline of just 49.5. "February’s flash reading of the HSBC China Manufacturing PMI moderated further as new orders and production contracted, reflecting the renewed destocking activities," HSBC's Hongbin Qu commented. "The building-up of disinflationary pressures implies that the underlying momentum for manufacturing growth could be weakening." "After an above-trend fourth quarter of 2013, real GDP growth is likely slowing in early 2014, inline with a year of real GDP growth of about 7.5 percent," PNC's Bill Adams said. — Markets are selling off around the world as a result. Japan's Nikkei is off 2%. Hong Kong's Hang Seng and Germany's DAX are down 1%. "China's flash PMI shocks the market again," said Societe Generale's Wei Yao in a note to clients today. BI's Sam Ro explained how similar events led to turmoil in the emerging markets exactly a month ago. — A counter argument is already emerging though: that Chinese New Year tends to skew winter PMI readings. "Surely this flash PMI has quite big market impact and markets have already been hit today," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ting Lu. "However, our suggestion is still to downplay it due to the poor quality of this HSBC flash PMI in the year beginning. The survey period of the HSBC flash PMI was 12-18 Feb, but the first six days in February are national holidays and many SMEs, which could be the majority of the HSBC PMI sample, were not open until mid-Feb, so the quality of this flash PMI could be quite low." — Facebook bought messaging app WhatsApp for up to $19 billion. The service has 450,000 users, many of them abroad, and Andreessen Horowitz's Benedict Evans says it's possible it processes more messages than regular texting. BI's Nich Carlson reports how the deal went down. — Facebook shares fell after hours following the announcement. "The cost of delivering increased engagement is higher than we are comfortable with," Evercore said in a note cutting shares to equal weight.  — Tesla shares surged as much as 16% in after-hours trading after reporting strong earnings and revenue. It now sees weekly production rates rising to 1,000 Model S vehicles from 600, and expects more than 55% vehicle delivery growth in 2014. "Deliveries will grow dramatically in future quarters as the logistics pipeline fills," the company said. — A brief truce in Kiev was shattered as 35 were killed in ongoing clashes. EU foreign ministers were expected to meet with President Viktor Yanukovich to offer sanctions and enticements to end the conflict, but discussions were delayed over security risks. Protesters want to overthrow the government. "Russia, which has been holding back a new loan installment until it sees stability in Kiev, has condemned EU and U.S. support of the opposition demands that Yanukovich, elected in 2010, should share power and hold new elections," Reuters said. — Eurozone composite PMI disappointed at 52.7. "A dip in the eurozone PMI provides a reminder that the region<U+201F>s recovery continues to be uneven and fragile," said Markit's Chris Williamson. "The slight easing in growth is disappointing, but it<U+201F>s too early to read too much into one month<U+201F>s data, especially as the rate of growth of new orders picked up to its highest since mid-2011. Germany continues to look strong; France continues to look weak.  — Busy day today in data: at 8:30 a.m. eastern we get consumer price index and weekly jobless claims. Then just before 9 we get U.S. flash PMI. Finally at 10 a.m. we get Philly Fed and the Leading Indicators report from the Conference Board. Plus commodities pits are eagerly awaiting the EIA's weekly natural gas report as prices flirt with four-year highs. — Walmart reported this morning Q4 earnings and revenue that came in in-line with expectations. Guidance came in slightly lower, comps were weaker. Walmart shares are down 0.5% premarket on the news. HP and Groupon report earnings after the bell.  FREE AppDownload
Shares of Tesla jumped earlier this week on reports that CEO Elon Musk had met with Apple's Adrian Perica, an executive who does merger and acquisition deals for the iPhone-maker. "We had conversations with Apple," confirmed Musk to Bloomberg TV's Betty Liu on Wednesday afternoon. "I can't comment on whether those revolved around any kind of acquisition." When asked point-blank if the electric carmaker were for sale, Musk answered, "I think that's very unlikely because we need to stay super focused on achieving a compelling - creating a compelling mass market electric car. And I'd be very concerned in any kind of acquisition scenario, whoever it is, that'd be become distracted from that - from that task which has always been the - the driving goal of Tesla." "Unlikely" isn't "no," but it's also a far cry from "yes." The answer was a triumph in saying nothing. Musk clearly knows how to talk like a CEO. Liu followed up by asking Musk how he'd respond if Apple asked told him they wanted to get into the car business. "I'd probably tell them that I think it's a great idea," said Musk. The interview was conducted shortly after Tesla announced earnings and guidance that exceeded expectations. The stock is up more than 10% today. Here's an excerpt from the interview transcript courtesy of Bloomberg TV: LIU: Elon, yesterday your shareholders got a little bit richer on these reports that you had met with the acquisition team at Apple. Is there any truth to a possible partnership, merger with Apple? MUSK: Well of course it's - if - if - if one or more companies had approached us last year about such things, there's no way we could really comment on that. LIU: Well did you have a conversation with Apple? MUSK: We had conversations with Apple. I can't comment on whether those revolved around any kind of acquisition. LIU: Are you for sale? If there was a right price, are you for sale? MUSK: I think that's very unlikely because we need to stay super focused on achieving a compelling - creating a compelling mass market electric car. And I'd be very concerned in any kind of acquisition scenario, whoever it is, that'd be become distracted from that - from that task which has always been the - the driving goal of Tesla. LIU: But you say it's very unlikely, but I'm not hearing, Elon - sometimes when I - the years that I've known you, if something is not going to happen you say no. But I'm not hearing that. I'm hearing that there is a door open here perhaps at some point. MUSK: Well if there was a scenario where it seemed like it would be more likely that we would be able to create the mass market sort of affordable, compelling electric car, then - then possibly it would make sense to entertain those discussions. But I - I don't currently see any scenario that would improve that probability. So that's why I think it's very unlikely. LIU: If anything, Elon, if Apple were to come to you and say, you know what? We want to get in the car business. We actually want to perhaps start making cars. What would you tell them, given your own experience? MUSK: What would I tell Apple if they said they wanted to make cars? LIU: Yeah. MUSK: I'd probably tell them that I think it's a great idea. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shamil ZhumatovRussian fans watch a broadcast of the men's ice hockey quarter-final match between Russia and Finland in the Olympic Park during the 2014 Winter Olympic Games in Sochi February 19, 2014. Russia were eliminated from the men's ice hockey competition at the Sochi Games on Wednesday following a 3-1 quarter-final loss to Finland. Kudos, Russia. There is no question that spectacular athletic feats are taking place every day this week on Sochi’s ski runs, half-pipes and ice rinks. Look beyond the glory of hosting the Olympic games, however, and the Russian economy does not similarly inspire. Indeed, it is facing stagnant economic growth, high inflation, a rapidly deteriorating current account surplus and an embattled currency. It’s the kind of performance that won’t get you anywhere near the medal podium, with no sign of improvement on the horizon at least until the second half of this year. The rouble has been hit particularly hard in the emerging market selloff that began on Jan. 22 with news of weaker-than-expected manufacturing growth in China. Russia’s currency weakened some 6.9 percent against the dollar in January, more than that of any other emerging market except the Hungarian forint. Credit Suisse Why so down on the rouble? Because Russia’s current account surplus fell from $72 billion in 2012 to $33 billion last year, while net capital outflows jumped to $63 billion from $55 billion. Meanwhile, the economy grew by 1.3 percent, down from 3.4 percent in 2012. Earlier this month, Credit Suisse dropped its estimate for 2014 GDP growth from 2.3 percent to 1.6 percent – far below the Russian government’s rosy 2.5 percent projection. Manufacturing activity contracted for the sixth time in the last seven months in January, and the decline was the largest since 2009. Don’t count on the Olympics to set the pendulum swinging in the other direction, either, Credit Suisse Russia economists Sergei Voloboev and Alexey Pogorelov say in a report released this week. Moody’s, the credit rating agency, agrees, saying in a report published earlier this month that the Winter Games won’t provide the country with a noticeable macroeconomic boost from this point forth. “Most of the effects from (the) construction have already been felt and were mainly realized at the regional level,” the agency said. In addition to lackluster economic growth, high inflation is hitting Russians in the pocketbook. Prices rose 6.1 percent year-over-year in January, and that eye-watering number was actually a marked drop from December’s 6.5 percent. Real wages grew only 1.9 percent year-over-year in December, compared to an average of 5.5 percent over the course of the year. Voloboev and Pogorelov say slower wage growth is likely to depress domestic demand for at least the next five months. But the pressure on the Russian currency means that the downward trend in inflation will likely reverse itself in short order. Voloboev and Pogorelov cautioned investors that the impact of a weaker rouble has only just begun to show up in the economic data. As of the week of Feb. 10, Credit Suisse estimated that annual inflation ticked up to 6.2 percent from 6.1 percent. But currency depreciation effects won’t start juicing monthly inflation numbers until March, and the analysts expect annual inflation to peak at 6.4 to 6.5 percent in April. Russia’s particular economic problems create a headache for its central bankers. At the end of last year, it was widely assumed that the Central Bank of Russia might cut interest rates to help kickstart the economy. But with the currency under pressure, the capital account deteriorating, and prices soaring, that option now appears to be off the table. In fact, monetary policy is likely to get tighter before it gets easier. At its monthly meeting Friday, the central bank decided to leave rates unchanged, but officials told investors they are ready to raise interest rates if inflation appears unlikely to move toward the central bank’s target rate of 5 percent. It all may seem rather bleak, but Credit Suisse’s forecast suggests this story could have a somewhat happy ending. According to the analysts’ projections, the rouble will keep getting weaker through the first half of this year, bottoming out in May or June.  But eventually, depreciation will tilt domestic consumption toward local manufacturers’ goods and away from imports. Reduced imports should slow the deterioration in the country’s current account surplus in the second half of the year, while an expected rebound in global growth momentum in the middle of the year should help increase demand for Russian exports. Wage growth should also start to trend higher in the second half of the year. Of course, none of these improvements will solve Russia’s primary challenges in their own right. The economy lives and dies by its oil and gas production, and both the country’s politics and its legal frameworks have kept many foreign investors on the sidelines. Still, even in the absence of major structural changes, there’s at least a chance this year will end on a happier note than it began. FREE AppDownload
CMEE-mini S&P 500 Futures Today's global market sell-off really got started once China's ugly HSBC flash manufacturing PMI report crossed the wires. Falling to a seven-month low of 48.3 in February, the PMI index suggested that the world's second largest economy was decelerating more than expected. It's worth noting that this narrative is almost identical to one we heard exactly one month ago. "China's flash PMI shocks the market again," said Societe Generale's Wei Yao in a note to clients today. Wikimedia CommonsYogi BerraExactly one month ago, we learned that the China's January flash manufacturing PMI fell to a worse-than-expected 49.6. That was followed by a rout in the global markets. And in the following days and weeks, emerging market currencies tanked, arguably on fears that a big trading partner (i.e. China) would need less stuff. "Déjà vu" is French for "already seen." Yogi Berra took the phrase a step further by coining the redundant "Déjà vu all over again." It's obviously too early to tell if we see panic in emerging market currencies again and we experience full-blown "déjà vu all over again."  But we'll see. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerChina's HSBC flash (preliminary) manufacturing purchasing managers' index (PMI) fell to a seven-month low of 48.3 in February. This was significantly worse than the 49.5 reading expected by economists. Any reading below 50 signals contraction in China's manufacturing sector. Markets around the world started selling after the report came out. However, economists agree that we shouldn't jump to any conclusions based on this one report. "Surely this flash PMI has quite big market impact and markets have already been hit today," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Ting Lu. "However, our suggestion is still to downplay it due to the poor quality of this HSBC flash PMI in the year beginning. The survey period of the HSBC flash PMI was 12-18 Feb, but the first six days in February are national holidays and many SMEs, which could be the majority of the HSBC PMI sample, were not open until mid-Feb, so the quality of this flash PMI could be quite low." "Also note that PMI data are heavily seasonally adjusted, but the seasonal adjustment is quite inaccurate due to the different timing of Chinese New Year holidays and short record (since year 2005)," added Lu. "Actually the HSBC PMI did a poor job in predicting turning points of the Chinese economy in the past two years." The HSBC's PMI is computed using monthly replies to questionnaires sent to purchasing executives. "The sample period is very short, covering only seven days (12-18 February) according to the index's compiler, Markit, with a response rate of approximately 85%-90% our of a total sample of about 420 manufacturers," said Barclays' Jian Chang and Jerry Peng, who also acknowledged many of Lu's criticisms. Unfortunately, market participants already appear to be trading on the news. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrea ComasIt's red across the board in Europe following some disappointing manufacturing data. Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.4%. France's CAC 40 is down 0.5%. Germany's DAX is down 1.2%. Spain's IBEX is down 0.8%. Italy's FTSE MIB is down 1.0%. The culprit for today's sell-off seems to be China where new numbers suggest the world's second largest economy is decelerating more dramatically than expected. China's flash manufacturing PMI slipped to a seven-month low of 48.3 in February, which was significantly worse than the 49.5 expected by economists. Japan's Nikkei closed down 2.1%. Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 1.1%. US futures are in the red. "February’s flash reading of the HSBC China Manufacturing PMI moderated further as new orders and production contracted, reflecting the renewed destocking activities," said HSBC's Hongbin Qu. "The building-up of disinflationary pressures implies that the underlying momentum for manufacturing growth could be weakening. We believe Beijing policy makers should and can fine-tune policy to keep growth at a steady pace in the coming year." And it wasn't just China. Flash PMI numbers out of the eurozone also missed expectations as strength in Germany was largely offset by weakness in France. FREE AppDownload
MarkitToday's flash PMI reports out of Europe reflect an economy that continues to grow. However, the numbers fell short of expectations. Eurozone composite output PMI slipped to a 2-month low of 52.7. Economists were expecting a reading of 53.1. The manufacturing sub-index fell to a 2-month low of 53.0 (54.0 estimated) and the services sub-index climbed to just 51.7 (51.9 estimated). Any reading above 50 signals expansion. But it's clear that the bar may have been set too high by the markets. “A dip in the eurozone PMI provides a reminder that the region<U+201F>s recovery continues to be uneven and fragile," said Markit's Chris Williamson. "The slight easing in growth is disappointing, but it<U+201F>s too early to read too much into one month<U+201F>s data, especially as the rate of growth of new orders picked up to its highest since mid-2011. Looking at the latest two months as a whole, the PMI suggests the region is on course to see GDP expand by up to 0.5% in the first quarter, which would be the strongest growth for three years." The eurozone composite number incorporates the data from France PMI and Germany PMI. FREE AppDownload
MarkitThe Germany economy is accelerated in February, according to Markit's Flash PMI report. The composite output index hit a 32-month high of 56.1. Any reading above 50 signals expansion. The manufacturing sub-index  slipped to a 2-month low of 54.7. Economists were looking for 56.3. The services sub-index jumped to a 3-month high of 55.4, which was better than the 53.4 expected. From Markit's Oliver Kolodseike: “The economic upturn in Germany’s private sector gathered further momentum in February, with business activity rising at the quickest pace in 32 months. Survey data for 2014 dovetails nicely with the expectations of government statisticians, who recently raised their growth forecast for the German economy to 1.8%. “Encouragingly, the service sector moved up a gear, with output and new orders rising at sharper rates than seen in previous months, adding signs to a broad- based and healthy economic upturn. While manufacturing lost some of its recent momentum, production growth in the sector remained sharp and inflows of new work continued to increase at a robust pace, which was partly attributed to relatively mild weather in February. “The recovery in the eurozone’s largest economy is looking more and more sustainable, underpinned by the strongest rate of job creation in just over two years.” FREE AppDownload
MarkitFrance's Flash PMI fell to a 2-month low of 47.6 in February, which suggest private sector activity is contracting further. Regarding the sub-indexes: “French private sector firms reported a slightly sharper decline in output during February, largely reflecting weakness on the services side," said Markit economist Jack Kennedy. But the details of the report weren't all bad. "However, the data did reveal some positive developments, namely a return to growth of manufacturing production and another marginal rise in new export orders.    Moreover, service providers’ confidence rose to a 23-month high, with a number of panellists indicating that they had been innovating on new products which are now close to market, resulting in a more bullish outlook for the sector.” FREE AppDownload
