Thomson ReutersMark Karpeles, chief executive of Mt. Gox, attends a news conference at the Tokyo District Court in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - In June 2011, when customers of now-bankrupt bitcoin exchange Mt. Gox agitated for proof that the Tokyo-based firm was still solvent after a hacking attack, CEO Mark Karpeles turned to the comedy science fiction novel "The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy". During an online chat, Karpeles moved the equivalent of $170 million in bitcoin at today's market rates - the virtual equivalent of a bank manager flashing a wad of cash in a wallet to establish credit. The gesture - with a sly wink to the "geek" culture Karpeles believed he shared with many of his 50,000 customers at the time, including an interest in coding, Japanese manga comics and science fiction - succeeded. By moving 424,242 bitcoins, Karpeles, then 26, evoked the random number, 42, described as the "meaning of life" in Douglas Adams' sci-fi novel. "Don't come after me claiming we have no coins," Karpeles said, according to a transcript of that online discussion. "42 is the answer." As the price of bitcoin soared from a few dollars to above $1,000, Mt. Gox grew to become the world's largest exchange for the digital currency, handling flows worth $3 billion in 2013, by the company's own reckoning. But even as Mt. Gox boomed, French-born Karpeles seemed both keen to maintain total control of key operations and indifferent to commercial success, according to former staff and associates who spoke to Reuters, but asked not to be named because of ongoing investigations into the exchange's collapse. Creditors who want to know how Mt. Gox at one point lost some $500 million worth of bitcoin and another $27 million in cash from its bank accounts, are seeking answers from Karpeles, who has spent recent days huddled in meetings with lawyers in Tokyo. Mt. Gox and its lawyers declined repeated requests for comment for this article. Lawyers for Karpeles told a U.S. judge last week that he was "not willing" to travel to the United States - as ordered by the judge to answer questions in a bankruptcy court - until his attorneys can "get up to speed" on a new subpoena from the U.S. Treasury Department. Karpeles doesn't want to go to the U.S. as he fears he could be arrested by authorities there, a person familiar with his thinking said. "Regardless of whether it was a massive fraud or whether he was just grossly negligent, at the end of the day he's at fault," said Steven Woodrow, a lawyer representing a U.S. class action against Karpeles brought by Mt. Gox creditors. Mt. Gox's bid to resuscitate its business was dismissed by a Tokyo court on Wednesday, and the court-appointed administrator said that meant the firm was likely to be liquidated. He added that Karpeles was likely to be investigated for liability in the exchange's collapse. In its bankruptcy filing, Mt. Gox said 750,000 customer bitcoins and another 100,000 belonging to the exchange were stolen due to a software security flaw. Karpeles has told others he has been hurt by accusations he masterminded the theft, and wants to return the bitcoins and cash to some 127,000 creditors. Karpeles, who has said he is reluctant to appear in public because of safety concerns, relieves stress by driving around Tokyo at night in a Honda Civic he bought as a company car at Mt. Gox, people close to him said. He lives alone with his cat, Tibane, whose exploits he used to chronicle on now-deleted Flickr and YouTube accounts. The cat's name, chosen by Karpeles' late grandmother, inspired the name of his first company, Tibanne, which he set up in October 2009 in Japan. His employer at the time, software platform distributor Nexway, had transferred him to the country earlier that year. Born in Chenove, in the Burgundy region of France, Karpeles wrote his first computer program aged 10. He wrote on his blog that he "never really felt at home in France," and has not been back since moving to Japan five years ago. Shy and fearful of confrontation, the self-proclaimed "geek" felt comfortable in Japan, where he could also indulge his love of manga, video games and cosplay - a combination of "costume" and "play", where people dress as characters from Japanese anime, graphic manga novels and video games. Karpeles found solace in online communities, where he was known as "The Magical Tux", a reference to the penguin mascot of open-source operating system Linux. His escapism into virtual worlds was accompanied by what some former associates describe as a lack of interest in how running afoul of law and regulation could threaten his business and reputation. According to blog posts Karpeles wrote in 2006, he was arrested twice in France before he was 21 for computer fraud-related charges. One resulted in a 3-month suspended sentence. French authorities in Tokyo said they had seen confirmation of one prior conviction, but did not have details. In Japan, Karpeles was sued by a customer in 2012 who claimed he had paid 15,000 euros ($20,700) for a website to be developed that was never built. Tokyo District Court ruled last May that Karpeles had to return the money. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security seized $5.5 million in Mt. Gox bank accounts in 2013, saying the exchange had been late to register as a money transmitter. Karpeles became interested in bitcoin when a customer of his web-hosting services wanted to pay in the digital currency. Unlike other early fans of bitcoin, Karpeles had no particular interest in the libertarian philosophy that drove many early bitcoin adopters. Instead, he told Reuters in a 2013 interview, he was interested in the technology as a "nice experiment". He met the founder of Mt. Gox, U.S. entrepreneur Jed McCaleb, on IRC, an online chat platform. McCaleb, nervous about regulatory scrutiny on bitcoin, wanted rid of the exchange and sold it to Karpeles in March 2011 for no upfront fee, people with knowledge of the deal said. Karpeles told others he had later paid McCaleb a small fee, calling it "a very good deal". McCaleb could not be reached for comment. Mt. Gox's user base mushroomed from 3,000 to 50,000 within three months as bitcoin gained traction. Unable to keep up with customer support queries, Karpeles hired his first five employees in June of that year, shortly after the company said in public announcements that it believed one or more hackers broke into the exchange's database and drove the price of bitcoin down to zero. Dazed by that security breach, a former employer said, Karpeles retreated to build a more secure trading platform but left the exchange offline, with thousands of emails from bewildered users unanswered until a group of bitcoin enthusiasts volunteered to come in to help. One was Roger Ver, who says he was stunned when Karpeles proposed they resume work on Monday rather than work through the weekend to solve the crisis. "He wasn't ever focused on Mt. Gox like he should have been," said Ver. As the exchange's business grew, Karpeles hired more staff to work in programming, customer support and user verification, eventually taking space in a central Tokyo office with 30 employees, with another dozen contractors overseas. Karpeles wanted to be liked, three former employees say. He bought lunch for the entire staff and spent thousands of dollars on gadgets and equipment to make the office more "fun" - exercise balls for chairs, beer steins and robots. Late last year, in the middle of increasingly strained times for Mt. Gox, he spent an afternoon putting up a hammock in the recreation room. But staff found it galling that the boss was buying these goodies even while he refused to give pay raises. They also became frustrated as they waited for Karpeles to authorise decisions or make progress on simple tasks. Developers, stuck without direct access to the Mt. Gox source code, resorted to playing video games, people inside the company at the time say. Employees were also concerned that Karpeles' tight grip on all company affairs was causing a bottleneck: he was the only person who could access the exchange's bank accounts and bitcoin holdings and resolve requests by traders to cash out. Former employees say they asked Karpeles to share the passwords to Mt. Gox's bitcoin wallets in case he became incapacitated or unable to access the data. He refused, leaving him as the only person able to piece together the passwords, written on paper stored at his home, the office, and an undisclosed location. Karpeles' secrecy extended to the company accounts, which he refused to show to prospective investors who came to the company with proposals, according to former employees. Mandalah, a Tokyo PR firm that worked for Mt. Gox, was also frustrated by Karpeles' lack of interest in outreach and business growth, according to people with knowledge of the matter. Mandalah declined to comment. As other competing exchanges developed more sophisticated trading systems, Karpeles diverted his attention from the exchange to buy an unrelated software company called 3D Shade and began to work on launching a 'Bitcoin Cafe' - which would accept the digital currency as payment - on the ground floor of the office, according to records and former staff. Karpeles was planning to serve quiche and apple pies he'd made himself in the cafe, which would also showcase a point-of-sales system he had spent hours tinkering with, a former employee said. The cafe never opened. (Editing by Kevin Krolicki and Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoWorkers load a container onto a truck at a port in Tokyo April 18, 2013.The Japanese trade deficit widened to 1.45 trillion yen about $14.1 billion in March, according to latest report from the Ministry of Finance. The number was wider than expectations for 1.08 trillion yen. This  came on the back of an 18.1% year-over-year rise in imports, which were above expectations for a 16.2% rise. Meanwhile, imports were up a modest 1.8%, below expectations for a 6.5% rise. Demand for foreign goods climbed ahead of the April 1 sales-tax rise. This along with higher energy costs pushed the deficit to the highest on record for March, according to Bloomberg. Japanese policymakers have been pushing easy monetary and fiscal policies (also known as Abenomics) to boost economic growth. This has caused the yen to weaken which also helps makes imports more expensive. The Nikkei is up 0.8% on Monday. Many markets are closed for Easter.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsMartha's VineyardWhen you have kids, you don’t want to give up everything, including vacations. Most parents find that taking children traveling can be exhausting and frustrating, regardless of careful planning and the best intentions. Parents want their kids to have fun, but they want to have a good time as well, and sometimes that can be really difficult. The best way to ensure that your children have a good chance of being happy — and therefore, that you can have a good time, too — is to choose a resort or location that caters to kids in addition to adults, or that the kids will benefit from, at least. There are many child-friendly vacation spots, some of which include special activities and even daycare.  But sometimes, the most popular vacation ideas are not the best fit. Here are five ideas that will hopefully help you think outside the box when planning for your family’s vacation. If you are hoping to vacation in the United States, there are many hotels that are kid-friendly. According to Travel + Leisure, Florida’s Ponte Vedra Inn &amp; Club is the perfect choice. Readers voted the hotel the best family hotel in America; activities include lawn games, crafts, tennis, golf, and horseback riding. While most people would consider Florida an ideal vacation spot, some of the places on the list might surprise you. Coming in at No. 3 is Vermont’s Stowe Mountain Lodge, which has many kid-friendly options and was recently voted the top golf resort in the northern United States. The Tides Inn in Virginia also made the list. Certain businesses cater to families, like Beaches resorts. The company features vacation packages for families and even specifically narrows it down to toddlers, kids, tweens, and teens if you ask. The all-inclusive Caribbean vacations include certified nannies, and programs for five different age levels are available (infants through age 12). Beaches resorts also have activities for older children, like sailing, snorkeling, scuba diving, volleyball, sand soccer, and more. Romantic options are included so that parents can enjoy time together while their kids are being taken care of. ClubMed is another company that offers kid-friendly resorts, and there are several others, as well. Many of these vacations can be very expensive, so it helps to save early and carefully. When some people plan for a vacation, they go for big-name locales like Disney World. However, there are many ideal types of family vacations that are not what most people would first think of for a vacation. Martha’s Vineyard is an excellent example. Many families who live near Massachusetts have been vacationing there for generations, but it is also an ideal spot for visitors from all over. There are several dining choices, as well as cute boutiques and art galleries. The lodging options are endless, allowing families to spend as little or as much as they desire (within reason). The island, of course, features many family friendly activities, including canoeing, biking, and golf. If your family enjoys sightseeing or specifically enjoys unique architecture, Martha’s Vineyard could be a great choice. The island includes many cottages and even some pink homes. Consider taking a family hobby and turning it into a vacation. If you all love hiking, think about driving through several different states to hike. If you enjoy boating, consider a weeklong boat ride. Perhaps your family is full of baseball fans, in which case you could try to see games at several different stadiums during your vacation. Your options are really endless, and if you are doing something that all of your family loves, your vacation will have a better chance of making everyone happy. Although visiting someplace new can be fun, so can putting away all of your phones and tablets and other electronic devices, and just spending time with your kids. If you have the vacation time but you can’t afford to travel, stay home. Take the time to bring your kids to their favorite restaurants, see a game, or camp out in the backyard. You will avoid the cost and stress of traveling but be able to spend quality time with your family. You will have more time to cook, visit, and even read books, as well as play with your children. One fun idea is to let each person in your family designate a specific day for their favorite activity. If your youngest child likes games, Monday can be game day. Tuesday can be zoo day, Wednesday can be park day, and so on. At the end of your vacation, your kids will feel closer to you, and they will see that you are prioritizing their interests, even if you never leave your city. While you could spend thousands of dollars on a dream vacation to Costa Rica — and there would be nothing wrong with that — you have other options, too. Some families decide to use their time to volunteer, which allows them to make a difference and grow closer as a result. Volunteer family vacations are available in different countries across the world. Cross-Cultural Solutions is one organization that offers volunteers the chance to address a specific need in another country, but volunteers are given free time to explore and learn about the community and area, as well. Outreach360 is another group that encourages family volunteering. The organization works to help orphaned children and kids who are facing poverty. Volunteers help provide educational help to children at the different learning centers. There are several other organizations that promote family volunteering, and most of them prioritize the health and well-being of their volunteers, so you don’t need to worry about clean water or food to eat. Although a family volunteer vacation would probably be less luxurious than some of the other vacations mentioned, it could just be the right fit for your family. Whatever you choose, if you plan carefully and choose something family friendly, you will be off to a good start. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/incase.Ah, millennials. In some circles, we’re known as the generation that wants a trophy just for showing up. The youngsters who expect work without reward. The narcissists who want to move back in with mom and dad because we’re just too lazy and expectant to actually find a job. The brats who are so hopelessly dependent on gadgets that we eschew real human interaction. But look beyond the stereotypes, with the eyes of a marketing genius, and you’ll see a generation that wants so much more: specifically, a $5,000 traveling martini satchel from Tumi and a nice camouflage Prada backpack. Or at least, that’s what banks and trendwatchers expect will become the hot new consumer phenomenon, according to Bloomberg BusinessWeek. HSBC is forecasting that the new lucrative target demographic for consumer products will be Young Urban Males – or Yummies as HSBC calls them. Not surprisingly, given their awkward label, Yummies seem a bit insecure. Young dandies want to flash blue-chip brands as soon as they can afford them, while older consumers closer to the top of the socioeconomic pyramid don’t have as much to prove. The silver-backed master of the universe is secure in his Speedo swimsuit and skin-tight driving gloves; he doesn’t need a camouflage backpack from Prada ($980) to make his mark on the world. This future luxury spending spree by millennial men would come as quite the surprise, given existing stereotypes. Where are millennials – any millennials – getting all this money? We’re the generation that moved back home after college rather than making our way in the world. It may appear silly to talk about an economic “menaissance” right now, especially among the young. The economic prospects of millennials are basically a shambles as it is, and the Great Recession hit male-dominated industries the hardest. How are we supposed to afford Prada when we can’t even afford our own bachelor pads? Indeed, far from having a surfeit of disposable income even on a par with previous generations, recent research from the Urban Institute indicates that Americans between 29-37 have substantially less accumulated wealth than people in that age group did a generation ago. Meanwhile, those in older age groups have done very well in wealth accumulation compared to their peers from previous generations. That means more speedos and skin-tight driving gloves for the silverbacks, but not nearly as many camouflage Prada backpacks for the with-it and hip. But surely, one might say, it’s not the average millennial man who would be in the market for a traveling martini satchel that costs five large, or a dashing new Michael Kors suit. Instead, it would be the young elites from the wealthier sectors of the economy, like tech and finance. But even in these lucrative sectors that are a traditional source of wealth for the stereotypical Yummy, it’s like the song says: things just ain’t the way they used to be. On Wall Street, as in just about every other sector of the American economy, the number of jobs available is in significant decline. According to Business Insider, in 2012 the heart of the American financial sector had 25,600 fewer jobs available than it did before the Great Recession began; just as bad, the jobs that still exist aren’t paying quite as well as they used to. Average pay on Wall Street has declined, both in response to lower profits and the new regulatory frameworks imposed by Dodd-Frank. And given the fact that the payscale for top-level executives is growing (once again, this round goes to the silverbacks), it’s clear that the salary givebacks are occurring at the entry-level spots on the wage scale that would traditionally be occupied by the aspirational Yummies HSBC has sought to describe. The high-tech sector isn’t in any better shape: according to the Ewing Marion Kauffman foundation, business dynamism in tech is declining, and job creation has been especially hard hit since the Great Recession. The bottom line is, the tech and finance sectors are urban and male-dominated, with starting salaries that far exceed the average. These are the types of jobs that would allow a Yummy trend to take off and flourish. And yet, these key industries aren’t expanding in a way that would set the cornerstone of a new consumer demographic. Instead, they’re actively shrinking: there are fewer jobs available, and what jobs are available for an aspirational Yummy pay less than they used to. But what about all the money that millennials are saving by not starting families? Surely this lifestyle choice is freeing up capital to purchase more consumer goods, right? The HSBC forecast is definitely correct that millennials are getting hitched later than their predecessors: marriage rates among Americans age 18-29 have been on a downward trend since the 1960s, and have fallen to 20% according to the latest census data. But social evolution isn’t the only factor affecting these choices: a Pew survey concludes that one in five people age 18-34 say that economic conditions have led them to postpone marriage, and nearly half say they’ve taken a job just to be able to pay the bills. So sure—millennials are delaying marriage, but that doesn’t mean they’re taking that “extra income” and spending it on a traveling martini satchel. It’s not just that the millennial generation’s income prospects aren’t as stable as that of our predecessors – it’s also that getting started on life as an adult has become so much more expensive. Recent college graduates have an unemployment rate that nearly doubles the national average; but even worse, most are starting in a hole. According to the Project on Student Debt, two-thirds of all 2011 college graduates have student loan debt that averages $27,500 when adjusted for inflation. For people with postgraduate degrees, this already harsh figure can be even more stark. “It feels like my generation goes to school and goes into a crazy amount of debt just to work a minimum wage job,” says Irina, 21, a recent graduate of a private design school in Los Angeles. “These days, it feels like our higher education is more of a lottery ticket.” Even those on the older edge of the millennial generation who have established careers are still feeling the pinch. Laura, 30, and her fiancé both work as corporate lawyers on the East Coast. When they started dating, they had about $250,000 in combined school debt. “We have paid over $200,000 over the last couple years and lived on less than half our after tax pay,” she says. “Plus I was supporting some family members for a while. The economy hits and family in need only see the paycheck, not the debt. And it's hard to say no. I'm precarious, but not hungry.” It’s not that the college fund is going to driving moccasins; rather, there just wasn’t a college fund to begin with. Take the case of Andrew, a 26-year-old medical student in Chicago, who will graduate with a quarter million in debt. He says he won’t be able to get married until at least 30, but that’s not all. “Children will probably not come until much later since I want to be in a position to not only care for them while they are growing, but to start saving for their educational future,” he says. Starting a family is a dream at this point for Laura as well. “There is no way we could both continue to work as corporate lawyers and start a family, even with a house. But with our debt we could not change jobs either,” she says. HSBC suggests that any man with a few hundred a month to spare can afford to lease a Lexus. Given the economic conditions of millennials, however, those men may be few and far between. But even if we had that sort of disposable income, is that how we would really spend it? As a generation, millennials are eschewing car culture in favor of walking, biking, and collaborative consumption services like ZipCar – and when we do choose to invest in cars, we invest in environmentally sustainable models. We forgo having our own physical DVD collections and watch what we care to on Hulu and Netflix. And as a generation, we are forgoing the white picket fence in the surburbs that has always been the hallmark of the American dream, and choosing a new urbanism that seeks to connect us more deeply to our built environment. There are many possible reasons behind this new ethic: a lack of economic confidence might make us less focused on owning property, and certainly the rise of technology in the social sharing movement plays a role. But ultimately, we value integration more than accumulation, and make our investments in lifestyle rather than proving a point with flashy luxury brands. Most millennials will never be able to afford a Coach tote. But even if we could, we also know it’s not the key to happiness, and it’s not what we tend to aspire to. As Laura says, “I feel a bit more secure now that I have enough resume to land on my feet if this market dries up, and I've paid down enough debt to start looking at less lucrative but more rewarding practice areas.” Less lucrative, but more rewarding. Now that sounds yummy. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Lucas JacksonMichael Lewis is only getting madder as he promotes Flash Boys, an investigation into high frequency trading and what he calls the "rigged" underbelly of Wall Street. He has been on every talk show and financial news panel in the land, arguing with, among others, Bill O'Brien, the president of the Bats Global Markets stock exchange, about whether or not he and his cohorts are ripping off their customers. If the 53-year-old started off angry, opposition to the book has sharpened his stance into a moral crusade. "I find this story really upsetting," he says over lunch in LA, where his publicity tour just ended. "The idea that the smartest, richest elites of society find this an acceptable activity. This predatory activity." If it's emotional for Lewis, then the responses have been emotional too, given how unequivocal his accusations are. The cornerstone of Flash Boys, which sold a staggering 130,000 copies in the US in its first week of publication, is a discovery made by an obscure Canadian banker, Brad Katsuyama, who noticed that whenever he tried to execute a trade, the stock price moved before the order went through. A long and tortured investigation revealed that the variable speeds at which trading information travels down fibre-optic cables to the exchanges was being exploited by brokers and high-frequency traders – so-called for the volume of trades they make – to jump the queue, buy the stocks in question and sell them back at a higher price to the person who expressed the original interest. "Someone out there was using the fact that stock market orders arrived at different times at different exchanges to front-run [orders]," writes Lewis. It was a side-effect of automated trading and a tough thing for bankers to wrap their heads around, let alone laypeople. In plain English, as a colleague of Katsuyama's put it: "My role was to walk around and say to clients, 'Don't you understand you're being f-----?'" Lewis looks and sounds a lot like the people he is writing about. He is slick, well manicured and fluent in the language of finance – about as far from the Occupy movement as you can get, and much more dangerous to Wall Street, given that he actually knows what he is talking about. Since the book came out, the FBI, the US department of justice and the New York attorney general's office have all launched investigations into high-frequency trading practices, and Goldman Sachs has discussed the possibility of shutting down its "dark pool" – the anonymous trading venue that, argues Lewis, gives high-frequency traders their unfair advantage. "I thought it would create a s---storm," he says. "Then I thought, it's too complicated and I've got a nice Canadian guy as my main character – I'm not sure how much of a s---storm this is going to create, because I don't know if even my mother is going to pick it up. But the noise level has been so great." Not all of it has been positive. Prominent in reviews of the book has been the critique that Lewis has created a false set of heroes and – particularly from financial journalists – that none of this stuff is new in the first place. "And that's a ton of horses---, because I've watched Katsuyama educate the world. It's his story. His knowledge starts in '08. And if you knew this already, why didn't you do something about it?" Lewis has also been accused of wringing fake drama from a story wherein the victims, when it comes down to it, are billionaire hedge fund managers, not the so-called little guys. "Little people – their money is largely managed by big institutions: mutual funds, pension funds, endowments, insurance companies – that's where their money is. It's true that this is a weird place where the interests of mom and pop happen to be the same as the interests of a billionaire hedge fund manager. But that doesn't reduce the level of interest of mom and pop." To outsiders, Lewis's banking expertise looks pretty solid, which is as much a function of how little most of us know about that world as it is of Lewis's verisimilitude. As he himself points out, he really didn't work in the banking sector for long, starting a career in his mid-20s as a bond salesman at Salomon Brothers and getting out at the age of 27 to become a writer. Still, for those short years, which he mostly spent at the Salomon offices in London, he was very successful, riding the 1980s boom and gathering material for his hugely enjoyable memoir about the period, Liar's Poker. The common strand in Lewis's work is his combination of systems analysis with great human interest. Moneyball, which was made into the 2011 movie starring Brad Pitt, told the history of baseball through one man's effort to redefine notions of value in the sport's talent pool. The Blind Side, his book about American football, was made into a blockbuster that earned Sandra Bullock an Oscar. Hollywood pitched it as a heart-warming tale of an unusual family, whereas the actual book contains pages and pages of football analysis, centred around the geeky proposition that quarterbacks are "only as good as the system they played in". The Big Short put human faces on the bankers who profited from the housing collapse. It was while he was still at Salomon that Lewis realised he had a set of skills that, if he wanted to become a writer, would give him an advantage in that particular marketplace: understanding of a world that most writers had no contact with. After an art history degree at Princeton, he studied for a master's in economics at the London School of Economics under the former governor of the Bank of England Mervyn King. ("He was fabulous. A lot of the professors I had were crusty old English guys with hair coming out of their ears. They weren't worldly. He was; he was very smart.") There was a crossover between the two disciplines, trading and journalism, which Lewis identifies now as "a certain sneakiness. Getting stories often requires an amount of sneakiness. Beyond that, a certain social ability. You have to get along with people. It helps to have the minimum necessary analytical ability." While still at Salomon he started writing anonymous dispatches from the trading floor and publishing them in the Spectator and the Sunday Telegraph, and could see from the response that he was on to something. "They would go the equivalent of viral before the internet. People would photocopy them and hand them out on the trading floor. No one knew it was me. So I could see that it was working." Liar's Poker did so well, says Lewis, that "I thought: I'm a free man. A lot of the stuff I did afterwards was all over the place. It was magazine stuff. I'd write essays, I wrote about everything. There was no pattern to the stuff I was doing. I covered politics for the New Republic." The books he wrote ranged across genres, too, so that he thinks of himself these days as more of a sports writer than anything else. "Or a travel writer. If I had to pick one genre of non-fiction, it'd be travel writing." Liar's Poker, he says, was in some ways a travel book – the story of "me moving through space". Of all Lewis's books, it was The Blind Side that did least well when it was first published, tanking until the film came out and drove a million sales. "The problem is that people who like football do not read. And if they read, they don't want an emotional chick flick buried in their book. It was not a good business idea." More recently, he wrote a huge, moony profile of Barack Obama for Vanity Fair, the most incisive part of which was Lewis's analysis of the president's basketball skills: "Not flashy, but he slides in to take charges, passes well, and does a lot of little things well," he wrote. "The only risk he takes is his shot, but he shoots so seldom, and so carefully, that it actually isn't much of a risk at all." The rest of it reads along the lines of a 15-year-old's daydream after a Justin Bieber concert ("I gazed up to find Obama staring down at me …" "'I feel a little creepy being here,' I said. 'Why don't I get out of your hair?' He laughed. 'C'mon,' he said …" etc). We all have our weaknesses. Thanks to the success of Lewis's books, people frequently ring him with ideas about what to do next, which most of the time he ignores. In 2009, he received a call from an old contact, a lawyer, who said he had a client Lewis might be interested in writing about. This was Sergey Aleynikov, the former Goldman Sachs programmer arrested by the FBI and ultimately jailed for "stealing code" from the bank. "It's an incredible story," says Lewis, "and I said yeah, yeah, yeah and ignored him for a year and a half." During that time, he mulled over what could be so valuable as to justify what looked, from the outside, like an extraordinary overreaction on the part of Goldman Sachs. "I didn't understand the code – what had he taken? It was very fishy, the way Goldman Sachs reacted to it. No matter how valuable it was, calling the FBI was a really extreme thing to do. And to do it so quickly. And it was pretty clear from the newspaper descriptions that no one understood what he'd taken." Lewis spoke to a few investors, started looking into high-frequency trading, and was ultimately told about someone who would go on to motor his whole story, Brad Katsuyama, or as he was described to Lewis at the time: "There's this one guy who works for the Royal Bank of Canada." One of the criticisms of the book has been that it doesn't identify any one villain, something Lewis says was deliberate. "I made a very conscious decision at the beginning not to do that. The reason is: everyone's involved." Does he understand the 10 lines of code that execute a trader's orders? No. "But there's a predator, and a guy figures out he's the prey. Then he figures out how the predator's trying to kill him and tries to stop the predator. The basic story was pretty simple." Given how large the financial stakes are, it's surprising, I suggest, that there isn't more corporate assassination. Lewis laughs. "Brad asked me if he should get security. And I thought maybe before the book came out. But now, it'd be a little obvious." Lewis takes roughly 18 months to write a book: a year on the research and structure, and five months to hammer it out. At the same time, he continues with his journalism, writes screenplays and with his wife Tabitha Soren, a photographer and former reporter for MTV News, raises their three children. Lewis's book Home Game was about fatherhood and his memoir Coach was the story of his high-school baseball experiences, which is in the process of being turned into a film. As is Flash Boys. The day before we meet, Lewis sold the rights to Columbia Pictures and Scott Rudin, who successfully made Moneyball. The irony is that when Lewis quit banking, it was for a $40,000 (£24,000) book contract that indicated he would never make the kind of money he had as a 25-year-old bond salesman. Although actually, he says, looking at the kinds of figures earned by the characters in Flash Boys, who knows? "I might still have done better in banking. The thing is, I have a sense of what my trajectory inside the financial world would've been and I would've ended up in long-term capital management at Salomon Brothers, and that collapsed. They lost all their money. I'd have been wiped out." Anyway, he thought it would be a meaningless life. "I didn't belong there. It's hard to remember what it feels like to be 27; you're immortal. You can do anything you want." The accident of his career is, he says, that he has been so well-placed to document an industry "that has gone insane. The financial markets have generated this fantastic material. I don't think anything else like this will walk in my door." And he hopes the fact that the world's best and brightest – French particle physicists, Russian aerospace engineers, wunderkind Chinese programmers – all go into banking these days, because the financial rewards are so huge, is a historical anomaly. "It's very odd. We think of it as normal, but those sorts of people throughout history have not gone into banking. They've done useful things. The sorts of people who used to go into banking were pleasant, jolly chaps, the class monitor who gets on with everyone. That's who should be in banking. That's what we need!" Why? "Because the smart people are too dangerous. They find ways to game the system." • Michael Lewis is speaking at the Royal Geographical Society, London, on 30 April. Buy tickets at 5x15.com. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Genya Savilov/AFPArmed pro-Russian militants stand guard at a check-point outside the eastern Ukrainian city of Slavyansk, on April 20, 2014. Pro-Kremlin rebels in east Ukraine appealed Sunday for Russian "peacekeepers" to sweep in after a deadly gunfight killed at least two of their militants, shattering an Easter truce and sparking "outrage" in Moscow. But the Western-backed authorities in Kiev claimed the violence was a set-up by Russia to create a pretext for it to send troops in. The attack, near the flashpoint town of Slavyansk, undermined an accord worked out in Geneva between Russia, Ukraine and Western powers on Thursday under which "illegal armed groups" were to surrender their weapons. The deal, aimed at easing what has become the worst crisis between Washington and Moscow since the end of the Cold War, now appears to have stalled. Russia has an estimated 40,000 troops massed on Ukraine's border in what NATO says is a state of readiness to invade, while the United States, according to The Washington Post, is preparing to send ground troops to neighbouring Poland. Sunday's gun battle occurred in a village 18 kilometres (11 miles) west of Slavyansk. Vladimir, a masked 20-year-old pro-Russian rebel who said he was at the scene of the shootout, told AFP: "Four cars pulled up to our roadblock around 1:00am (2200 GMT Saturday). We wanted to conduct a check, and then they opened fire on us with automatic weapons." He said three of the militants were killed. An AFP photographer saw the bodies of two militants laid out in a truck near the scene. The identity of the assailants, who escaped before militant reinforcements arrived, was not known. The leader of the separatist rebels in Slavyansk, Vyacheslav Ponomaryov, said he believed two of the attackers were also killed. He declared a midnight-to-6:00 am (2100 GMT to 0300 GMT) curfew in Slavyansk -- and appealed for Russian President Vladimir Putin to send in Russian troops as "peacekeepers to defend the population against the fascists". Later, he said: "If you can't send peacekeeping forces, send us weapons." - Moscow blames ultra-nationalist group - Putin has said he "very much hopes" he will not have to send his forces into Ukraine, but asserts he has a "right" to do so. On Sunday, Russia's foreign ministry declared its "outrage" at the deadly attack. It blamed the deaths of the "innocent civilians" on ultra-nationalists who were at the vanguard of the street protests that forced the February ouster of Ukraine's pro-Kremlin president Viktor Yanukovych. The ministry said locals had found the attackers' cars containing weapons, satellite maps and business cards belonging to the ultra-nationalist group Right Sector. It demanded that Kiev abide by the Geneva accord. But a Right Sector spokesman told AFP that Russia's claims were "lies" and "propaganda" designed to portray the east as ungovernable for Kiev. Ukraine's government, confirming three people were killed, described the latest violence as a "cynical provocation" by Russian-armed separatists. Interior Minister Arsen Avakov, who travelled to the east Sunday to inspect troops in the region, said investigations were ongoing into the shootout. - Geneva accord stalled - The gunfight ended days of relative calm underpinned by a promise by the Western-backed authorities in Kiev to suspend military operations to oust the rebels over Easter. The last deadly clash was last Thursday, when three pro-Russian militants were killed by Ukrainian soldiers when they tried to attack a military base in the southeast port city of Mariupol. But with the pro-Kremlin rebels refusing to comply with the Geneva accord, Washington has been ratcheting up pressure on Moscow, which it sees as pulling the strings in the Ukrainian insurgency. US President Barack Obama has threatened to impose more sanctions on Moscow if no progress is made on the ground. A Kremlin spokesman shrugged off as "absurd" claims that Washington could sanction Putin directly, after an article in Britain's The Times newspaper cited anonymous sources saying the United States could target Swiss bank accounts belonging to the leader that allegedly hold some $40 billion (29 billion euros). Russia's ambassador to the United States, Sergei Kislyak, told Fox News that sanctions represented a return to the "Cold War mentality" but said Moscow could "withstand pressures". - Prayers for peace - The sudden spike in tensions put paid to attempts by some ordinary Ukrainians to embrace Easter as a time of peace across their country. Pope Francis also pleaded for peace in his Sunday Easter prayer. "We ask you to enlighten and inspire the initiatives that promote peace in Ukraine," he prayed. But efforts to that end were undermined overnight when the Orthodox leaders in Kiev and Moscow traded barbs. Kiev's Patriarch Filaret thundered that Russia was an "enemy" whose "attack" on Ukraine was doomed to failure because it was evil and contrary to God's will. In Moscow, the patriarch of the Russian Church, Kirill, led a prayer calling on God to put "an end to the designs of those who want to destroy Holy Russia" and pleading for Ukraine to soon have "legitimately elected" leaders. In comments broadcast on US television Sunday, Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk lashed out at Putin for having a "dream to restore the Soviet Union". Washington has warned Moscow that Ukraine is in a "pivotal period" and that progress was needed on the Geneva accord "within days". US Vice President Joe Biden is scheduled to make a visit to Kiev on Tuesday. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidThe U.S. seized this building from Iraninan companies.DUBAI (Reuters) - Iran on Saturday criticized a U.S. government move to seize a Manhattan skyscraper owned largely by a foundation that promotes its language and Islamic culture, saying this violated the right to religious freedom in the United States. According to a court document filed in New York on Thursday, the U.S. Department of Justice agreed to distribute proceeds from the sale of the Fifth Avenue high-rise to families affected by alleged Iranian-aided attacks, including the 1983 bombing of the U.S. Marine barracks in Beirut. The settlement marks the latest turn in a long-running battle over the 36-storey building owned chiefly by Alavi Foundation, a non-profit Persian and Islamic cultural center. Iran's foreign ministry spokeswoman Marzieh Afkham said the decision "lacks legal justification and negates America's commitment to protecting its citizens' religious freedom." "Confiscation of the properties of an independent charity organization raises doubt about the credibility of U.S. justice," she was quoted as saying by the official IRNA news agency. The latest row came as U.S. President Barack Obama signed a law on Friday barring an Iranian diplomat from serving as an envoy at the United Nations over his role in the 1979-81 hostage crisis at the U.S. embassy in Tehran. But they are unlikely to significantly affect the current nuclear talks between Tehran and world powers, including the United States. Iran's moderate new president, Hassan Rouhani, has strongly pursued a deal with the West in order to escape ruinous international sanctions imposed on his country. In a 2009 lawsuit, the Manhattan U.S. Attorney's office claimed the Alavi Foundation was controlled by Iran, citing the two minority owners as Assa Corp and Assa Co Ltd, both shell companies financed by Iran's national Bank Melli. And, last year, a federal court ruled that the skyscraper was subject to government forfeiture for "shielding and concealing Iranian assets" in violation of U.S. sanctions law. But the Iranian official flatly denied any links between her country and the Alavi Foundation: "These charges are nothing new. They are merely concocted to put pressure and chase political aims." Alavi Foundation and the smaller stake-holder Assa are both expected to appeal the U.S. verdict. (Reporting by Mehrdad Balali; Editing by Mark Trevelyan) FREE AppDownload
Warren Buffett’s favorite indicator of economic growth continues to gain momentum here in the early spring.  The latest year over year reading from AAR shows a 9.3% increase in rail traffic.  This brings the 12 week moving averaged to 5.7%, the highest reading since January.  Here’s some more detail via AAR: “The Association of American Railroads (AAR) today reported increased U.S. rail traffic for the week ending April 12, 2014 with 295,294 total U.S. carloads, up 7.2 percent compared with the same week last year. Total U.S. weekly intermodal volume was 264,382 units, up 9.3 percent compared with the same week last year. Total combined U.S. weekly rail traffic was 559,676 carloads and intermodal units, up 8.2 percent compared with the same week last year. Eight of the 10 carload commodity groups posted increases compared with the same week in 2013, including grain with 20,760 carloads, up 21.7 percent, and coal with 115,403 carloads, up 11.2 percent. The commodities showing a decrease compared with the same week last year were metallic ores and metals with 22,409 carloads, down 3.9 percent, and forest products with 11,034 carloads, down 1.5 percent. For the first 15 weeks of 2014, U.S. railroads reported cumulative volume of 4,194,072 carloads, up 1.6 percent compared with the same point last year, and 3,728,465 intermodal units, up 4.8 percent from last year. Total combined U.S. traffic for the first 15 weeks of 2014 was 7,922,537 carloads and intermodal units, up 3.1 percent from last year.” Orcam FREE AppDownload
This past week, Citi came out with its latest "World Champions" list, which is a list of companies that are just dominating in their respective industries. Specifically, they are big companies (greater than $3 billion in market cap), have high market share (top 3 in a key business line), a global reach, and a lasting, sustainable business model. Each company has a long track record of strong financial performance, and is forecasted to continue strong performance. The list was compiled by having all of Citi's analysts contribute candidates, before a "selection committee" whittled the list down to 50. Among the well-known names on the list: eBay, Apple, American Express, inBev, Gilead, Starbucks, and Schlumberger. Here's the whole list, with the rationale, and description for each. Citi Citi FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesGoogle employees have the highest median pay in America: $127,000.Money can't buy happiness, but it can certainly try. Business Insider recently teamed up with PayScale to find the 50 Best Employers in America based on median pay, job meaning, job stress, and a number of other factors. But in life some factors carry more weight than others, so we double-weighted median pay to highlight employers that pay their employees well.  Companies chosen for this list were selected from the complete 2012 Fortune 500 list, not just our list of the 50 Best Employers. Read the full methodology here. Find out how much the best employers in America shell out: Mike Nudelman and Melia Robinson/Business Insider This ranking of Fortune 500 companies was created by Business Insider using data gathered and crunched by PayScale. Read the full methodology here. Also find out how your salary stacks up at PayScale.com. FREE AppDownload
Joe Weisenthal/Business Insider Saturday I stopped in a Vietnamese deli for lunch and got a delicious Banh Mi sandwich. While there I saw this sign, notifying customers the price of products had gone up. Is this Janet Yellen's fault? No. It's pretty much all due to the drought in California, and in particular, the surge in meat prices. John Schoen at CNBC put together this great graphic showing where food prices were surging, and which categories were particularly hard hit. As you can see, it's really all about meat (a crucial ingredient in the sandwich). Learn About Tableau            					                                                                                                                                            facebook                                                                        linkedin                                                                        twitter                                                                        google+                                                                        email                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                email                                                                                        share                                                                         share                                                                         tweet                                                                         share                                                                         email                                                                                        Share on Facebook                                                                         Share on Twitter                                                                         Share on Linkedin                                                                         Share on Google Plus                                                                         email                                                            Recommended For You                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     window._taboola = window._taboola || [];                                    _taboola.push({mode:'thumbs-1r', container:'taboola-below-main-column', placement:'below-main-column'});                                                                                                                        	(function() {		'use strict';		// Notify the DFP code that a new ad has just been rendered		amplify.publish('adRender');	}());                Comments             Comments on this post are now closed.        	    																				Insiders						0																								All Comments						1									                                                            Apply To Be An "Insider" &#187;                                    						                         Loading                                                        Why The Price Of My Banh Mi Went Up    Why The Price Of My Banh Mi Went Up        Saturday I stopped in a Vietnamese deli for... FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA model poses beside a Ford Ecosport during a media presentation of the 34th Bangkok International Motor Show in BangkokSHANGHAI/BEIJING (Reuters) - Global automakers are scrambling to meet the demands of China's young urban professionals, who want a car that makes them stand out, yet don't always have the money to splurge on a top-end model. After nearly two decades of frenzied growth driven mainly by the very wealthy, China's auto market is maturing, yet remains ferociously competitive with manufacturers having to react quickly to shifting consumer trends. Today's emerging buyer has more modest financial means, yet aspires to own a car that's "different". People like Zhou Wenxi, a 32-year-old Shanghai cram-school owner, and Guo Yetao, 23, a software salesman from Hangzhou, are fuelling two trends: hot demand for smaller crossover sport utility vehicles like Ford Motor Co's &lt;F.N&gt; EcoSport; and more interest in affordable, entry-level luxury cars like the Audi &lt;NSUG.DE&gt; A3. There is a potential "seismic shift" in the influence these young urban professionals will have on China's auto market, says Yale Zhang, head of Automotive Foresight, a Shanghai-based consultant. "There are different tiers of young urban professionals. Some are rich and a bit older, others are more normal," he said. "But they tend to be similar in two traits: they want to be different, and don't necessarily have an endless amount of money to throw around." Guo, the Hangzhou salesman, recently took out a loan to buy an EcoSport crossover for 115,800 yuan ($18,700), while Liu Yao, a 22-year-old office worker in Huaibei in Anhui province, borrowed from his parents to buy a Haval M4 mini-crossover from Great Wall Motor Co Ltd &lt;601633.SS&gt; for 60,000 yuan. Among the less well-off young urbanites, the EcoSport, at 94,800 yuan, has been a volume seller for Ford since its launch early last year. Sales last year were 59,680, and reached 17,392 in January-March of this year. At this week's Beijing auto show, car makers including PSA Peugeot Citroen &lt;PEUP.PA&gt;, Hyundai Motor Co &lt;005380.KS&gt; and local firm Haima Automobile Group &lt;000572.SZ&gt; will unveil new mini-SUV models. Chevrolet launched its Trax, a tiny crossover, in China earlier this month. According to IHS, there were just five subcompact SUV models on sale in China in 2010. By 2020, there will be almost two dozen, driving up sales of this segment to more than 880,000 from 345,650 last year. AFFORDABLE LUXURY Other young professionals, maybe small business owners or higher-earners, are setting their sights higher. Zhou, the cram-school owner, paid about 280,000 yuan ($45,000) for a red Audi A3 compact sedan. "Audis aren't flashy, and the A3 is entry-level, so the price isn't outrageous," she said. Manufacturers will show off several more affordable, entry-level luxury cars at the Beijing show. A crucial shift for them will be to produce more of these models in China, which would cut the price as they would not be subject to hefty import duty and other taxes. Volume sales in this premium compact car sector have trebled to more than 52,000 in the past four years, according to IHS data, so remain, for now, a tiny niche in China's total passenger car market of close to 16.8 million. Some global luxury brands, such as Nissan Motor Co Ltd's &lt;7201.T&gt; Infiniti, Honda Motor Co Ltd's &lt;7267.T&gt; Acura and General Motors Co's &lt;GM.N&gt; Cadillac, have been late to enter China, and now see its potential as a market for premium cars. Infiniti is looking to improve price competitiveness with what global president Johan de Nysschen calls a "very aggressive ...and rapid localization" strategy - making locally as many as 80 percent of the 100,000 cars Infiniti aims to sell in China in the medium term. The brand also aims to capture fast-emerging, young buyers with affordable entry-level luxury cars. "You've got a big (wave) of people coming in now. They have disposable income; they are very much attuned to the premium brands," de Nysschen told Reuters on Saturday. "For us, and for other car companies, this presents a big opportunity because it's a market force." Nissan has no compact car in its product line-up today, but Infiniti plans to bring the Q30 compact crossover - on display in Beijing as a concept vehicle - to China eventually after the model goes on sale in Europe next year. For now, Infiniti is set to start making a couple of mid-size cars - the just-launched Q50 sedan and the QX50 crossover - at an existing Nissan plant in Hubei province later this year. The Q50 currently starts at a hefty 389,800 yuan ($62,900) in China because it's imported. De Nysschen said the China-made model should be significantly cheaper once its made locally, and is not subject to China's import duties and taxes. The Q50 starts at $37,150 in the United States. Infiniti sold just 17,108 vehicles in China last year, though that was up 54 percent from 2012. It plans to increase the number of its China retail outlets to 80 this year from 67 currently. Ford last week said it would open its first eight Lincoln stores in several cities from October, and would have 60 stores by 2016. Five years ago, there were fewer than a dozen luxury car models sold in China under five premium brands. Today, that has mushroomed to more than 90 models offered by 25 brands, says market research firm TNS. To protect their market edge - and counter slowing economic growth and a government crackdown on excess - established luxury brands such as Audi, Mercedes-Benz &lt;DAIGn.DE&gt; and BMW &lt;BMWG.DE&gt; are expanding their line-ups into entry-level models and producing more models in China to make them more affordable. Audi, for example, priced its A3 hatchback from 199,000 yuan last month after it started making the car in Foshan, near Guangzhou. (Additional reporting by Yoko Kubota in TOKYO; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
This week, Gallup released the latest edition of an annual survey asking Americans what they considered to be the best long-term investment. The No. 1 answer? Real estate! Gallup This chart doesn't go back that far, sadly, but you can see that just a few years ago, the percentage of Americans who thought real estate was the best investment was MUCH lower, a fact obviously attributable to the trauma of the housing crash. After the housing crash, numerous pundits predicted that America's love affair with homeownership would be doomed for good and that it might take generations for people to be into the idea of owning real estate again. Nope. One problem here is that Americans are wrong: Crash aside, real estate isn't historically that great of an investment. Cullen Roche, who brought the survey to our attention, writes that the long-term performance of real estate as an investment is actually quite pathetic:  According to the U.S. Census Bureau Survey of Construction single family real estate generates a 0.74% annual return over the last 30 years (this includes multiple housing booms, mind you, so the data is probably much lower if we go further back in time).  So there appears to be some recency bias here despite the housing bust. And this doesn’t even account for many of the miscellaneous costs involved in real estate.  As I’ve shown previously, a house is basically a depreciating asset that comes with an appreciating piece of land.  But that depreciating asset is extremely expensive over its lifetime.  When you calculate the total costs that go into maintaining this asset the returns are very likely to be negative over long periods of time.  So that 0.74% figure is probably higher than you should really expect.   In fact, the returns from stocks and bonds trump real estate by a healthy margin so Americans have this one totally backwards – the American Dream isn’t quite the dream we have been sold. People may have excellent reasons for buyin a home, as opposed to renting. And right now in many cities, the math indicates that buying is preferable. But as a long-term investment, it's wild to see real estate retain its perch as the clear favorite among Americans. FREE AppDownload
Although there are signs that the labor market is picking up in the United States, it remains true that way too many people have been unemployed for way too long. There are various explanations and theories for why this is, but one stubborn fact remains: In recent years we've seen an unprecedented wave of public sector layoffs. Bill McBride at Calculated Risk has updated his famous chart showing the trajectory of public sector employment under various presidents. The trajectory under Obama is so much different than other presidents, it's not even funny. Calculated Risk What's crazy, furthermore, is not just that the decline has been violent, but that it continues to this day. There still hasn't been a snap back. It's usually at this point that conservatives point out that all of the jobshed has been at the state and local level, and not at the federal level, where Obama can more easily influence policy. And that's true, but it's also irrelevant, because this isn't really a political point. The fact of the matter is that the private sector under Obama has grown at a fairly typical pace. Right in the middle of the pack, really. Again, here's that chart from Calculated Risk. Calclulated Risk It's also safe to surmise the private payroll levels would be stronger if the economy weren't being continually buffeted by public-sector job losses, but that counter factual isn't even that important. All that matters is the primary story of this weak jobs recovery has been the severe level of public-sector job losses.  FREE AppDownload
