The days of record low interest rates may finally be nearing an end. Most economists predict (and the Fed has indicated) that an increase in short-term interest rates is all but certain for 2015.    How much of an increase and when it actually occurs will be based on labor market conditions, inflation indicators, and other financial developments. The better the economy does, the sooner and faster the Fed will increase rates – which follows the Fed’s recent decision to end quantitative easing, the bond-buying program that bolstered the economy and stimulated the stock market, which has risen about 131 percent even as bond investors suffered.  Many investors wonder what impact rising interest rates will have on their portfolios and what strategies can best help them navigate a potentially volatile period.  “Investors, especially those seeking current income, need to consider not only the probability of rising rates but also the probability that rates, even if rising, could remain at historical lows for a long time,” says David Bruckman, managing director at Citrin Cooperman Wealth Management, a New York-based accounting firm.  There’s no one-size-fits-all answer, but here are some tips that can help you think about the best moves. Remember not to make any moves based on current headlines, but rather on a long-term strategy meant to withstand the market’s inherent ups and downs.  BONDSA rise in rates can do significant harm to bond assets, but advisors don’t recommend investors unload all of their high-quality fixed-income bonds. Short duration bonds are less susceptible to interest rates moves, and high-quality tax-free municipal bonds might be a good move for more conservative investors. Bruckman of Citrin Cooperman says that the rise in interest rates is less important if buyers of individual bonds plan to hold them to maturity. For investors who purchase bond funds, ETFs and actively managed mutual funds are a good solution.  For clients seeking current income, look for funds that focus on high yield bonds, floating rate notes, and international bonds. Short-term bond funds are a good hedge against the blow of potentially rising interest rates, Bruckman advises.  Another option: so-called unconstrained bond funds that allow managers the leeway to diversify positions in order to react to the market.  “For certain clients, treasury inflation protected securities (TIPS) should help over time to insulate a diversified portfolio against persistent rising rates, assuming such increases are accompanied by an increase in inflation,” says Bruckman.  Clare Sheridan, a former financial advisor at Morgan Stanley, says investors with a really strong conviction about rates going up might buy a floating rate note: Its rate varies with market movement. She doesn’t believe that investors who want to generate income should be drastically changing their bond exposure.  “If you are trying to hedge against the stock market going down, then you’ll probably be in a longer duration fixed income bond,” Sheridan says. “If you just want to preserve capital, you’d be in a short pretty safe, not very exciting investment.”  It’s more difficult to predict the impact increasing interest rates will have on equities, since so many factors influence how the market behaves. “The higher rates over the near term tend to have negative impact on the stock market, but if you look out at longer period of times, it’s actually a benefit,” says Michael Sabatino, managing director at McGraw-Hill Federal Credit Union.  When investors become frightened by the possibility of inflation, he says, that tends to create more market volatility – but in long-term cycles, owning stock is a way to protect against inflation. Sarah Carlson, a private wealth manager at Fulcrum Financial Group in Spokane, Washington, recommends clients pursue high quality dividend paying stocks. She’s looking at opportunities in health care and technology as bright spots that will continue to be sectors of what she calls American dominance.  If your stock holdings have grown disproportionately to the rest of your portfolio (they probably have), now might be a good time to take your profits and rebalance.  ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS For those able to take on more risk, commodity trading and broad based metals tend to rise with inflation and could serve as another hedge to rising rates. Other potential alternative investments include master limited partnerships (MLPs), which are publically traded partnerships usually involved in real estate, petroleum and natural gas extraction businesses; absolute return funds, where managers have more discretion about the type of asset classes they can invest in; andreal estate investment trusts (REITs). Investing a small portion of your portfolio in these investments could be a good move, but as always, check with a trusted advisor beforehand.  ANNUITIESFor retirees who need a fixed income, annuities may make sense and offer the peace of mind that comes with guaranteed income.“For older clients, an immediate annuity will offer considerably greater cash flow than that from a traditional fixed income portfolio,” Bruckman [mm1] says. CASH/MONEY MARKET/SAVINGS ACCOUNTS/CDsAfter years of offering paltry returns, these old standbys could actually start to collect some interest. “Older folks who own CDs would benefit from the additional rate,” says Michael Sabatino of the McGraw-Hill Federal Credit Union. “It would be a positive for retirees generally who have these fixed income instruments which would generate more yield.” FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPedestrians with umbrellas walk past an electronic board showing Japan's Nikkei average and the exchange rates between the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar, outside a brokerage in TokyoBy Lisa Twaronite TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares took solace from data showing broad U.S. economic strength even as signs of spreading weakness in China and Europe checked risk appetite, while the yen nursed its losses after sliding to multi-year lows against the dollar and euro overnight. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was up slightly in early trade. It was on track for a weekly loss of over 1 percent, but was underpinned by record finishes by the Dow Jones industrial average and S&amp;P 500 after a spate of U.S. data added up to a picture of broad economic strength. Initial U.S. weekly jobless claims fell, factory activity in the U.S. mid-Atlantic region grew at its fastest pace in two decades and existing home sales strengthened, in stark contrast to Thursday's disappointing data releases from Europe and China. "The raft of data releases from the U.S. continues to paint an upbeat assessment for the U.S. economy at a time when numbers elsewhere have disappointed," strategists at Barclays wrote in a note. Japan's Nikkei stock average edged down about 0.1 percent in early trade. The dollar was steady against the yen from late U.S. levels at 118.20 yen, after it scaled a seven-year peak of 118.98 on the EBS trading platform on Thursday. The euro was also flat on the day at 148.26 after it soared to a six-year high of 149.12 yen in the previous session. In commodities markets, U.S. crude extended gains from Thursday, adding about 1 percent to $76.61 after closing higher on Thursday. The strong U.S. economic data helped it snap a three-day losing streak, though oil markets remained wary ahead of whether the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries will agree on reducing production when it meets next week. Spot gold was steady on the day at $1,192.80 an ounce, on track for a weekly gains despite pressure from the stronger greenback.   (Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsAt the beginning of the 2014, not many predicted the stock market would blast to new highs like they did. Almost no one predicted interest rates would stay this low. And few would've guessed oil prices would rally and crash the way they did. Looking forward, the analysts at Goldman Sachs have been rolling out their 2015 forecasts through a series of notes. They've already offered their top eight trades for the year while forecasting that the S&amp;P 500 would climb modestly to 2,100. All of their forecasts fit in the context of their "Top Ten Market Themes For 2015." In a new 23-page report, analysts led by Dominic Wilson predict there will continue to be divergences in central bank policy as the Fed remains likely to raise rates next year while central banks in Japan and Europe loosen policy to stimulate their economies. Major asset classes will see low returns next year, and currency hedging will become an increasingly important component of investing. We pulled some nuggets from Goldman's report. FREE AppDownload
Sotheby's New YorkGeorgia O'Keeffe's "Jimson Weed/White Flower No. 1"Women are moving up in the art world. Today, at an American art auction at Sotheby's New York, the Georgia O'Keeffe painting, “Jimson Weed/White Flower No. 1” (1932), sold for $44,405,000. The proceeds will go to the Georgia O'Keeffe Museum's acquisitions fund. That's seven times the artist's previous record at auction ($6.2 million), and almost four times the previous auction record for any work produced by a female artist ever ($11.9 million for an untitled Joan Mitchell work at Christie’s earlier this year). This is a big deal. It's a huge step forward in the thinking about what a woman is worth in the art market. Before today, only four works by women had ever been sold publicly over the $10 million threshold (and even then just barely, and only by adding auction fees to the "hammer price," which is what the seller is supposed to receive). This sale blew through that threshold and approached $50 million.  It's not anywhere close to the $142 million paid for a Francis Bacon work at auction last year, the record for any artist at auction, but it's more or less an order of magnitude closer.  Back in 2012, I interviewed several women in the art world about the disparity in prices between women and men at the top of the art market. The consensus was that the world was changing, as collectors stopped brushing off women because of their gender (as they did 20 years ago), and have become more and more willing to buy super-high-priced art regardless of the artists' gender. But the change, up until this point, has been slow. The record for women inched up $500,000 here, $1 million there. That's a lot of money to most people, but pocket change to the most prominent collectors.  There are a lot of caveats here: Selling for 4x the price of the previous record doesn't make this work 4x better. Aesthetic and cultural value doesn't necessarily correlate with monetary value. It's also just one sale — and not in a particularly flashy category, either — it could have been a fluke. It's hard to say what will happen from here. But this sure seems like a paradigm shift for women in art.  FREE AppDownload
Uber is a four-year-old mobile ride service company that could soon generate $10 billion of revenue per year, according to a source familiar with the numbers. How much revenue is Uber already generating? How many active users does it have, and how many people are driving for it in cities around the world? Business Insider obtained an internal Uber presentation that's nearly 60 pages long last week that was produced in early 2014. In it, there's city-by-city data in terms of revenue, active drivers, average fares, active users, trips per week, and more. Most of the data spans only one month, December 2013. Even though the numbers are dated, there's a lot to learn from it. For example, San Francisco generated nearly $18 million of revenue that month. (Uber's revenue is the total amount it collects from riders, most of which Uber then pays to drivers.) A year of revenue at that monthly rate would make San Francisco alone a $212 million business annually for Uber. And that's just one market. That calculation also assumes no growth, and Uber has expanded to 230 cities since then.  Here are some of the key takeaways from the document: Business Insider sifted through and organized the data into a number of charts and graphs to make it easier to scan. We also included the city-by-city breakdowns directly from the Uber presentation so you can see how the charts were derived. Here's the most in-depth look at Uber's operations yet. Uber declined to comment for this story. FREE AppDownload
The New York Times reports that his 14 year leadership of the company is coming to an end. It's not clear exactly when he will step down. The company's official release says Ruprecht "will step down by mutual agreement with the Board," and will continue in his position until his successor is in place.  "We are moving with a sense of urgency but we will take the time we need to find the right leader for Sotheby's at this critical juncture in its continuing evolution," said, Domenico De Sole, an independent director at Sotheby's and the head of the search committee for the new CEO. This comes about a year after activist investor Dan Loeb targeted the company and its leadership, comparing it to "an old master painting in desperate need of restoration." Loeb and two allies joined the company's board in the spring, after a bitter proxy fight. Getty Images/ Larry BusaccaDan Loeb of Third PointSotheby's stock closed at $39.23 today, but was up to $41.90, almost 7%, in after hours trading. The auction house is just wrapping up the bulk of its fall auction season. Today, a Georgia O'Keefe painting sold for $44.4 million — almost four times the record for any female artist at auction — at the American art sale in New York.  Loeb declined to comment for this story. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/tetsuya yamamotoUntil the last few months, U.S. high-yield bonds had been one of the best-performing asset classes in the global fixed income markets. Since 2009, investors have generally been rewarded for assuming ever-greater amounts of credit and interest rate risk.1 However, there has recently been a marked divergence between U.S. equity and high-yield bonds. Given the historically strong correlation between these two markets, we believe that high-yield credit may represent an attractive opportunity for investors seeking to benefit from stronger U.S. growth. Over the last year, U.S. equities rallied, and credit spread generally tightened. However, in recent months, this winning formula has started to diverge. Concerns about global growth, potential changes in monetary policy and uncertainty from geopolitical risk weighed on investor sentiment. In response, equities fell, and credit spreads widened. As we show in the chart below, even though stocks have since rebounded, creating fresh all-time highs, U.S. high-yield credit spreads have failed to recover. In fact, credit spreads are actually significantly wider than they were to start the year. WisdomtreeFor definitions of terms and indexes in the chart, please visit our glossary.  To understand which market is potentially under- or overvalued, it’s important to understand what might be driving this divergence. Historically, credit spreads and equities have generally exhibited a fairly consistent correlation, given that both benefit from positive economic momentum. With increasing corporate earnings, stock prices have risen. In an improving economy, risky borrowers generally pose a lower risk of risk of default due to strengthening fundamentals.2 Examining default risk more closely, over the last 12 months, Moody’s reported that the average issuer default rate decreased to 1.7%. This compares to the 2.8% rate they reported at this time last year.3 With the economy continuing to perform, corporate fundamentals seem to be broadly supportive of strengthening credit conditions. However, the price of credit is still ultimately dictated by supply and demand. While U.S. equities have seen strong inflows so far in 2014, high-yield bond strategies have seen net outflows of nearly $14 billion.4 Even though investors remain bullish on the U.S. economy, they are choosing to express this view via equities as opposed to fixed income. As a consequence, equity markets are outpacing the recovery in high-yield debt, resulting in a divergence. While we continue to believe that high yield can continue to perform well from a credit perspective, concerns about rising interest rates may be dampening investor enthusiasm and flows. In our view, an interesting alternative would be to own high-yield bonds but then hedge the interest rate risk of the portfolio. In this approach, investors are able to isolate their exposure to credit risk while reducing their exposure to movements in interest rates. 1Sources: WisdomTree, Bloomberg, as of 5/31/14.2Figlewski, Stephen, Halina Frydman, Weijian Liang (2010), “Modeling the Effect of Macroeconomic Factors on Corporate Default and Credit Rating Transitions,” Credit Suisse.3Source: Moody’s Investor Service, as of 10/31/14.4Source: EPFR Global, as of 11/7/14.This post was originally titled "Examining the Divergence between Equities and Credit." FREE AppDownload
As a reaction to Barbie's famously unrealistic proportions artist Nickolay Lamm created Lammily –  a new "average" Barbie doll that uses the measurements of a average 19-year-old (based on CDC data).  A camera crew filmed a group of second graders giving their candid opinions on the new doll.Produced by Devan Joseph. Video courtesy Nickolay Lamm. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
According to life coach Tony Robbins, a mutual fund's advertised average return is more misleading than it is accurate. When debunking the nine most pervasive financial myths on Business Insider, he pointed out that when it comes to average investment returns, what you see is not what you get.  Robbins, who is the author of the new "MONEY Master The Game: 7 Simple Steps To Financial Freedom," is talking about the average return you might see listed on a brokerage's mutual fund that describes its performance over the last year, three years, or five years. By looking at which funds have the highest percentage return (say, 8% over 3%), an investor might understandably conclude that funds with higher returns are better investments. Not so fast, well-meaning investor. Robbins writes: Average returns are like online dating profile photos. They paint a better portrait than the reality. When the mutual fund advertises a specific return, it's never the return you actually earn. He explains that there's one reason in particular for this misrepresentation: The calculation used to get this number for the brochure, which is often what's called a "time weighted return," doesn't take human activity into account. Robbins explains: Time weighted returns assume that investors have ALL of their money in the fund the entire year and don't take any withdrawals. But the reality is, we typically make contributions throughout the year (i.e. out of every paycheck into our 401(k)). And if we contribute more during times of the year when the fund is performing well (a common theme we learned, as investors chase performance) and less during times when it's not performing, we are going to have a much different return than what is advertised. Here's the thing to keep in mind, though: By asking whether the advertised average return is time-weighted, you can have an idea of whether it's a return you'll actually achieve. The Motley Fool has a handy guide to accurately measuring a mutual fund's performance. FREE AppDownload
When each of his three kids turned 10 years old, Howard Buffett took them on a trip from Omaha to the East Coast.  The middle child had his turn in 1940. He was a numbers-crazed boy named Warren.  Dad brought him to New York City.  Reflecting on his obsessions, Warren wanted to see three things: the Scott Stamp and Coin Company, the Lionel Train Company, and the New York Stock Exchange.  The last stop helped set him on the course to becoming one of the most powerful people alive.  Here's what happened. After taking in the men in bright jackets shouting and scribbling on the trading floor, the Buffetts had lunch at the Exchange with At Mol, a Dutchman who was a member of the Stock Exchange.  He was a "very impressive-looking man," Buffett told Alice Schroeder in her biography, "The Snowball: Warren Buffett and the Business of Life." But the most impressive thing happened after they finished eating.  "After lunch, a guy came along with a tray that had all these different kinds of tobacco leaves on it," Buffett recalled. "He made a cigar for Mr. Mol, who picked out the leaves he wanted. And I thought, this is it. It can't get any better than this. A custom-made cigar."  It was mind-boggling for Buffett. While the rest of the country was still in the muck of the Great Depression, the New York Stock Exchange could employ somebody to hand-roll cigars — not exactly a necessary expense — to keep traders happy.  Clearly, the Stock Exchange was a fountain of cash, one that Buffett would find a way to take part in. "A vision of his future was planted," Schroeder writes.  Buffett knew what he wanted to organize his life around: money.  "It would make me independent," Buffett said.  If he had his own money — especially lots of it — he could set out on his own.  "I could do what I wanted to do with my life," he continued, "and the biggest thing I wanted to do was work for myself. I didn't want other people directing me. The idea of doing what I wanted to do every day was very important to me."  So Buffett set upon the task of securing capital.  By age 16 — a mere six years later — he had made the equivalent of $53,000.  One of the world's largest fortunes was starting to grow, thanks to a memorable cigar. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsWe're just about to head into the eighth year of massive, worldwide "quantitative easing," or QE, and there are still a lot of people who don't know what QE is. In the UK and US, QE programmes have run to nearly $5 trillion in size. They're the biggest single economic plank of the recovery from the financial crisis of 2008. Your job depends on it: Assets flowing from QE onto the Fed's balance sheet are now the equivalent of one-fifth of US GDP. In the UK it's 25%. In Japan, it's 40%. Whether QE worked or not — whether it saved us from another Great Depression or whether it merely postponed something even worse —  will be the most important economic question of our era. And most people have no idea what it means! The unfortunate truth is that it's complicated. There are a lot of holes to fall down, and sometimes two people in an argument about "QE" have two different things in mind. So here's what QE is, how it works, and why some people have a problem with it. AP Photo/J.Scott ApplewhiteEvery large, advanced economy has a central bank that is tasked with managing the currency (monetary policy). The four biggest are the US Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank, the Bank of Japan and the Bank of England. If a country's economy is slowing down or falling into recession, the central bank will usually cut interest rates. Low interest rates are meant to make borrow and investment cheaper. Low interest also makes saving money in a cash bank account less and less fruitful. So the intention of low interest rates is to flush more cash into the economy, quickly. But sometimes it gets to practically 0% and the central bank still thinks the economy needs a bigger boost. That's where QE comes in. To launch a QE programme, the central bank creates electronic money: this process is the part that's often termed "money printing",  but no cash is actually created. The typical form of QE, which sometimes gets called "sovereign" QE, is when the central bank buys government bonds on the open market. Bondholders get cash — which the bank hopes they'll pump elsewhere into the economy — and the bonds get added to the bank's balance sheet as assets.  But government bonds (sometimes called treasuries) are not the only thing that a central bank can buy: the ECB, for example, is currently buying some private sector bonds while the Federal Reserve has loaded up on mortgage-backed loan products. AP Photo/Remy de la MauviniereIn the UK and US, Mervyn King and Ben Bernanke were the central bank chiefs that first brought in QE. The central bank doesn't buy the debt directly from the government. That's a process that is known as monetary financing or debt monetisation: this is either illegal or effectively forbidden in monetary policy for the big advanced economies. Its critics fear that it could release a burst of inflation, even hyper-inflation in places like Zimbabwe. Instead, central banks buy bonds (debt) from large investors, like banks. In the UK, QE purchases were done in a series of batches, or "tranches." The first was a £75 billion tranche in 2009, but subsequent purchases raised the total figure to £375 billion. The Federal Reserve had three QE programmes, the latest of which has just wound down, and involved scheduled monthly purchases. Since 2008, these programmes have raised the value of assets held by the Fed by nearly $4 trillion. Once the central banks stop buying up additional additional bonds, they're still holding on to the ones they have, and can replenish any bonds which mature (bonds usually have a maturity date at which time the initial investment is repaid to the owner). If they want to reverse the process, they can also choose either to sell the bonds back into the market or to allow to bonds on their balance sheet to mature without replacing them. So that gives the central bank a bunch of choices: Letting the bonds mature will take money out of the market slowly (as the bank's bonds are paid off), selling them will take money out of the market quickly, and renewing them as they mature will keep the cash flow roughly where it is. There are a few reasons central banks expect QE to work. For one, buying huge amounts of government bonds means investors don't make a lot of money from holding them. It drives the price of a bond up, which drives the yield (the return the owner gets) down. Hannelore Foerster/Getty ImagesECB President Mario Draghi has said that Europe's central bank is open to a full QE programme, but it hasn't launched one yet. Here's an example: You buy at £100 bond for £100, which matures in 15 years (when you get your original investment back). The official yield (or the "coupon") is 5%, so you'd get £5 per year for 15 years. If you bought the same bond from someone for £50, you would still be getting that £5, but that's now a 10% yield based on the new price. It works the other way round too: if the price goes up the yield declines and whoever bought them is effectively getting a smaller return. Organisations like banks and pension funds need to make returns on their investments, so if bond yields are extremely low, they have to invest in other things to make money. So instead of investing in very safe government bonds, they're forced to buy more risky assets like stocks and corporate bonds. That higher risk comes with higher potential returns, too. That helps stimulate business spending, and the spending of the other people and institutions that those assets are bought from. It should also make it cheaper for businesses and households to borrow. This is the portfolio balance effect and it's how former Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke argued for QE.  There are other ways that some economists think QE can work: after selling bonds to the Fed, or the Bank of England, or any central bank, the private bank that sold the bond has higher cash reserves, which could boost lending into the rest of the economy. The Bank of England has a good breakdown of the potential effects here. Either way, the net result is that the central bank is hoping to sluice more cheap cash into the economy. More, cheaper cash tends to have an inflationary effect. Some think that just by doing QE, people begin to expect higher inflation (rising prices) in future, which leads them to increase their spending in the present — which, in a circular fashion, causes inflation to come about anyway. Here's a handy graph from the Bank of Japan which shows the multitude of ways that people think QE may work: Bank of Japan Even if it doesn't have any major  economic effects, some people argue in favour of QE just to prevent financial markets from seizing up, to provide liquidity and keep markets flowing at a time when investors are panicking.  Well, if it was all so easy, why is it so controversial? There are three big reasons. 1.) Moral Hazard. Some people think QE is just a way for governments and banks to brush their bigger, structural problems under the rug. For banks, it's seen as a disincentive to be safe. If the central bank is going to come along with some policies to boost its reserves every time there's a financial crisis, why should they be careful? Similarly, with governments, some people think a government has no reason to control public spending if the central bank is going to buy up its debt, which could lead to wastefulness. The government could end up taking on projects that would previously have been done by the private sector at a profit, and thus investment gets "crowded out" of the economy. 2.) Inflation And Bubbles. A lot of people thought quantitative easing would kick up a great deal of inflation. Though inflation did rise above target levels in the UK and US, it never climbed to extraordinary heights, and it's now below target in both countries. REUTERS/Toru Hanai The US and UK may not be expanding their QE programmes, but the Haruhiko Kuroda at the Bank of Japan is still accelerating purchases. Some economists think that though a major burst of inflation hasn't been seen yet, as the recovery unfolds and banks become more confident in lending, a rapid upsurge will drive a large amount of money directly to households and businesses, driving up prices.  The idea that QE distorts financial markets and causes bubbles which aren't related to real financial performance is another common criticism. Not all inflation is simply money inflation. Sometimes non-money assets get inflated too. Some people think there is an asset bubble in the tech sector, for instance. Complaints that QE causes bubbles or inflation often come from conservatives who are interested in the Austrian school of economics. 3. It's A Subsidy For Rich People. Since QE is about buying financial assets, the people who own those assets are the first, and perhaps only beneficiaries. This criticism is more frequently heard from people on the political left, who are concerned about inequality.  4. It Just Doesn't Work Very Well. This is probably the most common criticism of quantitative easing from mainstream economists. There's an extremely extensive post here from former Bank of England economist Tony Yates on the effects (or lack of effects) of QE.  Some economists believe that monetary policy is increasingly ineffective at the zero lower bound (when it's already pushed interest rates to practically 0%). Some of these economists would recommend fiscal policy (government spending and tax cuts) to boost the economy.  The Bank of England and Fed have stopped increasing their QE programmes (for now). But the Bank of Japan is still accelerating its version, and the European Central Bank could still launch its own.  Economists will keep arguing about this, and a lot of people have already come to their own conclusion as to whether it works or not. One of the problems is that there isn't a clear counter-factual. We can explain how it works and estimate the effects, but we simply don't and can't know what would have happened if QE wasn't done. There will be academic work done, and people will compare the countries that did and didn't do it, but don't expect this to be resolved any time soon.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe sign outside a Gap store is seen in Broomfield, Colorado(Reuters) - Apparel retailer Gap Inc  reported lower-than-expected quarterly revenue, hurt by a 5.5 percent fall in the U.S. sales of its namesake brand. The company, which also owns the Banana Republic and Old Navy brands, said net sales fell slightly to $3.97 billion in the third quarter from $3.98 billion from a year earlier. Net income rose to $351 million, or 80 cents per share, from $337 million, or 72 cents per share.  (Reporting by Ramkumar Iyer and Nayan Das in Bangalore; Editing by Don Sebastian) FREE AppDownload
Brent crude oil prices hit a four-year low in November of $77.83, and Credit Suisse believes sub-$100 prices are here to stay for at least the next three years. What does the sudden and sharp decline portend for the world economy? Generally speaking, falling crude oil prices are an importing economy’s paradise and an exporter’s inferno. But the macroeconomic ripple effects are a bit more complicated. The United States and Malaysia, for example, are both importers and exporters, meaning that the same macroeconomic trend that benefits ordinary consumers and retailers can be a headwind for energy production and have mixed effects on overall GDP. In emerging markets, countries that subsidize fuel are affected differently than those that do not. To sort it all out, Credit Suisse has detailed what low oil prices mean for major economies across the globe. U.S.  If Credit Suisse’s energy forecasts prove correct, Brent crude will average $92 a barrel in the fourth quarter, and Americans will enjoy the equivalent of an $80 billion tax cut, the equivalent of 0.7 percent of disposable income. Credit Suisse’s U.S. economists also forecast that lower oil prices will cause annual inflation to fall from 1.7 percent in September to 0.5 percent by the spring. A cash windfall just before the holidays is great for consumers and retailers, but for those drilling relatively high-cost wells to get at tight oil in U.S. shale beds, cheap oil prices are hardly a welcome development. The price of West Texas Intermediate (WTI) has fallen $17 per barrel since last year to just under $75, and Saudi producers recently cut prices to American customers while raising them in Asia. If WTI hits $75 a barrel, predicts Credit Suisse Global Energy Economist Jan Stuart, U.S. oil production growth could shrink from more than 1 million barrels per day to 200,000 barrels per day. (Although he also sees it reaccelerating to between 500,000 and 700,000 barrels per day in 2016.) Japan  Can cheap oil move impassive central bankers? In a country that imports nearly every last drop of its crude oil, apparently so. Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda citedfalling prices of oil, food, and other commodities when he announced an expansion of the central bank’s monthly bond-buying program in late October. The Japanese economy has struggled to meet the bank’s 2 percent inflation target, with the September reading coming in at 1 percent after adjusting for the effect of a tax hike in April, and Kuroda pledged an “unwavering commitment” to stamping out Japan’s two-decade struggle against deflation when announcing the more aggressive easing. While falling oil prices weren’t the only factor in the central bank’s decision to add to its stimulus, their deflationary effect was certainly on Kuroda’s mind.  Europe  Credit Suisse’s Private Banking &amp; Wealth Management Division thinks that the European Central Bank may well follow Japan’s example of additional easing. Euro zone inflation was only 0.4 percent in October, marking 13 months of sub-1 percent price increases. If the ECB announces a bond-buying program in response to deflationary pressure, European exporters will benefit from a weaker euro. For ordinary consumers, low oil prices will provide a lesser boost than in the U.S., as European cars are much more fuel-efficient than American ones, says Michael O’Sullivan, Chief Investment Officer for Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa in Credit Suisse’s Private Banking &amp; Wealth Management division.  REUTERS/Fahad ShadeedSaudi Arabia's Oil Minister Ali al-NaimiThe Oil Producers The major question for oil markets right now is whether Saudi Arabia, the world’s swing producer, will cut production in order to boost global prices. Stuart says there are no signs that a cut is coming, such as a decrease in the number of rented crude oil tankers departing the Kingdom, but his current Brent crude forecast nevertheless builds in a reduction of 900,000 barrels per day before the end of the year. An announcement to that effect could come as soon as the Nov. 26 meeting of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). As Stuart and others have noted, the Kingdom is under domestic pressure to keep oil revenues high, given that the International Monetary Fund estimates that Saudi Arabia needs oil prices of at least $83.60 a barrel to balance its budget. In Venezuela, oil sales provide both 47 percent of government revenues and the main source of foreign currency. The result: the country’s economy will suffer disproportionately from falling oil prices. By the same token, the sudden drop in crude prices has triggered a run on the Russian ruble, which has fallen 91 percent against the dollar since the beginning of June. The weak currency, in turn, is driving inflation higher and forcing Russia’s central bank to raise interest rates even as the domestic economy struggles. Credit Suisse expects the combined effect of international sanctions and energy prices to shrink domestic GDP 1.5 percent next year. In Malaysia, reduced revenues from exports will overwhelm government savings on fuel subsidies, Credit Suisse says, making spending cuts likely. The bank thus sees a downside risk to its 5 percent GDP growth forecast in 2015. India The Indian government subsidizes kerosene and LPG for cooking and heating. But Credit Suisse thinks that the country’s leadership will have to use any windfall from reduced subsidies to plug its budget gap, rather than to stimulate economic growth. That said, cheap oil could be a “game-changer” for Indian monetary policy. The Reserve Bank of India has raised interest rates three times since last September, most recently in January to 8 percent. At least in part due falling energy prices, though, inflation fell to an all-time low of 5.5 percent in October, nearly half of the 11.47 percent rate of November 2013. Since India recently deregulated the sale of diesel fuel, Credit Suisse expects lower inflation in wholesale and tradable goods, food, and freight. Starting in the second quarter of 2015, the RBI may finally be in a position to cut rates, rather than raise them. Asia  In those economies that either don’t subsidize fuel or have relatively small subsidies — including, Korea, the Philippines, and Taiwan — inflation should drop significantly, ushering in more dovish monetary policy than would otherwise have been possible. Credit Suisse analysts now expect slower than expected interest rate hikes in the Philippines next year, and they think Korea and Thailand could enact further rate cuts. Lower fuel prices will also provide Korean consumers with an effective tax cut equivalent to 0.7 percent of nominal GDP. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersDetail from the front of the United States Federal Reserve Board building is shown in WashingtonWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve has launched a review of how it oversees major banks, calling on its inspector general to help with the probe after a series of critical reports. Separate studies to be carried about by the Fed's Washington-based Board of Governors and its Office of Inspector General are meant to ensure that "divergent views" about the state of large banks are adequately aired. The reviews will determine whether officials at the regional Federal Reserve banks as well as at the board level "receive the information needed to ensure consistent and sound supervisory decisions," including being made aware of "material matters that required reconciliation of divergent views," the Fed said in a statement.   (Reporting by Howard Schneider; Editing by Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
Israel has proposed that EU countries invest in a multi-billion euro pipeline to carry its natural gas to the continent, noting that the supply from Israel would reduce Europe’s current dependence on natural gas from Russia. A proposal for the “massive” project was introduced by Israel’s Energy Minister Silvan Shalom to energy ministers from Euro-Mediterranean countries who met in Rome earlier this week, Israel’s Channel 2 reported on Thursday. It said the project would require a multi-billion euro investment from Europe to build a pipeline from Israel’s Mediterranean coast to Cyprus, from where the gas would be carried on to Greece and Italy. The TV report said Cyprus, Greece and Italy were all supportive of the idea, and that Israel would make a formal presentation of the project to European representatives in Brussels in three weeks’ time. It would be cheaper for Europe to work on a supply route with Egypt, but this could expose the Europeans to instability because of the unpredictable political developments in Egypt, the report noted. Similarly, a pipeline from Israel to Turkey would be less expensive, but bilateral relations rule this out so long as Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a prominent critic of Israel, holds power there. Stefano Pozzebon/Business Insider In September, Israel signed a deal to supply Jordan with $15 billion worth of natural gas from its Leviathan energy field over 15 years. The deal was Israel’s largest collaboration with Jordan to date, and will make Israel its chief supplier. Representatives of the gas companies involved, Delek Group Ltd. and Nobel Energy Inc., were in Jordan to sign the agreement. Shalom hailed that deal as “a historic act that will strengthen the economic and diplomatic ties between Israel and Jordan.” Thursday’s report underlined that Israel hopes a natural gas partnership with Europe would also boost diplomatic relations with the EU, which are strained by major differences over policy on the Palestinians. REUTERS/Baz RatnerAn officer points as he stands on a tanker carrying liquefied natural gas in the Mediterranean, some 10 km (6 miles) from the coastal Israeli city of Hadera on Jan. 22, 2014. Israel decided last year to export 40 percent of the country’s offshore gas finds, and has since also signed a 20-year, $1.2 billion deal with a Palestinian firm. In June it signed a letter of intent to supply energy to an Egyptian facility as well. Israel began pumping natural gas in March 2013 from the Tamar deposit — discovered in 2009 and located some 90 kilometers (56 miles) west of Haifa — which holds an estimated 8.5 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. In addition to Tamar, in 2010 an even larger deposit, Leviathan — which boasts an estimated 16-18 trillion cubic feet of gas — was discovered 130 kilometers (81 miles) west of Haifa. It is expected to become operational in 2016. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungBill Gross.Stocks gained on Thursday with the tech-heavy Nasdaq pacing gains while the Dow and S&amp;P 500 again made record highs after a rash of economic data this morning. The big market news, however, came late in the day as Janus Capital announced that George Soros would give Bill Gross $500 million to manage as part of a separate account to be managed under a strategy similar to the Unconstrained Bond Fund Gross runs at Janus. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. The biggest economic story on Thursday was the Philadelphia Federal Reserve's latest manufacturing report, which came in at its highest level since 1993. The report's headline index rose to 40.8 in November from from 20.7 in October, an increase that also blew away expectations for the reading to fall modestly to 18.5. Following the report, however, some economists expressed skepticism, with Paul Dales at Capital Economics saying that this report was "hard to take seriously," particularly in light of other economic indicators, weakening global demand and a strong US dollar. 2. In the markets, the biggest story on Thursday was news that a fund affiliated with George Soros' Soros Management would invest $500 million with Bill Gross. The money will be used in a separate fund to be run with a strategy similar to the Unconstrained Bond Fund that Gross currently runs at Janus Capital. Following the news, Gross said on Twitter that he was "honored" to be managing the new account for Soros. Janus shares gained more than 1.5% on Thursday following the news.  3. Aside from the Philly Fed report, we also got manufacturing data in the form of Markit's flash PMI reading, which showed manufacturing activity in the US slowed to a 10-month low in November. The headline index came in at 54.7, missing expectations for a reading of 56.3 and lower than October's 55.9. This disappointing report is part of what economists pointed to when arguing that the Philly Fed numbers didn't square with other economic indicators.  4. On the housing front, the pace of existing home sales accelerated more than expected in October, climbing 1.5% to an annualized pace of 5.26 million, beating expectations for this reading to show sales coming in at a pace of 5.15 million annually.  5. Inflation was flat in October, according to the latest consumer price index from the BLS. Expectations were for the headline index to show prices fell 0.1% in October. Excluding food and energy, prices rose 0.2%, which was also more than expected. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said the report shows that deflation fears gripping Europe continue to not apply in the US. Gas prices, which weighed on Thursday's report slightly less than Shepherdson expected, are likely to drop sharply again next month.  6. The latest report on weekly initial jobless claims showed claims remain near multi-year lows, though Thursday's report slightly missed expectations. Claims totaled 291,000 last week, down from the prior week's 293,000, but slightly better than the 284,000 expected by economists. 7. Goldman Sachs was out with a couple of forecasts for 2015, and among them were the firm's price target on the S&amp;P 500, which came in at 2,100. Goldman expects just a 5% gain for the benchmark stock index next year, in-line with earnings growth as the firm doesn't see any multiple expansion next year. Goldman does, however, expect the stock market to take the Fed's first rate hike — which the firm sees occurring in the third quarter of next year — in stride. In a separate note to clients, Goldman Sachs issued its 8 favorite trades for 2015. Business Insider's Sam Ro has the full rundown: some of these are complex.  8. The biggest market story of 2014 has been the decline in the price of oil. In an email earlier Thursday morning, Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slok circulated a chart that shows the huge increase in US crude oil production over the last few years. This increase in supply, Slok wrote, tells the whole story for oil.  9. Apple shares continued to grind higher as yet another slew of Wall Street analysts raised their price target on the stock. Thursday's notable increase came from Gene Munster at Piper Jaffray, who took his price target on shares of the iPhone marker to $135 from $120 citing stronger than anticipated iPhone sales.  10. Two of the big stock losers on Thursday were closely watched companies Keurig Green Mountain and GoPro. Keurig, which makes single-serve coffee cups and brewers, declined more than 7% after the company on Wednesday night reported earnings and gave an outlook for its upcoming quarter that disappointed. GoPro shares fell more than 9% after the company's secondary offering of common stock was priced early Thursday at $75 per share.  Don't Miss: The 50 Stocks Big Hedge Funds Love Most » FREE AppDownload
Amazon keeps cutting grocery prices in an attempt to take down competitors like Wal-Mart, Target, and K-Mart. The company believes it can draw in more customers by becoming a go-to for household items, groceries, and pet supplies, reports Siri Srinivas at The Guardian. If the strategy works, it could lead to customers who buy more frequently than those seeking electronics or furniture on the e-commerce site.  Amazon has been aggressively investing in its grocery category. One person recently wrote about their experience buying everything on Amazon Prime, and the business could be lucrative as aging Baby Boomers become more hesitant to leave the house.  But analysts and shareholders' patience is wearing thin. Amazon reported an operating loss of $437 million last quarter, and the share price is down 12% in the past year.  The Guardian also notes that Amazon's price-cutting could have negative consequences for the industry.  "This pricing arms race can only result in mutual capitalist destruction," Srinivas writes, citing experts. "Wal-Mart will likely be unable to keep up."Wal-Mart is also facing pressure from dollar stores.  Dollar Tree is in the process of buying Family Dollar, meaning the company will have a total of 13,000 stores.  This gives Dollar Tree more leverage to negotiate with suppliers for lower prices.  But Wal-Mart isn't going down without a fight. CEO Doug McMillon recently told investors that the brand has a renewed focus on offering the cheapest products.  "Price matters to our customers and it always will," McMillon said. "As a company, being a low cost operator is in our DNA. This will never change and we will be the price leader, across a broad assortment, everywhere we operate." Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
.v1ctor. via www.flickr.com creative commons Near Retirees Regret Investing Too Conservatively (Financial Advisor Magazine)  Many near retirees ages 55 to 64 who have an employer-sponsored retirement plan regret being conservative investors, according to a TIAA-CREF's Ready to Retire survey. Sixty-eight percent believe that they are unprepared for the future, and 52% wish they had started saving sooner, while 47% wish that they saved more of their paycheck.  "This research reinforces that preparing for retirement shouldn't become a sprint to the finish, but rather a long-distance pursuit that requires careful planning throughout an adult's life," according to Teresa Hassara at TIAA-CREF. It's Not Really About Active Versus Passive — It's More About Low-Cost Funds (Morningstar) "I think if you go back to '08, which is what everyone's touchstone is on this, both active and passive equity funds get crushed. It's not that active did much worse than passive, but I think there are good funds in both camps. I think you want to be careful either way; you want to get a low-cost fund," said Russ Kinnel. "I think you want to find a good, well-run, low-cost fund and, to me, active versus passive is not the most important part of that equation," said Kinnel. There is one small historical trend in active versus passive performance, however. Actively managed funds have tended to outperform passive ones in small caps and certain foreign markets. "But I think it's not nearly as dramatic in one direction or the other as people suspect," added Kinnel. Wells Fargo Will Pay Ex-Advisers $7.4 Million (The Wall Street Journal)  Two former Wells Fargo financial advisers sued the firm claiming they did not receive their bonuses because they moved to rival brokerages. Wells Fargo has agreed to pay $7.4 billion to settle the lawsuit. Wells Fargo argued that the "advisers received promissory notes and other signing bonuses from their new employers 'to compensate them for the forfeiture.' Thus, the advisers 'either suffered no damages' or 'their damages were mitigated,'" according to Matthias Rieker. George Soros Invests $500 Million With Bill Gross (Business Insider)  A private investment vehicle managed by Soros Fund Management, Quantum Partners, will invest $500 million in an account that will be managed by Bill Gross, according to an announcement on Janus' website. "The account will be managed in a strategy similar to the Unconstrained Fund, which is what Bill Gross manages at Janus, but will not be a part of that fund," reports Myles Udland.  Bill Gross joined Janus in late September after leaving PIMCO. When Gross joined Janus, the Unconstrained Fund had just $13 million in AUM, but as of October 31, the fund had $442 million in assets under management. Investors Should Consider Consumer Discretionary Stocks Because Gas Prices Are So Low (Advisor Perspectives) Investors are underestimating the future economic growth and earnings growth in consumer discretionary stocks, argues William Smead. The housing depression "prevented the economic recovery from blossoming" over the last few years, but now the lower gasoline processes will pump up the consumer discretionary sector. "We believe that consumer spending is on the cusp of a decade long expansion which has positive implications for stock pickers. As a group, US households are saving 5.6% of their gross income each month, sporting the lowest household debt service ratio of the last 35 years," and have the "most favorable" demographics since 1980, argues Smead.    FREE AppDownload
Bonuses on Wall Street will rise by 4 percent from last year - not counting the impacts of recent legal penalties on some big banks, The Wall Street Journal reported. The report cited an Options Group study, which predicted the 4 percent jump across the board, but didn't account for the legal penalties that companies like Bank of America, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, and Morgan Stanley will have to pay out this year. Most recently, six banks were fined $4.3 billion for overlooking foreign exchange market manipulation. Other investigations and negotiations have led to a whopping $24 billion being paid to the Justice Department this year. Those penalties will likely come out of employees' bonus checks - particularly fixed income, currencies, and commodities traders, for whom Options Group expects to see a 1 percent pay drop. Stock traders should see a 1 percent pay increase, but the real winners will be the investment bankers, who should see their total pay rise 9 percent from last year. (Wealth managers' pay should jump 7 percent this year, the report said.) Other estimates are more extreme. A Johnson Associates study predicted a 15 percent jump in investment bankers' pay, while traders' bonuses would fall by 10 percent. Not their regular pay, though. Just their bonuses. FREE AppDownload
Trading is a wrestling match. Traders have to wrestle with the market, wrestle with the constant cycle of information and data flow and wrestle with their emotions. In many ways it is their emotions which pose the greatest risk to the long term success to most traders and investors because we all have cognitive biases which can work against our success. These biases, first explained through the work of behavioural psychologists Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky, are common to all humans and some of them are the biggest barriers traders can face in sustaining long term profitability. The key point is that we have natural instincts which inhibit our ability to do as economists and market efficiency disciples suggest and always make the “rational” decision. All is not lost though as the research of Kahneman and Tversky spawned the birth of Behavioural Finance which has as one of its core tenets that we do not process information about risk, reward and uncertainty objectively. It’s difficult to defeat these instincts when trading or investing. But knowledge is power. Here are the top five cognitive biases you can control to be a better trader. Like the picture you see in your mind when you read the term “anchoring” this bias refers to the tendency to anchor on the first piece of information you receive when making decisions. In a trading sense this is important because traders often always “anchor” on their entry point rather than evaluate the market as new information comes in and prices react moving up and down. A trader who buys NAB shares at $32 or the Aussie dollar at 93 cents will often anchor his or her beliefs about “value” at those levels regardless of new information and price action. This can lead to serious miscalculation and losses if not risk managed properly. Overcoming this bias – a solid entry process coupled with known stop loss or take profit methodology. Just like the Collingwood football club, the Australian cricket team, the Wallabies and John McEnroe, most traders hate losing. But to be a successful trader or investor, taking losses is part of the process. You institute a trade place a stop loss, perhaps a take profit and you are away. But Kahneman and Tversky showed us that “losses loom larger than corresponding gains”. There are a couple of impacts this can have on traders. The first is that newer traders and investors might have trouble “pulling the trigger”. That is fear of a loss means they can’t actually institute their plan to buy or sell the assets they are trading – or want to trade. Losing money, in a controlled fashion, is part of trading and if this so paralyses a person that they cannot execute their trades then recognising that trading is not for everyone seems the right path to take. But assuming that the hurdle of “pulling the trigger” has been overcome the second major impact of loss aversion is the way that many traders treat positions which go against them. It is an axiom of trading that you should “cut your losses quick and let your profits run”. Loss aversion – the inability to take a loss and the fear of losing a gain – means that traders and investors often do the opposite. That is, they “let their losses run and cut their profits short”. It’s a recipe for losing a substantial portion of your investible funds. Overcoming this bias – traders should not anchor on their entry point, they should have a solid entry protocol with a known value of their investible funds at risk on each trade and a preordained exit strategy. Only then can you hope to overcome this most pernicious of trading biases. Let’s face it no one goes into trading or runs their own investment portfolio without a little bit of self confidence in their ability to be a successful trader and investor. But the behavioural psychologists tell us that anchoring and loss aversion overconfidence can add to a witch’s brew of negative biases likely to seriously impact on investment and trading returns. Overconfidence can lead to increased trading volumes, increased trade sizes, “doubling down” where a trader adds to a losing bet, and under-reaction to important and game changing information. Overconfidence also helps feed bubbles. Overcoming this bias - the biggest issue with overconfidence is that it can erode the decision rules associated with your investment and trading process, with your stop losses (doubling down means you are ignoring them) and your overall profitability. As with the other biases and any business venture process is key. Entry, Exit, stop loss and trade management. “When my information changes, I alter my conclusions. What do you do, sir?”John Maynard Keynes Lots of traders and investors are prone to this bias. They don’t do as Keynes exhorts but rather look for information which support their case. Studies have shown that in aggregate markets can even be prone to only looking for data which support the case of the trader, his or her beliefs, trading/investment position or hypothesis. In looking for data that supports their case traders ignore information which can affect their investments or trade. This type of selective thinking is dangerous for traders but they must also ensure that they don’t fall prone to overweighting recent data in favour of the longer term importance of other information. Overcoming this bias - traders just have to be objective. They should evaluate fresh information when it is received not with reference to the entry point or anchor, not with respect to their expectation of how a market should move or trade but rather how, if, this new information effects the asset – stock, currency, commodity, bond – that they are trading or investing in. If the facts change, then the position should be looked at with fresh eyes. The bandwagon effect summarise the human tendency to want to conform, be part of the crowd, the do things because others are doing them or believe them. This, associated with innate human greed, is how bubbles form and how the trading axiom which says that it’s not a top (in the market or bubble) until retail investors are fully invested. Overcoming this bias – this one is simple. Have a solid investment process. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Brown Harris StevensBriar Patch sits on 11.2 gorgeous acres in East Hampton.An 11.2-acre estate with 1,156 feet of water frontage on Georgica Pond in East Hampton will list for $140 million, according to the Wall Street Journal. A $140 million price tag on the estate, called Briar Patch, will make it the most expensive listing in the Hamptons. The current owners, Chris Whittle, and his wife Priscilla Rattazzi, bought the 10,000-square-foot home in 1989 and completely renovated it with architect Peter Marino in 1990. Most recently, the home has been listed on Brown Harris Stevens for rent on a short-term lease for $175,000.  The estate features an in-ground pool, tennis courts, acres of plush grass, a separate guest house, and access to Georgica Pond. The main home has six bedrooms and features historic "Georgian-Revival" shingles on the exterior.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. regulators on Thursday suspended trading in four small over-the-counter stocks of companies that they said have been touting the development of products to prevent or treat the Ebola virus, and warned investors to beware of similar scams. The Securities and Exchange Commission said it had suspended trading in the shares of New York-based Bravo Enterprises, California-based Immunotech Laboratories, Canada-based Myriad Interactive Media and Wholehealth Products, which is also located in California. The SEC also issued a warning that "con artists" may be soliciting investors and claiming to be developing treatments or medicine to prevent the deadly virus. Company officials at Bravo Enterprises, Immunotech Laboratories and Myriad Interactive Media could not be immediately reached for comment. A woman who answered the phone at Wholehealth Products hung up after saying the company was private. In 2013, the SEC stepped up its enforcement in microcap fraud with the creation of a new task force that specializes in penny and microcap markets. From time to time, the SEC issues investor alerts, especially when fraudsters try to lure investors using topics that feature prominently in the news, such as earthquakes or hurricanes. "We move quickly to protect investors when we see thinly traded stocks being promoted with questionable information that make them ripe for pump-and-dump schemes," said Elisha Frank, co-chair of the SEC Enforcement Division’s Microcap Fraud Task Force. "Fraudsters are constantly exploiting issues of public concern to tout a penny stock company supposedly in the business of addressing the latest crisis." The SEC has the power to suspend trading in companies for 10 days. After that, brokers can resume trading the stock, but they must first make sure certain information about the company is up-to-date and file a form with regulators to demonstrate that the proper requirements are met. Often times, once a microcap company has its shares suspended, brokerages are reluctant to file that form and resume trading because of the potential risks involved. In this case, the SEC said it suspended trading of the four companies because there was a lack of publicly available information about their operations. (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; Additional reporting by Ransdell Pierson in New York; Editing by Bill Trott and Jim Loney) FREE AppDownload
It's wall-to-wall Uber in the news these days, with threats and privacy gaffes and pay controversies and tweetstorms and calls for senior executives' heads. Meanwhile, Uber's "ruthless execution" and financial performance continue to astound those who are privvy to them.  As we reported last week, sources familiar with Uber's numbers say Uber is growing revenue at 300% per year and is expected to hit an annual run-rate of $10 billion by the end of next year. Also, meanwhile, Uber is in the middle of another gigantic round of financing. Here's what we're hearing about the latter: Inquiring minds may also wonder why Uber keeps raising so much money. After all, there are few hard costs in the business other than software and legal and lobbying fees to fend off local governments and taxi unions. (Uber doesn't own cars). The answer is that Uber is using cash as a competitive weapon. When a competitor enters an Uber market, one investor in an Uber-competitor says, Uber immediately and radically cuts its prices. Uber then happily loses money on each ride, knowing that the new competitor, with inferior scale, will lose even more money on each ride. Uber bleeds the competitor until the competitor realizes that Uber will do whatever it takes to crush it. The competitor then often gives up and withdraws — and Uber raises its prices again. It takes a lot of cash to compete that way, but Uber has lots of cash. And after this round, it will have even more cash. Anecdotally, investors are as awe-struck by Uber's growth rate and execution as they are appalled by the company's arrogance and scorched-earth approach to critics and competitors. Thus far, anyway, the latter has not stopped investors from clamoring to climb aboard the magic Uber money machine. SEE ALSO: Now I Know Why Investors Are Going Hog Wild About Uber FREE AppDownload
JanusBill GrossSo, it looks like George Soros just invested $500 million with Bill Gross. In an announcement on its website, Janus announced that Quantum Partners, a private investment vehicle managed by Soros Fund Management, will invest $500 million in an account to be managed by Bill Gross. Soros Fund Management is the hedge fund founded by legendary investor George Soros in 1969; Soros still serves as chairman of the firm.   Following the announcement, Gross said on Twitter, through Janus' official account, that he was "honored" to be managing the new account for Soros.  This account will be managed in a strategy similar to the Unconstrained Fund, which is what Bill Gross manages at Janus, but will not be part of that fund. According to data from Janus, as of October 31, the Unconstrained Bond Fund had $442 million in assets under management. Here's the release from Janus.  Janus Capital Bill Gross joined Janus in late September after leaving PIMCO, the firm he founded in 1971, where Gross managed that firm's flagship Total Return Fund, which had over $200 billion in assets under management. When Gross joined Janus, the Unconstrained Fund had just $13 million in AUM.  Recently, Gross was in the news after Bloomberg's Barry Ritholtz reported that Gross was paid a bonus of $290 million 2013, though PIMCO told Business Insider that figure wasn't accurate.  Gross' exist from PIMCO was one of the biggest shakeups in recent memory in the bond world, as Gross had overseen PIMCO's huge rise that saw the firm at one point control over $2 trillion in assets. But things were going south for Gross at PIMCO well before he left the firm, as the Total Return Fund saw 16-straight months of outflows, totaling $68 billion, before Gross left the firm.  In September, $23.5 billion left the fund. October, the first full month that Total Return operated sans Gross, saw $27.5 billion walk out the door.  And ahead of the outflows the preceded his departure, Gross' performance had lagged his peers, as Gross found himself on the wrong side of a bet that US Treasury yields would rise, not fall, as the Fed continued its quantitative easing programs. Following Gross' departure, PIMCO CEO Doug Hodge reiterated that his departure has not, and would not, affect the way the company functions, with Hodge telling PIMCO clients that the firm's DNA remained "fundamentally unchanged," despite Gross' exit.  In the days following Gross' departure, however, PIMCO appeared to shed past connections with its founder, including apparently deleting all of its tweets that were from Gross.  And since Gross has settled in at Janus, he has returned to his former, mercurial self, writing in his most recent investment outlook to clients, that he is a "philosophical nomad disguised in Western clothing." And now Gross has received a very high-level endorsement.  FREE AppDownload
UBSCausation?  Does higher consumer confidence mean more hotel stays? We're a little skeptical, but UBS's Julian Emanuel does fairly sufficiently prove at least correlation here (granted, this is stock price, not hotel stay price). But is it spurious? Hedge fund manager David Einhorn recently warned Business Insider to be wary of peculiar correlations. The context here, per the UBS note, is that currently energy prices are low (which means more money in Americans' pockets) and consumer confidence is high. This means things could be looking up for companies in the hospitality business, like Marriott.  What do you think? Let us know in the comments or tweet @themoneygame. FREE AppDownload
It appears that Governor Jeb Bush is revving up for 2016, and that's bad news for New Jersey Governor Chris Christie. It means Wall Street donors that might otherwise have thrown coins in Christie's coffers could be handing their money to Bush instead. According to the New York Daily News, Bush has been quietly meeting with Wall Streeters this week to raise cash. He also paid a visit to an unnamed investment bank in downtown Manhattan. Bush's efforts seem to be bearing fruit. Many key finance industry donors have indicated they're ready to back Bush if he officially launches a White House bid.  While some influential finance folks, like Home Depot founder Ken Langone, are sticking with their man in New Jersey, others want another more moderate option in a GOP field that includes the libertarian-leaning Sen. Rand Paul (R-Kentucky) and Tea Party darling Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas). Among those who prefer Bush over Christie there are two camps.  In the first camp are those that think Bush will simply have too much momentum behind him should he decide to run for any other Republican to be a serious contender.  And by momentum we mean money and connections. "I don't know of any issue with Christie. I just think people in the business will get behind fundraising for Jeb faster and easier," said one executive.  The exec pointed out Bush's cousin George Walker is the CEO of Neuberger Berman. They speculated that, if Bush runs, there will likely be "a major force behind those efforts."  "George [Walker] will be..the... main conduit, I bet, if he runs," said the exec. In second camp are those who think Christie is his own worst enemy. They don't like his explosive temperament and penchant for tough-talking. "The issue is that, just as with Giuliani, people are concerned that his shtick won't play nationally. Simple as that," another high-level Wall Streeter said. Another executive was more blunt about Christie's short-comings. "Some people need weight management classes, some need anger management classes and others need advice on being a part of a team. It is going to be hard to make it to the Presidency if you need all three," said the executive. Brutal. FREE AppDownload
Goldman Sachs' global macro team has just released its top trade recommendations for 2015. These trades are not for everyone. They involve currencies, commodities and bonds. They also employ derivatives like options. The underlying themes to these trades, however, telling. "The trades crystallise the idea that the US economy, which is ending 2014 on a strong note, will continue to expand at an above-trend rate," explain Goldman analysts led by Francesco Garzarelli. "This should progressively drive up real rates, and lead to an appreciation of the Dollar. On long-run historical comparisons, the greenback is still a ‘cheap’ currency on a trade-weighted basis." On Europe: "They are also geared to the notion that Euro area economic activity will start to see the benefits of an increasingly expansionary monetary policy, guided by the ECB’s proactive pursuit of a larger balance sheet. A mild relaxation of the fiscal stance (in the bigger economies individually and at the supranational level) and structural reforms should also support domestic demand." On "the New Oil Order": "A third ‘theme’ that runs through the trades is what we have dubbed ‘the New Oil Order’ in our Commodity Research. An expansion and redistribution of supply should keep headline CPI inflation lower (providing central banks more leeway to keep or expand monetary accommodation), further support disposable income growth in the advanced economies and lead to a greater differentiation across the emerging economies, most evidently along the oil dependency spectrum." Without further ado: FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - GoDaddy Inc is planning an initial public offering early next year that would value the world's biggest provider of web addresses at roughly $4.5 billion, the New York Post said. GoDaddy, backed by KKR &amp; Co and Silver Lake Management LLC, first filed to go public in June. Chief financial officer, Scott Wagner, met with analysts last week to give an update on the company and stressed GoDaddy's desire to diversify to compete with rivals, the Post said, citing a source. GoDaddy and other internet domain registration providers are under pressure after Google Inc began testing a domain registration service in June this year. GoDaddy and KKR declined to comment on the report. Silver Lake did not immediately respond to calls seeking comment. (Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
Facebook/Mark ZuckerbergMark Zuckerberg created Facebook in his Harvard dorm room. College isn't for everyone. Between tests, papers, and classes, there's a lot of stress, and plenty of students don't make it through. But that doesn't mean these students are doomed to failure. We put together a list of the most successful Harvard dropouts.  Some left the prestigious Ivy to pursue their passions, while others were forced to leave after partying too much. Either way, they all found extraordinary success after leaving the university. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois LenoirA worker displays a heart-shaped praline for Valentine's Day at a Wittamer chocolate boutique in Brussels.FactSet has released its report on the 50 largest hedge funds and their holdings during the third quarter. These funds increased their exposure to stocks by 3.8% as the market extended its 5-year old bull run. FactSet's John Butters noted that the most popular stocks to buy were in the in the information technology sector, followed by consumer discretionary and energy sectors. Shares of Shire PLC were the most bought in the third quarter, even as the biopharmaceutical company negotiated acquisition offers by Abbvie that eventually fell through.  The largest funds owned stocks with a combined market value worth $790 billion. Using FactSet's data, we've compiled a list of the 50 most widely held stocks and ranked them by the dollar value held by the funds. FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Goldman Sachs Group Inc said it fired a junior employee and a supervisor over the leaking of confidential information from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The investment bank said the junior employee had passed on the information from the New York Fed, his former employer, to a senior colleague, who alerted the bank's compliance board. The supervisor was fired for knowing about the matter but not escalating it. Goldman said it immediately reported the incident to the New York Fed. The junior banker had been employed with the bank for less than four months. The confidential information provided Goldman a window into the New York Fed's private insights, including details about at least one of the bank's clients, the New York Times reported, citing lawyers familiar with the matter. It is unclear whether Goldman's bankers used the information, the New York Times added. In an internal memo obtained by Reuters, Goldman said the proper handling of confidential information was among its highest priorities and that it had a specific policy prohibiting an employee's use of information obtained from former employers. The bank also said it had been in touch with government regulators and enforcement authorities and was assisting the investigations. Goldman added that it was reviewing its policies regarding hiring staff from government institutions to ensure that they were effective and robust. Goldman shares were little changed at $189.17 in morning trade on Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange. FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A top U.S. regulator on Thursday decried a push by some investor advocates to change the rules that define who can qualify to invest in riskier private security deals, saying it is straining resources and that "millionaires can fend for themselves." "I am baffled by continued insistence from some quarters that we need to significantly revise the accredited investor definition" Securities and Exchange Commission member Daniel Gallagher, a Republican, told a forum on small business capital formation. "The obsession with protecting millionaires, potentially at the cost of hindering wildly successful and critically important private markets, strains logic and reason," he added, generating some applause. Gallagher's comments come as the SEC is mulling whether or not it should make changes to the definition of "accredited investor." That critical definition determines who can invest in private offerings of stock or debt that are typically subject to less financial disclosure, and thus are riskier. The rule states that to qualify as an accredited investor, an individual must have a net worth of $1 million, excluding the value of a primary residence, an individual annual income over $200,000 or a combined household income of $300,000. Since the rule was written in the 1980s, the SEC has tinkered with the definition only once. The commission excluded the home value in the net worth calculation in late 2011, after the change was mandated by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street reform law. But the law also requires the SEC to revisit the definition to consider potential changes every four years - a process that is now underway. Last month, an investor advisory committee that makes policy recommendations to the SEC voted to suggest some changes to the definition. The proposal aims to better protect people with less financial literacy from investing their nest eggs in riskier private deals. It calls for drawing limits on who can be an accredited investor based on a person's financial sophistication and trading experience, among other factors. This approach, the panel said, might make more sense than the current definition, which relies on income and net worth standards that could be viewed as arbitrary and may not fully protect less-sophisticated investors. Gallagher said he is not yet persuaded changes are warranted, and said the exclusion of the home value from the net worth calculation already marked a significant change.   (Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch; Editing by Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Mike Kai Mike Kai and David Aulicino were seniors at Yale in 2004 when they, along with 20 friends dressed as the fictional "Harvard Pep Squad," boldly entered Harvard's football stadium and convinced close to 2,000 unsuspecting Crimson fans to help spell out two words — "WE SUCK." The prank — brilliant in its simplicity — actually took more than a year of planning to properly execute. For the 10th anniversary of the "WE SUCK" gag, Business Insider spoke with Kai and Aulicino, who explained just how they were able to pull off one of the greatest college pranks of all time. Courtesy of Mike KaiYale students and prank masterminds David Aulicino (l) and Mike Kai (r) pose with a stack of red and white construction paper.  Kai and Aulicino first met during their freshman year at Yale, when they were randomly placed into the same residential college, Pierson. According to Kai, the two bonded by "concocting random plans together" — among their earliest endeavors were building a hot tub using an inflatable pool and garden hoses, and a foam machine made with parts from Home Depot. By their junior year, the duo had moved on to bigger projects. While throwing around some prank ideas for the annual Harvard Crimson-Yale Bulldogs football game — a massive event for both universities known simply as "The Game" — one of their friends suggested getting Harvard fans to unknowingly spell out an embarrassing message. "It was one of those things where you're sitting around with some buddies drinking beer and one guy says 'Wouldn't it be cool if....' I woke up the next day and couldn't shake the idea. It haunted me. At first, it was a matter of getting the ball rolling, building the team, coming up with the strategy. But later, once we invested so much time and money into it, there was no turning back," Kai wrote in a Reddit AMA two years ago. So, with the help of some friends, then-Yale juniors Kai and Aulicino attempted to pull off a large scale prank that would truly surprise their Ivy League rivals. As luck would have it, The Game — which switches between New Haven and Cambridge every year — was at the Yale Bowl in 2003, giving them a literal home field advantage. The First Attempt The Yale crew's original plan was to enter the stadium before The Game started, and leave red and white construction paper underneath the seats of Harvard fans. The paper was to be laid out specifically so that when raised, the completed design would spell out "WE SUCK." However, Kai, Aulicino, and the other Yale students had to call off their prank before it even began. Someone had called in a bomb threat before The Game started, and Yale police evacuated the stadium, searching everyone who was inside. "Once the bomb threat came in, they wanted to search everyone in the stadium, and there were very few people there. They saw us with all of the construction paper," Aulicino said. Caught in the act, and without a believable explanation for what they were doing, the would-be Yale pranksters had to abandon their plan. However, what seemed like a missed opportunity at the time may have been a blessing in disguise. When setting up the prank at the Yale Bowl, it became clear that their plan of taping the paper to the seats before the game wouldn't work. "If it weren't for the bomb scare, I actually think the other big risk factor was that we put it underneath the chairs, and from the other side you could sort of read it," Kai said. The Yale students were undeterred, and if anything, now wanted more than ever to pull off an awesome prank. For months after the failed 2003 attempt, Kai drove around with stacks of red and white construction paper in his trunk, unable to give up on their idea. Once senior year started, Kai and Aulicino recommitted to their efforts toward succesfully establishing their superiority over Harvard. Meet The "Harvard Pep Squad" The second time around, the pair didn't take any chances. They came up with a new plan to prank their rivals during the annual football game, and even better, they got Harvard fans to unknowingly help set up their prank. Courtesy of Mike KaiYale students organize the red and white construction paper according to a specific layout. In order to ensure their new plan went off smoothly, the Yale students needed to get to know the layout of Harvard Stadium, where The Game was held in 2004. On October 9, more than a month before The Game, Kai and Aulicino drove up to Cambridge to check out the Harvard-Cornell football game. There, Kai took detailed photographs of the stadium, and counted the rows in each section. Back in New Haven, Kai and Aulicino were able to develop fairly sophisticated schematics of the Harvard Stadium layout, down to the number of bleachers. Because they knew the Harvard-Yale game would be packed, Kai said, they had to "guestimate" how many people would be able to fit in each row and section. "The challenge was that the 'seats' are laid out as one giant cement bench so there could be more or less than the seat numbers specified ... With the estimation, we created a grid that let us 'draw' in red each pixel and the way 'WE SUCK' would be laid out," Kai wrote on Reddit. A good map wouldn't be enough, though. Kai and Aulicino also realized they needed a cover story to explain what they were doing in the Harvard side of the stadium. "We didn't really have a story sussed out [in 2003], so when we did it again the next year, we really looked at what failed the first time around. And one of those gaps was that we needed a really good story," Kai said. Screenshot Via YouTubeA Yale student shows off a fake "Harvard Pep Band" t-shirt. In order to fully sell the group to the Harvard fans, the Yale students went all out on their disguises — designing their own "Harvard Pep Squad" t-shirts, donning red and white face paint, and even manufacturing fake Harvard student IDs complete with pseudonyms, in case anyone questioned them. According to Kai, the Yale students were able to make the fake IDs using a Harvard student ID card that belonged to a friend's ex-girlfriend. Unfortunately, many of their original collaborators from the year before were discouraged by the original plan's untimely demise. According to Kai, a new group of Yale students was recruited for the prank at Harvard Stadium. "Most of the people who helped us our junior year didn't want to help senior year, after seeing the failure," Kai told Business Insider. "So it became a mix of close friends and freshmen, who hadn't seen the failed plan." The new recruits helped fill out a range of positions. "We needed 20 people just to hand out the heavy construction paper, plus we needed people to rile up the crowd and get them excited," Aulicino said. Armed with their "Harvard Pep Squad" outfits — and some practiced cheers — 2004's prank was set to be much more smooth than the year before. Even with all the prep work, Kai described himself on Reddit as "incredibly nervous" the night before The Game. "Dave and I planned every detail we could imagine and went through every possible scenario. It was like preparing for battle, really. Stacking all those papers the night before, double-checking everything, coordinating meetup points," he wrote. As seniors, this would be their last chance to pull off a prank of this magnitude on one of the most anticipated days for students at both schools. By the next morning though, they were ready. In The Stadium "A friend in the Yale Band got a handful of us access before the game started. We carried about 100lbs worth of paper in black trash bags to a corner of the Harvard side of the stadium," Kai wrote on Reddit. Once they had set up, the Harvard Pep Squad made their presence known, pumping up the Crimson fans with cheers and distributing a few extra t-shirts throughout the stands. With the crowd on their side, the Yale students began to hand out their red and white paper during the second quarter. "It was incredibly terrifying to pass out the cards and hope for the best, since we had to rely on the fans to do it for us," Kai wrote on Reddit. He explained how the Harvard Pep Squad was able to distribute their paper throughout the crowd and eventually get the Crimson fans to participate in their prank: Since each row was very long, we made "sub-stacks" to split each row 3x and so that the Pep Squad members could deliver accordingly. That's why we needed so many people, 26 in all I believe. 1800 large pieces of construction paper was about 150-175lbs. It was about a 4ft high stack ... We created approx 48 stacks of paper and stapled instructions on each piece that said clearly "TAKE THE TOP ONE, PASS REST ON" Then each stack was handed by a Pep Squad member to the person at the beginning of each row. Since we did our recon beforehand and knew (generally) how many people could sit in each row, we hoped for the best as the cards streamed across the stadium. Because the cards were so big and unwieldy, we didn't wait long to give the instructions. One of the coolest things was that just a handful of remaining Pep Squad members "lit the fuse" so to speak — once a few fans held up signs, everyone else did the same. "We knew we had to get people's attention, because it was our crew who would give the signal," Kai said. Screenshot Via YouTubeA Harvard student questions the fake "Harvard Pep Squad." After some hesitation, the Yale student answered "ho-fo" — which is not a Harvard house. She then recovered slightly, volunteering "fo-ho," a nickname for Harvard's Pforzheimer House. The other Pep Squad members were quick to cover up her mistake, telling the Harvard student that their forgetful friend was "probably drunk." "There was one person, a student, who got very suspicious. One of the people in our pep squad maybe had a little too much to drink and messed up the name of the house. I had to play it off like, 'I can't believe you're questioning us, we're Harvard students, this is so offensive of you,'" Aulicino said. The real Harvard student left the Pep Squad alone after Aulicino produced one of the fake Harvard IDs. "This Really Worked!" Aside from the brief round of questioning, the Harvard Pep Squad seemed to be fully accepted into the Crimson fanbase. "It was almost sad. There were all these grandfather and grandmother types — and they all had big smiles, saying, 'Oh you're so cute, I'm so glad you're doing this.' I felt bad for about two minutes. Then I got over it," one Yale student/Harvard Pep Band member told The Yale Daily News. Even the Harvard Stadium security let the students move around the crowd freely. As Kai wrote on Reddit, "Security and staff surprisingly didn't seem to care. We made sure to scream and yell a ton to be hidden in plain sight." Screenshot Via YouTubeUnwitting Harvard fans hold up red and white pieces of paper, inadvertently spelling out "We Suck." "It was super anti-climatic! After the first time the signs went up, we all just stared at each other. No one on the Harvard side knew what the signs really said since you were so close to the action," Kai wrote on Reddit. A "hysterical" friend on the other side of the stadium quickly called him, though, saying, "This actually worked! And you need to do it again because people didn't realize what just happened." The Harvard Pep Squad had the fans hold up the sign several more times — on the third time, right before the end of the first half, the game stopped on the field as the players on both sides noticed the message in the stands, as well as a chant coming from the Yale section. "For me, one of the biggest signs that I knew we had actually pulled it off was all of the sudden we heard this loud uniform sound from the other side of the stadium — 'You suck, you suck, you suck,'" Aulicino said. And that was it. They had pulled it off and, for the time, no one at Harvard knew what had happened. The Big Reveal The Game took place right around Yale's Thanksgiving break, "so we definitely celebrated that day ... we had video footage that we just kept replaying," Kai said. As part of the preparation for the prank, the Yale students had filmed their entire process — from organizing the construction paper to their eventual success in the Harvard Stadium stands. "I was really into film, so I had access to all the equipment and had plotted it all out in my head," Kai said. "I knew we needed some shots of us putting it together, because of how absurd it was with the shirts and the paper and everything." 10 years ago, there was no such thing as YouTube or iPhones. If the Yale students wanted people to know about what they did, they had to publish and distribute the video on their own. Right after The Game, Kai and Aulicino created the website "HarvardSucks.org" — hosted on Yale's servers — where their video quickly went viral. Courtesy of Mike KaiTwo Yale students pose with coverage of their "WE SUCK" prank in Maxim Magazine. Perhaps not surprisingly, the Yale administration reached out to the prank masterminds, wanting to meet. However, the dean thought the prank was "hilarious," Kai wrote on Reddit, and was more concerned with what was happening with the school's servers. In order to cover the cost of the pranks — Kai estimates that he spent about $750 total for the construction paper and custom shirts — they began to sell posters of the "WE SUCK" sign for $10. Originally hoping just to break even, the poster sales covered their expenses within the first hour. "Within an hour we made the money back, and after that we donated the extra to relief efforts for the big Indian Ocean Earthquake and Tsunami. Something like $10 grand when it was all over with! We also threw a big raging party of course," Kai wrote on Reddit. Riding high, Kai and Aulicino even upped the stakes of their prank, making up a now-infamous story that Harvard marching band members got them into the stadium before The Game and had helped plan the prank. "Man, we were brazen," Kai wrote on Reddit. "After the prank made the news, a Harvard publication wanted to do an interview. So to toss salt in the wound we trolled them with a story about how their own marching band wanted to help out." One of the strengths of the prank — and likely the reason the fake Harvard Pep Squad members got away with it without punishment — is that it was relatively tame and not particularly malicious. "The prank was on the edge, but it was all good natured. It didn't result in any property damage or anyone getting hurt," Kai said. Even Harvard's director of athletic communications said the prank was "all in good fun." However, the message was almost a little more crude than just "WE SUCK," Kai said. "We had some really vulgar ideas, and I'm so glad we had other people involved, who sat us down and said, that's not going to make people happy." On Reddit, Kai revealed another slogan the Yale team considered, which thankfully didn't make the final product — "I &lt;3 C--k." Where Are They Now? A decade has passed since Mike Kai and David Aulicino snuck more than 20 Yale students into Harvard Stadium and successfully pulled off one of the greatest college pranks ever. After graduating Yale in 2005, the two friends went their separate ways, ending up on opposite ends of the country in very different fields. Courtesy of Mike KaiA group of Yale students pose in their "Harvard Pep Squad" disguises. He is now an "Internet entrepreneur." "I previously founded a digital product consultancy that did work for clients like AT&amp;T, Pioneer, and early-stage startups," Kai said. "I left a few months ago to focus on relaunching a company that offers a DIY website builder application for freelancers and small businesses." Aulicino recieved a math Ph.D. from the University of Maryland, graduating two years ago, and is currently a postdoc at the University of Chicago. According to the UChicago website, he works with "Teichmüller theory and dynamical systems." He says he still can't believe they pulled it off. "I think for me, the farther we get from it, the less I believe it actually happened," Aulicino said. "It was such a confluence of so many things coming together, the timing, everything being right." Kai agreed — "I can't believe we had the guts to do it. I can't believe that with a straight face I convinced people that this would actually happen." Watch the original video of Mike Kai and David Aulicino's "WE SUCK" prank below:  FREE AppDownload
Scott Halleran/Getty ImagesThursday morning saw the Philadelphia Federal Reserve's latest manufacturing business outlook survey smash expectations. The report's headline index came in at 40.8, blowing away last month's 20.7 reading and far exceeding expectations for a reading of 18.5. This reading also marked the highest level for the index since December 1993. But some economists aren't sold on the jump. In a note following the report, Paul Dales, senior US economist said, "We're finding it hard to take the leap in the [Philly Fed index]...seriously when other surveys have eased, when overseas demand has softened, and when the dollar has strengthened." "We suspect the index will fall back sharply next month," Dales wrote. Over at BNP Paribas, Derek Lindsey also noted that the strength of the Philly Fed report flies in the face of a New York Fed manufacturing report earlier this week and a flash PMI report that hit a 10-month low just minutes ahead of the Philly Fed's own release. And at Pantheon Macroeconomics, Ian Shepherdson said the the report was, in one word, "mind-boggling." Shepherdson added that, "We don't know what drove the change this year — and the Philly Fed press release offers no ideas — but the headline strength is reflected in surging orders and shipments, too." And so as tends to be the case when any data, be it economic data or a company's earnings report, blows away expectations, eyebrows tend to be raised. Dales notes that the last time the Philly Fed's report was this strong was June 2011. But here's the big catch: a couple months later it was below zero. FREE AppDownload
Sparks are flying ever since Obama announced his nominee, another Wall Streeter, for Treasury Undersecretary for Domestic Finance last week. Elizabeth Warren spoke out, Wall Street talked back. So today, the feisty populist from Massachusetts laid it all out in a Huffington Post op-ed: "I believe President Obama deserves deference in picking his team, and I've generally tried to give him that. But enough is enough." Here's why she thinks Obama's pick, Antonio Weiss, is a terrible choice for the Treasury: "Sure, big banks are important, but running this economy for American families is a lot more important," she wrote. So who's got the next volley? FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEuropean Commission First Vice-President Timmermans listens to European Competition Commissioner Vestager during the first official meeting of the EU's executive body in BrusselsBy Jan Strupczewski and Barbara Lewis BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Commission has stepped up a wide-ranging cartel investigation that could lead to heavy fines for some of the world's biggest truckmakers. The Commission announced on Thursday that it had sent formal charge sheets to several manufacturers it suspected of price fixing, marking the next phase of a complex investigation that began with raids on a number of companies' headquarters in January 2011. Daimler, Volvo and Iveco parent CNH Industrial all confirmed receipt of the European regulator's so-called statements of objections, together with Volkswagen-controlled Scania and MAN. Companies can be fined up to 10 percent of their annual revenue if the Commission concludes that there is sufficient evidence of an infringement of EU rules barring cartels and the abuse of market dominance. New EU Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager said on Thursday that she believed the case would be extremely difficult to resolve though agreed settlements, in which companies typically pay reduced fines in return for admitting anticompetitive behavior to expedite the investigation. Vestager, who took office this month, also emphasized the broader impact of price-fixing. "Keeping the cost of road transportation high has a damaging effect on the rest of the economy," she said during a news conference in Brussels. In its 2013 annual report, Volvo said it may face a significant financial hit as a result of the price-fixing probe. "It is probable that the group's result and cash flow may be materially adversely affected as a result of the ongoing investigation," the company said. Daimler has also warned shareholders that it may have to pay "considerable fines". The EU executive declined to identify the companies that had received notice of its findings, saying only that a large number were involved. "The Commission has concerns that certain heavy and medium-duty truck producers may have agreed or coordinated their pricing behavior," the Commission said in a statement.  (Writing by Laurence Frost; Additional reporting by Andreas Cremer, Jan Schwartz, Johannes Hellstrom, Helena Soderpalm, Edward Taylor and Alastair Macdonald; Editing by David Goodman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/How Hwee Yong/Pool Russia and China have signed two large natural gas deals in the last six months as Russia turns its attention to China, in reaction to sanctions and souring relations with Europe, currently Russia’s largest energy export market. But the move has implications beyond Europe. In the department of everything is connected, U.S. natural gas producers may be seeing their dream of substantial liquefied natural gas (LNG) exports suffer fatal injury because of Russian exports to the Chinese market, a market that was expected to be the largest and most profitable for LNG exporters. Petroleum geologist and consultant Art Berman–who has been consistently skeptical of the viability of U.S. LNG exports–communicated in an email that Russian supply will force the price of LNG delivered to Asia down to between $10 and $11, too low for American LNG exports to be profitable. Now, let’s back up a little. U.S. natural gas producers have been trying to sell the story of an American energy renaissance based on growing domestically produced gas supplies from deep shale deposits–now being exploited through a new form of hydraulic fracturing called high-volume slick-water hydraulic fracturing. The problem has been that overproduction and low prices–now only a fraction of the $13 per thousand cubic feet (mcf) at the peak in 2008–have undermined the financial stability of the natural gas drillers. Here’s why: Natural gas from shale, referred to as shale gas, is generally more expensive to produce than conventional natural gas and will require that natural gas prices go much higher than they are today–from around $4 per mcf almost certainly to over $6 per mcf and perhaps more to pay the costs of bringing that gas out profitably. But at that price, U.S. LNG is no longer competitive in Europe. And now, because of the Russian-Chinese natural gas pipeline deals, it may no longer be competitive in Asia. Those are the two largest markets for LNG. Without them it is doubtful that the United States will be exporting much LNG–except perhaps at a loss. David W Cerny/ReutersA worker walks past pipelines at the gas cavern storage in Haje, near the village of Jesenice in central Bohemia September 9, 2014.Here’s the problem: To convert U.S. natural gas to liquefied natural gas, put it on specially built tankers and ship it to Europe or Asia will cost about $6 per mcf. If the price of U.S. natural gas averages around $6 per mcf, the total landed cost of U.S. LNG will be the cost of the gas plus the cost of converting it and shipping it, that is, around $12 per mcf. The most recent landed prices for LNG to Asia as reported by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission were $10.10 per MMBtu* for China, $10.50 for Korea and $10.50 for Japan. For Europe the numbers are even more sobering: $9.15 for Spain, $6.60 for the United Kingdom, and $6.78 for Belgium. All amounts are U.S. dollars. These are probably reflective of spot prices rather than long-term contracts, and they are down due to softening energy demand that may be the result of an economic slowdown in Asia and Europe. But, they give an indication of how difficult it will be for U.S. LNG to compete on the world market. LNG prices may well improve, but buyers of LNG typically sign cost-plus contracts. In the United States that would be the cost of Henry Hub natural gas (traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange) plus the cost of liquefaction and transportation. With no assurances–and a good deal of evidence to the contrary–that Henry Hub gas will remain at current prices (around $4) for the long term, it’s difficult to see how there will be many long-term buyers of U.S. LNG. One wonders, under such circumstances, just how many of the 14 proposed U.S. LNG export terminals will actually be built. Having taken the long way around, let me return to the Russian-Chinese natural gas pipelines and their significance in this drama. Gazprom, the Russian natural gas giant that will actually deliver the gas, valued the earlier deal in May at around $10.19 per MMBtu. The latest deal has no announced value, but one analyst believes the Chinese will be asking for around $8 per MMBtu. Even if the Chinese end up accepting a price closer to the previous deal, some 17 percent of the Chinese natural gas supply will be coming from Russia when the pipelines are complete several years from now. And that will likely anchor the price of Chinese LNG imports between $10 and $11 per MMBtu, making the price too low to be reliably profitable for U.S. LNG exporters. The implication is that today’s soft prices for imported LNG to China and the rest of Asia may become the norm in a few years just as America’s LNG export terminals are about to become operational. If investors fund these terminals and the Russian-Chinese pipelines get built, there is likely to be some epic capital destruction on the American side of the Pacific. There are other reasons to be skeptical about America’s future as a natural gas exporter. The rosy predictions of the industry and the U.S. Department of Energy for domestic natural gas production from shale may be overblown according to a newreport from the same analyst who foresaw the massive downgrade of recoverable oil from California’s Monterey Shale. Despite rising domestic natural gas production, the United States remains a net importer of natural gas. Natural gas imports accounted for about 10 percent of U.S. consumption through August of this year. (Full disclosure: I worked as a paid consultant to help publicize the report mentioned above. But, as longtime readers know, since 2008 I’ve been skeptical about the wild claims of a long-term U.S. bonanza in oil and natural gas due to shale deposits. This report offers the first comprehensive analysis based on industry data and is produced independent of industry influence or money. Anyone with a stake in the industry or in U.S. energy policy should read it.) Getty Images/Andrew BurtonA gas flare is seen at an oil well site. Gas flares are created when excess flammable gases are released by pressure release valves during the drilling for oil and natural gas. It’s possible that some U.S. LNG export projects may move forward in any case. If the buyers for this LNG sign long-term, cost-plus contracts as described above, those buyers will be in for a big surprise when U.S. natural gas prices rise. And those exports will create something of a self-reinforcing feedback loop by raising overall demand which will hoist domestic prices even higher for U.S. natural gas–even more so if there is not as much U.S. production as is currently being projected. If U.S. natural gas production remains at or below the level of domestic consumption, the United States could be faced with the rather bizarre prospect of having to import high-priced LNG from some countries to fill the gap created by LNG export shipments committed to others. Higher U.S. natural gas prices will be a double-edged sword for those concerned about a cleaner energy future. U.S. natural gas producers and renewable energy companies will simultaneously rejoice if exports raise prices appreciably–producers because their financial fortunes will turn more positive and renewable energy companies because renewable energy will become more competitive with higher priced natural gas. Environmentalists, however, will gasp in horror as profitability rises enough in the shale gas fields to justify ever greater encroachments on the American landscape. And, U.S. politicians who favor LNG exports may ultimately find themselves pilloried by consumers who must pay those higher prices and environmentalists who abhor the environmental costs–even as those politicians watch the campaign contributions flood in from a grateful shale gas industry.  FREE AppDownload
 Morgan Stanley now has the hottest wealth-management division on Wall Street. To maintain that, you need to find top talent. It's harder than you might think. So we asked Morgan Stanley to send us a tough interview question, one that separates the men from the boys, or the women from the girls. This is a question that shows you how the bank wants its wealth managers to think. Here it is: "The client is always right. Describe three examples of when the client is wrong." "The question is a good one because it gets to the heart of what effective financial advisors do all the time, which is to prevent clients from taking actions that could be harmful to their financial well-being, while still maintaining a constructive relationship with the client," said Daniel Dibiasio, Morgan Stanley wealth management's head of Talent.  "It gives the interviewer insight into how a would-be financial advisor might think about and handle such a situation, and opens the possibility for role play that allows the candidates to show how they might please clients while still persuading them to consider consequences they may not have thought about and go in a different direction." From Dibiasio's response, you can probably already gather that there's no set answer to this one, but some are better than others. For example, a client may be wrong if they refuse to diversify their portfolio or take on too much risk. Some of this stuff is personal, too. A wealth manager may want to step in if a client isn't planning for a potential negative scenario within the family, like a child's spouse not being the best with money. All these responses reflect what wealth management is: a delicate balance between understanding your client as a person, understanding the market, and building a respectful relationship with everyone involved. Don't get stumped.    FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Shares of Habit Restaurants Inc , a fast food restaurant chain known for its charburgers, doubled in their market debut, valuing the company at about $909.1 million. The initial public offering of 5 million Class A shares raised $90 million after being priced at $18 per share, well above the expected range of $14-$16 The company, which operates the Habit Burger Grill chain of restaurants, offers charburgers, sandwiches and milk shakes. Habit shares opened at $30 on the Nasdaq and touched a high of $36. Piper Jaffray, Baird and Wells Fargo were among the underwriters to the IPO.  (Reporting by Neha Dimri in Bangalore; Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
In addition to connection speeds as much as 100 times the speed of traditional broadband Internet solutions, Google Fiber has the added benefit of providing customers with a non-cable solution. It's no secret cable providers like Comcast and Time Warner are at the bottom of customer service lists year in and year out. Since the concept of Google Fiber was first announced in 2010, and started rolling out to select markets a few years later, the cable industry has continually pooh-poohed Fiber's faster speeds for a lower cost, and seemed genuinely bemused at the very notion of Google infringing upon their cozy, little world. Turns out, Google isn't content with simply stepping on cable's toes in the battle for consumer's homes, now it's introducing Fiber for small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs). According to the Small Business Administration (SBA), there are over 28 million small businesses in the U.S. that account for nearly half of all private sector jobs, and over 60% of new employment opportunities. In other words, the SMB market is big, and getting bigger. Cable companies recognize the potential of business customers, and Comcast and Time Warner Cable, even as they work to wrap up their acquisition-merger deal, each have SMB-targeted marketing campaigns. Now, Google Fiber 's "Early Access Program" for SMB's enters the picture. Tom Mihalek/ReutersLocal residents protesting against the Comcast-Time Warner Inc. merger outside the Comcast Shareholders Meeting in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania May 21, 2014.As is par for the course, Google's Fiber business solution is easing into the SMB market. Today, select businesses in the Kansas City, MO and Kansas City, KS markets that are within Google's "fiberhoods," have the option to kick their cable Internet provider to the curb. Even if Internet providers like Comcast and Time Warner Cable opt to bring their respective business Internet prices down to try to match Fiber, it may not matter. Google Fiber, in addition to being a non-cable alternative, also has a secret weapon in the war for SMB's Internet business: cloud services. Business owners that opt for Fiber don't necessarily have to utilize Google's suite of cloud solutions; Fiber's "hard-wired" via its miles and miles of pipes. However, Google has made it clear with multiple price cuts and its expanding suite of services there's cloud revenues to be had, and it intends on being a major player. Bringing Fiber to SMBs provides a world of opportunities to upsell and cross-sell appropriate cloud services in what will become a significant opportunity as more SMB markets become available. As for cable companies, they can try to discount the impact of Fiber all they want, but they're no match for Google when it comes to cloud-related solutions for businesses. Comcast CEO Brian Robert's message over a year ago regarding Google Fiber, and the cable industry's response to it, spoke volumes as to why cable just doesn't get it. At last year's annual trade show, Roberts said, "I hope there's a demand" for Fiber, which he then followed up by demonstrating a Comcast Internet connection solution even faster than Google's alternative. Which begs the question, why hasn't Comcast's ultra-fast connection been made widely available at a price point somewhere close to Fiber's $70 a month? His answer? We don't need it, nor do we want it. Kevin Lamarque/ReutersBrian Roberts (L) Chairman and CEO of Comcast Corp. and Jeff Zucker (R) President and CEO of NBC Universal.Robert's comments echoed those of Time Warner Cable's then-COO Robert Markus (now CEO) nearly two years ago when he said, "If there is a demand for (faster connectivity) service we will provide it." Comcast, Time Warner Cable, and their industry brethren have since sat back and watched city after city trip over themselves to be the next in line for Fiber, and now they'll see more of the same from SMBs. The popularity of Fiber is undeniable, however, Google faces a few hurdles before it can truly make the kind of impact on the cable industry that Fiber is truly capable of. Namely, streamlining the "approval" process for cities around the U.S., and making the actual installation process more efficient. As it stands, city governments are forced to cut through endless red tape to even be considered as "Fiber-worthy." Then there's the onerous process of installing miles and miles of pipe to bring Fiber to the masses. But when it's said and done, Fiber for SMBs will be as successful as its consumer solution for a couple of reasons. One, its faster and less expensive than cable alternatives. Second, despite Comcast's and Time Warner Cable's refusal to acknowledge what we all know – cable's customer service record is abysmal – Fiber is a way for U.S. consumers, and now SMBs, to tell cable companies, "bye-bye." FREE AppDownload
During a recent interview with the Associated Press about an art exhibit, Bill Cosby was asked about the sexual assault allegations against him.  Produced by Devan Joseph. Video courtesy of AP. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Thomson ReutersA euro logo sculpture stands in front the headquarters of the European Central Bank  in FrankfurtBy Jonathan Cable, Jake Spring and Ryan Vlastelica LONDON/BEIJING/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Surveys sounded warning bells for the global economy on Thursday as euro zone businesses grew less quickly than any forecaster expected, and China and U.S. factories lost momentum. The downbeat data, alongside evidence of further price-cutting, will add to calls for more policy action from the European Central Bank, while the first drop in Chinese manufacturing output for six months will heap similar pressure on authorities in Beijing. "It does reinforce the case for quantitative easing from the European Central Bank," said Alan Clarke, European economist at Scotiabank, of the euro zone PMIs. Markit's Composite Flash Purchasing Managers' Index for November, based on surveys of thousands of companies and seen as a good growth indicator, fell to 51.4, missing even the lowest forecast in a Reuters poll. The service industry PMI also undershot all forecasts by falling to 51.3, while the factory PMI's dip to 50.4 missed consensus. However, all three readings held above the 50 mark that separates growth from contraction. Markit said the PMI pointed to 0.1-0.2 percent GDP growth in the euro zone in the current quarter, compared with the 0.2 percent forecast in a Reuters poll taken last week.  "November's fall in the euro zone composite PMI is a serious blow to hopes that the recovery would resume toward the end of the year," said Jennifer McKeown, senior European economist at Capital Economics. Forward-looking indicators suggest the situation is unlikely to improve anytime soon. The composite new orders index fell below 50 for the first time since July 2013, and factories, which barely increased staffing levels, ran down old orders faster than last month. But likely of greatest concern for the ECB, which is facing the specter of deflation, service firms cut prices they charge again, as they have done ever since late-2011. Euro zone prices rose 0.4 percent in October, well below the ECB's target of just under 2 percent and stuck firmly in what it terms the inflation danger zone. To keep the region from slipping into deflation, the ECB has been pumping money into the banking system by buying covered bonds and offering cheap long-term loans to banks. The chances it takes the plunge and buys sovereign bonds are now 50-50, a Reuters poll found. [ECILT/EU]  BRITTLE CHINA In China, the world's second biggest economy, the HSBC/Markit manufacturing PMI reading showed a drop to a six-month low of 50.0 in November. The factory output sub-index fell to 49.5, its first contraction since May. A cooling property market, erratic foreign demand and overcapacity have weighed on its manufacturers and the broader economy this year despite a steady stream of stimulus measures. China's annual growth slowed to 7.3 percent in the third quarter, leaving 2014 on track to be the slowest in 24 years. "We still see uncertainties in the months ahead from the property market and on the export front. We think more monetary and fiscal easing measures should be deployed." said Hongbin Qu, chief China economist at HSBC. The Markit/JMMA version of Japan's PMI was more mixed. While the headline index edged down to 52.1 in November, from 52.4 in October, output expanded at its fastest clip in eight months. Firms may have been responding to better offshore demand as exports soared, reflecting a weaker yen. Policymakers were taken by surprise earlier this week when data showed the economy fell into recession in the third quarter, underlining the necessity of the Bank of Japan's super-loose policy and sending the yen to fresh lows.  U.S. GROWTH SLOWS The U.S. manufacturing sector growth also slowed in November, falling to its lowest rate since January while a gauge of new orders also fell for a third straight month, an industry report showed on Thursday. Markit said its preliminary or "flash" U.S. Manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index fell to 54.7 from October's final reading of 55.9. Economists polled by Reuters had expected it to rise to 56.4. The index was at its lowest level since January, as was the new orders subindex. Output fell from 57.8 in October to 55.6, also at its lowest since January, when severe weather impacted economic activity. "Export market weakness holds the key to the recent slowdown, with manufacturers reporting the largest drop in export orders for nearly one and a half years," said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit. "There’s some reassurance from manufacturers continuing to boost their payroll numbers at a robust pace, but with backlogs of work showing almost no growth, the rate of job creation looks likely to moderate in coming months unless new order inflows pick up again." The employment subindex rose to 55.1 from October's level of 54.9.   (Editing by John Stonestreet and Clive McKeef) FREE AppDownload
M. Woodruff/Business InsiderWow.  A reliable indicator of economic activity in the US just annihilated expectations. The Philadelphia Federal Reserve's latest manufacturing report on Thursday came in at 40.8. This is the highest reading since December 1993. Expectations were for the report to come in at 18.5, down slightly from last month's 20.7 reading. Following the report, stocks were moving off their lows, with the Nasdaq turning positive and the Dow and S&amp;P 500 paring their losses but remaining down slightly. The latest report showed that the new orders index, which reflects demand for manufactured goods, rose 18 points to 35.7, as 44% of the firms in the report saw a rise in new orders compared with 36% last month. Labor market indicators in the report also showed improvement, as the employment index rose 10 points in November to 22.4, a 3-1/2-year high.  There was also a significant increase in reported hours worked, with the average workweek index rising from -1.3 to 7.8 this month. The survey's future indicators also suggest optimism for future growth, with nearly 60% of the firms surveyed expecting increases in activity over the next six months, with just 2% of firms expecting decreases over that period.   Following the report, Derek Lindsey at BNP Paribas noted that "Philly's striking report runs counter to other surveys we have received this month," with the Empire State manufacturing report and flash PMI reports coming in mixed.  From the Philly Fed, here's the chart of the headline index and future expectations. Philly Fed FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe US housing market is in much better shape than we thought. The pace of existing home sales unexpectedly climbed 1.5% in October to 5.26 million units. Economists had forecast a 0.4% decline to 5.15 million. "Sales activity in October reached its highest annual pace of the year as buyers continue to be encouraged by interest rates at lows not seen since last summer, improving levels of inventory and stabilizing price growth,” the NAR's Lawrence Yun said. “Furthermore, the job market has shown continued strength in the past six months. This bodes well for solid demand to close out the year and the likelihood of additional months of year-over-year sales increases." "Total housing inventory at the end of October fell 2.6% to 2.22 million existing homes available for sale, which represents a 5.1-month supply at the current sales pace – the lowest since March (also 5.1 months)," the NAR noted. "Unsold inventory is now 5.2% higher than a year ago, when there were 2.11 million existing homes available for sale." The median existing-home price was $208,300, up 5.5% from a year ago. FREE AppDownload
This post is sponsored by OppenheimerFunds.  // <!--[CDATA[// // // // // // // // // // // OO.ready(function() { OO.Player.create('ooyalaplayer', 'RwNnljcTrJA8myQiixL0K2H4H7sFkosY'); });// ]]--> Given the market growth we've experienced over the past several years, investors may be wondering how long these gains can last. But the bull market likely isn't over — it's just changing. And for investors to thrive in the new, slow-growth world, they'll have to adjust their strategies and be more selective.  OppenheimerFunds believes three kinds of companies will succeed in today's marketplace: "Organic Revenue Generators," which can expand without spending too much; "Efficiency Vendors," which can help others get more value from their operations; and "Innovators," which are breaking entirely new ground. Learn more by watching the video above or going to OppenheimerFunds.com. Mutual funds are subject to market risk and volatility. Shares may gain or lose value. Carefully consider fund investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses. Visit oppenheimerfunds.com, call your advisor or 1.800.225.5677 (CALL-OPP) for a prospectus with this and other fund information. Read it carefully before investing. Oppenheimer funds are distributed by OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. is not affiliated with Business Insider. OFDI engaged Business Insider to prepare this material. © 2014 OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. All rights reserved. Find out more about Sponsored Posts. FREE AppDownload
Muddy Waters Research, the short-focused research firm helmed by Carson Block, has announced another position in Chinese timber company, Superb Summit. "We are short Superb Summit International Group Ltd. (1228.HK, “Superb”) because virtually all of its reported 2012 and 2013 revenue belongs to a different company, its recent acquisition of a stake in coal liquefaction company Beijing Jinfeite (“JFT”) is utterly without substance because JFT is effectively a one-man operation, and Superb has an unbroken seven-year track record of completely failing in every new line of business it has purportedly pursued. In short, Superb’s raison d’etre is being a public company," said the report. In fact, Block has said that Muddy Waters can find no record of Superb actually owning any forest at all — no coal company, no timber, no real revenue. All of the companies 2012 and 2013 revenue is attributed to another subsidiary, Tianjin Libao. But Muddy Waters can't find any record of that either. "There were no changes to Tianjin Libao’s Legal Representative, directors, manager, or supervisor from December 2007 until February 2014. In China, when one company buys another, there are usually changes to at least one of the aforementioned positions – otherwise, it would be hard to actually exercise control of the acquired company," said the report. You may recall that Muddy Waters' most infamous short was Sino Forest, another timber company which ultimately filed for bankruptcy. Even some really smart Wall Streeters got caught on the wrong side of that deal, including John Paulson of Paulson &amp; co. Block's most recent public short position is in Chinese mobile ad company, NQ Mobile, which is down 53% year to date. Here's what Superb's stock is doing: Google Finance FREE AppDownload
darkday/FlickrUS manufacturing activity is at a 10-month low. Markit's latest flash PMI reading came in at 54.7, missing expectations for a 56.3 and down from October's 55.9. The latest report from Markit showed the weakest overall improvement in business conditions since the snow-related setback in January.  Markit said that, "weaker rates of output and new business growth were the main negative influences on the headline figure in November." The data also, "pointed to the slowest expansion of manufacturing production for ten months, with a number of survey respondents citing less favorable demand conditions." Markit chief economist Chris Williamson said, "The manufacturing sector is undergoing a marked slowdown in the fall after enjoying a buoyant summer. Output growth has now fallen for three straight months, taking the pace of expansion down to its lowest since the start of the year. Unlike January, however, this time the weaker rate of growth can’t be blamed on the weather." Williamson added that export weakness "holds the key" to the recent slowdown, with manufacturers reporting the largest drop in export orders in nearly 18 months. FREE AppDownload
The year is winding down, and Wall Street is starting to distribute forecasts for 2015.  But that means it is also time to start taking a look back at 2014. While the S&amp;P 500 has outperformed most Wall Street forecasts this year as it surged to record highs, the biggest story in the market is oil. Crude oil prices have fallen more than 30% from their highs earlier this year, and while people have attributed this tumble to many things, one thing cannot be ignored: US crude oil production has been exploding. In an email Thursday, Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slok sent around the following chart, showing the explosion in US crude oil production over the past few years. Slok wrote: "The most important reason why oil prices are falling is because of the dramatic increase in recent years in US crude oil production ... and US oil production is expected to increase further by 1 mmb/d in 2015 and 0.6-0.7 mmb/d per year in the years to 2020. In other words, expect a continued increase in oil supply going forward." On Twitter, Bloomberg's Joe Weisenthal said this chart should be nominated for Time Person of the Year, and others argued this is the most profound economic event in decades. But we'll keep it simple: this is the chart of the year. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Goldman Sachs equity strategist David Kostin is out with his 2015 outlook for the S&amp;P 500. Kostin's price target: 2,100. This equates to a roughly 5% return for the benchmark stock index, as the firm said it expects above-trend economic growth which suggests "below-average return dispersion and volatility and a year of disappointing returns for active fund managers." Here's Kostin's broad overview for the economy in 2015: "We forecast US stocks will deliver a modest total return of 5% in 2015, in line with profit growth. The US economy will expand at a brisk pace. Corporations will boost sales and keep margins elevated allowing managements to both invest for growth and return cash to shareholders via buybacks and dividends. Investors will cheer these positive fundamental developments." But, despite these positive economic developments, Kostin sees volatility in the stock market remaining low, keeping stock return dispersion, or how widely spread gains and losses will be spread across the universe of stocks, low in 2015.  Kostin says that mutual funds and hedge funds typically lag the S&amp;P 500 during low dispersion regimes.  Kostin adds that the multiple expansion phase of the current bull market, or when stock prices rose as investors were comfortable paying more, on average, for additional earnings per share, ended in 2013, with this year's ~10% return for the S&amp;P 500 just keeping pace with earnings growth. In 2015, Kostin expects stocks to continue their upward trajectory during the first half of the year, with price-to-earnings ratios, or multiples, contracting in the second half of the year as the Fed begins to raise interest rates. Goldman Sachs' economics team expects the Fed's first rate hike to come in the third quarter of next year.  The reaction to these rate hikes, however, is expected to be benign, and Kostin acknowledges that this might be a minority view. "Many fund managers disagree with our view and believe higher equity volatility will accompany higher interest rates," Kostin writes. "They argue that once the Fed begins to hike uncertainty will abound regarding the pace of further tightening and volatility will jump. Our response to those arguments is that the interest rate swaption market implies a relatively steady and shallow path of future hikes with volatility remaining quiescent." And so while 2015 could be a transformative year for the market if interest rate hikes from the Fed really do materialize, Kostin expects the market to take these increases in stride. Here's the chart of the Goldman's outlook for the S&amp;P 500. Goldman Sachs And the outlook for interest rates.  Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
 For the next two days, two Goldman Sachs executives will be testifying on Capitol Hill about the bank's role in commodity markets, specifically in metals like aluminum and uranium. Legislators will try to understand whether Goldman took over the distribution of these commodities to such an extent that it was able to lengthen the time the metals sat in warehouses, thus increasing demand in price.  These are the alleged "merry-go-round" deals that sent goods on a winding path to somewhere ... but slowly. This is what Senators John McCain (R-Arizona) and Senator Carl Levin (D-Michigan) found over the course of a two-year investigation into all of Wall Street's involvement in commodities markets. During the financial crisis, bank businesses were bought, sold, and rescued in a way that complicated previous regulation on banks and the commodities they could hold.  Now politicians fear that Wall Street controls too much of the market — Greg Agran, Goldman's global co-head of Commodities Trading, and Jacques Gabillon, global head of the Global Commodities Principal Investment Group, will be answering for that (read their testimonies here). In Goldman's "merry-go-round" case, Senators allege that the bank struck deals with commodities firms like Glencore, and bought key warehouses. Once the bank secured these deals, instead of going from point A to B, metals would go from point A, to A1, to A2, maybe back to A1 again and then to B.  Here's how the senators wrote it out in their statement — this particular release focuses on a warehouse Goldman bought in Detroit called Metro International Trade Services (emphasis ours): Since Goldman bought Metro in 2010, Metro warehouses have accumulated up to 85 percent of the U.S. LME [London Metals Exchange] aluminum storage market... Since Goldman took over the warehouses, the wait to withdraw LME-warranted metal has increased from about 40 days to more than 600 days, reducing aluminum availability and tripling the regional premium for storage and delivery costs... The investigation revealed a number of previously unknown details about these deals: that Goldman’s warehouse company paid metal owners to engage in “merry-go-round” deals that shuttled metal from building to building without actually shipping aluminum out of Metro’s system; that the deals were approved by Metro’s board, which consisted entirely of Goldman employees; and that a Metro executive raised concerns internally about the appropriateness of such “queue management.”... The Metro system for transporting metal that was part of a merry-go-round deal produced some unusual metal movements. For example, on October 2, 2013, several trucks were loaded with aluminum at a Metro warehouse on Lafayette Street in Mount Clemens, Michigan, destined for another Metro warehouse about twelve miles away. That same day, several trucks were loaded with aluminum at a third Metro warehouse in New Baltimore, Michigan, and shipped to the Lafayette Street warehouse. The next day, the Lafayette Street warehouse again shipped out several truckloads of aluminum only to be on the receiving end of metal shipments the day after that.1239 In short, over the space of two days, the Lafayette Street warehouse saw truckloads of virtually identical aluminum shipments depart, arrive, depart, and arrive again… On another occasion, in November, 2013 Metro loaded aluminum out of one warehouse and moved it into another warehouse about 200 feet away across a parking lot. Goldman told the Subcommittee that warehouse personnel didn’t know whether the metal was moved across the parking lot on the property to the second warehouse, or instead was driven around the block on public streets. In any event, multiple trucks trundled tons of aluminum from one warehouse location to the other just a few feet away...  On another three-day period in December 2013, pursuant to a merry-go-round deal, trucks carrying tons of aluminum transported that aluminum to and from the exact same warehouses in a circular pattern at odds with rational warehouse activity. The trucks loaded the aluminum from the first warehouse, unloaded it at the second, picked up different lots of aluminum from the second warehouse, and drove it to the first where it was unloaded. Those trucks bearing similar loads of aluminum did not transport the metal for free, but imposed substantial costs on Metro to carry out the transactions.” Goldman counters that its role in the market is normal (not outsized) and that of a market maker. It also says prices haven't really been affected as much as the senators (and some big companies that use the commodities) maintain. But the price of the commodities isn't the only problem senators see here. The other problem is the risk these banks take in owning commodities. That is why regulation about what physical commodities banks could hold existed in the first place. Levin and McCain point out that if one of these banks had, say, a BP-size oil spill, it would not be able to cover its damages with its existing capital. Specifically, the committee found that Goldman was holding commodities worth 12% of its Tier 1 capital. In other words, if something happened, Goldman might need rescuing.  That's a nasty flashback.   FREE AppDownload
Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush (R) is reportedly moving ahead with his potential presidential campaign, meeting with potential donors and lining up support on Wall Street. According to a Daily News report published Wednesday night, Bush visited an unnamed downtown Manhattan bank earlier in the week to secure financial backing for a potential White House bid. It wasn't his first such trip, either. "He's been having these secret visits with guys who can write six and seven-figure checks," a finance industry official told the paper. In these visits, the official said Bush would discuss potential 2016 campaign topics, including the Keystone XL pipeline and immigration reform. Bush reportedly isn't telling these potential donors whether or not he will run, but is simply looking to "assure money is there if he announces." Bush's spokeswoman insisted he has yet to make up his mind about a presidential campaign. "Governor Bush has not made a decision whether or not to run for president in 2016," Bush spokeswoman Kristy Campbell told the News. "[He will] make a decision at the end of this year or the beginning of next." If he runs, Bush, the son of former President George H.W. Bush and the brother of former President George W. Bush, is expected to heavily court the Republican establishment and business community.  "He will get the backing," SkyBridge Capital founder Anthony Scaramucci told Business Insider last month. "People will be stepping over themselves." FREE AppDownload
Manufacturers around the world have confirmed that economic activity is slowing down everywhere. The November preliminary purchasing managers index, or PMI, reports all reflect either deceleration or outright contraction of activity across Europe. (Note: A PMI above 50 signals grow. Anything below 50 signals contraction.) "In one line: Still miserable outlook in France," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen said. "The single currency area is struggling to eke out any growth, with the PMI indicating that GDP is likely to have risen by just 0.1-0.2% in the fourth quarter," Markit's Chris Williamson said. "A drop in new orders for the first time in almost one-and-a-half years, albeit only very marginal, suggests growth could slow further in December." "France remains a key concern, with business activity falling for a seventh successive month and demand for goods and services deteriorating at a faster rate. Growth in Germany has meanwhile slowed to the weakest since the summer of last year, with demand stagnating," he added. And things weren't any better for Asia. Economists have been worried about China's slowing growth for some time. And now that the latest PMI data dropped to a six month low, they're even more uncertain about China's future. "Disinflationary pressures remain strong and the labour market showed further signs of weakening," HSBC's Hongbin Qu said. "Weak price pressures and low capacity utilization point to insufficient demand in the economy... Furthermore, we still see uncertainties in the months ahead from the property market and on the export front. We think growth still faces significant downward pressures." Chinese policymakers could respond with some sort of easing of policy on top of the stimulus that's already out there. "The data are consistent with our view that growth faces downside risks, but not a collapse," Barclays' Jian Chang said. "We think the government’s accelerated efforts to boost infrastructure investment and ease financing constraints will prevent a collapse of investment and activity in the near term, an increasing concern of many investors." US PMI reports will be released later today. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gretchen ErtlInflation beat expectations in October as consumer prices were flat. The latest consumer price index report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics showed prices were flat in October compared with the prior month, beating expectations. Excluding food and energy, prices rose 0.2%.  Compared with the prior year, prices rose 1.7%, or 1.8% when excluding food and energy.  Expectations were for the latest CPI report to show prices fall 0.1% month-on-month in October and rise 1.6% when compared with the prior year. On a "core" basis, which excludes the price of food and gas, prices were expected to show a 0.1% monthly rise and a 1.7% increase when compared with last year. In September, prices rose just 0.1% on both a headline and "core" basis month-on-month, and both measures showed a 1.7% increase over the prior year.  In a note to clients ahead of the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said the impact of lower gasoline prices on CPI would be "unambiguous." Shepherdson says the CPI headline reading would be pushed down by gas prices, which he expected to fall 4.5% in October, enough to pull 0.25% from the reading.  Gas prices fell less than Shepherdson expected in October, falling 3% from the prior month, though this decline was offset by increases in shelter and other indexes, according to the BLS.  In a note to clients following the report, Shepherdson said: "In one line: Core rebound is no big deal; trend still stable ... the deflation fears gripping Europe do not apply in the US. Next month will see another steep drop in gas prices." FREE AppDownload
TBINew stats on Americans collecting unemployment insurance confirm that the labor market continues to be in good shape. Initial weekly jobless claims fell to 291,000 from last week's revised level of 293,000. Economists had forecast a 284,000 level. The four-week moving average was low at 287,500. Continuing claims fell to 2.33 million from 2.40 million a week ago. "This is the lowest level for insured unemployment since December 16, 2000, when it was 2,322,000," the Department of Labor noted. "The 4-week moving average was 2,369,000, a decrease of 6,250 from the previous week's revised average. This is the lowest level for this average since January 13, 2001, when it was 2,360,500." "Despite disappointing expectations slightly with its weekly print, the trend in claims remains consistent with labor market improvements and hovering near 14-year lows," BNP Paribas economist Derek Lindsey said. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersShares are up 10%.Best Buy shares are up 10% in premarket trading after the company reported a great quarter. The electronics retailer reported earnings of $0.32 per share, beating expectations for $0.25. This was driven by 2.2% comparable-store sales growth. Analysts had forecast a 2.0% drop. "The sales trends we are seeing in our business as we enter the fourth quarter are encouraging from a top-line perspective," CFO Sharon McCollam said. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA view of the sign outside the Dollar Tree store in Westminster(Reuters) - Discount retailer Dollar Tree Inc &lt;dltr.o&gt; reported its strongest growth in quarterly same-store sales since 2011. Dollar Tree's net income rose 6 percent to $133 million, or 64 cents per share, in the third quarter ended Nov. 1. Net sales rose 11 percent to $2.1 billion. Same store sales grew 5.9 percent. Dollar Tree has agreed to buy Family Dollar Inc &lt;fdo.n&gt; but the deal is facing a challenge from Dollar General Corp &lt;dg.n&gt;, the No. 1 U.S. discount chain.   (Reporting by Sruthi Ramakrishnan in Bangalore; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA woman works in a Chinese textile factory.Good morning! Here are 10 major stories you need to hear about before US markets open. Stocks Fall Into The Red. Markets are sliding after a wave of disappointing manufacturing PMI reports from around the world. Dow futures are down 63 points, and S&amp;P futures are down 9 points. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is down 0.6%, France's CAC 40 is down 1.1%, Germany's DAX is down 0.7%, and Spain's IBEX is down 1.9%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed flat. Chinese Factory Activity Growth Goes Nowhere. The Flash China Manufacturing PMI fell to a six-month low of 50.0 in November, from 50.4 a month ago. "We think growth still faces significant downward pressures, and more monetary and fiscal easing measures should be deployed," HSBC's Hongbin Qu said. France Is Getting Worse. France's Flash Manufacturing PMI tumbled to 47.6 from 48.5 a month ago. This is well below the breakeven growth level of 50. "November’s Flash PMI data point to another weak performance by France’s private sector economy, with output showing a further modest fall," Markit's Jack Kennedy said. "Increased government spending helped support a 0.3% rise in third quarter GDP, but the continued softness in private sector activity signaled by the PMIs suggests an ongoing drag on growth during the fourth quarter from this area of the economy." German Growth Flatlines. Germany's Flash Manufacturing PMI missed expectations and tumbled to a 16-month low of 50.0 from 51.4 a month ago. "The combination of weak output growth, ongoing spare capacity, and a lack of new order wins (despite a further reduction in charges) paints a worrying picture of the underlying health of the German economy," Markit's Oliver Kolodseike said. The Eurozone Hasn't Looked This Bad In 16 Months. Eurozone Flash Composite Output PMI fell to a 16-month low of 51.4 from 52.1 a month ago. "The single currency area is struggling to eke out any growth, with the PMI indicating that GDP is likely to have risen by just 0.1-0.2% in the fourth quarter," Markit's Chris Williamson said. "A drop in new orders for the first time in almost one-and-a-half years, albeit only very marginal, suggests growth could slow further in December." Japan Decelerates More Than Expected. Japan's Flash Manufacturing PMI fell to 52.1 from 52.4 in October. "The postponement of the further increase in sales tax to 10% could provide some support for Japanese goods producers, although the outlook is unusually uncertain," Markit's Amy Brownbill said. Best Buy Beats. The electronics retailer reported Q3 earnings of $0.32 per share, which was better than the $0.25 expected by analysts. Comparable store sales climbed 2.2%. Alibaba Will Sell Its First Bonds. The e-commerce giant will sell its first-ever bond on Thursday, a jumbo trade expected to be about $8 billion in size that comes just two months after the company's record IPO. The US Senate Blasted Banks Over Their Commodities Trading. Goldman Sachs will rebut on Thursday allegations made by a powerful Senate committee report that condemned Wall Street banks for exploiting physical commodity markets to manipulate prices and gain unfair trading advantages. Stand By For Inflation Data. At 8:30 a.m. ET, we'll get the consumer price index report. Economists estimate CPI fell 0.1% in October but climbed 0.1%, excluding food and energy. On a year-over-year basis, prices are forecast to climb 1.6% and 1.7%, respectively. FREE AppDownload
Don't waste time formatting data. These are the shortcuts you need to know along with an easy trick for remembering them. Produced by Sara Silverstein Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
Thomson ReutersShares are up 10%.Best Buy shares are up 10% in premarket trading after the company reported a great quarter. The electronics retailer reported earnings of $0.32 per share, beating expectations for $0.25. This was driven by 2.2% comparable-store sales growth. Analysts had forecast a 2.0% drop. "The sales trends we are seeing in our business as we enter the fourth quarter are encouraging from a top-line perspective," CFO Sharon McCollam said. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gonzalo FuentesA lot of banks are betting on a European stock boom in 2015. Even Goldman Sachs, which is a little more pessimistic than some other investment banks, is betting on a significant climb for European equities. Goldman is expecting the Eurostoxx 600 to hit 440 in 2018, according to its 2015 European outlook, out Thursday. That's about a 30% boost and would push the index to record levels. By the end of next year, it should be up to 365. Here's a snapshot of what Goldman is forecasting: Goldman SachsGS also named its top stocks: 32 firms with an expected double- and triple-digit returns. Here they are, along with the returns Goldman expects if they reach their target prices.  Stock — Return to target Innate Pharma — 164% Unipol Gruppo Finanziario — 76% Crest Nicholson Holdings — 75% Arm Holdings — 59% Bt Group — 57% Credit Suisse Group — 48% Sap — 47% Intesa Sanpaolo — 46% E On — 44% Easyjet — 42% Salvatore Ferragamo — 41% Iliad — 41% Grifols — 40% Bbv.Argentaria — 39% Burberry Group — 37% Erste Group Bank — 35% Taylor Wimpey — 34% Eni — 33% Safran — 31% Daimler — 31% Siemens — 30% L'Oreal — 29% Shire — 26% Mtu Aero Engines — 24% Bayer — 24% Sabmiller — 23% Anheuser-Busch InBev — 23% Roche Holding — 17% Wpp — 17% Tryg — 16% Zurich Insurance Group —14% St. James's Place — 11% FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPosters reading "Stephan Schmidheiny your place is in prison" are displayed outside the courthouse during a trial against the Swiss firm Eternit's Italian plant in TurinROME (Reuters) - Italy's top court has overturned an 18-year jail sentence for a Swiss billionaire convicted over his role in the country's biggest asbestos scandal, saying too much time had passed since the alleged wrongdoing. Stephan Schmidheiny was found guilty in 2012 of negligence at his company's Italian factories in the 1970s and 80s, which eventually led to almost 3,000 asbestos-related deaths. However, in a ruling that stunned relatives of the dead, Italy's highest court annulled the verdict late on Wednesday, saying the statute of limitations had kicked in. The decision means that the Swiss businessman will also escape having to pay millions of euros in fines and compensation ordered by Italian courts in 2012 and 2013. Prosecutors in the original trial said Schmidheiny had not taken sufficient measures to protect the health of workers and nearby residents from the asbestos used at the Italian plants of his building material firm Eternit. The factories had used asbestos in the production of cement. The plants closed in 1986, but workers and local residents continue to suffer the consequences, with Italy's biggest union saying that the latest victim of an asbestos-related disease was only buried on Saturday. Prime Minister Matteo Renzi said the ruling underscored the need to reform Italy's notoriously snail-paced judicial system. "We need to ensure that trials take less time, and change the statute of limitations," he told RTL 102.5 radio on Thursday. Schmidheiny had been accused of causing an environmental disaster -- a charge which expires under Italy's statute of limitations. Prosecutors said they were now reviewing other possible legal avenues to bring the case back to court. Schmidheiny's spokesman called for all legal proceedings to be halted, saying the company had already paid "many tens of millions of euros" in compensation to the victims since 2008. The company said Schmidheiny had never played an operational role in the management of its Italian activities and said it had only been the major shareholder in the Eternit unit for 10 out of its 80-year history. According to prosecutors, Eternit's products were used to pave streets and used as roof insulation around its plants in northern and southern Italy, resulting in years of exposure for the unsuspecting local population. Asbestos became popular from the late 19th century onwards as a way to reinforce cement. But research later revealed that the inhalation of asbestos fibres can cause lung inflammation and cancer. It is now banned in much of the world.  (Reporting by Isla Binnie; Editing by Crispian Balmer) FREE AppDownload
Outside a high-rise building on the outskirts of this disputed region's capital, a steady stream of frustrated residents exited a government office, clutching folders of bank records and shaking their heads in disgust. "They are not returning the money," complained Margarita Pobudilova, a 77-year-old retired factory worker who for months has been unable to access more than $3,000 of her life savings. Ten months after Russia invaded this Black Sea peninsula and seized it from Ukraine, the financial fallout is still being felt. Thousands of ordinary citizens have little or no access to their funds. Losses for Ukrainian banks continue to mount as billions of dollars worth of loans they issued in Crimea go unpaid. Lawyers for the banks are preparing legal actions against Russia, which confiscated many of the banks' buildings, equipment and cash. Meanwhile, Crimea has been thrust into a kind of technological time warp: Most ATMs no longer accept non-Russian bank cards; foreign credit cards can't be used to buy things. Most non-local mobile phones can't receive a signal. And even if they could, calling other Crimeans is complicated: Most of the peninsula's residents recently had to get new mobile phone numbers because Ukrainian services were cut off. The banking and phone chaos are another front in the conflict between Ukraine and Russia. In Crimea, which has been part of Ukraine for 60 years, Russia has basically blown up the existing banking system, forcing Ukrainian banks to close, banning the Ukrainian currency and replacing the region's retail banking network almost overnight. The resulting economic turmoil has shuttered some businesses and complicated life for thousands, forcing people to deal with a Kafkaesque bureaucracy to try to get their money returned. For all the havoc Russian President Vladimir Putin's conquest has caused, many living here don't blame him for their hardship. In interviews, residents accused Ukrainian banks and the government in Kiev of stealing their money. That distrust indicates – at least for now – a victory for Russia in the propaganda war and suggests that Kiev's chances of regaining the peninsula soon are slim. The international community has condemned Russia's annexation of Crimea, with the United States and the European Union imposing economic sanctions on Russian individuals, companies and banks. Russia has retaliated with its own sanctions and support for pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine. Andriy Pyshnyy is chairman of the management board of Ukraine's state-owned Oschadbank, which until March had 296 branches in Crimea. He described how one day they were taken over by Russian banks. "In the evening (our) outlets work," he said. "In the morning, a new bank is opened and just the name is changed to RNCB Bank." Russian National Commercial Bank is one of at least 30 Russian banks that have rushed in to fill Crimea's financial vacuum. Many in Crimea – where average monthly wages last year were less than $400 – still can't access their Ukrainian bank accounts. The situation was exacerbated in April when Putin offered Crimeans who had leased their cars through Privatbank, Ukraine's largest bank, some unusual financial advice. Toward the end of a live television broadcast in which Putin answered viewers' questions, he dipped his hand into a folder and read out this one: "I hired a car on lease from Privatbank. It will take me only two years to repay the loan," he said. "Privatbank no longer operates in Crimea. What am I supposed to do?" The president's answer: "Please use the car and don't worry." The remark may have been related to an ongoing feud between Putin and Ihor Kolomoisky, one of Privatbank's largest shareholders. Russia has accused Kolomoisky of funding Ukrainian battalions fighting the separatists. In any case, following Putin's suggestion, thousands of individuals and companies that had borrowed money from Ukrainian banks stopped repaying their loans. Vasily Fedosenko/ReutersA waiter counts Russian roubles and prepares Ukranian hryvnia for change in a restaurant in Sevastopol March 24, 2014."If the ruler of the country told them not to pay, why would they pay?" asked Alexander Dubilet, chairman of Privatbank, which had lent more than $1 billion in Crimea. In all, Ukrainian banks had loaned Crimean businesses and individuals about $1.8 billion at the time Crimea was annexed, according to Ukraine's central bank. Pyshnyy of Oschadbank says "99.99 percent" of its loans in Crimea - which totaled more than $500 million - are now delinquent. The surge in bad loans has made it more difficult for Ukrainian banks to repay Crimean depositors, according to an official with Ukraine's central bank. The fact that the Russians also seized many of their branch offices and records didn't help, either. "To function properly, we need ... access to our branch network, our outlets, our ATMs, to our documents, our files," Pyshnyy said. Thomson ReutersFile photo of people standing in line to withdraw money at an ATM of Ukrainian bank Privatbank in SimferopolTo help Crimeans, Moscow has been compensating depositors with accounts at Ukrainian banks through a fund that insures Russian bank deposits. According to the Fund for the Protection of Depositors in Crimea, which is part of Russia's Deposit Insurance Agency, as of Nov. 6 it had paid out more than $500 million to 196,400 depositors.     The compensation is capped. Yevgenia Bavykina, Crimea's new deputy prime minister in charge of economic affairs, told Reuters last month that depositors were owed more than $425 million in part because the fund has a limit of about $15,000 per bank account.     She said the fund still hopes to repay depositors the rest of their money by selling property confiscated from Ukrainian banks. Crimea's government also is urging people who took out loans to repay them to the deposit protection fund, rather than to Ukrainian banks. Expressing confidence they will comply, she said, "People here are notable for their decency and their volunteering."     Bavykina said the fund has compensated most people who have applied. In thousands of cases, however, it has had difficulty verifying exactly how much money was on deposit, she said.     With no Ukrainian bank branches left operating in Crimea, the required verification records often aren't available, frustrated Crimeans say. Pobudilova, the retired factory worker, had invested about $3,600 in a one-month deposit at Ukraine's Kyiv Rus Bank in February. By the time her investment matured, the Russians had invaded Crimea, and Ukrainian banks were being forced out. She said she has no access to the money because the bank blocked her debit card.     She applied to the deposit protection fund, but was told it could not compensate her unless her investment contract with her bank was extended. The fund advised her to write to Kyiv Rus Bank.     Her grandson, Vladimir, said she tried to contact the bank. "They did not even want to talk to her," he said.     Kyiv Rus Bank declined to comment.     Pobudilova said she had planned to give the money to her grandchildren but now doesn't know what to do. "The fund is saying I am supposed to receive the extended contract from the bank," she said. "I'm 77 years old. I'm not able to deal with that."    Shamil Zhumatov/ReutersA woman receives her pension pay off in Russian roubles in a post office at the Crimean city of Simferopol March 25, 2014.In another case, a retiree named Iryna, who declined to provide her last name, said she has no access to more than $100,000 on deposit at Privatbank and has received no satisfaction from either the fund or the bank.     She said her problems began with her passport. She has lived in Crimea for 40 years but had replaced her passport two years ago in Ukraine's capital, Kiev, after the pages split apart. The new passport stated she lived in Kiev.     After the annexation, she said, "I realized I was in trouble." She said she spent months trying to change her passport to list her address in Crimea, eventually going to court.     When she tried to withdraw her money from Privatbank, she said the bank only offered her a five-year savings agreement that paid 7 percent annual interest – much less than Ukraine's annual inflation rate. She said she refused. Privatbank said it could not comment on the specifics of her case without more information.     By the time she won her court case and obtained an official document stating she is a Crimea resident, she said she had missed the deposit protection fund's deadline for applying.     The fund is now offering her only partial compensation. "I will lose lots of money," she said. "And I need that money for my son's education."    Legally, Ukrainian banks are required to repay Crimean depositors because Ukraine does not recognize the Russian annexation, said Oleksandr Pysaruk, first deputy governor of the National Bank of Ukraine, the country's central bank. But he said the hundreds of millions of dollars in delinquent loans make that difficult. "If you're liable on the savings but the loans don't get repaid, you've got a capital hole," he said. Ukrainian banks' policies towards their Crimean customers vary. Some give priority to Crimeans who have moved to other parts of Ukraine. But only 19,150 people out of a population of nearly two million have migrated, according to Ukraine's Ministry for Social Policy. As for delinquent loans, Privatbank is continuing to charge interest; Oschadbank's chairman says his bank isn't. "We want to understand the position of the borrowers," said Pyshnyy. Executives with state-controlled Ukrgasbank in Kiev, which had 11 branches in Crimea, said any of its customers there could travel to other parts of Ukraine and withdraw their deposits. By August, depositors had withdrawn 80 percent of the $25 million in funds on deposit. Oschadbank has a similar policy of allowing customers to access their funds elsewhere in Ukraine, and "is the only bank in Ukraine where the individuals' funds and placements are guaranteed by the state for 100 percent," said Pyshnyy. He said the bank carefully checks records submitted by customers, especially those who still reside in Crimea. "We want to be sure about any cheating of the bank by customers."     Pysaruk, the central bank official, said some Crimeans have tried to double-dip by seeking compensation from both the Russian fund and Ukrainian banks. "We don't have numbers, but they were not just random occasions," he said.     Privatbank, which in Crimea had 321,000 clients with deposits, has suspended all of its bank accounts there. Crimeans who have moved elsewhere in Ukraine can receive part of their deposits back, Dubilet said. For those still living in Crimea, "we're asking our clients to wait some time until we have solved these issues in the courts." How long that will take remains unclear. The Crimean protection fund said it has paid out more than $250 million to 109,300 Privatbank customers. But Privatbank and other banks do not know which of their depositors have been reimbursed or how much.     Privatbank chairman Dubilet said the Russians seized more than $150 million of the bank's real estate and equipment, $30 million from its safes and another $10 million from its ATMs. In April, Privatbank sold its Moscow subsidiary, saying it was the victim of "unprecedented political pressure" by Russian authorities.     Dubilet said Privatbank hasn't yet calculated its total losses in Crimea. He said its lawyers are considering legal action against Russia in several jurisdictions. Meanwhile, a Crimean court ruled this week that Privatbank owes local depositors $232 million and should pay them back. Privatbank's problems in Russia and Crimea appear to be related to a nasty spat between Putin and Kolomoisky, a billionaire businessman who is one of the bank's largest shareholders.     In March, after Kolomoisky was appointed governor of a region in eastern Ukraine, Putin called him "a unique imposter." In telling Crimeans not to worry about car loans owed to Privatbank, Putin added, "If Mr. Kolomoisky and Mr. Finkelshtein don't want your money, it's their problem." Boris Finkelshtein is the former head of Privatbank's Crimea operations.     Russian authorities later launched a criminal case against Kolomoisky, issuing an arrest warrant, confiscating some of his property in Russia and accusing him of organizing and funding Ukrainian forces in the separatist conflict. The case remains open.    At a press conference in March, Kolomoisky referred to Putin as "completely unstable, completely mad. He has this messianic urge to restore the Russian empire to the borders of 1913 or the Soviet Union to the borders of 1991."     Kolomoisky didn't respond to a request for comment.     Dmitry Peskov, Putin's spokesman, said the president had no conflict with Kolomoisky. "The only thing is that Mr. Kolomoisky is sponsoring units of extremists in the eastern regions (of Ukraine). This is the problem, and this is the reason why he's being treated in Russia as a guy sponsoring extremists." As for Putin's suggestion not to repay loans to Privatbank, Peskov said the president was referring to the fact that the banks' branches were closed. "That's the meaning: because if you don't have any branch to make a payment then you don't pay." The tensions between Kiev and Moscow will make it harder to solve problems like the one Ukraine's central bank faces. The Russians did not confiscate the central bank's building in Simferopol, but the bank has no access to about $250 million in Ukrainian currency in its vault.     Pysaruk, the first deputy governor, said the bank has held discussions with Russia's central bank and while the Russians indicated they might be willing to buy the building and return the cash, no agreement has been reached.     Calling the annexation of Crimea "a land grab," Pysaruk said Russia should be responsible for all costs, including compensating Ukrainian banks for their losses. "The simplest way, if you ask me, would be for the Russians to pick up the check for everything," he said. (Additional reporting by Natalia Zinets in Kiev,; Maya Nikolaeva in Paris and Michael Shields; in Vienna; Edited by Simon Robinson) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS / Jessica RinaldiWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Goldman Sachs Group In will rebut on Thursday allegations made by a powerful Senate committee report that condemned Wall Street banks for exploiting physical commodity markets to manipulate prices and gain unfair trading advantages. The public airing of concerns about banks' ownership of physical commodities and assets from pipelines to warehouses will renew scrutiny on Wall Street. But experts said it may have little impact on an industry that's already retrenching and after the Federal Reserve has already signaled its intent to move forward in some way with changes in regulation. Still, Goldman and its metals storage unit Metro will come under particular pressure when executives appear at the two-day hearing by the Senate's Permanent Subcommittee On Investigations, because it has maintained commodity trading is core to its business. JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co and Morgan Stanley which will also address the panel have both made major moves to get out of the physical commodity space. Ahead of the upcoming hearing, the committee released a detailed 403-page report that criticized how banks purchased and exploited huge commodity stockpiles. It shed light on two areas: the Fed's concerns about weakness in banks' ability to withstand a major catastrophe and intricate details of Metro's multi-million dollar payments to maintain the long wait times and bolster income. According to a previously unpublished 2012 analysis by the Federal Reserve Commodities Team, the report said four major financial holding companies, including the three highlighted in the Senate report, had allocated an inadequate amount of capital and insurance to cover "extreme loss scenarios." The session will also include testimony by top oversight officials with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the Federal Reserve's banking supervision arm. "There will be a lot of sound and fury, but it won't amount to much in the long term," said Craig Pirrong, a finance professor at the University of Houston. Chris Hondros/Getty Aluminum warehousing is likely to be in the spotlight from the report, based on 90,000 pages of bank and regulatory documents as well as 78 interviews and briefings, In prepared testimony, chief executive officer of Goldman's metals warehouse, which was accused by a Senate probe of manipulating aluminum prices, defended his company's actions, saying it plays by the rules and contributes jobs to the Detroit area. Chris Wibbelman, president and CEO of Metro International Trade Services LLC, said only a small percentage of aluminum stockpiles are subject to the kind of metal backlogs that have come under scrutiny. About 80 percent of metal stored in Metro warehouses in and out of the London Metal Exchange's vast network is not subject to any queue and may be purchased by a customer through negotiations with the metal owner, Wibbelman said in prepared remarks. "There simply is no lack of availability for aluminum." MillerCoors LLC has accused warehouses and their owners of inflating the prices of aluminum, and costing consumers billions of extra dollars annually. Jacques Gabillon, Goldman's head of global commodities principal investments group, and Gregory Agran, Goldman's co-head of commodities, will also testify on Thursday. "The investment in Metro was never part of Goldman Sachs' core franchise and has not been integrated into our commodities market making activities," Gabillon said in prepared remarks, adding that queues do not drive the overall price of aluminum that consumers pay. Goldman is in the process of selling Metro, though details of bidders and timing remain unclear. This week's hearing stems from a two-year investigation by the subcommittee into banks and their influence on commodities and comes as committee Chair Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, prepares to retire at the end of this year. He's served on the panel for about 15 years. The question will draw fresh attention to a controversy over the possible risks posed by the involvement of the largest U.S. investment banks, but is unlikely to have much lasting affect as JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley have already pulled out or are shrinking their commodities businesses. Earlier in the year, the Fed took a preliminary step toward potential new regulations to check banks' decade-long expansion into the raw materials supply chain. Democrats Sherrod Brown and Elizabeth Warren have grilled regulators and banking experts twice on the issue since July 2013. "In some ways, this is fighting last year's war," said Pirrong. (Editing by Bernard Orr)   FREE AppDownload
Facing conflict of interest accusations over a luxury home, Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto disclosed late on Wednesday ownership of nine properties among assets worth at least 45.2 million pesos ($3.3 million). The assets also included investments, jewelry and works of art, a document posted on the president's website showed. Owned by a government contractor that was bidding for a lucrative rail contract, the nearly $4 million house at the center of the scandal was being acquired by Pena Nieto's wife. First Lady Angelica Rivera, a former leading actress, said she was paying for the property with her own earnings, but on Tuesday said she would give it up. The contractor, Mexican company Grupo Higa, was part of a Chinese-led consortium that won the $3.75-billion high-speed rail contract. That deal was abruptly canceled earlier this month. Rivera was one of Mexico's most popular soap actresses before marrying Pena Nieto in 2010. Also on Tuesday, she said that in that year she was paid severance of 102.8 million pesos by broadcaster Televisa. Televisa reported to the U.S. Securities and Exchange commission that it paid 98.4 million pesos in 2010 for "retirement and termination benefits" for the entire company. Reuters could not immediately ascertain if Rivera had been paid from the same pool of cash, and analysts said she could have been paid from a non-consolidated subsidiary. Televisa and the president's office did not immediately respond to questions about the difference. Rivera's explanation and details of the payout spurred ridicule across social media on Wednesday. Many users plastered jokes over her image, some suggesting the payout was way out of line with industry standards. Ana de la Reguera, a former Mexican soap star now working in Hollywood, joked on her Twitter account that she never should have left Mexico. Rivera said her salary proved she could afford the home, but other social media users said this glossed over whether Pena Nieto had questions to answer. "The problem was never Angelica Rivera's patrimony, but the conflict of interest. Her husband is the one who should be facing up to this," wrote political columnist Jesus Silva-Herzog. The government canceled the rail contract days before a local news outlet published an investigation into the house. (Reporting by David Alire Garcia, Noe Torres, Elinor Comlay and Michael O'Boyle; Editing by Simon Gardner and John Stonestreet) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Carolyn ThompsonNew York (AFP) - A "historic" storm dumped more than five feet of snow, stranding scores of motorists, canceling flights and killing at least eight people in the northeastern United States, officials said. Areas east and southeast of Buffalo, in northern New York state, could receive a year's accumulation of snow or even more in just two days, Erie County executive Mark Poloncarz told reporters. The deadly burst, named Winter Storm Knife, may see as much as another three feet (one meter) of snowfall on Thursday, which could prompt a federal disaster declaration, Poloncarz said. The Arctic blast will keep temperatures below normal until the weekend, and all 50 states recording below freezing temperatures on Tuesday, the National Weather Service said. A state of emergency and travel bans are in effect across Buffalo's Erie County and authorities ordered people to stay at home to allow crews to clear roads, repair power lines and provide emergency assistance to the most vulnerable. County spokesman Peter Anderson said runways at Buffalo Niagara International Airport were open, but that "a lot of flights" were being canceled because people cannot get to the airport. The National Guard was called in to assist military Humvee vehicles after New York's transportation department worked through the night to rescue stranded motorists and take people to shelters. "This is something that we're not going to be able to solve on our own. Many communities are still in a very difficult, in some ways paralyzed situation," Poloncarz said. "From a public health standpoint this has been a killer storm. We've had six deaths in the area, five of which have been preventable," said Erie county health commissioner Gale Burstein. Three of those who died suffered heart attacks while shoveling snow and another person died while using a snowplow. US media reported two other deaths in the states of New Hampshire and Michigan. Dave Zaff, a meteorologist from the National Weather Service, said areas east and southeast of Buffalo city received upwards of five feet (1.5 meters) of snow. "That is somewhat of an extreme event," he told AFP. "From a forecast standpoint, it will be historic. "The impact alone when you have hundreds of thousands of people stranded, roads closed everywhere, you start to get fatalities," he said.  "It becomes a very memorable event that people will never forget." A university women's basketball team was eventually rescued after spending more than 24 hours trapped in a bus on a highway. And New York-based rock band Interpol was among those trapped in the snowstorm outside Buffalo overnight, forcing them to cancel a concert across the Canadian border in Toronto. "Still trapped yo! Haven't really moved in 30 hours and we've been on the bus for nearly 40 hours. Nutso. Never seen anything like it," the band said on Twitter. One young woman in Buffalo tweeting from @SpecialCassie said her father had finally made it home after spending nearly 40 hours stuck in a car on the throughway. "Snow to his shoulders, had to climb a tree to get out," she wrote. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersCEO of Norwegian Air Shuttle Bjorn Kjos at a news conference in Oslo.The chief executive of Norwegian Air Shuttle rejected arguments by US airlines and unions that his efforts to build a low-cost, long-haul airline serving the United States would undermine US wages and working standards. Instead, CEO Bjorn Kjos said US airlines arguing for labor fairness actually feared his cheap ticket prices. A round-trip flight from New York to London in December costs as little as $483 on Norwegian, compared with $835 on Delta or $832 on American, according to prices posted on the airlines' websites on Wednesday. Kjos, a former fighter pilot, said in an interview with Reuters on Wednesday that his airline paid competitive wages everywhere its crews were based, including New York, and that he supported employees' right to form unions. "We don't care if they're unionized," he said. "That is up to the crew to decide themselves." The comments came as dozens of pilots visited Capitol Hill on Wednesday to press lawmakers to oppose Norwegian's efforts to get broader permission to fly to the US. Kjos is slated to speak to International Aviation Club in Washington on Thursday. While Norwegian Air Shuttle already flies from Oslo to New York, Florida and other destinations, its Ireland-based subsidiary, Norwegian Air International, does not have permission to fly to the country. US airlines and labor unions are lobbying the US Department of Transportation to deny the subsidiary's application for a foreign air carrier permit. The opponents include airline labor unions and big carriers like American Airlines Group, Delta Air Lines Inc., and United Continental Holdings Inc. They say Norwegian will dodge US labor laws by using its Irish subsidiary to take advantage of labor laws that are weaker than in Norway, threatening US jobs. Kjos said the Irish subsidiary was necessary to obtain access for all of Norwegian's aircraft to fly between the US, Europe, and Asia. If the company is incorporated only in Norway, it does not have access to many countries in Asia, because Norway is not part of the European Union. That would leave Norwegian running two airlines that separately serve the US and Asia and not able to shift aircraft from one region to the other. "It would be a logistical nightmare," Kjos said. "We can't have one airline flying east, one airline flying west." If the Transportation Department approves Norwegian's application, Kjos said, he plans to establish crew bases in Los Angeles, New York, and other locations, and most likely will hire American pilots. Norwegian is one of the first airlines trying to bring low-cost flying to long-haul flights. It has a fleet of 17 Boeing 787 Dreamliners and plans to order at least five to 10 more.   (Reporting by Alwyn Scott and Jeffrey Dastin; Editing by Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
Stefano Pozzebon/Business InsiderThe Eurozone's composite PMI just came in at 51.4, the lowest in 16 months. That's after some unexpectedly poor numbers for Germany. The major business survey is pointing to a significant slowdown in Europe.  Analysts had expected the PMI (purchasing managers index) figure to come in at 52.3 overall, an improvement from October's 52.1. Output in the eurozone is falling back toward the neutral 50 mark. Anything below that level signals a contraction, and recession. As the largest economy in Europe, Germany has an over-sized effect on the whole continent: when they sneeze, everyone else catches a cold. So a slowdown in PMI numbers there can drag the whole index down. Germany's also weighing on efforts to revive Europe's economy, dragging its feet on stimulus plans at both the domestic and European levels.  Here's how it looks against European growth. Markit The German figures weren't the only poor ones out this morning. France's PMI numbers were poor again, coming in at just 48.4. Just as the PMI numbers came out, the Italian government confirmed a 1.5% drop in industrial orders between August and September. Chris Williamson, Markit's chief economist, weighed in on what the figures mean for Europe's politicians and central bankers: Policymakers will no doubt be disappointed that recent announcements and stimulus measures are showing no signs of reviving growth. The deteriorating trend in the surveys will add to pressure for the European Central Bank to do more to boost the economy without waiting to gauge the effectiveness of previously-announced initiatives. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonJack Ma, executive chairman of Alibaba Group, at the WSJD Live conference in Laguna Beach, California, on Oct. 27. Ma was speaking at a conference in China, following the company's IPO, the largest flotation in history.  The massive e-commerce firm is debuting its first bonds Thursday, with a massive issue expected to run to about $8 billion (£5.1 billion). Bloomberg has Ma charting how expectations for his firm, which was set up 16 years ago, have changed:  'Even two months before the IPO, people didn’t think we would make money,' Ma said in a speech today at the World Internet Conference in Wuzhen, China. 'Now the problem is people think we are too good — we can do anything.' So far, Alibaba's performance has managed to buck the trend of China's economic slowdown and maintain rapid growth. Some analysts also told Bloomberg that comments like these were part of how Ma runs his business empire: 'This is Ma's typical speech style,' said Li Yujie, an analyst at RHB Research Institute in Hong Kong. 'He's probably worried that his staff will become too complacent, and wants to remind them that the company isn't as good as what people are expecting it to be.' Analysts are seeing Thursday's massive bond sale as both an opportunity and a threat: Investors in the West are not entirely comfortable with Chinese corporate governance, but Alibaba allows them to tap "the holy grail of retail, the Chinese consumer."   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michaela RehleGermany's PMI figures are just out for November, with the overall figure at 52.1. That's above the neutral 50 mark, but it's also the weakest in 16 months. Manufacturing figures from the business surveys were particularly grim: the level hit 50, indicating no growth at all, after bouncing back in October.  Services are still in growth at 52.1, but that's the worst figure in nearly a year and a half. It's a pretty big drop from 54.4 in October. It's not the first signal of an industrial slowdown in Europe's biggest economy: Germany's industrial output plunged in August, and September's figure failed to make up for the slump. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Philippe WojazerFrench President Francois HollandeFrance's PMI for November just came in at 48.4: slightly higher than last month's 48.2. It's an improvement, but any figure below 50 suggests that the economy is contracting. Analysts were expecting a small increase for both services and manufacturing, up to 48.5 and 48.8 respectively. Broken down, the manufacturing PMI came in at 47.6, and the services PMI at 48.8. Both suggesting contraction, but with manufacturing a little more squeezed than expected. It's a two-month high from the index overall, but with firms still saying they're shedding jobs, there's very little good news to be found.  FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Steve CannonPolice investigate a shooting at Strozier Library on the Florida State campus on Thursday in Tallahassee, Florida. The patients were transported to a local hospital, and their condition was not immediately clear.  Tallahassee police responded to a call from campus police at about 12:30 a.m. ET about an armed person at Strozier Library, according to a statement. FSU News reported that four shots were heard on the library's first floor, followed by sirens on campus.   When police arrived, the shooter ignored requests to drop his weapon when confronted near the library entrance. The gunman was killed by university officers after he fired shots at them.  Police found three victims suffering from gunshot wounds at the scene. AP Photo/Mark WallheiserTallahassee police at the scene of a shooting outside the Strozier library. Students were first urged to seek shelter by a university telephone alert warning of a "dangerous situation" at the main campus. "We know there are definitely people who saw the shooter," freshman Anthony Coons told the Tallahassee Democrat.  Cell phone camera footage uploaded to YouTube captured the scene inside the library at the time of the shooting. "There has been a shooting in the library. Stay where you are," a person over the loudspeaker says.  Blair Stokes, a student at the university, was in the library at the time of the emergency and tweeted updates of the situation.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFreight driver Antoine Seegars looks up to talk with a fellow driver at the Con-way Freight trucking yard in Romulus, MichiganBy James B. Kelleher CHICAGO (Reuters) - U.S. Steel is stockpiling extra iron ore ahead of what could be another record-long freeze-up of the Great Lakes. General Motors has built up inventories of critical parts at its plants and established a supply chain "crisis room" that will swing into action in the event of a major winter storm. Con-way Freight is issuing strap-on cleats to its drivers and dock workers. The blast of unseasonably frosty air gripping much of the United States has served as a reminder of the polar vortex that sent a chill through the U.S. manufacturing sector last winter, causing part shortages and plant closures and triggering a 2.1 percent drop in first-quarter gross domestic product. Manufacturers and their suppliers are scrambling to avoid a costly repeat if this frigid autumn morphs into Polar Vortex II. Companies are stockpiling parts at factories, increasing the amount of goods in transit, reviewing weather contingencies with their freight carriers and booking extra trucks and trailers so shipments do not get sidelined by nasty storms. The precautions will add hundreds of millions of dollars in cost, supply chain experts estimate, and could temporarily depress the sector's profits. But Whirlpool , General Motors , Ford Motor Co  and Con-way , and other companies contacted by Reuters said they aimed to avoid the even more costly disruptions, like those that hit in early 2014. “It’s an insurance policy,” said Chad Moutray, the chief economist for the National Association of Manufacturers. Companies such as U.S. Steel  believe they have little choice. The country's No. 2 steel producer is moving a key raw material, iron pellets, south and increasing the volume of semi-finished product at steel works around the country. Last winter, locks on the Great Lakes froze for 145 days, more than double the usual 62, and at one point in March more than 90 percent of the lakes' surface was under ice. That stranded raw materials and cut production and shipments of flat-rolled steel alone by 344,000 tons during the first quarter, a six percent drop compared with the same period of 2013, according to U.S. Steel.  WINTER FLOAT CEO Mario Longhi says the Pittsburgh-based company is  “definitely preparing operations for a longer period of shutdown of the locks” this winter, which “will consume an additional level of cash.” Freezing weather forced Ford to idle several facilities last winter just as the company was kicking off the biggest year of new model launches in its history. This year, Ford has added what company planners call a “winter float" to its just-in-time production plans. The approach puts extra parts in transit and allows additional time for the parts to arrive at plants. GM has identified high-risk regions, in terms of supplier locations and logistics routes, and is monitoring them round the clock from a crisis center for any weather-related disruptions. It has also added extra snow removal equipment at its distribution centers. Whirlpool, meanwhile, is talking to non-rival consumer goods companies about sharing space on delivery trucks in the event of a weather emergency. The company is also investigating short-term trailer rentals in case of winter capacity disruptions. The efforts come as some leading meteorologists are predicting another icy and disruptive winter. The Commodity Weather Group, which sells forecasts to farmers, believes this winter could be even colder than last year. Forecasters at AccuWeather and National Weather Service, though less worried about a broad repeat, are predicting below-average temperatures and heavy snowfall in the south-central and southeastern states, home to many auto assembly plants. That region was especially hard hit last year. When two inches of snow fell in Atlanta in late January, thousands of drivers abandoned their vehicles, gridlocking area roads for days. Kurt Kuehn, the chief financial officer of Atlanta-based United Parcel Service Inc, says weather will be a wild card, threatening traffic snarls during the company's peak season. "It’s very hard to move goods if highways are clogged." Con-way Freight is changing the fuel mix in its on-site storage tanks, after last year's cold snaps made diesel fuel in some locations so thick it would not pump. The company, which delivers parts for the automotive, heavy manufacturing and chemical sectors, also is issuing cleats to drivers and dock workers, so they will not fall in icy conditions. "We learned a lot of lessons from last year’s polar vortex,” says Gary Frantz, a company spokesman.  (Additional reporting by Nick Carey in Chicago; editing by David Greising and Tomasz Janowski) FREE AppDownload
