Jorge Silva/ReutersOpposition supporters take part in a march against the government of Nicolas Maduro in Caracas October 18, 2014.As the economy crumbles, so do the institutions holding up the regime. As birthdays go, it could have been a happier one. Venezuela’s president, Nicolás Maduro, celebrated his 52nd on November 23rd with a hand-picked crowd of supporters and public employees in a cramped square in the centre of Caracas. His birthday wish was to live (and presumably to govern) for another 50 years to see “Bolivarian socialism” come to fruition. In fact, time may be running out for the revolution. The price of Venezuelan oil, source of 96% of Venezuela’s foreign-exchange earnings, has dropped from $99 to $69 a barrel since June. The economy is in a deep recession and inflation is headed for triple-digit rates. Basic goods like flour and cooking oil are in short supply and queues to obtain them are common. More than two-thirds of voters think Mr Maduro should not serve out his six-year term, which began just last year (see chart); more than a quarter of those are supporters of the government. Parliamentary elections, to be held by December next year, cannot unseat Mr Maduro. But they offer a chance to break the monopoly of power exercised by his Bolivarian socialists since his predecessor, Hugo Chávez, became president in 1999. He died in 2013. via The Economist Without Chávez’s charisma and oil-fuelled largesse to hold it together, Mr Maduro’s United Socialist Party of Venezuela (PSUV) is fracturing. Fissures are appearing as well in the façade of unity presented by the regime’s civilian-military leadership. Mr Maduro must reform destructive exchange- and price-control mechanisms to have any hope of reviving the economy but has so far balked for fear of alienating the government’s supporters. After his re-election in 2006 Chávez demanded that all parties supporting the revolution merge to form the PSUV and told those that refused to “go on their way”. Now factions are proliferating, threatening to split the shrunken pro-government vote. Timid though Mr Maduro’s reforms have been, some leftist factions accuse him of betraying Chávez’s socialist legacy. Several unhappy groups are seeking independent registration with the electoral authority. The PSUV has set up an e-mail address and telephone hot-line for denouncing what a senior party official, Francisco Ameliach, termed “internal enemies” who foment division. The strains became obvious when the PSUV held internal elections on Maduro’s birthday. Its leaders had called on members to celebrate by turning out in force. Embarrassingly few did. No official reports were available, but party dissidents said a tenth or less of the supposed 7.6m militants cast a vote. Three prominent dissidents said their names had mysteriously been removed from the online register of members, depriving them of the right to vote. REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsPolice protect a man from being hurt by anti-government protesters who accuse him of being a government spy, during an anti-government demonstration in Caracas April 4, 2014.A separate confrontation is taking place between armed civilian “collectives” and elements of the military. The collectives act as fixers and enforcers for the government. They channel money into the barrios and push out criminal gangs but also intimidate political opponents. Some reportedly engage in extortion and drug-trafficking themselves. They are aligned with far-left politicians within the regime, many of whom are wary of the armed forces; the generals, in turn, are suspicious of armed groups outside their control. The conflict broke out on October 7th, when police killed five of the collectives’ leaders, including José Odreman, a former policeman closely linked to leading members of the government. Their outraged supporters demanded, and obtained, the dismissal of the interior minister, Miguel Rodríguez Torres, a general who for many years had headed the intelligence service (Sebin). Mr Maduro then named Freddy Bernal, a leading figure on the civilian left with close ties to the collectives, to “reform” the police. The regime has survived many such internal clashes and remains a potent political force, especially in rural areas. It also controls all the country’s main institutions, including the armed forces and the oil industry. Its instinct for survival has so far held it together. Jorge Dan Lopez/ReutersThe coffin of Venezuela's late President Hugo Chavez is driven through the streets of Caracas after leaving the military hospital where he died of cancer in Caracas, March 6, 2013.The best chance of rattling it will come in next year’s elections. Although the PSUV remains easily the biggest single party, its hold is weakening. The death of Chávez “put an end to the emotional link with the leader” felt by grass-roots chavistas, says Alonso Moleiro, a political pundit. The current crisis “lays bare the erosion of the PSUV as a mass movement”. But that is no guarantee that the opposition will win. The Democratic Unity (MUD) alliance is almost as divided as the PSUV. It consists of a couple of dozen parties, the most important of which differ over tactics. Many of its supporters are reluctant to vote because they have no faith in the electoral authority, which is controlled by the government. Just a quarter of the electorate trusts it. If the opposition manages to win a simple majority in the National Assembly it will be able to block the government’s budget measures and summon ministers for questioning. That would impose more accountability on the regime than it has faced in its 16-year history. If it is to seize that chance, the MUD will need discipline, unity and luck. FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - U.S. shoppers spent slightly less money at brick-and-mortar stores on Thanksgiving Day and Black Friday than across the same two days in 2013, while online sales surged to record highs, data showed on Saturday. Sales at retail stores totaled about $12.29 billion on Thursday and Friday, down 0.5 percent from the $12.35 billion spent last year, according to estimates by ShopperTrak. The research firm stuck by its forecast for November and December sales to increase 3.8 percent. The data highlights the waning importance of Black Friday, which until a few years ago kicked off the holiday shopping season, as more retailers open their doors on Thanksgiving Day and start discounting earlier in the month. It also points to the intense price competition among retailers, which have been discounting by 40 to 70 percent this year compared with 30 to 50 percent in the recent past, ShopperTrak founder Bill Martin told Reuters. "I think what we are seeing is those early promotions coupled with some pretty deep discounts," he said. Martin said he had expected a 0.5 to 1 percent sales gain. Customer traffic rose 27.3 percent on Thanksgiving Day from a year earlier, reflecting the sharp increase in retailers opening for business on that day. Traffic fell 5.6 percent on Black Friday, ShopperTrak said. Martin cautioned against taking the two days' figures as sign of slack holiday demand. He noted that Thanksgiving and Black Friday combined for just 1 percent growth last year, underperforming growth of 3.1 percent during the entire season spanning the months of November and December. Reflecting the decreased significance of Black Friday, ShopperTrak expects "Super Saturday" on Dec. 20 to rank as the busiest shopping day this year and says seven of the top 10 sales days of the season are still to come. Separate data underscored the ongoing shift of shopping to online retailers. Online Thanksgiving and Black Friday sales tracked by Adobe Systems Inc were a record $1.33 billion and $2.4 billion, up 25 percent and 24 percent from a year earlier, respectively. Between Nov. 1 and Nov. 28, $32 billion has been spent online, up 14 percent from 2013, Adobe said. The proliferation of smartphones has made consumers more likely to shop online, with 29 percent of Thanksgiving sales via mobile devices, up from 21 percent on the same day last year. Adobe said its findings were based on more than 350 million visits to 4,500 retail websites. "So much more mobile shopping is happening and that's part of what's driving e-commerce activity to new heights every year," said Tamara Gaffney, principal analyst at Adobe Digital Index. Several traditional bricks-and-mortar retailers reported strong online growth, a reflection of efforts to compete more aggressively on price with Amazon.com. Target Corp, which is offering free shipping for online orders during the holiday season, said it had record online sales on Thursday, up more than 40 percent from 2013. Protesters have urged shoppers to boycott stores as the holiday season gets underway, saying economic inequality in the United States contributes to incidents such as the Ferguson, Missouri, shooting of an unarmed black teenager by a white policeman. Martin, however, told Reuters he did not think the protests have so far had a significant impact on sales on a national level. (Reporting by Nathan Layne in Chicago; Editing by Lisa Shumaker and Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
China Daily News/ReutersA policeman guards while confiscated drugs are burned during a campaign on the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking in Shenyang, Liaoning province June 26, 2010. China struggles with contraband from its neighbours A hundred metres from the tiered, gold-tipped roof of the official border crossing between China and Myanmar in Ruili, an unofficial international trade zone thrives—across a 7-metre (23-foot) high metal fence that divides the two countries. Small groups of Chinese gather to buy cigarettes, coffee and Chinese medicines through the bars from Burmese stall-sellers. Farther along the road, a man in a red T-shirt crosses from Myanmar to China in bright daylight through a rectangular hole in the railings. China’s south-western province of Yunnan is trying to expand its imports from and exports to its land neighbours: Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam. It shares more than 4,000km (2,500 miles) of border with them. The Chinese are not necessarily keen to import all of its neighbours’ products, however.  The liveliest trade is in drugs. Yunnan borders on the Golden Triangle, a region notorious for its copious output of narcotics. Locals on the Burmese frontier point to fruit trees that now grow where opium used to, but the quantity of drugs seized has been rising.  Yunnan’s border police confiscated 6.2 tonnes of drugs in 2013, almost double the amount in 2011. More than half the methamphetamine seized in China last year was from Myanmar and was seized in Yunnan. Drug smuggling between Vietnam and China, a lot of it through Yunnan, has risen sharply too. Stringer/ReutersParamilitary policemen carry seized crystal meth at Boshe village, Lufeng, Guangdong province, December 29, 2013.  Other forms of illegal activity are rife. Weapons smuggling is on the rise; signs written on walls near the China-Laos border in Mohan advertise guns and ammunition for sale. Most timber entering China from Laos and Myanmar is logged illegally, according to a report by Chatham House, a London think-tank. Contraband goods flow from China too. A Burmese politician told parliament in October that more than four-fifths of the 4m registered motorbikes in Myanmar were illegally imported. Many traders consistently underestimate the value of goods they are transporting to pay less tax. Most insidious is the trade in people. On November 24th Chinese officers arrested a gang accused of selling 11 Burmese women as wives in rural areas for 50,000-90,000 yuan ($8,000-13,000) each. In 2013 Yunnan border police found more than 100 trafficked people, and arrested over 6,000 others who had crossed the border illegally.  FREE AppDownload
TwitterUS President Barack Obama and his daughters Sasha and Malia (L) shop at Politics and Prose bookstore in Washington November 29, 2014.President Barack Obama and his teenaged daughters, Sasha and Malia, went to an independent book store in Washington to buy books as a way to promote Small Business Saturday, an event aimed at boosting small businesses. "Do I get a discount for that?" the president asked jokingly while unloading a bunch of books from his shopping basket at the Politics and Prose book store on Saturday. "Maybe a neighbor's discount," the clerk joked back. It is not clear whether Obama would have taken the discount, if offered. The first family shopped at the same bookstore last year. On Saturday, Obama was met by a mostly cheery crowd of shoppers and got a round of applause when a baby earned a presidential selfie. Over the clicking of cameras and flashes of smart-phones, one shopper yelled: "When are you going to close Guantanamo?" "We're working on it," the president replied. "Any other issues?" Started in 2010 by credit card company American Express, Small Business Saturday comes on the Saturday after Thanksgiving Day, to encourage people to spend their holiday shopping dollars at small businesses. It is the Black Friday for mom-and-pop shops that has become an annual tradition and has gained momentum, spawning "shop local" movements in communities across the country. Last year, shoppers spent about $5.7 billion at small companies on Small Business Saturday, according to a joint survey by National Federation of Independent Business and American Express. The White House released a list of the books purchased by the Obama trio: - Being Mortal: Medicine and What Matters in the End by Atul Gawande - Junie B. Jones and a Little Monkey Business by Barbara Park - I Spy Sticker Book and Picture Riddles by Jean Marzollo - Brown Girl Dreaming by Jacqueline Woodson - All the Light We Cannot See by Anthony Doerr - Heart of Darkness by Joseph Conrad - Age of Ambition: Chasing Fortune, Truth, and Faith in the New China by Evan Osnos Last year, the president and his daughters bought The Kite Runner, Harold and the Purple Crayon and The Sports Gene. Here is a video of the family checking out at the store:   (Reporting by Elvina Nawaguna; Editing by Sandra Maler and Gunna Dickson) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Donald Lee Pardue A waitress readies food at a local diner.Fifty years ago, President Lyndon B. Johnson made a move that was unprecedented at the time and remains unmatched by succeeding administrations. He announced a War on Poverty, saying that its “chief weapons” would be “better schools, and better health, and better homes, and better training, and better job opportunities.” So starting in 1964 and for almost a decade, the federal government poured at least some of its resources in the direction they should have been going all along: toward those who were most in need. Longstanding programs like Head Start, Legal Services, and the Job Corps were created. Medicaid was established. Poverty among seniors was significantly reduced by improvements in Social Security. Johnson seemed to have established the principle that it is the responsibility of government to intervene on behalf of the disadvantaged and deprived. But there was never enough money for the fight against poverty, and Johnson found himself increasingly distracted by another and deadlier war—the one in Vietnam. Although underfunded, the War on Poverty still managed to provoke an intense backlash from conservative intellectuals and politicians. In their view, government programs could do nothing to help the poor because poverty arises from the twisted psychology of the poor themselves. By the Reagan era, it had become a cornerstone of conservative ideology that poverty is caused not by low wages or a lack of jobs and education, but by the bad attitudes and faulty lifestyles of the poor. Picking up on this theory, pundits and politicians have bemoaned the character failings and bad habits of the poor for at least the past 50 years. In their view, the poor are shiftless, irresponsible, and prone to addiction. They have too many children and fail to get married. So if they suffer from grievous material deprivation, if they run out of money between paychecks, if they do not always have food on their tables—then they have no one to blame but themselves. In the 1990s, with a bipartisan attack on welfare, this kind of prejudice against the poor took a drastically misogynistic turn. Poor single mothers were identified as a key link in what was called “the cycle of poverty.” By staying at home and collecting welfare, they set a toxic example for their children, who—important policymakers came to believe—would be better off being cared for by paid child care workers or even, as Newt Gingrich proposed, in orphanages. Welfare “reform” was the answer, and it was intended not only to end financial support for imperiled families, but also to cure the self-induced “culture of poverty” that was supposedly at the root of their misery. The original welfare reform bill—a bill, it should be recalled, which was signed by President Bill Clinton—included an allocation of $100 million for “chastity training” for low-income women. The Great Recession should have put the victim-blaming theory of poverty to rest. In the space of only a few months, millions of people entered the ranks of the officially poor—not only laid-off blue-collar workers, but also downsized tech workers, managers, lawyers, and other once-comfortable professionals. No one could accuse these “nouveau poor” Americans of having made bad choices or bad lifestyle decisions. They were educated, hardworking, and ambitious, and now they were also poor—applying for food stamps, showing up in shelters, lining up for entry-level jobs in retail. This would have been the moment for the pundits to finally admit the truth: Poverty is not a character failing or a lack of motivation. Poverty is a shortage of money. For most women in poverty, in both good times and bad, the shortage of money arises largely from inadequate wages. When I worked on my book, Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America, I took jobs as a waitress, nursing-home aide, hotel housekeeper, Wal-Mart associate, and a maid with a house-cleaning service. I did not choose these jobs because they were low-paying. I chose them because these are the entry-level jobs most readily available to women. Jasper Juinen / Getty Images What I discovered is that in many ways, these jobs are a trap: They pay so little that you cannot accumulate even a couple of hundred dollars to help you make the transition to a better-paying job. They often give you no control over your work schedule, making it impossible to arrange for child care or take a second job. And in many of these jobs, even young women soon begin to experience the physical deterioration—especially knee and back problems—that can bring a painful end to their work life. I was also dismayed to find that in some ways, it is actually more expensive to be poor than not poor. If you can’t afford the first month’s rent and security deposit you need in order to rent an apartment, you may get stuck in an overpriced residential motel. If you don’t have a kitchen or even a refrigerator and microwave, you will find yourself falling back on convenience store food, which—in addition to its nutritional deficits—is also alarmingly overpriced. If you need a loan, as most poor people eventually do, you will end up paying an interest rate many times more than what a more affluent borrower would be charged. To be poor—especially with children to support and care for—is a perpetual high-wire act. Most private-sector employers offer no sick days, and many will fire a person who misses a day of work, even to stay home with a sick child. A nonfunctioning car can also mean lost pay and sudden expenses. A broken headlight invites a ticket, plus a fine greater than the cost of a new headlight, and possible court costs. If a creditor decides to get nasty, a court summons may be issued, often leading to an arrest warrant. No amount of training in financial literacy can prepare someone for such exigencies—or make up for an income that is impossibly low to start with. Instead of treating low-wage mothers as the struggling heroines they are, our political culture still tends to view them as miscreants and contributors to the “cycle of poverty.” If anything, the criminalization of poverty has accelerated since the recession, with growing numbers of states drug testing applicants for temporary assistance, imposing steep fines for school truancy, and imprisoning people for debt. Such measures constitute a cruel inversion of the Johnson-era principle that it is the responsibility of government to extend a helping hand to the poor. Sadly, this has become the means by which the wealthiest country in the world manages to remain complacent in the face of alarmingly high levels of poverty: by continuing to blame poverty not on the economy or inadequate social supports, but on the poor themselves. It’s time to revive the notion of a collective national responsibility to the poorest among us, who are disproportionately women and especially women of color. Until that happens, we need to wake up to the fact that the underpaid women who clean our homes and offices, prepare and serve our meals, and care for our elderly—earning wages that do not provide enough to live on—are the true philanthropists of our society. FREE AppDownload
China Daily News/ReutersA policeman guards while confiscated drugs are burned during a campaign on the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking in Shenyang, Liaoning province June 26, 2010. China struggles with contraband from its neighbours A hundred metres from the tiered, gold-tipped roof of the official border crossing between China and Myanmar in Ruili, an unofficial international trade zone thrives—across a 7-metre (23-foot) high metal fence that divides the two countries. Small groups of Chinese gather to buy cigarettes, coffee and Chinese medicines through the bars from Burmese stall-sellers. Farther along the road, a man in a red T-shirt crosses from Myanmar to China in bright daylight through a rectangular hole in the railings. China’s south-western province of Yunnan is trying to expand its imports from and exports to its land neighbours: Laos, Myanmar and Vietnam. It shares more than 4,000km (2,500 miles) of border with them. The Chinese are not necessarily keen to import all of its neighbours’ products, however.  The liveliest trade is in drugs. Yunnan borders on the Golden Triangle, a region notorious for its copious output of narcotics. Locals on the Burmese frontier point to fruit trees that now grow where opium used to, but the quantity of drugs seized has been rising.  Yunnan’s border police confiscated 6.2 tonnes of drugs in 2013, almost double the amount in 2011. More than half the methamphetamine seized in China last year was from Myanmar and was seized in Yunnan. Drug smuggling between Vietnam and China, a lot of it through Yunnan, has risen sharply too. Stringer/ReutersParamilitary policemen carry seized crystal meth at Boshe village, Lufeng, Guangdong province, December 29, 2013.  Other forms of illegal activity are rife. Weapons smuggling is on the rise; signs written on walls near the China-Laos border in Mohan advertise guns and ammunition for sale. Most timber entering China from Laos and Myanmar is logged illegally, according to a report by Chatham House, a London think-tank. Contraband goods flow from China too. A Burmese politician told parliament in October that more than four-fifths of the 4m registered motorbikes in Myanmar were illegally imported. Many traders consistently underestimate the value of goods they are transporting to pay less tax. Most insidious is the trade in people. On November 24th Chinese officers arrested a gang accused of selling 11 Burmese women as wives in rural areas for 50,000-90,000 yuan ($8,000-13,000) each. In 2013 Yunnan border police found more than 100 trafficked people, and arrested over 6,000 others who had crossed the border illegally.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Robert S. DonovanSometimes, you need a reminder.Two years ago a civil servant in the German town of Menden wrote a farewell message to his colleagues on the day of his retirement stating that he had not done anything for 14 years. “Since 1998,” he wrote, “I was present but not really there. So I’m going to be well prepared for retirement—Adieu.” The e-mail was leaked to Germany's Westfalen-Post and quickly became world news. The public work ethic had been wounded and in the days that followed the mayor of Menden lamented the incident, saying he “felt a good dose of rage.” The municipality of Menden sent out a press release regretting that the employee never informed his superiors of his inactivity. In a lesser-known interview with the German newspaper Bild a month later, the former employee responded that his e-mail had been misconstrued. He had not been avoiding work for 14 years; as his department grew, his assignments were simply handed over to others. “There never was any frustration on my part, and I would have written the e-mail even today. I have always offered my services, but it’s not my problem if they don’t want them,” he said. The story of this German bureaucrat raised some questions about modern-day slacking. Does having a job necessarily entail work? If not, how and why does a job lose its substance? And what can be done to make employees less lazy—or is that even the right question to ask in a system that’s set up in the way that ours is? After talking to 40 dedicated loafers, I think I can take a stab at some answers. Most work sociologists tend toward the view that non-work at work is a marginal, if not negligible, phenomenon. What all statistics point towards is a general intensification of work with more and more burnouts and other stress syndromes troubling us. Yet there are more-detailed surveys reporting that the average time spent on private activities at work is between 1.5 and three hours a day. By measuring the flows of audiences for certain websites, it has also been observed that, by the turn of the century,70 percent of the U.S. internet traffic passing through pornographic sites did so during working hours, and that 60 percent of all online purchases were made between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. What is sometimes called “cyberloafing” has, furthermore, not only been observed in the U.S. (in which most work-time surveys are conducted), but also in nations such as Singapore, Germany, and Finland. Even if the percentage of workers who claim they are working at the pinnacle of their capacity all the time is slowly increasing, the majority still remains unaffected. In fact, the proportion of people who say they never work hard has long been far greater than those who say they always do. The articles and books about the stressed-out fraction of humanity can be counted in the thousands, but why has so little been written about this opposite extreme? The few books that have been written on this topic were written by slackers themselves. In Bonjour Paresse, French author Corinne Maier offers her own explanation for professional detachment. Maier opens the book (which eventually cost her a job) by declaring that social science has miserably failed to understand the mechanisms of office work: “Millions of people work in business, but its world is opaque. This is because the people who talk about it the most—and I mean the university professors—have never worked there; they aren’t in the know.” Having spent years as a bureaucrat at the utility Électricité de France, Maier contends that work is increasingly reduced to “make-believe,” that at the office, “image counts more than product, seduction more than production.” Under these circumstances, feigned obedience and fake commitment become so central to working that a deviation from those acts can result in embarrassment for everyone. As she recalls: “One day, in the middle of a meeting on motivation, I dared to say that the only reason I came to work was to put food on the table. There were 15 seconds of absolute silence, and everyone seemed uncomfortable. Even though the French word for work, ‘travail,’ etymologically derives from an instrument of torture, it’s imperative to let it be known, no matter the circumstance, that you are working because you are interested in your work.” The gap between image and substance is also a recurring theme in the comic Dilbert, whose creator, Scott Adams, was inspired by his uninspiring stints in the working world. Again and again, Adams questions not only the link between work and rationality, but also the relation between work and productivity: “Work can be defined as ‘anything you’d rather not be doing,’” he says. “Productivity is a different matter.” Flickr/Seafoam Suds In the preface to the Dilbert collection This Is the Part Where You Pretend to Add Value, Adams openly gives his impressions of 16 years of employment at Crocker National Bank and Pacific Bell: “If I had to describe my 16 years of corporate work with one phrase, it would be ‘pretending to add value.’ The key to career advancement is appearing valuable despite all hard evidence to the contrary. If you add any actual value to your company today, your career is probably not moving in the right direction. Real work is for people at the bottom who plan to stay there.” Other office workers have presented similar accounts. In The Living Dead, David Bolchover rues “the dominance of image over reality, of obfuscation over clarity, of politics over performance,” and in City Slackers, Steve McKevitt, a disillusioned “business and communications expert,” gloomily declares: “In a society where presentation is everything, it’s no longer about what you do, it’s about how you look like you’re doing it.” The simulation, the glossing over, the loss of meaning, the jargon, the games, the office politics, the crises, the boredom, the despair, and the sense of unreality—these are ingredients that often reappear in popular accounts of working life. The risk when they only appear in popular culture is that we begin regarding them as metaphors or exaggerations that may well apply to our own jobs but not to work in general. But what would happen if we started taking these “unserious” accounts of working life more seriously? Consider the last novel by David Foster Wallace, The Pale King, in which an IRS worker dies by his desk and remains there for days without anyone noticing that he is dead. This might be read as a brilliant satire of how work drains liveliness such that no one notices whether you are dead or alive. However, in the strict sense of the word, this was not fiction. In 2004, a tax-office official in Finland died in exactly the same way while checking tax returns. Although there were about 100 other workers on the same floor and some 30 employees in the auditing department where he worked, it took them two days to notice that he was dead. None of them seemed to feel the loss of his labors; he was only found when a friend stopped by to have lunch with him. How could no one notice? I talked with over 40 people who spent half of their working hours on private activities—a phenomenon I call “empty labor.” I wanted to know how they did it, and I wanted to know why. "Why" turned out to be the easy part: For most people, work simply sucks. We hate Mondays and we long for Fridays—it's not a coincidence that evidence points towards a peak in cardiac mortality on Monday mornings. There are, of course, exceptional cases. According to a Gallup report from last year, 13 percent of employees from 142 countries are “engaged” in their jobs. However, twice as many are “actively disengaged”—they’re negative and potentially hostile to their organizations. The majority of workers, though, are simply “checked out,” the report says. Flickr Foot-dragging, shirking, loafing, and slacking are ways of avoiding work within the frames of wage labor. In 1911, Frederick W. Taylor, the notorious founder of “scientific management,” called work avoidance “the greatest evil with which the working-people of both England and America are now afflicted.” His attempts to eradicate slacking set the course of a perpetual cat-and-mouse game, between the time-study men and the worker collective, that would live much longer than the industrial piece-work system. For Taylor, the project of making the labor process transparent was an important step towards efficiency—not only because it made the optimization of each operation possible, but also because it siphoned power from the worker collective, with its “natural” inclination towards “loafing,” and giving it to management, or as Taylor would have it, to Science. Today, now that the labor process has become opaque in new ways, the “evil” of which Taylor once spoke may have returned for good. Something that would have surprised Taylor is that slacking is not always the product of discontent, but also of having too few tasks to fill the hours. According to repeated surveys by Salary.com, not having “enough work to do” is the most common reason for slacking off at work. The service sector offers new types of work in which periods of downtime are long and tougher to eliminate than on the assembly line: A florist watching over an empty flower shop, a logistics manager who did all his work between 2 and 3 p.m., and a bank clerk responsible for a not-so-popular insurance program are some examples of employees I talked with who never actively strived to work less. Like the civil servant of Menden, they offered their services, but when the flow of assignments petered out, they did not shout it from the rooftops. FlickrMany would say that the under worked should talk to their bosses, but that doesn't always help. I spoke with a Swedish bank clerk who said he was only doing 15 minutes' worth of work a day. He asked his manager for more responsibilities, to no avail, then told his boss of his idleness. Did he get more to do? Barely. When I spoke with him, he was working three-hour days—there were laws that barred any workday shorter than that—and his intervention only added another 15 minutes to his workload. There's a widely held belief that more work always exists for those who want it. But is that true? Everywhere we look, technology is replacing human labor. In OECD countries, productivity has more than doubled since the '70s. Yet there has been no perceptible movement to reduce workers' hours in relation to this increased productivity; instead, the virtues of "creating jobs" are trumpeted by both Democrats and Republicans. The project of job creation hasn't been a complete failure, but the fact of unemployment still looms. What's more, the jobs that are created often come up short on providing fulfillment. Involuntary slacking may first be conceived of as real bliss: “Hey, I don’t have to work!” one of my interviewees recalls. But as the years pass by, most of us will crave some type of meaningful activity. I interviewed an archivist who wrote his master’s thesis while at work and a subway-ticket collector who composed music in his little booth. If you're lucky, these activities may be pursued within the frame of wage labor—but that's very hard to come by. Our economy produces inequalities in income and job security, but also, we should acknowledge, in stimulation and substance.  FREE AppDownload
CARACAS (Reuters) - Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro said on Friday he and other government officials should take salary cuts as part of budget reductions in response to the lower price of oil. The South American member of OPEC derives 96 percent of its export revenues from oil, so the drop in prices to multi-year lows on the global market has hit hard, exacerbating a national economic decline, foreign currency shortage and scarcity of basic goods. "This is a test for me," Maduro said in a speech on state TV, reiterating that Venezuela would lobby within the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries cartel as well as among non-OPEC producers for an oil price target of $100 per barrel. U.S. crude tumbled 10 percent on Friday in its biggest one-day drop in more than five years, with benchmark Brent breaking below $70 a barrel. Venezuela's petroleum export basket, which averaged $103.42 in 2012 and $98.08 in 2013, dropped to a four-year low of $68.08 on Friday, the government said. The Venezuelan president, who last year won election to replace late socialist leader Hugo Chavez, has seen his popularity fall in part due to the economic crisis. He said he was decreeing a new committee to recommend public spending cuts. "This commission is going to take an axe and chop wherever we need to," he said, adding that various budget cuts were needed. "I have ordered a revision of salaries of ministers and state enterprises, starting with the president of the republic." Maduro reiterated his assertion that global oil prices would eventually bounce back, and scoffed at his political foes who say the fall in revenues could be a final nail in the socialist government's coffin. "The oligarchy thinks it is time to defeat the Bolivarian revolution, our revolution of independence," he said. "I have said it before. We are in conditions to withstand the oil fall, have no doubt," added Maduro who has repeatedly said the country's foreign debt commitments and domestic welfare programs would both continue to be fully paid.   (Writing by Andrew Cawthorne, editing by G Crosse) FREE AppDownload
Apple's stock is once again on a tear.  It's up 48% this year, surging past a $700 billion valuation.  It's a stunning reversal for the company. In April 2013, Wall Street had given up on Apple. The stock was less than half what it trades for today. People thought the iPhone was done. They thought Apple was doomed. The New York Times was comparing Tim Cook to Steve Ballmer.  Today, all that seems preposterous. The iPhone 6 is a blockbuster hit. On its most recent earnings call, Apple said it was selling every single iPhone 6 it could make. And Apple can make a lot of iPhones. The most recent projection from Ming-Chi Kuo, an analyst at KGI Securities who has an excellent track record on Apple products, says Apple is going to sell 71.5 million iPhones during the holiday quarter. If, by some miracle, Apple sells that many iPhones, it would be a whopping 40% year-over-year jump. Again, remember that people truly believed the iPhone opportunity was over for Apple. They thought Apple was going to get by only on upgrades from current users. There is, naturally, some fear that this supercycle for the iPhone can last only so long. Eventually Apple will sell as many iPhones as possible, and it will hit a wall. But Apple has proved that the iPhone is strong product that can continue to grow despite expectations for a drop-off. And unlike with the iPhone 5, the most recent product to generate this sort of excitement for Apple, Apple has a few tricks up its sleeve. It is planning to release the Apple Watch at the start of next year. Morgan Stanley predicts Apple will sell 30 million units. With a conservative $400 average selling price for each watch sold, that's $12 billion in new revenue for Apple. Apple did $183 billion in sales last year, so that would be about a 7% sales bump from the Apple Watch. The rumor mill is speculating that Apple has a new iPad Pro coming, which could lead to new iPad sales. Though, truthfully, it might eat into Mac sales, so it's unlikely to result in massive gains for the company. Apple also has Apple Pay, which will lead to some small additional revenue. Even if you think the revenue gains from these new products are minimal, the psychological impact of new products rolling out from Apple is big. It's easy to see that once again, these are exciting times for Apple. The previous time Apple was rolling, everyone wanted to talk about it becoming a trillion-dollar company. During this run, we're not hearing a peep. Which is weird.  So, if nobody else wants to make the case for Apple going to a trillion, it looks like it's up to us! So here we go ... Shutterstock, Business InsiderApple has a price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio of ~18. During its previous run higher, the P/E was ~15, which is about in line with the historic average for stocks. So we will work with those two numbers for a valuation argument.  We could use another metric like price to sales, but Apple shares have been judged against earnings, not sales.  If Apple were to be worth a trillion dollars, given the current number of shares outstanding (5.86 billion), the stock would be trading at about $170 per share.  At $170 per share and a P/E of 18, Apple's earnings per share (EPS) would need to be $9.47, which roughly translates to $55.5 billion in net income.  At $170 per share and a P/E of 15, Apple's EPS would need to be $11.40, which translates to $66.9 billion in net income.  In Apple's 2014 fiscal year, it earned $6.49 earnings per share, or $39.5 billion. So, to get to $55.5 billion, Apple will have to grow earnings by about 40%. To get to $66.9 billion, Apple will have to grow earnings almost 70%.  Is it possible for Apple to grow its earnings that much? Anything is possible! REUTERS/Yuya ShinoCan Apple keep the iPhone hype going for the next five years?But here's some context: Google's trailing 12-month revenue is $67.9 billion.  To reach a market cap of $1 trillion, Apple will need to be earning nearly that amount in profit.   The highest ever annual profit was ExxonMobil in 2008, with the oil giant earning ~$50 billion in inflation-adjusted earnings, according to a Wikipedia page tracking profits. Apple would have to top that by $5 billion to $17 billion to become a trillion-dollar company.  That is going to be hard. And for Apple to get there, it will be all about the iPhone. After an explosion in earnings growth, Apple's profit growth has shrunk considerably.  In 2014, net income was up 6.6%. In 2013, it was actually down 11%. In 2012, it was up a whopping 61%, marking Apple's peak year for profits. The company earned $41.7 billion that year, making it the seventh-most-profitable year in corporate history. This, incidentally, is why P/E is the ratio that matters for Apple. When Apple's earnings fell, the stock fell. When Apple's earnings started growing, Apple's stock started growing.  People can grasp for all sorts of convoluted explanations for Apple's share price swings, but it really looks as if it's just that simple.  Business InsiderWhat happened for Apple in fiscal 2012 that made it so profitable? iPhone sales exploded. The iPad was refined and became mainstream, selling in big, profitable volumes.  In 2013, iPhone sales slowed, and Apple started selling the iPad Mini, which is less profitable than a big iPad or an iPhone. Analysts are predicting that Apple will bounce back in fiscal 2015 and have its biggest year ever. According to Yahoo Finance, consensus estimates for 2015 is $7.72 EPS, and in 2016 Wall Street expects EPS of $8.51.  If the company's share count stays the same, that translates to $45 billion in net income for 2015 and $49.9 billion in 2016. Both are impressive, but neither is big enough to get Apple to $1 trillion using the current P/E valuation. So, how do we get there? Apple's spectacular profit growth has been driven by the iPhone. The iPad and Mac will probably drive some profit growth. And the Apple Watch will also kick in some profit growth, but the iPhone is really going to drive Apple's bottom line. If it's going to become a $1 trillion company, it will need an additional $16 billion to $20 billion in net income from the iPhone business. Let's say Apple makes ~$225 in net profit per iPhone sold based on an average selling price north of $600 and a 35% margin. Apple would need incremental iPhone sales of 88.8 million units to add $20 billion in earnings. If Apple maintains its 18 P/E, then sales need to jump by only 71 million units, which would increase earnings by $16 billion. Growing iPhone sales by 88.8 million units would be tough. Apple sold 169 million iPhones in fiscal 2014, up 13%, or 19 million units from the prior year. Adding 88.8 million units would mean Apple sells 256 million phones annually, a 52% increase from today. BI IntelligenceThe iPhone business has slowed, which is to be expected.Even bullish analysts aren't predicting that sort of monstrous explosion in sales. Piper Jaffray analyst Gene Munster is predicting 194.5 million iPhones sold in fiscal 2015 and 199.5 million in fiscal 2016.  Both of those are well short of what Apple needs to hit $1 trillion. Apple has only ~12% of the global smartphone market, so it has plenty of room to grow. But growth is going to be tough for Apple because it sells an expensive phone, and the bulk of the growth in the smartphone market is from low- and mid-tier devices. But with enough time, it's not hard to make the case for Apple growing iPhone sales by 52%. So, there it is.  To get to $1 trillion, Apple needs to earn $55 billion to $66 billion in net income, which would shatter records.  To earn this much profit, Apple probably has to sell 70 million to 90 million more iPhones per year, which would be a challenge but not impossible.  How else can Apple get to a $1 trillion market cap?  Apple could take out shares with buybacks, thus bumping the stock further (fewer shares outstanding means more earnings per share). This wouldn't be easy. Assuming continued modest growth of its profits, it would have to buy ~1 billion shares, or 17% of the company, which is worth $118 billion.  Apple has $155 billion in cash and throws off ~$50 billion free cash flow annually, so it could afford to do that. But some might say this isn't the best use of the company's cash. REUTERS/Stephen LamWhat else? The Apple Watch could turn into a monster cash cow. The iPad could come roaring back. Apple could start selling a TV and make boatloads of cash on its TV. It could enter the internet of things business and generate crazy profits.  These all seem unlikely, but you never know.  Or, as the kids say these days, ¯\_(<U+30C4>)_/¯ . Further, stocks are weird! They can fluctuate up and down with no easy explanation. Investors could suddenly get hot for Apple and bid up the shares.  Or, the Apple Watch could be a dud, and investors will worry the company can't innovate, and dump shares — even if the company is growing.  Again, ¯\_(<U+30C4>)_/¯ . But assuming the stock behaves rationally, based on the numbers it's possible Apple gets to a trillion-dollar market cap. It's just going to take a few years and a lot of iPhones. REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson ¯\_(<U+30C4>)_/¯ FREE AppDownload
Sotheby's International RealtyQuite the retreat.Financier Tom Hudson, founder of investment firm Pirate Capital, is auctioning off his pirate-themed villa on the island of St. Thomas. Previously on sale for $35 million back in 2012, the island couldn’t find a buyer so it will now be auctioned off to the highest bidder, starting at the low, low price of $6 million. "The owner has selected the luxury auction process because he is ready to start another real estate project, and wants to first know this property is off his books,” Platinum Luxury Auctions President Trayor Lesnock told Business Insider. “The date-certainty provided by the auction was very attractive to him in this regard, as opposed to continuing the traditional listing process, which can be quite lengthy for higher-priced island properties.” Known as Villa Whydah, it's been described by Hudson as "the retirement home of a pirate who surrounds himself with the bounty of his exploits with his wife at his side." Named after a pirate ship that sank in 1717, Whydah sits on the western tip of St. Thomas with views of Botany Bay, the Atlantic Ocean, and the Caribbean Sea. Not only does the 19,000-square-foot home have helipad access, two guest homes, and a caretaker house, but it's fully-outfitted with every bell and whistle someone could dream up. It comes with six bedrooms, eight bathrooms, and a custom-tiled pool and spa. The mansion is also outfitted with top-notch security and a Crestron System that allows you to control every aspect of the home's electronics, lighting, and temperature from anywhere in the world on your smart phone. According to the Wall Street Journal, it cost Hudson almost $20 million to renovate the compound. Lee Steiner at Sotheby's International Realty will be sharing the sale with auction house Platinum Luxury Auctions. FREE AppDownload
As many times as they’ve had to repeat it, it’s a story that Charlie and Andy Nelson never tire of telling. After all, Charlie says, it was akin to being “struck by lightning” when they discovered -- one summer day almost eight years ago -- that their great-great-great grandfather owned and operated one of the largest whiskey distilleries in pre-Prohibition America. Driving through the Tennessee countryside that day, they’d spotted a historical marker that read ‘Charles Nelson Green Brier Distillery.’ After puzzling over the analogous moniker, a local butcher pointed them in the direction of the still-standing barrel warehouse, grain house and a running spring. “We looked at each other and knew,” Andy says. “In an instant, everything clicked.” Later that afternoon, by the time a curator at the local historical society had shown them two original bottles of whiskey produced by the distillery in the late 1800s, it was tacitly understood: the brothers would undertake a quest to resurrect the Nelson family name. Fast forward eight years. Today, the Nelsons vend a “super premium” brand of bourbon called Belle Meade, which retails across a handful of Southeastern states for $39.00. Unlike their grandfather’s in-house concoctions, however, Belle Meade is produced in conjunction with MGP, a major national distiller. That’s because Charlie and Andy’s 30,000-square-foot production facility and tasting room in Nashville, Tenn., won’t open its doors until later this summer. Then, eventually, their ultimate goal is to open yet another facility roughly 20 miles away in Greenbrier, Tenn. -- on the very grounds of their forefather’s seminal operation. Fresh out of college, Andy, now 31, and Charlie, 30, were both Philosophy majors in search of a purpose -- until it presented itself to them both in a serendipitous and unequivocal blow. Shortly thereafter, a dip back into the Tennessee state archives -- as well as a hodgepodge of family anecdotes -- yielded some staggering facts. In its heyday, Charles Nelson’s distillery produced close to 380,000 gallons of whiskey annually, or 20 times the volume of renowned competitors Jack Daniel’s and George Dickel. But its size was also its undoing, the brothers explain, in that -- unlike competitors -- the distillery was simply too large to mobilize under the legal scrutiny of Prohibition. It shuttered for good in 1909. The Nelson brothers know that rebuilding the business to its former stature will take bounds of capital and patience in equal measure. Creating a high quality whiskey necessitates steep production costs, Charlie says, and then one must simply sit back and wait for the product to age. At its peak, the Charles Nelson Green Brier Distillery produced more than 30 brands of whiskey -- in addition to brief forays into fruit brandy and gin. The brothers hope to attain something of a similar scale one day, and intend to brand their own creations with the ancient distillery’s original labels. “We want to be more than just a craft or micro distillery,” Andy says, “because that’s never who we were. We want to bring the name back to worldwide recognition.” They also envision a tourism component to the business, in which whiskey tastings and visits could be hosted on the hallowed premises. Though the company’s founding spans centuries, Charlie and Andy still encounter many of the same challenges -- and advantages -- of any family business owner. While prone to the occasional skirmish, mostly the brothers’ personalities complement one another, they say. Charlie, a gregarious big-picture thinker, is in charge of sales and marketing, while Andy, a detail-oriented introvert, heads up production and operations. Tapping funds was the biggest challenge to jumpstarting the business initially, and so their parents “put up everything” for a loan from a local bank. Four years later, they say, the company broke even. Today, their primary responsibility consists of making the rounds within the whiskey industry to foster relationships with bartenders, distributors and tastemakers across the country. Education, awareness and forging personal connections are crucial to helping the brand grow, says Charlie. And as stalwart rebuilders of a bygone dynasty, they are more than happy to share -- again and again -- the beguiling story of that fateful country drive. FREE AppDownload
Rob Griffith/ReutersPresident of Russia Vladimir Putin (L) and Crown Prince Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud (R) of Saudi Arabia talk through their interpreters during a plenary session at the G20 leaders summit in Brisbane November 15, 2014. Saudi Arabia is risking the economic health of weaker oil producing nations in its fight to see off the threat of the US shale boom. Oil prices have fallen by over 30% since June and appear to be continuing their decline. On Thursday Brent fell to a four-year low of just over $76 a barrel, down from $115 a barrel in June, while US WTI crude dropped to around $72 a barrel. The collapse has taken a heavy toll on states that rely heavily on exports of the commodity to support their economies. Below is a chart from Citi Group of the fiscal break even oil prices (the price at which revenues from oil sales will allow the government to meet its spending commitments) for a selection of oil exporting countries both within and outside of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). What should be clear is that, although Saudi Arabia's breakeven point has been creeping higher it remains substantially below some of the more vulnerable members. Citi Unfortunately for most of the countries on that list, most forecasters now predict that the days of $100 a barrel oil are now over — at least for now. In a recent note Goldman Sachs estimates that Brent crude will hit $90 again by 2016 with US WTI crude bouncing back up to $80. Goldman Sachs This forecast in large part reflects the huge shale boom that the US is experiencing. The country has seen production increase dramatically over the past couple of years, easily overwhelming cuts from OPEC members over recent years. And yet, the Saudi oil minister has been hinting that OPEC may not agree a cut to production at its key meeting on Thursday. Already this year Venezuela, Nigeria and Russia have burnt through billions of dollars in efforts to support collapsing currencies and flagging economies. Russian international reserves have plummeted by $90 billion since the start of the year spent mostly in foreign exchange markets trying to prop up the rouble. Despite decades of commitments to diversify its economy, oil still accounts for 10% of the country's GDP and around 50% of federal budget revenue. Morgan Stanley estimates that "every $10 fall in the oil price means a $32.4 billion fall in oil and gas exports, which is equivalent to about 1.6% of GDP" and around a $19 billion fall in government budget revenues. Elsewhere Nigeria finally conceded defeat in defending its currency, with the central bank devaluing the naira by 8% and increasing rates sharply on Wednesday. Investors have turned against the currency as Nigeria imports around 80% of the goods it consumers with 95% of its foreign currency earning coming through oil exports. Falling oil prices means the cost of those imports has become a lot steeper. And for Venezuela the situation is simply dire. According to state-run oil company Petroleos de Venezuela the country looses $700 million for each $1 a barrel decline in oil prices, a cost that the ailing state can ill afford. Adjusted for inflation the country's real GDP remains 2% below its 1970 level and, according to US academics Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff, it is now all-but-certain to default on its foreign-currency debt. Iraq and Iran are also vulnerable to sharp price drops. Production in the former at risk due to the threat of Islamic State militants seizing additional territory, including key oil infrastructure. In November forces loyal to the Iraqi government succeeded in forcing IS militants out of the Baiji refinery in northern Iraq, which the had earlier captured. These risks mean the cost of extraction and refining is high. Iran is also vulnerable due to international sanctions imposed over the country's nuclear programme. Last month President Hassan Rouhani announced that Iran's oil revenues had dropped 30% as demand slowed in its major export market, China. Rouhani said that the country would have to "deal with the new conditions and the global economic conditions". TwitterOne theory is that the Saudis are deliberately allowing prices to fall in order to fight off competition from US shale oil and maintain its share of the US market. Undoubtedly, it has come under pressure in what is a major part of the market and keeping prices below $100 a barrel will put pressure on higher cost US shale producers. However, there may be a more fundamental shift going on in the oil market at the moment. The problem for OPEC is that it may no longer be able to control prices (as it has in the past) to avoid these problems. Previously, OPEC members would agree to cut oil production if falling prices posed a threat. That may now have changed because of the shale oil boom in the US, which has dramatically increased supply. As Goldman Sachs wrote in a recent note (emphasis added): [There is a] realisation that the OPEC reaction function has changed and that the US shale barrel is now likely the first swing barrel ... When Saudi Arabia cut prices to Asia for November delivery it was interpreted as a shift in the Saudi reaction function to a focus on market share. This should have not been a surprise in the new world of shale that has flattened the supply curve, as economic game theory suggests that they should not be the first mover and that the US shale barrel should be the new swing barrel given how easily it can be scaled up and down. This may explain Saudi Arabia's unusual hints that it is now comfortable with sub-$90-a-barrel oil prices — it doesn't want to admit that its power to shift the price is drying up.
Courtesy of Tony RobbinsTony Robbins, multimillionaire life coach.We all do things we aren't proud of with our money. Whether that's selling stock in a company right before its value skyrockets, shrinking away from negotiating our salary, or simply dragging our heels on opening a retirement savings account, even the best of us are prone to mistakes. Successful people are no exception. We spoke with seven CEOs, executives, and multimillionaires to find out exactly which of their financial choices over the years made them cringe. Read on to find out how these highly successful people answered the question, "What's your biggest financial regret?" Jacquelyn Smith, Jenna Goudreau, and Richard Feloni contributed reporting to this story. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonWarren Buffett, America's second-richest man.Sure, we all know that an Ivy League education, stint at a blue-chip firm, and stellar sales skills can help us get ahead. But it may surprise you just how many lesser known, seemingly random variables contribute to your professional success.  From the month you were born to your comedic timing, the weirdest quirks can affect how successful you'll ultimately be. We combed through research on success to identify 12 surprising things that can influence your career trajectory. While some factors can be sought out, others are beyond your control. This is an update of an article written by Alison Griswold. FREE AppDownload
If you get caught in the middle of a big open field during a lightning storm, which of the following uniforms will be most likely to keep you safe — a thick wetsuit, a Superman costume, a medieval coat of armor or your birthday suit? The answer will surprise you. Created by Henry Reich Production team: Alex Reich, Henry Reich, Emily Elert, Kate Yoshida, Ever Salazar, Peter Reich Music by Nathaniel Schroeder: soundcloud.com/drschroeder Follow MinuteEarth: On YouTube This article originally appeared at MinuteEarth. Science and stories about our awesome planet! Copyright 2014. Follow MinuteEarth on Twitter.
Have you ever gotten on the scale first thing in the morning and realized you weighed less than the night before? It happens all the time; here's the science behind it. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Amazon has reported its busiest ever sales day on Black Friday as consumers rushed online to take advantage of exclusive deals. Bestselling products included the Kindle Fire HDX range, discounted by £100, as well as the Dolce Gusto Mini Me Coffee Capsule Machine, Toy Story Ultimate Buzz Lightyear, diamond jewelery and men's watches. More than 3,000 deals were launched across Amazon during Black Friday week. The online marketplace sold more than 5.5m products at a rate of 64 items a second on Friday, according to figures released today. The peak time for shopping on Amazon on Black Friday was 8.29am, the retailer said. Last year, Amazon sold more than 4m items on Black Friday. However, on the following Monday - known as Cyber Monday - it smashed this record by selling 4.1m items at a rate of 47 a second. This year, the e-commerce giant has predicted that Cyber Monday will beat its Black Friday sales record by some margin. It has announced plans to offer hundreds of extra deals on Cyber Monday, which takes place on December 1. New offers will be released every 10 minutes. Amazon predicts that the bestsellers on Monday are likely to be TomTom Sat Navs, Sennheiser Headphones, Harry Potter DVDs and ruby jewellery. "Ever since we introduced Black Friday to the UK in 2010, sales have increased year-on-year but this year really has surpassed all of our expectations," said Xavier Garambois, vice president of EU retail at Amazon. "The public's appetite for Black Friday has been bigger than ever, kicking off the Christmas shopping period in earnest and establishing Black Friday as a fixture on the UK Christmas shopping calendar." The Black Friday phenomenon originated in the United Statesand has emerged as one of Britain's busiest shopping days of the year. Black Friday – always the day after Thanksgiving – has been in operation in America since before the Second World War. It was a single day of big discounts, launched by east-coast retailers in an attempt to kick consumers off their holiday sofas and into the stores.  FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TelevisionGoldman Sachs' David Kostin sees just modest gains for the S&P 500 in 2015. It's still November, but Wall Street is already looking ahead to next year. Over the last few weeks, several outlooks for 2015 have rolled in, and so far, we've gotten outlooks from 8 of the biggest stock market gurus on Wall Street. Expectations for the S&amp;P 500 in 2015 range from just a slight advance to double-digit gains.  And so to date, here is what Wall Street is expecting for the S&amp;P 500 next year: FREE AppDownload
The year is winding down, and Wall Street is starting to distribute forecasts for 2015.  But that means it is also time to start taking a look back at 2014. While the S&amp;P 500 has outperformed most Wall Street forecasts this year as it surged to record highs, the biggest story in the market is oil. Crude oil prices have fallen more than 30% from their highs earlier this year, and while people have attributed this tumble to many things, one thing cannot be ignored: US crude oil production has been exploding. In an email Thursday, Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slok sent around the following chart, showing the explosion in US crude oil production over the past few years. Slok wrote: "The most important reason why oil prices are falling is because of the dramatic increase in recent years in US crude oil production ... and US oil production is expected to increase further by 1 mmb/d in 2015 and 0.6-0.7 mmb/d per year in the years to 2020. In other words, expect a continued increase in oil supply going forward." On Twitter, Bloomberg's Joe Weisenthal said this chart should be nominated for Time Person of the Year, and others argued this is the most profound economic event in decades. But we'll keep it simple: this is the chart of the year. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
BERLIN (Reuters) - ECB Executive Board member Sabine Lautenschlaeger said on Saturday she saw little room for further easing of monetary policy despite a further fall in euro zone inflation. She added that the effects of large scale sovereign bond buying would not be positive. "For me, given the current situation, the hurdles for further measures are very high, especially for broad purchase programs," she said according to an official translation of her speech in Berlin, five days ahead of the ECB's next Monetary Policy Committee meeting. Innovation in monetary policy was not a taboo, but must also not be an "end in itself", she said, adding careful consideration of its efficiency was necessary. The ECB has cut interest rates to practically zero and is readying more buying programs that could include government bonds - known as quantitative easing - to ward off the threat of deflation in the euro zone. Vice President Vitor Constancio said this week the ECB could make a decision on government bond-buying in the first quarter if the economy did not improve. The purchase of government bonds would be viewed extremely critically in Germany. Lautenschlaeger said the interest on national government bonds in the euro area didn't operate as a benchmark for all further refinancing operations, as is the case in Britain or the United States. "In my view, a consideration of the costs and benefits, and the opportunities and risks of a broad purchase program of government bonds does not give a positive outcome at the current time." German European Central Bank policymaker Jens Weidmann said on Friday it was illusory to think central banks could increase a country's growth potential for a sustained period of time. (Editing by Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
