The number of homes listed for sale on Zillow was up 17.7% year-over-year in June. Inventory was up for the fourth straight month and climbed in 81% in the metros covered by Zillow. But overall inventory remains tight.  "Tight inventory is especially pronounced in the lower end of the market, which we define as the bottom third of the housing stock," according to Svenja Gudell, director of economic research at Zillow.  "Of the largest metros, most saw very few for-sale homes come from the bottom tier, and more so from the top tier. This tightness of supply will continue to impact first-time home buyers and others trying to buy a lower-end home." This chart shows the share of for-sale inventory across metros by different home value tiers. In Dallas-Fort Worth for instance, bottom tier homes accounted for 15% of for-sale inventory, compared with 55% share for top tier homes. Zillow/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Prayitno/ more than 2 millions views: thank you!/FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.Investors Are Taking On Riskier Bets By Going After High-Yield Funds (Morningstar) Sarah Bush from Morningstar warns that there has been an investing shift toward non-traditional bonds and bank loan categories. While high-yield categories are becoming more popular, she says this approach will expose investors to more risks. "The fastest-growing categories are also those with the most credit risk and the highest correlations to equities. Investors relying on the likes of non-traditional-bond and high-yield funds to provide ballast in turbulent equity markets could be in for a nasty surprise; junk-bond funds lost more than 25% on average in 2008 as did bank-loan offerings, and, while most non-traditional-bond funds haven't been around that long, most suffered losses in 2011’s third-quarter equity sell-off," Bush writes "What’s the take-away for investors? Those entranced by the yield offered in some of the racier bond categories should expect--and plan for--these funds to add equity sensitivity to their portfolios. And, as always, it’s important to know what you own." GRANTHAM: The Conditions Are Set For A 'Veritable Explosion' In M&amp;A That Sends Stocks To 'True Bubble Levels' (Business Insider) In his latest quarterly letter to GMO clients, Jeremy Grantham writes that M&amp;A activity will reach record levels, leading to the next market bubble. Grantham said the explosion in M&amp;A is indicated by cheap debt, high profit margins, and young-looking recovery. "[M]y recent forecast of a fully-fledged bubble, our definition of which requires at least 2250 on the S&amp;P, remains in effect," he writes. "If I were a potential deal maker I would be licking my lips at an economy that seems to have enough slack to keep going for a few years," Grantham said. "I think it is likely (better than 50/50) that all previous deal records will be broken in the next year or two," he writes. "This of course will help push the market up to true bubble levels, where it will once again become very dangerous indeed." UBS Wealth Management Is Raising Their Annual Client Fees (InvestmentNews) UBS is trying to raise fees for some clients of financial advisors, to make up for lost revenue on annual 12b-1 fees. The increase will not be mandatory, but one UBS advisor tells Mason Braswell at InvestmentNews that, "Even though they're trying not to say it that way, it's because of the 12b-1 fees that they're doing it. They're not telling us to raise fees, but it kind of feels like they want us to." "The move comes as the firm faces a potential loss in revenue from moving clients out of Class A and Class C mutual fund shares into institutional and advisory share classes. The firm is making the conversion this summer in order to compete with its wirehouse rivals and other firms who already offer the products, which are cheaper for clients because they do not charge annual 12b-1 fees," Braswell writes. "The fee increases are not mandatory, and advisers have the opportunity to decline or lower fees starting August 2. Clients would be notified of any changes, which would go into effect later in the year," according to Braswell. "While advisers do not have to raise fees, the discount sharing floor, the lowest amount an adviser can charge without being penalized, is increasing by the same amount as the lost 12b-1 fee in accounts under $1 million." Financial Advisors Can't Beat The Market By Picking Stocks (Wall Street Journal)  In a WSJ article, Mitch Tuchman from Rebalance IRA writes that active stock picking does not give investors an advantage in the market. He says, while active managers may have exceptional quarters, these returns are unsustainable in the long-run.  "The trouble with every argument that you read about active versus passive management is that they're one dimensional. You cannot add potential returns as an active manager without taking on active risk," Tuchman says. "When you try to time the market, like some people are suggesting advisers do right now, you get in and out of it at the wrong time. Regardless of what people think about the economy or insight they claim to have about the market, switching tactically between active and passive management does little besides add cost and risk to your client portfolios." Laddered Portfolios Won't Help Protect You Against Rising Rates (AllianceBernstein) While some investors are using laddered portfolios to prepare for rising rates, Terrance Hults argued that this isn't a good idea for several reasons. On the AllianceBernstein blog, Hults explained that actively managed portfolios would be a better solution to changing markets. "Laddered portfolios are built with bonds spaced evenly across maturities so that bonds mature and their proceeds are reinvested at regular intervals. These portfolios are assumed to be simple, provide return certainty and capture higher yields as interest rates rise," Hults said. "They’re definitely simple, and they do provide a relatively certain return. But in today’s low-yield environment, that return is likely to be locked in at below-inflation yields for the next few years. A portfolio laddered from one to 10 years yields only about 1.5% before accounting for the costs of trading and other annual fees. At that low yield, there’s little chance to beat even a modest rate of inflation." FREE AppDownload
Recently, I calculated misery index scores for 89 countries (see: Globe Asia May 2014). For any country, a misery index score is simply the sum of the unemployment, inflation and bank lending rates, minus the percentage change in real GDP per capita. A higher misery index score reflects higher levels of “misery”. The calculations I presented earlier represent a snapshot of the state of misery by country for 2013. In what follows, I present scores calculated over time for several regions and a few selected countries in Asia. These allow us to reflect on the scores in terms of their topological patterns. Steve H. Hanke The first chart shows the misery index patterns by major regions over the past decade. Several things are worth noting. Even on an aggregate basis, the chart features two poles of attraction: one centered at a score of twenty and another at ten. Countries that gravitate towards the higher pole generally need a heavy dose of structural (read: free-market) reforms. Conversely, countries closer to the lower pole have considerably more economic freedom. Since the financial crisis of 2008-09, Southeast Asia’s level of misery declined from a score of roughly 20 to 11.7, which suggests that there has been positive structural reform in the region. I should also add that quantitative easing by the U.S. Federal Reserve generated significant hot-money flows that positively affected South East Asia. Western Europe’s endemic structural problems also show up in the chart. Since the crisis, the region’s misery score remained elevated because of pronounced problems in labor markets. To bring the score from its current 15.4 reading down to 10, Europe needs some significant economic liberalization. Steve H. Hanke Let’s now move from regional groupings to individual countries. Indonesia displays an interesting picture. Thanks to the disastrous advice of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Indonesia floated the rupiah on 14 August 1997. Contrary to the IMF’s expectations, the rupiah did not float on a sea of tranquility. Its value plunged from 2,700 rupiahs per U.S. dollar, at the time of the float, to lows of nearly 16,000 rupiahs per U.S. dollar in 1998. In consequence, Indonesia’s inflation and its misery index score soared, and Suharto was brought down after 31 years in power. Then, the score fell sharply, and since the Wahid government, it has been drifting downward. Changes in Indonesia’s misery index score and its components are displayed in the accompanying table. Steve H. Hanke At present, Indonesia’s score of 20.0 is right on the magnetic twenty pole. Whoever is eventually crowned winner of the recent presidential election must introduce serious structural reforms if he wishes to see Indonesia’s misery index score fall towards the lower magnetic pole. Steve H. Hanke Narendra Modi, the newly elected prime minister of India, faces a misery index score of 24.5. Given the nature of India’s political system and bureaucracy, he certainly has his work cut out for him. Modi will have to go beyond voicing his plans for reforms to ensure their implementation and a significant reduction in India’s misery index score. Steve H. Hanke While still in Asia, we must take a look at two stellar performers, China and Singapore: both have scores below ten. China is noteworthy because its misery index score was well below five during the 1997 – 2005 period. It was then that the yuan was tightly linked to the U.S. dollar. China’s misery index score began to steadily climb only after the country allowed the yuan to appreciate against the greenback due to pressure from Washington, D.C. Steve H. Hanke By most measures of competitiveness, Singapore holds one of the top spots. It’s not surprising, therefore, that Singapore’s misery index scores are low and even dipped into negative territory in 2010. A topological trip down the misery index lane reveals two centers of gravity: twenty and ten. The countries whose scores hover around ten are simply reaping free-market dividends. Those with scores around twenty are rather miserable and serious candidates for deep free-market reforms. Without these reforms, those countries are destined to stay, well, miserable. Steve H. Hanke is Professor of Applied Economics at the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, MD. He is also a Senior Fellow and Director of the Troubled Currencies Project at the Cato Institute in Washington, D.C. You can follow him on Twitter: @Steve_Hanke. This article originally appeared at Johns Hopkins University.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TV John DeSimone, the CFO of HerbalifeHerbalife CFO John DeSimone said they may sue hedge fund manager Bill Ackman who has been on a crusade against the company for 18 months. "We may. That's on the table. It's an option. I think our case gets stronger every day," DeSimone told Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle. Earlier today, Ackman presented a 250-plus slide presentation that he had billed as a "death blow" to Herbalife. However, shares of Herbalife's stock surged ending the day up 25%. During his multi-hour long presentation, Ackman called the company a "pyramid scheme" and said it's "criminal." He also said its CEO Michael Johnson is a "predator."  One reporter in the audience asked Ackman if he was worried he might get sued for his accusations against the company and its executives.  "Bring it on," Ackman responded.  Ackman has been publicly and very loudly short Herbalife–a multi-marketer that sells nutrition shakes–since December 2012. Ackman believes the company operates as a "pyramid scheme" that targets poor people. It's Ackman's contention that regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, will shut the company down. Back in March, the FTC opened an investigation into the company. Here's a transcript from Bloomberg TV:  STEPHANIE RUHLE: What a day you've just had. Last night when you found out your earlier interview today was going to be aired at Bill Ackman's presentation, a guy who has been on a crusade against you for two years, how did you feel? JOHN DESIMONE: When he moved it up? RUHLE: Yeah. DESIMONE: I felt it was a sign of weakness. It actually made me feel better that he was a little bit worried. I didn't think he had anything anyway and I said that this morning. It's been a little bit of the same MO now for 18 months. A lot of talk. Big – big bark, small bite. But at the same time, he comes across so certain that you’ve got to wonder where he's going. So I got a little bit more comfortable when he (inaudible) RUHLE: Well as you said, management in the company has been divided into teams, and a lion's share of your time is spent dealing with, defending against Bill's accusations. This isn't what you signed on to do when you joined Herbalife. What do you think of what your job is? DESIMONE: It's fascinating and it's frustrating. I – so I know the issues, so I think I am the right – right individual, along with a couple other people, to help fight back and get the truth out. It's been fascinating because I've got some of the smartest people on Wall Street who now invest in the company. And that's been a tremendous benefit for Herbalife and for me, and I'm a better CFO today because of it. At the same time, it's frustrating because I think the rules of transparency that we operate under is not the same set of rules that Bill Ackman operates under and it's a little bit frustrating. He's spent $50 million. By the way, two months – three months ago it was $20 million. So I don't know if the $20 million was wrong or the $50 million was wrong. But what I do know is the $50 million that he spent both in today's presentation and in prior presentations actually proves our thesis and disproves his thesis  RUHLE: Then why not sue him? He has been on a crusade, some say a slanderous crusade against you. Why won't you sue him? DESIMONE: We may. That's on the table. It's an option. I think our case gets stronger every day. RUHLE: So what stopped you between when this started 18 months ago to today? With everything that he says, why not slap him with a lawsuit? DESIMONE: Well, we may. I think to date the stock's performed well. The company's performed well. But it's something that we talk about frequently and I'll leave it to the lawyers, but it's a possibility. RUHLE: Well you feel and many feel, the stock market feels like Bill didn't come up with anything big enough. If you watch those videos, they are heartbreaking. There are some bad things happening at those distribution centers. Do you have an obligation? DESIMONE: First of all, I don't believe that to be true, okay? So there's a lot of misrepresentation. Club CN (ph), which he presented today, actually has a lot of good fundamental business practices. It's – Club CN means Club 100. The 100 means get 100 people to consume the product, so it trains people to get customers and run a business and learn how to manage finances before they actually open up a club. RUHLE: How does making 100 shakes, how does taking two scoops into a cup – how is that a needed practice except for just churning selling your products? DESIMONE: No, no. It's not making the shakes. It's running a business. It's finding customers. You want people to know how to get customers, how to maintain those customers, how to treat those customers before they go open up a fixed location. So it's actually very beneficial to the model to have that training. So what we did as a company is we incorporated the strength of Club 100 into the Herbalife program, which is why it's not called Club 100. RUHLE: So you do control Club 100 though? DESIMONE: We don't – Club 100 was not an Herbalife-identified strategy. Our members are independent. And the best ideas -  RUHLE: Right there, doesn't it seem kind of cockamamie to you? This is an identified strategy. Wal-Mart has a store. There's the salespeople. They sell the product. All this noise, this confusion is what makes people uncomfortable. An identified strategy. I don't even know what that means. DESIMONE: Well, company has a strategy. We have – we sell through independent distributors, no different than Avon, no different than Tupperware, Pampered Chef. Within those independent sales forces, people go to market differently and they find the best way to bring the product to their community. And when those ideas are grounded in fundamentally solid business practices, we try to adopt them. And that's what Club CN was. It had some really good fundamental business practices and we adopted some of those. RUHLE: And what percentage of those sales are to ultimate end users? I mean customers that are not in turn salespeople themselves. DESIMONE: End users are people that buy the product because they want the product, right? And they fall into three classifications, okay? Some of them outside the network. Some of them are inside the network. We just released a report this morning. I'm sure you’ve seen it. It was done by a former FTC economist, Dr. Vandale (ph). He determined through his analysis of our records and of research, research that had been done by third parties and research that he contributed to, that 97 percent of our sales end up in the hands of ultimate end users. RUHLE: Why not break your sales numbers down then? Why can't we see them? DESIMONE: Well we did. We broke it down today. If you read the report, it's broken down into its categories. Ninety-seven percent of the sales go to end users, 80 percent of the sales go to end users that are outside the network or that primarily join because they just want the product. RUHLE: But if you can't control how the distribution centers are working, if you can't control those policies, what's going to be the result from you? Since we got the burn (ph) verdict, it seems that everyone needs to tighten up their game. How are you going to tighten up your game if you can't control those distributors?  DESIMONE: Actually I think we do a great job controlling the distributors It's a four-pronged approach. It starts with education and training. We have 3.5 million people around the world that are members. The vast majority want to behave appropriately, ethically within our rules, but they have to know the rules. So the first thing we have to do is train them, educate them so they know how to behave. For the small minority that want to kind of cut some corners and maybe violate our rules, we have to have systems in place to detect and deter behavior. RUHLE: Actually what is that practice? In the securities industry there's KYC, know your customer. Before you do business with someone, you need to know that they fully understand it. So some of the “victims” have claimed, “I became a distributor. I spent the money. I didn't know what I was doing.” What practices do you have in place so you know that those distributors actually know what they're getting into? Because many of them do come from low-income communities.  DESIMONE: So I didn’t finish the four, but it's really important because they work in an integrated fashion. So educate and train, deter – detect and deter. Then I think one of the most important ones is we communicate with every new member. So regardless of what's said in the world – and we do our best to train, we do our best to detect. We've got great technology, lots of field salespeople to monitor behavior people in the field. When somebody joins Herbalife, they have to hear from us the facts before they join, all right? And after they join, they're protected. So if they buy a kit to join, it's $60 or $90 depending on how much product they want. Within 90 days if they say it's not for them, they get a 100 percent money back guarantee. We pay for the return shipping. I see you got a smile, but this is huge. It's – it's probably the best consumer product protection in the industry. Because beyond the kit, if you buy any product from Herbalife and for whatever reason you want to leave, any product that you had purchased in the prior 12 months, it's a 12 month guarantee, we will pay 100 percent of your purchase price and return shipping. You have no economic risk. So ultimately educate and train, deter and detect, make sure we communicate so no matter what's said in the field they hear the truth. And then still if their expectations aren't met, we give them their money back.  RUHLE: The hundreds of hours that Bill has put together from 240 nutrition clubs, do you think all of that is from paid people by Bill? Do you believe any of it? DESIMONE: I think Bill's – Bill's research actually proves our strength in compliance and disproves his thesis.  RUHLE: How? There is clearly victims.  DESIMONE: So there's – there's been a $50 million campaign. We now know it's $50 million, right? We thought it was $20 million. Now it's $50 million. He's found a number of complainants. They go back to actually '02, '03 kind of timeframe, but the majority are '08, '09, 2010, some in '11, I think one in '12. So since 2008 to now, we have had 1.6 million members in the US join, 1.6 million. So with a $50 million campaign, he's advertising trying to find people to complain. He's got feet on the street in multiple states, high-paid consultants. RUHLE: And you think they're all faking it?  DESIMONE: No, no, no. I'm not saying they're faking it. I'm saying if one out of every 1,000 that joined had a complaint, that would be 1,600 complaints. He had founded a fraction of 1,600 complaints. I'm not saying those complaints – I don’t know if the complaints are real or not real. I don't know enough about them. We haven't been able to see a lot of them. But what I do know is the incident rate is extremely low despite the campaign to find it. That speaks to the strength of the program we have in place. It disproves his thesis that this is (inaudible).  RUHLE: Well do you have an obligation to fix these bad apples there are? If you look at one of these blocks that we've see through Bill in Queens where there's six nutrition clubs on a block, do you have an obligation to clean this up? DESIMONE: So I got to change the characterization a little. We have an obligation to protect to the consumer, protect the new entrant, okay? Having six clubs in a block isn't necessarily a problem, right? The – a club – a club is really misunderstood. A club is nothing more than a living room get together, no different than Tupperware, no different than Avon, but it's been picked up from the house and it's been put into a commercial location so that more people can meet together. And why do they want to meet together? Because people lose weight better in a group setting. So it's really person to person, still that home touch.  RUHLE: And you think all of those clubs look like people's living rooms and a home touch? Because I've seen some videos of some that don't look like that. DESIMONE: Well have you seen – you're talking about a community that these establishments actually fit well into, right? So we shouldn't judge them from what we know. We should judge them from the communities in which these people live. This model is very adaptable to any community. There's upscale clubs that have some exercise equipment. They do fitness work. They do – they do works, to down market because it fits those markets. So we want to bring good nutrition to everybody no matter where they're located. RUHLE: There's a number of investors who have said today, listen, Bill didn't necessarily prove anything that's going to make regulators get involved, but many have said it's just a sleazy company. Do you feel any obligation that you should adders that or that's just silly, people just don't get it? DESIMONE: We're here to address whatever it is that people want – need to know about Herbalife. So the reason I'm here is so that we can communicate facts and not the misrepresentations made by Bill Ackman. And I think today's report, again, people should download it. It's the report done by a former FTC economist that actually draws a conclusion that we are a socially beneficial, economically sustainable multi-level marketing company.  RUHLE: When you watch those Founders Circle videos, you don't find them creepy? DESIMONE: The Founders Circle have been in the business a long time. They work hard. RUHLE: Hold on. Do you think they're creepy? DESIMONE: No, I don't – I think there has been times in the past – and a lot of those videos are old, right? They even pre-date me. So I think there's been a cultural shift over the 35 years of a company as there is over any company as it matures and it gets its message better and it gets its protections better. So I think it needs to be put in the proper context. RUHLE: Are you breathing a sigh of relief? You’re going to fly back to LA. What are you going to do tomorrow? DESIMONE: Well, we're getting ready for an earnings release on Monday, so we have to go through the board process, committee meetings, board meetings. So I'm going to fly back tonight and focus on the business for the next few days.  RUHLE: Then what's your biggest challenge? Because Bill, he ain't backing down. DESIMONE: I'm not either. So – we're not either. RUHLE: You're not either. Do you consider Bill your adversary? DESIMONE: I – I – I – that's an interesting question. I think it's frustrating I think sometimes to see some of the tactics that I think anyway that he employs that I'm not very comfortable with. RUHLE: Like what? When you say he spends all this money, you guys spend millions of dollars on lobbyists. So he's not alone.  DESIMONE: We're not talking about lobbyists, right? So he spent little on lobbyists, a lot on operatives, right, to try to --  RUHLE: What does that mean? DESIMONE: So a lobbyist is somebody that tries to communicate a message to an elected official, right? And if you look at his lobbyist spending, it hasn't been that big. But he's spent $50 million elsewhere outside of lobbying. That's hiring consultants to find people who complain, to make videos, things that I think are – lack transparency. RUHLE: So for you right now, between now and your earnings call next week, what information do you feel people don't have that they need to have? Because I'm not saying that you needed to respond to Bill in the last 18 months, but we really haven't heard from you.  DESIMONE: Well I think they need to have the report released today. It's by an independent third party. Yes, we commissioned it, but we had no relationship with this PhD economist before this commission. We gave him complete access to our database, complete access to our studies, and he actually draw – he drew a conclusion. RUHLE: All right. Well thank you so much for joining me today. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Chrysler Toledo Assembly Complex used to produce Jeep Cherokee in ToledoDETROIT (Reuters) - Chrysler Group LLC said on Tuesday it is recalling 792,300 older-model Jeep SUVs for ignition switch problems, the second recall of its kind for the No. 3 U.S. automaker this year. This brings to 1.68 million the number of vehicles Chrysler has recalled for ignition switches that can be bumped out of the "on" position by a driver's knee, which can cause the engine to shut off and disable air bags. Affected are model year 2005 to 2007 Jeep Grand Cherokee and model year 2006 and 2007 Jeep Commander SUVs. Of the recalled models, 649,900 are in the United States, 28,800 are in Canada, 12,800 in Mexico and 100,800 outside of North America. A single accident and no injuries have occurred in affected Grand Cherokee and Commander SUVs, Chrysler said. Chrysler Group is a unit of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles. Chrysler told U.S. safety regulators of the recall on Monday and said it will begin to notify affected customers by mid-September. Engineers at Chrysler have yet to find a remedy for the issue, but are "working to develop" one, Chrysler said in a statement announcing the recall. The Commander is no longer in production and the newer versions of the Grand Cherokee are not subject to the recall. Chrysler's cross-town rival General Motors Co has recalled nearly 15 million vehicles globally for ignition-switch issues that have led to at least 13 deaths. Last month, Chrysler recalled 891,957 Dodge Grand Caravan and Chrysler Town &amp; Country minivans from the 2008 and 2009 model years, as well as the 2009 Dodge Journey crossover for ignition switch problems. For the minivans and the Journey crossover, Chrysler said it was aware of two accidents and no injuries related to the issue. Chrysler would not say how much it will cost the company to conduct the recalls.   (Reporting by Bernie Woodall; Editing by Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
Electronic ArtsSAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Video game publisher Electronic Arts Inc reported higher revenue and profit for the first quarter, driven by robust sales of its "Titanfall" game, digital sales and cost control. For the three months ended June 30, the company posted non-GAAP revenue of $775 million, compared with $495 million a year ago. Non-GAAP net income rose to $61 million, or 19 cents per share, from a loss of $121 million, or 40 cents per share, a year ago. "It was a strong start to the year for Electronic Arts. We are committed to putting our players first and delivering the entertainment, innovation and creativity that our players want," said Chief Executive OfficerAndrew Wilson. "Through exciting new titles and fresh content in our live services, we are well-positioned to deliver on that commitment in FY15 and beyond." Wedbush Securities analyst Michael Pachter said in a note before the earnings that EA has a good lineup this year, but that "quality issues remain a concern," referring to flailing games, such as "Medal of Honor" and "NBA Live." Electronic Arts (Reporting by Malathi Nayak. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
Argentina had one card left to play in its battle against hedge fund creditors, and it just lost. Judge Thomas Griesa said that a New York Court would not grant Argentina a stay on payment to bondholders as it attempts to negotiate the payment of over $1.3 billion worth of bonds owed to a group of hedge fund creditors referred to collectively as NML. Now The Republic has until July 30 to either pay all its bondholders including NML, negotiate with NML to the creditors' satisfaction, or default on its debt. “We are prepared to do as the Judge asked and meet continuously with Argentina and the Special Master to resolve this dispute," said an NML representative. "We are confident this matter could be resolved quickly if Argentina would join us in settlement discussions.” But The Republic hasn't, and, unless that intransigence was simply an attempt to force the stay, it is not unforeseeable that it won't. In that case, the country will default on its debt, sending its population into another nightmare of inflation and ruin. This case is a throw back to The Republic's last awful episode in 2001, when NML, led by Elliott Management's Paul Singer, picked up these bonds on the cheap. Since then, NML refused to take haircut on the debt like over 90% of bondholders. The holdouts want 100 cents on the dollar. To Argentina, that makes NML "vultures." That's why The Republic refused to pay up, appealing its case all the way up to the U.S. Supreme Court and eventually losing this year. Argentina says that it cannot pay the "vulture funds" because that would trigger a clause in its bond contract — The RUFO or, Rights Upon Future Offers Clause. Essentially it says that if Argentina voluntarily negotiates better terms with some bondholders, all bondholders are entitled to those terms. The country says that if RUFO is triggered it could have to pay out as much as $15 billion. However, RUFO expires on Jan. 1, 2015. That could be why Argentina was stalling. But now that's over. "I do not know what's gonna happen," says Federico Zaldua, an Argentina-based trader on Itau BBA's Latin America bond desk. "I guess we shall settle. If we don't, and bond prices plunge, I will buy much more [bonds]. We are all looking to 2015 already." In 2015 — whether Argentina pays or not — President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and her administration will be gone. All the alternatives are more market friendly. It's one of the reasons why hedge fund managers like Mike Novogratz of Fortress Investments and Dan Loeb of Third Point Partners have said they're ready to invest once Argentina hits bottom. But some believe those investors may not be enough in the event of another default. "Part of the problem is that they're not completely out from underneath the first time they did it [default] ... there's a lot of countries that won't trade with them, a lot of countries that won't lend to them," said David Fernández, a lawyer at Buchanan, Ingersoll &amp; Rooney. "If they cross the default line and they go there [this time] it doesn't matter if 2015 happens ... there won't be any liquidity for them," So it may not matter if there's a new regime in place in 2015 if the country decides to go down that road. And as that happens, regular Argentine's will suffer slowly, like last time, as the economy slowly inflates itself into ruin. FREE AppDownload
ZillowIf you're sick of squeezing into New York City apartments but still want to stay within commuting distance, these amazing homes might pique your interest.  But be ready to shell out some big bucks. From New Jersey mansions to Connecticut equestrian estates, these are the most expensive homes for sale in the New York City suburbs. We limited our search to homes an hour or less from Manhattan, located in Connecticut, New Jersey, Rockland County, Westchester County, and Nassau County. Thanks to our friends at Zillow for helping us compile this list.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidJohn ThainJohn Thain was CEO of Merrill Lynch in 2008 as it crumbled and sold itself to Bank of America. Meanwhile, John Paulson was shorting mortgages and becoming a billionaire as the housing market collapsed. Both participated in the latest consolidative move in the financial services industry. Thain, who is currently CEO of commercial lender CIT, is now the CEO of a regional retail bank. CIT Group today announced that it reached a deal to acquire OneWest for $3.4 billion in cash and stock. OneWest is a privately-owned regional bank formed in 2009 that operates 73 retail branches in Southern California and has $23 billion in assets and $25 in deposits. Following the merger, OneWest branches will operate under the "CIT Bank" name, and the combined bank will have $67 billion in assets. In a statement CIT Group, which is based in New Jersey, said that the deal will be 20% accretive to its earnings per share in 2016.  REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstJohn PaulsonThe deal was also a boon for John Paulson, the hedge funder who famously made a fortune using credit default swaps to bet against the housing market ahead of the 2008 financial crisis. A report from Bloomberg, citing a person familiar with the matter, said through a fund and credit pool, Paulson &amp; Co. had made about $939 million on the deal The deal marks another big turn for CIT, which emerged from bankruptcy protection in late 2009 after nearly collapsing following the financial crisis. Thain joined the company as Chairman and CEO in February 2010. In addition to announcing the deal, CIT also announced second quarter earnings that were better than expected. For the quarter, the company's net income from continuing operations came in at $1.02 per share, better than the $0.85 expected by analysts. Following the news, shares of CIT gained 10.8%. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipLas Vegas casino magnate Steve Wynn.Casino magnate Steve Wynn already knew Atlantic City would become obsolete in the 1980s, when he sold his casino there less than a decade after opening. Wynn, who got into the Las Vegas casino business when he was 23, started the Golden Nugget Atlantic City in 1978. It opened a year or two later, but Wynn sold it in 1987. In a WSJ video interview with Peter Robinson from the Hoover Institution, Wynn said the local Atlantic City government was "corrupt and stupid" and that the state government wasn't stepping up to take advantage of Atlantic City's potential. According to Wynn, this is what led to the city's decline. From the interview: "And I kept saying to governors of New Jersey: 'You must take control of the central planning of this community if it’s to save itself. Right now you’re the monopoly on the East Coast; that will end someday. And the infrastructure of this city has to be so big, that it’s like Las Vegas. Las Vegas is surviving in spite of everything because the infrastructure here is so big. The menu for guests is so great. Atlantic City can’t just be a local crap game. It’s gotta be a destination city.' "But for that, the government had to take over – the New Jersey state government, not the local Atlantic City government, which was pathetic. Well they wouldn’t. And they didn’t. And I came at one point of the view that Atlantic City was never going to take advantage of its opportunity and would eventually face obsolescence, which I’m afraid is true today." Wynn said he was first drawn to business in Atlantic City after fellow casino owner Jack Davis told him he was making $150,000 a day. "We did $700,000 the first three days in slots," Davis told him, Wynn said in the interview. "We were having trouble counting the money from the tables, because it's all stacked up in box crates." In January 2014, The Center for Gaming Research reported that Atlantic City's revenue had been consistently declining since 2007, having fallen more than 45 percent since 2006. The most visible example of Atlantic City's decline is the $2.2 billion Revel casino, which filed for bankruptcy for the second time in June. Watch the full interview here »   FREE AppDownload
Hufton + CrowApple released its second quarter earnings Tuesday. Here's what you need to know, in some great charts from Business Insider Intelligence: BII Business Insider Intelligence BII FREE AppDownload
BII Apple on Tuesday reported its earnings for the July quarter. Revenue was largely in line with expectations at about $37.43 billion on $1.28 earnings per share, and so were iPhone sales, at around 35.2 million units sold for the quarter — up about 13% year-over-year.   Though iPhone sales are steadily rising on average each year, growth of the device year-over-year actually seems to be slowing down since the end of 2012, around the release of the iPhone 5, based on data and charts provided to us by Business Insider Intelligence. Apple last year released two iPhone models for the first time, the iPhone 5S and 5C, but is expected to release at least one larger iPhone model this year with a 4.7-inch screen. Several reports say Apple will also unveil an even bigger 5.5-inch iPhone model this fall, possibly to sate consumers attracted by the large Android-powered handsets, though the launch of that phone may be delayed due to production issues. FREE AppDownload
CNBC's Scott Wapner reports the Pershing Square founder had argued that an Herbalife analyst had been fired from research firm D.A. Davidson, with the implication that he'd been too bullish. But the analyst, Tim Ramey, left Davidson voluntarily. Ramey sent CNBC emails that said debunk Ackman's assertion, and he emailed Ackman directly about the issue. Reached by Wapner, Ackman said he's now convinced Ramey was not fired. "Please make sure to correct the record," Ackman told Wapner. Herbalife shares ended Tuesday up 25%.  Click here to read the full story on CNBC.com » FREE AppDownload
Scotland will vote in a referendum on whether it will become independent from Britain on September 18, and it's becoming increasingly clear that if by some miracle the Scots do choose independence, then the new nation of Scotland will be in imminent peril of economic collapse. And there is one very simple reason why: An independent Scotland will not be allowed to use the British pound sterling as its currency, a British parliamentary committee has recommended, and Scotland isn't big enough economically to support its own currency. Let's begin by putting an independent Scotland in perspective, in terms of its population size: Scotland might look big on the map, but in terms of the actual number of people involved it's small fry. An independent London city state would make more sense as a "country" than Scotland, ranked by population alone. Scotland has four "options" for a currency if it goes independent, according to this House of Commons report: Using the pound or the Euro in any way would keep Scotland at the mercy of central banks it does not control. As a small country, that's not desirable. Scotland would not be able to devalue its currency in order to increase exports or strengthen it in order to ward off inflation. (Think about Greece.) And George Osborne, the U.K's chancellor of the exchequer, has categorically ruled that if Scotland leaves it's on its own. The new country will not have recourse to the Bank of England when the going gets tough. That House of Commons report said: The Chancellor of the Exchequer told us: "... ultimately you would be asking UK taxpayers to provide a safety net to a separate country, which, by the way, has a very large banking system and a much smaller economy. It would be like sharing the bank account and credit card after a divorce." "I do not think that it would be in the interests of the people of Scotland either, because they would be tying themselves to the economic decisions of another country; the interest rate decisions of a Bank of England that they were not involved with anymore; and the tax and spend decisions of this Parliament, where there would not be Scottish Members of Parliament representing their interests." Now let's assume you're a hardcore Scottish nationalist and you want independence regardless of the currency consequences. Your position is, "damn the torpedoes!" essentially. It turns out that Scottish gross domestic product (GDP) is so small its deficit is twice that of the U.K. as a whole. According to Fathom Consulting, Scotland had a budget deficit of 13.3% of GDP in 2012-13, the U.K.'s was 7.3%. And, Fathom says, Scotland's GDP is the equivalent of only one tenth of the assets in its banks. That's crucial because in theory, a country's banking system only remains stable if people believe that the country will stand behind, or make good, on all the assets held in its banks. (For instance, the FDIC guarantees U.S. deposits even if an individual bank goes bankrupt.) Scotland can't do that, Fathom says. Here's Sunday Times columnist David Smith's summary of that: Fathom estimates it would still be as fragile as Greece, not because its budget deficits are a bit larger than the whole UK’s, but because it would carry too much banking risk. As things stand, Scotland’s banking assets — in practice the potential liabilities of an independent Scottish government in the event of independence — are a staggering 1,100% of GDP. Scotland has a potential banking liability of Icelandic proportions, much bigger than those (700% of GDP) that almost bankrupted the Irish economy. S&amp;P has warned that this raises ratings risks for Scottish banks. "While S&amp;P has said that Scotland could start with an investment grade rating, the rating agency would be concerned about high levels of public debt, sensitivity to oil prices, depending on the nature of arrangements with the EU or UK, potentially limited monetary flexibility, and volatility from the banking sector," according to Chintan Joshi at Nomura. "These concerns would have a bearing on funding costs of Scottish banks and would therefore be a longer-term risk to shareholders." And if things did sour, Scotland's financial services industry couldn't count on the Bank of England as a lender of last resort. It's interesting that when economists talk about an independent Scotland, the countries they compare it to are not England or France. They're Greece, Iceland and Ireland — the economic basket cases of Europe. So, what is a nationalist to do? Nothing, apparently. Scottish National Party leader Alex Salmond has no Plan B for a Scottish currency. FREE AppDownload
Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesA Berlin factory worker stands beside a rotor assembly at the Siemens gas turbine factory.Based on a European application of Frey &amp; Osborne (2013)’s data on the probability of job automation across occupations, the proportion of the EU work force predicted to be impacted significantly by advances in technology over the coming decades ranges from the mid-40% range (similar to the US) up to well over 60%.  Those authors expect that key technological advances — particular in machine learning, artificial intelligence, and mobile robotics — will impact primarily upon low-wage, low-skill sectors traditionally immune from automation.  As such, based on our application it is unsurprising that wealthy, northern EU countries are projected to be less affected than their peripheral neighbours.  But irrespective of geography these impacts will be substantial, averaging 54% across EU-28. In spite of several caveats we note in another more detailed blog post, the presently second-order issue of labour allocation in the face of technological change is likely to become a key policy concern in the coming years.  What these estimates imply for policy is clear: if we believe that technology will be able to overcome traditional hurdles among non-routine cognitive tasks then we must equip the next generation of workers with skills that benefit from technology rather than being threatened by it. Such skills are likely to emphasize social and creative intelligence, which suggests that appropriate shifts in education policy are surely requisite in order to meet this automated challenge. Roll over the graphic below to see risk of computerization by country:  Source: Bruegel calculations based on Frey &amp; Osborne (2013), ILO, EU Labour Force Survey FREE AppDownload
If you’re a government employee, your salary usually depends on your position and years worked. However, it also depends heavily on the state in which you live. Each pair of maps illustrates average annual salaries (extrapolated from one month of full-time payroll in March, 2012) for a specific government function; state government salaries (left-hand maps) are compared to local government salaries (right-hand maps).  The scale applies to all maps, so any map can be compared to any other. Some of the differences are striking because the roles are fundamentally different.  For example, in education, most local government employees are grade school teachers, whereas state employees are university professors. Others may be due to how governments allocate their resources or emphasize the importance of a given function. For example, Nevada seems to fund local parks more heavily than other states.Seth Kadish/Vizual StatistixData source: https://www.census.gov/govs/apes/ 
Tesla is getting serious about its next vehicle, the highly anticipated Model X. So serious that the company is shutting down production of the Model S sedan for two weeks at its factory in Fremont, Calif. to install new equipment. Tesla CEO Elon Musk is revealing his grand ambitions for a multi-vehicle lineup with this move. The Model X, with its exotic falcon-wing doors and highly touted mashup of "SUV and minivan," will be built on the same assembly line as the award-winning Model S, Bloomberg reports. This will crank up the plant's output by 25%, if all goes according to plan. Tesla plans to install $100 million in new robots so it can construct both cars at the same time — no easy task for a startup automaker that has so far only managed to build one vehicle at a facility that was formerly shared by Toyota and General Motors. But there's no question that Tesla needs to allow Model S production to take a brief hit in July in order to lay the critical groundwork for the Model X, the vehicle whose overriding mission is to provide consumers with a cheaper, family-oriented electric car. Tesla wants to begin delivering the Model X by spring 2015. The decision to retool the Fremont plant may not sit well with Model S customers, who are already being asked to wait until late October to take delivery of their cars. But from Musk's perspective, the assembly line needs to be upgraded now to increase Model S production to meet both domestic and, increasingly, Chinese demand. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Grigory DukorStocks finished higher as the S&amp;P 500 touched a new intraday all-time high, but failed to make a new closing record high, while the Dow and Nasdaq also rallied. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) On the economic data front, this morning we got June inflation data from the latest Consumer Price Index, or CPI, which showed that the core reading, which excludes food and gas, in June rose 0.1% month over month, less than the 0.2% that was expected by economists. Headline CPI, which includes food and gas, rose 0.2%, which was in-line with expectations. On a year over year basis, core CPI rose 1.9% while headline CPI rose 2.1%. Following the report, Michael Gapen at Barclays said, "Overall, we see this report as softer than expected, but we see the structural drivers of a gradual reflating in the U.S. economy as remaining in place." 2) Existing home sales in June climbed 2.6% to an annualized rate of 5.04 million, better than the 1.9% rise and 4.99 million rate that was expected. Of the report, Lawrence Yun of the National Association of Retailers said, "Inventories are at their highest level in over a year and price gains have slowed to much more welcoming levels in many parts of the country. This bodes well for rising home sales in the upcoming months as consumers are provided with more choices." 3) The Richmond Federal Reserve's latest manufacturing survey came in at 7, better than the 3 reading that was expected by economists and up from economists' expectations for a reading of 5. In a release, the Richmond Fed said, "Survey participants expected faster growth in the number of employees along with solid growth in wages and a pickup in the average workweek." The report also said that manufacturers were optimistic about future business conditions.  4) Activist hedge fund investor Bill Ackman made what he called yesterday, "the most important presentation of his career," today, holding yet another lengthy presentation regarding Herbalife, the multi-level marketing firm Ackman has said is a "pyramid scheme," and will go out of business. Following Ackman's presentation, which lasted over three hours, shares of Herbalife soared, gaining as much as 24% intraday.  5) Shares of Chipotle were the S&amp;P 500's biggest gainer after the burrito chain last night reported earnings that crushed expectations, with comparable store sales that rose 17.3%. Chipotle's earnings were also contrasted by a disappointing quarter from fast food stalwart McDonald's, which reported global comparable store sales that were flat while quarterly profit came in $0.04 short of expectations.  6) Earnings season is in full swing and tonight is set to be a huge evening for tech companies, as Apple and Microsoft are both scheduled to report their quarterly results after the bell. Analysts are expecting Apple to report earnings of $1.23 per share, while Microsoft is expected to earn $0.61 per share.  7) In mergers &amp; acquisitions news, CIT Group, the commercial lender lead by former Merrill Lynch Chairman and CEO John Thain, announced a deal to acquire OneWest, a regional bank based in Southern California for $3.4 billion. Following the deal, the combined company will have $67 billion worth of assets with $28 billion in deposits. Shares of CIT Group were up more than 10% following the deal.  Don't Miss: Here's What We Know About The Secretive, Elon Musk-Backed Firm Creating Functional Artificial Intelligence » FREE AppDownload
APMicrosoft CEO Satya Nadella.Microsoft reported its Q2 2014 earnings Tuesday afternoon. Here's the score: Revenue: $23.38 billion vs. $23 billion expected. EPS (GAAP): $0.55 vs. $0.60 expected. It was a miss on EPS, which Microsoft says is due to the Nokia acquisition. Microsoft says the Nokia acquisition accounted for a $0.08 per share loss. When Microsoft gave guidance last quarter, it didn't account for the Nokia acquisition. Bing search ad revenue is up 40%, and Microsoft says it now has 19.2% of the U.S. search market share. Microsoft added 1 million consumer subscribers to Office 365, its subscription Office service, last quarter. It now has more than 5.6 million subscribers. Big number: Cloud revenue is booming. It's up 147% and it's on an annualized run rate of more than $4.4 billion. This includes all of Microsoft's cloud businesses like Office 365, Azure, etc. You're going to see Microsoft bragging about this chart a lot: Microsoft Surface revenue was $409 million. But expect that to be a bit better next earnings report once Microsoft is able to sell its new Surface Pro 3 tablet for a full quarter. Microsoft's head of investor relations Chris Suh told Business Insider in an interview Tuesday that the Surface Pro 3 is selling at a faster rate than the last two Pro models. The stock did nothing in after-hours trading. FREE AppDownload
APApple CEO Tim CookApple delivered a relatively boring June quarter earnings report.  The numbers were all pretty much in line and the stock barely moved on the news.  Revenue of $37.43 billion was slightly lighter than expected, but EPS of $1.28 was ahead of expectations (full numbers are below). If there's a story to be told from this earnings report it's that the iPad in the U.S. is surprisingly weak.  Apple sold 13.3 million iPads, down 9% an a year-over-year basis, and lighter than the 13.8 million analysts expected.  On the earnings call, CEO Tim Cook said the iPad "met our expectations, but not yours."  During the Q&amp;A with analysts, he dug in further on the iPad. He said the market is "bifurcated" with the developing markets delivering strong growth. In the BRIC countries, "iPad did well," said Cook. In China, growth was over 50%. In the Mid-East, it was over 60%. But in the U.S., Cook said, "the market is weaker there." He continues to believe the iPad business can grow. He said that if you look at projections from third party firms, the tablet market should be bigger than the PC market next year. He says that Apple's new partnership with IBM should deliver a shot in the arm and boost iPad sales. If you're looking for a positive with the iPad, it's this: Apple says 50% of people buying iPads are new to the iPad. This suggests the market has room to grow. Further, Cook said the iPad Mini has 100% customer satisfaction. The market once again shrugged at the weak iPad number because the iPhone was solid. Apple sold 35.2 million iPhones, up 13% on a year-over-year basis, and right around analyst expectations of 35.3 million units sold for the quarter.  On the earnings call, Cook said iPhone sales were strong across its three product tiers. It sells an entry level iPhone 4S, a mid-tier iPhone 5C, and high-end iPhone 5S. Cook said growth of the 5C was stronger this year than the iPhone 4S, which was the comparable phone in the line up last year. China was really strong for Apple. On the call, Cook said iPhone units were up 48%. He also said that Mac sales were up 39% in China.  This runs contrary to what many people expected. As competition from Android increases in China, people thought Apple would weaken. Instead, it's doing very well. Speaking with Reuters, CFO Luca Maestri, said that Xiaomi, the Android phone maker that's making waves, is not taking share from Apple, but rather it's taking share from other Android phone makers. Overall, it was another strong quarter from Apple.  Here are the numbers. All expectation numbers come via Bloomberg: This post is being updated as we write. If you want the latest, hit refresh on your browser, or just click here. BII Business Insider Intelligence BII BII Apple FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe stock market is up 17% in the last year and up a whopping 197% since its March 2009 low. Unfortunately, far too many young people haven't participated in this rally, and, unfortunately, this may be detrimental to their futures. According to a new survey by Bankrate.com, millennials are uncomfortable with choosing the stock market as their preferred method of investing "money they don't need for at least 10 years." The survey reveals that today's young Americans have a rather conservative investment style. "Thirty-nine (39%) percent say cash is their preferred way to invest" money. Only one-third (or 13%) of those picked the stock market. Overall, 25% of Americans prefer cash, followed closely by real estate with 23% and stocks with 19%. Bankrate.com senior financial analyst Greg McBride spoke with Yahoo! Finance where he noted that the problem with millennials not investing is that they "don't have the pensions that their parents had ... [and have] a bigger burden of accumulating wealth on their own for their retirement needs particularly in an era where life expectancies are getting long, health care costs are going up." He adds that "hankering down in safe haven investments" runs the risk of millennials falling short in the long run. But perhaps this pervading cynicism of young Americans is a product of the millennial experience. For starters, they've lived through the financial crisis. Further, they're better educated than previous generations, but they are struggling to find jobs. And finally, they're worried about student loans and they might not retire until 73. Consequently, millennials may feel as though they need to hold their money exactly where they see it — with cash. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
German bank Deutsche Bank said in its annual report that it faces as much as $3.97 billion worth of legal risks, the WSJ reports. Some analysts say the estimate is conservative. In addition to a number of civil lawsuits over Libor rigging, "An examination by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York found that Deutsche Bank AGâ€™s giant U.S. operations suffer from a litany of serious problems, including shoddy financial reporting, inadequate auditing and oversight and weak technology systems, according to documents reviewed by The Wall Street Journal."   FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
In front of hundreds of investors, the media, and curious observers, hedge fund billionaire Bill Ackman teared up while speaking about his family and the American Dream on Tuesday. It was just a small slice of his massive, three hour presentation on Herbalife, a multi-level marketing health company he started shorting to zero back in December of 2012. Here's what happened, from Business Insider's Julia LaRoche, who has the whole run down of the presentation here: It got emotional at the end when Ackman talked about the "American dream" his father and grandfather were fortunate to obtain when they came to the U.S.   "I'm a huge beneficiary of this country. Michael Johnson is a predator ... It's criminal. It's time to shut [Herbalife] down," Ackman said choking up.  "The American dream has been tarnished in a lot of different ways...but when you have a New York Stock Exchange company specifically targeting people and using the American Dream principles ... they sell the American dream. It's criminal. Unfortunately, it's taking the regulators too long."   As he spoke, Herbalife stocked surged up to 18%. We are not certain whether or not he was aware of that. This is not the first time we've seen Ackman on (the verge?) of tears. He's known for getting emotionally invested in his trades having once visibly choked up at a Target shareholder meeting in 2009. He eventually gave up his position in the company. The New York Times' Joe Nocera was there, and here's what he said about the incident: I’ve seen my share of odd moments during annual meetings, but until Thursday I’d never seen a grown man cry during one. O.K., maybe “cry” is a bit of an overstatement for what happened. Still, it was pretty startling when, in the middle of his speech to Target Corporation shareholders, William A. Ackman, the hedge fund manager who had waged an expensive, high-profile proxy fight against the company, suddenly choked up and stopped speaking. He wiped away a tear. Ackman explained why he got so worked up a week later saying that as he spoke he started thinking of a famous John F Kennedy speech. "The tear was not for the loss of a proxy contest as Mr. Nocera implies, but rather in recognition of the significance of JFK’s words nearly 50 years ago," he said. All this takes us back to the beginning of this whole Herbalife debacle. A few months after Ackman started shorting the stock, he got in an argument with Carl Icahn live on CNBC. Icahn had bought the stock, putting Ackman in a short squeeze. Icahn admitted that he did it, in part, because of a dispute he and Ackman had had over a decade ago (read more on that here) and had some not-so-nice words for Ackman. "I'm telling you he's like a crybaby in the schoolyard. I went to a tough school in Queens, you know, and they used to beat up the little Jewish boys. He was like one of the little Jewish boys crying ..." Harsh words on Wall Street, where the motto is "eat what you kill," not "cry til someone feeds you." The two have made up since, and hugged on stage at CNBC's Delivering Alpha conference last week. Still... makes you wonder who bought up all that Herbalife stock while Ackman was talking though. FREE AppDownload
 Jonathan Ernst/Reuters Today, the CEOs of New York City's 200 leading companies - all members of the Partnership for New York City - sent an urgent letter to House Republican Leadership asking them "to quickly pass the Terrorism Risk Insurance Reauthorization Act (TRIA)." TRIA was originally passed in 2002 in the wake of 9/11, and exists to "provide a federal backstop for insurance coverage in the event of catastrophic losses from terrorist attacks." In other words, the bill was designed to help employers and insurers to appropriately manage terrorism risk. As it stands, TRIA is set to expire in December 2014. On July 17, the Senate passed a version of a TRIA reauthorization 93-4 in a display of overwhelming support from both sides of the aisle. The Senate's renewal bill extends TRIA for an additional seven years, and was first brought to the floor by Sen. Schumer (NY) in April. The House currently has its own version of the TRIA extension, which only proposes to extend the bill for five years.  The Partnership for New York City's letter cites the U.S.'s "vulnerable[ility] to international terrorism" and urges the House to "act swiftly to pass a bill that maintains a program structure that has proven effective and has had no cost to the federal taxpayer." It was signed by executives from a wide array of industries. Some of the signatories included: fashion designer Tory Burch, media mogul Barry Diller, American Express CEO Kenneth I. Chenault, Viacom Inc. President and CEO Philippe Dauman, and billionaire John Catsimatidis.  The House is set to vote on the Senate's version of the bill in coming weeks. Here is the full text of the letter: July 22, 2014 Honorable John Boehner (R-OH) Speaker of the HouseHonorable Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) Majority WhipHonorable Steve Scalise (R-LA) Majority Whip-ElectDear Representatives Boehner, McCarthy, and Scalise,We write to urge the House of Representatives to quickly pass theTerrorism Risk Insurance Reauthorization Act (TRIA).  America remainsvulnerable to international terrorism. “TRIA” is one of the 21stCentury tools that we rely upon to protect American jobs and allowinvestment to continue, despite the risk of terrorism. With the sunsetof this federal program coming up in December, it is already difficultto renew insurance along the lines required by employers and propertyowners in urban centers. The bill that passed in the Senate last week with overwhelming,bipartisan support provides the federal backstop necessary to allowinsurers, employers, and property owners to continue to manageterrorism risk. It is important to the business community in New YorkCity and across the nation that the House act swiftly to pass a billthat maintains a program structure that has proven effective and hashad no cost to the federal taxpayer.We want to continue to work with you to keep our economy growing. TRIAis one of the public-private partnership arrangements that makescontinued growth possible. Sincerely- Lee S. Ainslie, III, Managing Partner, Maverick Capital Ajay S. Banga, President &amp; CEO, MasterCard David Barger, President &amp; CEO, JetBlue Airways Corporation Candace K. Beinecke, Chair, First Eagle Fund &amp; Chair, Hughes Hubbard &amp; Reed LLP Frank A. Bennack, Jr., Executive Vice Chairman of the Board &amp; Chairman, Executive Committee, Hearst Corporation Stephen Berger, Chairman, Odyssey Investment Partners, LLC William H. Berkman, Managing Partner, Associated Partners, LP Mark T. Bertolini, Chairman, CEO &amp; President, Aetna Inc. Michael W. Blair, Presiding Partner, Debevoise &amp; Plimpton LLP Jeff T. Blau, Chief Executive Officer, The Related Companies, L.P. Kathy Bloomgarden, Chief Executive Officer, Ruder Finn, Inc. Adam M. Blumenthal, Managing Partner, Blue Wolf Capital Management Michael C. Bodson, President &amp; CEO, The Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation Frank Branchini, Chairman &amp; CEO, Emblem Health Services LLC Jacques Brand, Chief Executive Officer, North America, Deutsche Bank Americas Tory Burch, Chief Executive Officer, Tory Burch LLC Ursula M. Burns, Chairman &amp; CEO, Xerox Corporation Michael A. Carpenter, Chief Executive Officer, Ally Financial Inc. Gregory C. Case, Chief Executive Officer, Aon plc Dominic J. Casserley, Chief Executive Officer, Willis Group Holdings, Plc John Catsimatidis, Chairman &amp; CEO, Red Apple Group, Inc. Kenneth I. Chenault, Chairman &amp; CEO, American Express Company Jane A. Chmielinski, Chief Operating Officer &amp; President, Americas, AECOM Richard B. Clark, Chairman &amp; Global Head of Real Estate, Brookfield Office Properties Inc. H. Rodgin Cohen, Senior Chairman, Sullivan &amp; Cromwell LLP Creighton Condon, Senior Partner, Shearman &amp; Sterling Philippe P. Dauman, President and CEO, Viacom Inc. Anthony J. de Nicola, Co-President, Welsh, Carson, Anderson &amp; Stowe Todd C. DeGarmo, Chief Executive Officer, STUDIOS Architecture Barry Diller, Chairman &amp; Senior Executive, IAC Daniel L. Doctoroff, President &amp; CEO, Bloomberg L.P. Irene M. Dorner, President &amp; CEO, HSBC Bank USA Douglas Durst, Chairman, Durst Organization Inc. Richard W. Edelman, President &amp; CEO, Edelman Joel S. Ehrenkranz, Senior Partner, Ehrenkranz Partners L.P. Andrew Farkas, Chairman &amp; CEO, Island Capital Group LLC Roger W. Ferguson, President &amp; CEO, TIAA-CREF Joseph R. Ficalora, President &amp; CEO, New York Community Bancorp, Inc. Laurence D. Fink, Chairman &amp; CEO, BlackRock, Inc. Alan H. Fishman, Chairman, Ladder Capital Finance LLC William E. Ford, Chief Executive Officer, General Atlantic LLC Edward C. Forst, President &amp; CEO, Cushman &amp; Wakefield, Inc. Russell P. Fradin, Chief Executive Officer, SunGard Eric J. Friedman, Managing Partner, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &amp; Flom LLP Mark T. Gallogly, Managing Principal, Centerbridge Partners MaryAnne Gilmartin, President &amp; CEO, Forest City Ratner Companies Barry M. Gosin, Chief Executive Officer, Newmark Grubb Knight Frank Jonathan N. Grayer, President &amp; CEO, Weld North LLC Robert Greifeld, Chief Executive Officer, The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. James H. Herbert, II, Chairman &amp; CEO (Founding), First Republic Bank Marc Holliday, President &amp; CEO, SL Green Realty Corp. Steven Holliday, Chief Executive Officer, National Grid Stephen R. Howe, Jr., Americas Area Managing Partner, Ernst &amp; Young LLP Frederick J. Iseman, Chairman &amp; CEO, CI Capital Partners LLC Jeffrey Katz, President &amp; CEO, Sherwood Equities Inc. Klaus Kleinfeld, Chairman &amp; CEO, Alcoa Inc. Henry R. Kravis, Co-Chairman &amp; Co-CEO, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts &amp; Co. William P. Lauder, Executive Chairman, The Estée Lauder Companies, Inc. Rochelle B. Lazarus, Chairman Emeritus, Ogilvy &amp; Mather Worldwide Joseph M. Leccese, Chairman, Proskauer Richard S. LeFrak, Chairman &amp; CEO, The LeFrak Organization Jeffrey E. Levine, Chairman, Douglaston Development Pamela Liebman, President &amp; CEO, The Corcoran Group, Inc. Martin Lipton, Senior Partner, Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &amp; Katz Terry J. Lundgren, Chairman, President &amp; CEO, Macy's, Inc. Bridget A. Macaskill, President &amp; CEO, First Eagle Investment Management, LLC Peter L. Malkin, Chairman Emeritus, Empire State Realty Trust  Joel S. Marcus, Chairman, CEO &amp; Founder, Alexandria Real Estate Equities, Inc. Donald B. Marron, Chairman, Lightyear Capital Peter W. May, President &amp; Founding Partner, Trian Partners John McAvoy, Chairman, President &amp; CEO, Con Edison Sherilyn McCoy, Chief Executive Officer, Avon Products, Inc. Raymond W. McDaniel, Jr., President &amp; CEO, Moody's Investors Service Mitchell Modell, Chief Executive Officer, Modell's Sporting Goods Kenneth D. Moelis, Chief Executive Officer, Moelis &amp; Company Holdings LP Robert E. Moritz, Chairman &amp; Senior Partner, PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP Atsushi Nakajima, President &amp; CEO, Rockefeller Group International, Inc. Richard D. Parsons, Senior Advisor, Providence Equity Partners Ronald Perelman, Chairman &amp; CEO, MacAndrews &amp; Forbes Holdings Inc. Douglas L. Peterson, President &amp; CEO, McGraw Hill Financial Charles E. Phillips, Jr., Chief Executive Officer, Infor Deidre Quinn, President &amp; CEO, Lafayette 148 New York Ian C. Read, Chairman of the Board &amp; CEO, Pfizer Inc. Scott H. Rechler, Chairman &amp; CEO, RXR Realty LLC Thomas J. Reid, Managing Partner, Davis Polk &amp; Wardwell LLP Daniel W. Riordan, Chief Executive Officer, Global Corporate, North America, Zurich Insurance Group Ltd James D. Robinson, III, Co-Founder &amp; General Partner, RRE Ventures Julio E. Rojas, Chief Executive Officer, Americas, Standard Chartered Bank Wilbur L. Ross, Jr., Chairman &amp; CEO, WL Ross &amp; Co. LLC Michael I. Roth, Chairman &amp; CEO, Interpublic Group Steven Roth, Chairman &amp; CEO, Vornado Realty Trust Howard J. Rubenstein, President, Rubenstein Associates, Inc. William C. Rudin, Vice Chairman &amp; CEO, Rudin Management Company, Inc. Kevin P. Ryan, Chairman &amp; Founder, Gilt Alexander Saint-Amand, Chief Executive Officer, GLG Alan D. Schwartz, Executive Chairman, Guggenheim Partners, LLC Barry F. Schwartz, Executive Vice Chairman &amp; Chief Administrative Officer, MacAndrews &amp; Forbes Holdings Inc. Frank J. Sciame, Chairman &amp; CEO, F.J. Sciame Construction Co., Inc. Michael C. Slocum, President, Commercial Banking, Capital One Bank James C. Smith, Chief Executive Officer, Thomson Reuters J. Eric Smith, Chief Executive Officer, Swiss Re Americas Tad Smith, President &amp; CEO, The Madison Square Garden Company Jerry I. Speyer, Chairman &amp; Co-CEO, Tishman Speyer Arthur P. Steinmetz, President &amp; CEO, OppenheimerFunds, Inc. Mark Thompson, President &amp; CEO, The New York Times Company Mary Ann Tighe, Chief Executive Officer, NY Tri-State Region, CBRE, Inc. James S. Tisch, President &amp; CEO, Loews Corporation Daniel R. Tishman, Vice Chair, Tishman Realty Partners John B. Veihmeyer, Chairman &amp; CEO, KPMG LLP George H. Walker, Chairman &amp; CEO, Neuberger Berman Group LLC Charles Weinstein, Chief Executive Officer, EisnerAmper LLP Christopher J. Williams, Chairman &amp; CEO, The Williams Capital Group, L.P. Robert Wolf, Chief Executive Officer, 32 Advisors, LLC Douglas M. Woodham, President, Americas, Christie's Kathryn S. Wylde, President &amp; CEO, Partnership for New York City Tim Zagat, Co-Chair, Zagat Survey LLC Strauss Zelnick, Chief Executive Officer, ZelnickMedia Corporation Mortimer B. Zuckerman, Chairman &amp; Editor-in-Chief, USNews &amp; World Report; Chairman &amp; Publisher, NY Daily News; Chairman, Boston Properties Update (3:31 p.m.): With a corrected list of names. FREE AppDownload
ReutersCrocs' comeback plan is a bust.  The company is cutting jobs and closing stores amid plummeting net income.  The company said Tuesday that it plans to close 75 to 100 of its 624 stores globally and lay off 183 employees out of more than 5,000.  Net income fell a whopping 44% for the second quarter to $19.7 million, though revenues rose 3.6 percent to $376 million.  Crocs President Andrew Rees said in a statement that the performance shows "the need for dynamic change in our strategy, organization and approach to the market." Crocs was hoping that a new, sleeker line of shoes that was released this year — including ballet flats, pumps, and open-toe wedges — would revitalize the brand.  But the company's new shoe styles failed to offset falling demand for its signature plastic clogs. The new styles were "too big a reach for the brand," Rees told the Wall Street Journal. The company is now planning to cut back on its range of styles by 30% to 40%, as a result. Crocs' colorful plastic clogs soared in popularity a decade ago. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozOne out of every 21 New Yorkers is a millionaire. According to data from Spear's Wealth Management and WealthInsight, the city has 389,100 people with net worth greater than $1 million. That's 4.63% of the population. For San Francisco, it's one out of every 37 people.  The No.1 city, Monaco, has nearly 3 in 10.  Below is the full list of cities with millionaire density. We first saw this at the LA Times.  TOP 20 GLOBAL CITIES BY MILLIONAIRE DENSITY - FULL BREAKDOWN: 1. Monaco (29.21%) 2. Zurich (27.34%) 3. Geneva (17.92%) 4. New York (4.63%) 5. Frankfurt (3.88%) 6. London (3.39%) 7. Oslo (2.90%) 8. Singapore (2.80%) 9. Amsterdam (2.63%) 10. Florence (2.59%) 11. Hong Kong (2.58%) 12. Rome (2.54%) 13. Dublin (2.40%) 14. Doha (2.31%) 15. Toronto (2.29%) 16. Venice (2.25%) 17. Brussels (2.11%) 18. Houston (2.09%) 19. San Francisco (2.07%) 20. Paris (2.04%) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/docsearlsAerial view of Bridgehampton, East Hampton.The flight from New York City to East Hampton takes about 45 minutes. The same trip by car—or the storied Hamptons Jitney—on a busy summer weekend can take hours. So, for a certain breed of Hamptons resident willing to pay the price to avoid spending a significant part of the weekend sitting in traffic, a flight to the East End can make all the difference.  That’s precisely why Jeff Smith, executive director of the Eastern Regional Helicopter Council, is working with a group called Friends of the East Hampton Airport. Their aim is to keep the airport—which could lose its rights to operate as it does now later this year—running smoothly. Here, at the height of the Hamptons summer season, Smith explains why air traffic is a small price to pay for the economic health of the South Fork.   Why is the East Hampton Airport in trouble? This has been going on for quite a few years, but this is what I call the magic year. At the end of this year, because of a third-party legal settlement, the FAA has agreed not to enforce three grant assurances that come along with taking taxpayer money. The airport took taxpayer money 13 years ago and with that came 20 years of assurances that said anybody who wants to can fly in or out of East Hampton airport, but this legal settlement says they have to give back those rights seven years early—meaning December of this year. What does that mean for people who commute to the Hamptons on helicopters or planes? What the town plans on doing is putting restrictions on times for seaplanes, helicopters and jets, which make up 56 percent of the revenue that comes into the airport. The airport needs severe maintenance, and the town is saying they will pay for those improvements by farming that out to the local taxpayers. But if you take away 56 percent of the revenue, how can you pay for anything? How are the opponents of the way the airport currently operates able to justify that kind of loss? The answer is that they think they can still afford it. They’re also putting bans and restrictions on some of the area’s biggest property owners. Are they going to be told to drive? That’s not going to happen. What will happen is people will start selling their homes and nobody will want to go out there because of limited access. That will put a huge burden on the town. We did a study last year saying the indirect spending by those people who fly in is, at minimum, $49 million each year. That means jobs in hotels, restaurants and in private homes. Those are jobs that these people are paying for. Surely driving isn’t the only option. People can fly into Westhampton, which means it will only be a few years to drive to East Hampton. The heaviest traffic out there starts at the merge into East Hampton, and then you have to drive on a two-lane highway. You could be looking at a two-hour drive after you land. Still, plenty of people mange to visit the Hamptons without flying. Sure it’s convenient, but is it really a necessity? There’s a study we did with NYU that gives a lot of background information on this. If you look at the people who go out there, more drive than fly, but out of the people who fly there is a much larger population of people who are spending money. There is a direct correlation between being able to fly out there on a helicopter and spending money in the area. The complaints about the airport seem to be mostly about noise.   They’re claiming that it’s an issue of noise and quality of life, that the noise is wrecking people’s weekends. The thing is, it’s a very small group of people in the large scheme of things, but they’re very vocal. So what’s standing between this small group of people and what you’re asserting is common sense?  Most of the people in this group are property owners and developers. East Hampton airport has 600 acres of property; one of these people owns 40 acres on the north side of the airport and another is a luxury homebuilder. I believe there is an underlying motive that has nothing to do with noise. If the FAA did a study, I believe it would have inconclusive findings regarding a noise problem, and that’s why the town is funding their own study and hiring their own experts. Do you really believe that people could abandon the Hamptons?  In the old days, people went out to the Catskills. That used to be the ultimate summer destination for New Yorkers. Until, of course, air traffic became more affordable and it bankrupted the whole area. People just walked away from it, and the same thing can happen to East Hampton. Opponents of the airport say people will just take the Jitney; they think these billionaires will get on a bus to come out here. That’s not going to happen.     Private Jettiquette 101: The Eight Golden RulesThe Jet Set’s Spectacular CrashWhy Private Planes are the Ultimate Accessory    This article originally appeared at DuJour.  Copyright 2014. Follow DuJour on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Today a New York Judge will decide if Argentina absolutely must pay a group of hedge fund managers over $1.3 billion in bonds by July 31st, or if it can get a stay on payment until it negotiates and reaches an agreement with its holdout creditors. "The Argentine government right now is playing with a lit match and holding it on the lit ends," said David Fernández, an attorney at Buchanan, Ingersoll &amp; Rooney. "If there's no stay July 31st is going to come and go and there will be default." That means The Republic could relive the nightmare of 2001, when inflation soared and the value of its currency plummeted. The weird thing is, it seems like Argentines are ready for that. They've been through the abyss before and survived, though recovery is still ongoing. "I do not know whats gonna happen," says Federico Zaldua an Argentina-based trader on Itau BBA's Latin America bond desk. "I guess we shall settle. If we don't and bond prices plunge I will buy much more [bonds]. We are all looking into 2015 already." In 2015 — default of no — President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner and her administration will be gone. All the alternatives are more market friendly. It's one of the reasons why hedge fund managers like Mike Novogratz of Fortress Investments and Dan Loeb of Third Point Partners have said they're ready to invest once Argentina hits bottom. Whatever bottom may be. For now, though, Argentina is looking backward. This case is a throw back to the last disaster when this group of hedge fund managers, lead by Elliott Management's Paul Singer, picked up these bonds on the cheap. Since then, they've refused to take haircut on the debt like the rest of bondholders. The holdouts want 100 cents on the dollar. To Argentina, that makes the "vultures." That's why The Republic refused to pay up, appealing it's case all the way up to the Supreme Court of the United States and eventually losing this year. Along the way, lower Court Judge Thomas Griesa — who has been on this case since the beginning — has lost patience time and time again. Even now Argentina's Economics Minister Axel Kicillof has met with the Judge several times and each time Kicillof refused to negotiate with holdouts. Kicillof, and the government in general, say that according to a clause in their bond contract — the RUFO clause — they can't voluntarily negotiate with the holdouts. If they do, other bondholders automatically are entitled to the same rate they give the holdouts, meaning the Republic could have to shell out $15 billion. The holdouts argue that at this point negotiations clearly are not voluntary. Given this history, Judge Griesa has little reason to believe Argentina will negotiate in good faith. The Republic, as it has been through all this before, could very well decide to plow through it again. "When they defaulted before was it the end of the world? No. Was it painful? Yes," said Fernández. That said, Fernández doesn't buy that Argentina will be able to turn it around in 2015 simply by having a new government. "Part of the problem is that they're not completely out from underneath the first time they did it [default]... there's a lot of countries that won't trade with them, a lot of countries that won't lend to them," said Fernández. He continued: "If they cross the default line and they go there [this time] it doesn't matter if 2015 happens... there won't be any liquidity for them." The disaster does not come all at once. Last time Argentina defaulted it took almost a year for the country to spin completely out of control. Maybe — if it pays by 2015 thereby not triggering the RUFO clause — the government believes that it will be able to stop the bleeding before that happens. "Normal Argentineans will keep on suffering the ongoing inflation and lower activity level until expectations change and somebody comes up with a real anti inflationary program," said Zaldua. The question is how long will that take? FREE AppDownload
WUSTL.edu Silicon Valley enjoys something of a monopoly these days on making the most noise in the U.S. economy. But there's been surprisingly little fanfare surrounding the latest project that seemingly all the most successful Valleyites have been pouring into: an artificial intelligence company called Vicarious. Founded in 2010, Vicarious' list of investors is dazzling: Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos, Ashton Kutcher, and Dustin Moskowitz count among the household names. PayPal cofounder Peter Thiel, along with folks from startup funders Y Combinator and cloud storage group Box, also number among those who've provided funding.  For Aydin Senkut, whose Felicis Ventures was one of Vicarious' earliest investors, there is agreement among top valley VCs that now is the time to get into artificial intelligence and machine learning, because it is going to change everyone's lives irrevocably. "AI and machine learning is a really big deal," he told us by phone recently. "For the longest time no one took it very seriously, but... more and more companies are now seeing how far they've fallen behind in this area, and how it's critically important to have this capability." What exactly is this capability? Despite its marquee backers, Vicarious has gained a reputation for secrecy. Co-founder Scott Phoenix, a computer scientist and designer, told us his team was not currently doing interviews. The other co-founder, a neuroscientist named Dileep George, did not respond to several requests for comment. But in previous interviews, George has discussed some of the potential practical applications for artificial intelligence. In an interview with NBC's PressHere in 2012, he described how an "improved Siri" could someday be smart enough to complex commands from any speaker, even with ones with thick accents, for things like booking air tickets without having to click through a bunch of screens. In the nearer term, which is still measured in years, AI capabilities will be sufficiently advanced that they can perform medical diagnoses, or recognize images that don't contain any preexisting text tags.  George and Phoenix call the underlying technology that powers these applications recursive cortical networking. RCN means teaching computers to model brain functions — specifically, those of the neocortex, the part responsible for sensory processing. As George, who left an AI venture created by Palm founder Jeff Hawkins to found Vicarious, told KurzweilAI in 2012, "My goals have always been to embody the computational principles of the brain in a mathematical model, but RCN is a ground-up rethinking of what kind of algorithmic approach is necessary to solve the problem.”  Vicarious' breakthroughs are still in their infancy, but they've posted a demonstration of something it can already do: break a CAPTCHA security device. We've GIF'ed how it works here:   The Valley seems to be hungry for AI in general. But if there's any kind of AI arms-race on, the field remains pretty narrow, if only because there are so few people qualified to lead the way. Facebook recently hired its own specialist in charge of AI, NYU's Yann LeCun, but he and his team remain focused on how to improve Facebook's own functions. A more direct rival, of sorts, to Vicarious, is a firm called DeepMind. Google bought DeepMind for $400 million earlier this year. Ironically Vicarious and DeepMind both share Thiel's Founders Fund as a backer, which confirms how narrow the space remains, but also how VCs are attempting to get a piece of as much AI action as they can. Recode reported in January that London-based DeepMind is working on similar projects as Vicarious, like advanced image recognition, though they too are quite cagey about what exactly they're up to.  "The reality is, there are a very limited number of AI and machine learning experts in the world, which is one reason why it's been getting so much attention," Senkut says. "It is such an important field, and [DeepMind] is one of few that are thinking very big and ambitious." In fact, the most publicly accessible AI projects are coming from the government.  Sometime between 2006 and 2007, the Director of National Intelligence began earmarking funds for IARPA, short for Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity. Its goal was to start developing technology for the country's 16 different spy agencies. IARPA is itself looking to accelerate its image-reading capabilities through a program called JANUS. It's also hoping to develop a technology that can "[understand] human interactions that involve trust and trustworthiness."   Bruno Olshausen, a Vicarious adviser and neuroscience professor at Berkeley told us that the most exciting research IARPA is conducting is in a field called Connectomics. The goal is nothing less than recreating the human brain. The output from the field will make the aforementioned projects look prehistoric. "Evolution discovered all these secrets — like building an eye — about how to build good, simple processing," he told us. "This is something computers cannot do now. But when you look at a brain under a microscope, you're basically looking at the solution, you're looking at a microchip." Last month, Elon Musk, who came on board as a backer in a $40 million funding round that also included Zuckerberg and Kutcher,  said one of the reasons he'd invested in Vicarious was to keep an eye on unexpected negative developments in AI — basically, a "SkyNet" scenario.  Olshausen says that scenario remains a remote possibility. Our knowledge of how the brain works is more or less where our knowledge of physics was before Newton: nearly useless.  "Absent a major paradigm shift - something unforeseeable at present - I would not say we are at the point where we should truly be worried about AI going out of control," he said in a follow-up email. " That is not to say that we shouldn’t worry about how *humans* will use machines or engage in warfare via machines - e.g., for domestic spying, foreign espionage, hacking attacks and the like.  But in the meantime we can rest easy knowing that computers themselves are not going to take over the world anytime soon, or in the foreseeable future."  The AI crew is playing a very long game — there have been reports that Vicarious makes anyone who comes on sign something that says they will not ask about short-term progress or profits. But Senkut believes that as novel as it sounds now, we will someday be taking AI for granted. "It's unstoppable," he said. "This thing is going to be here before we know it, like with HTTP distribution coming out in the '70s, I don't think people realized it was going to give birth to the Internet. It's not like, Oh my god, what's the next thing in a few months. I'm just really excited that it's going to be an enabling platform, that’s something I don't even have to speculate about." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipThe Chinese city of Dongguan, in the southern province of Guangdong, has seen a surge in the number of workers that are dying in their sleep, reports Andrea Chen at South China Morning Post. There have been 893 cases of sudden unexplained nocturnal death syndrome (SUNDS) from January 2001 to October 2013, up from 231 cases seen between January 1990 to December 1999. Autopsies have revealed that these workers had no terminal illness or injury and that the workers were otherwise healthy. The report found that the young male workers suddenly had a hard time breathing while they were sleeping, though the cause for this was unknown. Researchers at Zhongshan School of Medicine, cited by Guangzhou Daily, found that young manual laborers were most at risk. More than 90% of those that died were manual laborers and the researchers said longer hours and poor work and living conditions put them at higher risk. More than 90% of the victims were male. Dongguan was once one of China's biggest manufacturing hubs with the city's GDP rising 19.5% annually between 2003 and 2006. But after the financial crisis, growth slumped to 5.3% in 2009. The mayor of Dongguan expects growth to pick up to 9% in 2014 as a result of investment in certain high-tech projects. More recently, the city came under the scanner as it was dubbed China's sex capital. A recent paper on SUNDS by Chao Liu et al, published in Forensic Science International, looks at SUNDS in Southern China and related diseases from other countries. From the paper: As an ethnic and region specific natural death, sudden unexplained nocturnal death syndrome (SUNDS) or sudden unexplained death during sleep (SUDS), is a disorder that prevails predominantly in Southeast Asia and has various synonyms in different countries such as the Philippines (bangungut), Thailand (lai-tai), Japan (pokkuri), and China (sudden manhood death syndrome). The annual incidence of SUNDS has been reported to be as high as 43 per 100,000 people aged 20–40 years in the Philippines and 38 per 100,000 people aged 20–49 years in Thailand. In Southern China, the incidence is about 1 per 100,000 people. These reported worldwide syndromes have an unusual clinical phenotype in common: the vast majority of victims were apparently healthy young males between 20 and 50 years old; death mostly occurred at night during sleep with symptoms of moaning, tachypnea, and abrupt tic of limbs; gross autopsy and microscopic findings showed no morphological changes to elucidate the cause of death. Since its initial description in 1917 in the Philippines, SUNDS has remained an enigma to both forensic pathologists and clinicians. The paper examined whether SUNDS is a function of a disorder in the cardiac sodium channel, which is responsible for the function of the myocardium, a heart muscle. "Our data suggest that a majority of Chinese SUNDS may be due to other mechanisms that lead to an increased risk for sudden death during sleep," the authors write. In China meanwhile, the focus continues to be on working conditions — which could exasperate an underlying disorder. Zhang Yiri, an associate professor from Guangzhou City Polytechnic told China Daily that many factories pay low basic salaries but pay much better for overtime work. Zhang said this has caused many laborers to work extra hours to make more money but also puts them at higher risk. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsGeorge BooleThere are two main reasons mathematics has fascinated humanity for two thousand years. First, math gives us the tools we need to understand the universe and build things. Second, the study of mathematical objects themselves can be beautiful and intriguing, even if they have no apparent practical applications. What's truly amazing is that sometimes a branch of math will start out as something completely abstract, with no immediate scientific or engineering applications, and then much later a practical use can be found. Boolean algebra is the combination of logic and algebra, initially developed by George Boole, for whom the subject is named, in the 1840s and '50s, and later refined by other logicians through the rest of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Formal logic concerns itself with the truth or falseness of statements, or propositions. "Barack Obama is the President of the United States" is a proposition that is true. "Google manufactures the iPhone" is a proposition that is false. Things get more interesting when we start combining simple propositions together. "Barack Obama is the President of the United States, and Joe Biden is the Vice President" is true, since the two simple propositions joined by the "and" in the middle are both true. "Either Texas has a population of 300, or television was invented by Issac Newton" is false, since the two simple propositions joined by the "or" in the middle are both false. Boolean algebra, and other forms of abstract propositional logic, are based on dealing with compound propositions made up of simple propositions joined by logical connectors like "and", "or", and "not". All that matters for telling whether such a compound statement is true are the abstract truth values of the component propositions and formal rules based on which logical connectors we're using. For example, if proposition X is true, and proposition Y is true, then the compound proposition "X and Y" is also true. If either X or Y is false, or both are false, then "X and Y" is also false. Boole recognized that this kind of logic based on combining symbols for propositions using connectors like "and", "or", and "not" had a similar structure to normal algebra and arithmetic. In normal algebra, variables representing numbers get combined together into formulas and equations by using the arithmetic operations of addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. In Boole's logical algebra, variables representing logical propositions get combined into formulas and equations by using the logical operations of and, or, and not. The statement "X and Y is true" gets converted into the equation X × Y = 1. The statement "X or Y is false" becomes X + Y = 0. Boolean algebra makes it possible to use the same kinds of algebraic techniques we use to solve normal equations involving numbers to establish logical relationships. By solving Boolean equations, logicians can more easily see when one combination of propositions logically leads to another. If this seems extremely abstract, it is. Logic has always straddled the line between philosophy and mathematics, attempting to reason about the way we can reason, and getting at fundamental ideas about what truth is and how to be sure we know things. While fascinating, propositional logic and Boolean algebra initially belonged strictly to the realm of pure mathematics, with fewer applications than a branch of math like differential equations and calculus, which are at the foundation of our understanding of physics.  Remarkably, about a century after Boole's initial investigations, mathematicians and scientists discovered an extremely powerful set of applications for formal logic, and now this apparently abstract mathematical and logical tool is at the heart of the global economy. Wikimedia CommonsBoolean algebra — taking true and false values, manipulating them according to logical rules, and coming up with appropriate true and false results — is the fundamental basis of the modern digital computer. One of the first major applications of Boolean algebra came from the 1937 master's thesis of Claude Shannon, one of the most important mathematicians and engineers of the 20th century. Shannon realized that switches in relay networks, like in a telephone network, or an early proto-computer, could be easily described by viewing "on" switches has having a Boolean value of "true", "off" switches as having a Boolean value of "false", and with the different patterns in which switches are connected to each other corresponding to the Boolean operations of "and", "or", and "not". Shannon's innovation made the design of switch networks vastly easier: rather than needing to actually play around with network connections themselves, the techniques developed by Boole and his successors provided a mathematical framework allowing for more efficient network layouts. The connection between electrical switches and boolean algebra goes in the other direction as well. A computer's CPU is largely built out of logic gates: physical manifestations of Boolean operators. Logic gates take in one or more electrical Boolean values: a wire with a high voltage might represent "true", and a wire with a low voltage might represent "false". The output of the logic gate, calculated using the electronic properties of semiconductors, is the appropriate voltage from the desired Boolean operation. An "and" gate, for example, takes in two inputs. If both inputs are high voltage (representing "true"), the "and" gate has a high voltage output of "true" as well, while if either or both inputs are low voltage, or false, the gate will have a low voltage output of false. Putting these gates together in the right ways allows for the execution of computer programs. Being able to perform Boolean operations on various inputs essentially allows a CPU to decide how to handle those inputs. Further, this Boolean algebra embedded in computers comes back around to normal math. The Boolean dichotomy of true vs. false lends itself nicely to the representation of binary numbers: true corresponds to 1, and false maps to 0. Under this interpretation, it's possible to assemble Boolean circuits that, simply by correctly combining two binary input numbers using and, or, and not operations, can add, subtract, multiply, or divide numbers. Sometimes, developments in pure math can, decades or centuries later, turn out to have amazing applications. FREE AppDownload
YouTube/Galito ErazoShares in Herbalife were up as much as 15% as Pershing Square's Bill Ackman delivered what he said yesterday was the most important presentation of his career on the nutritional-supplement company.  Appearing on CNBC Monday afternoon, Ackman reiterated his assertion that the Grand Cayman-based firm's business model doesn't add up and that its shares were going to zero.  Shares fell $6 yesterday. Herbalife has gained 33% since December 2012 when Ackman published a 334-page document he said showed the company was a fraud.  Here's the chart: Yahoo Click here to follow Julia LaRoche's live coverage of today's presentation » FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg via Getty ImagesBillionaire hedge fund manager Bill Ackman just wrapped up his latest Herbalife presentation. Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, gave what he called "the most important presentation" of his career. In shorting Herbalife to zero, he's gone as far as comparing the company to the Nazis. But today the market laughed at him: The stock surged 15% as he spoke. There were hundreds of folks gathered at the AXA Equitable Building in Midtown Manhattan. Even Ackman's father was in attendance. Thousands of people tuned in via a webcast.  For more than a year, Ackman has been loudly shorting Herbalife — a maker of nutrition shakes. He believes the company is a "pyramid scheme." His presentation today focused on the company's so-called nutrition clubs.   Earlier this morning, Herbalife 's CFO, John DeSimone, told CNBC that Ackman's "bark is worse than his bite." If the stock surge means anything, perhaps DeSimone was correct. There wasn't a major bombshell in Ackman's presentation. The 250-plus slide deck was very detailed. The biggest thing was that Ackman believes the company is skirting labor laws with its nutrition clubs. In sum, though, Ackman alleged that Herbalife had "fictitious customers" and a "fictitious business opportunity." He called Herbalife "a fraud perpetrated by Herbalife's senior management and members of its Founder's Circles, Chairman's Club and President's Team conceived, designed and executed to exploit the poor."  Ackman began the presentation by going over the backstory about Herbalife's founding. He then moved to his Herbalife "pyramid scheme" thesis.  Ackman claimed Herbalife "targets the poorest of the poor." He then shared some slides based on a document he obtained from a whistleblower.  Pershing SquarePershing Square Ackman claimed that Herbalife "seeks to exploit the extremely poor in new and existing markets." He said that Herbalife denies it targets ethnic groups. Ackman claims one way they do this is through the nutrition clubs.  According to Ackman, Herbalife's nutrition clubs are critical to the company's growth.  Ackman said that Pershing Square spent $50 million on investigating: "I'm not proud of that number."  He said they investigated over 240 nutrition clubs: "We had investigators go in and become part of that program." First, he went over the rules of the nutrition clubs. For example, the clubs aren't allowed to attract customers – no advertisements or promotions allowed. They also can't have signage or an open-closed sign.  Ackman said that his team went over the economics of 10 nutrition clubs in Queens, New York. He concluded that they're a money-losing business. On average, he said, these clubs lose $12,000 a year before paying the owner.  "This doesn't seem to be a particularly good business model," he said.  Ackman said the real purpose of the nutrition club was to recruit members.  He said these clubs "grow like a virus" through duplication. He showed a slide comparing the number of McDonalds' and Herbalife nutrition clubs in Queens. He pointed out that while the McDonalds' are spread out, the nutrition clubs are on top of each other. Ackman then invited Christine Richard, a former Bloomberg News reporter turned researcher who gave him the Herbalife idea, on stage. His firm's lawyer, David Klafter, also joined him on stage.  They started going over how you get certified to run a nutrition club.  In short, Ackman believes the nutrition clubs are a big fraud. "If you look at the greatest frauds," Ackman said using Enron's phantom trading floor as an example, "what Herbalife has is they have phantom or fictitious customers." He said the people running the clubs aren't bad people.  "It's a tragedy because they don't know they're being defrauded."  Ackman also alleged that the clubs are violating labor laws.  "Everyone's working without being paid, which is a violation of the labor laws."  It got emotional at the end when Ackman talked about the "American dream" his father and grandfather were fortunate to obtain when they came to the U.S.   "I'm a huge beneficiary of this country. Michael Johnson is a predator ... It's criminal. It's time to shut [Herbalife] down," Ackman said choking up.  "The American dream has been tarnished in a lot of different ways...but when you have a New York Stock Exchange company specifically targeting people and using the American Dream principles ... they sell the American dream. It's criminal. Unfortunately, it's taking the regulators too long."   The Ackman-Herbalife saga has been ongoing for more than a year and a half.  In late December 2012, Ackman publicly declared via a 342-slide presentation that he was shorting Herbalife – a multilevel marketing company that sells nutritional supplements and weight loss shakes. Ackman believes the company operates as a "pyramid scheme" that targets lower income individuals. It's Ackman's contention that regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, will be persuaded to shut the company down. Shortly after, a number of fund managers, most notably Carl Icahn, piled on by going long on the stock shortly after Ackman revealed his short bet. Icahn, who seems to have made up with Ackman more than a year after a nasty televised brawl, said last week at a conference that he hasn't sold a single share of Herbalife. Back in March, the FTC opened an investigation into the company. So far, Ackman has racked up millions in paper losses on his bet. He has yet to break even on his short. He's said that he will take this short to "the end of the earth."  One person in the crowd asked if Ackman was trying to goad the company into suing him, given his inflammatory language. Ackman responded: "Bring it on." FREE AppDownload
CNBCFormer BATS President William O'Brien, right, argues with IEX CEO Brad Katsuyama, left.The BATS Exchange, the Kansas City-based stock market, has announced the departure of President William O'Brien, effectively immediately. In April, O'Brien made misleading statements about his trade orders were routed into the exchange, which the firm was then forced to correct a few days later.  O'Brien asserted that the exchange, the country's second largest, gets its price orders directly from broker-dealers. That wasn't true, and under pressure from regulators, the exchange clarified that it gets its them from NASDAQ's SIP feed. By using the slower SIP feed, high-speed traders can use BATS as a forum to get price advantages.    This gaming of information access lies at the heart of Michael Lewis' latest book, "Flash Boys." Brad Katsuyama, the head of IEX group and of the book's protagonists, had challenged O'Brien about the information source issue on CNBC. So this appears to be real-world fallout from Lewis' arguments.  CEO Joe Ratterman will take over as President. Here's their full statement: BATS FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinWomen inspect T-shirts, displaying images of Russia's President Vladimir Putin, which are on sale at GUM department store in central Moscow, June 11, 2014.MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia could ask its richest citizens to help foot the bill for the annexation of Crimea by paying a "solidarity tax" proposed by a group of lawmakers. Deputies from the State Duma lower house of parliament, which is dominated by backers of President Vladimir Putin, have drawn up a draft law that would increase income tax for people earning more than more than 1 million roubles ($28,700) a month. It would affect less than 2 percent of the working population but the amounts could be huge for some individuals because the daft proposes they pay up to 30 percent of their earnings compared to the current flat rate of 13 percent. "The main goal is to support regional budgets and that means also the budget of Russia's new territories," Andrei Krutov, the deputy leading the planned legislation, told Reuters. His reference to the "new territories" made clear that a key intention was to help the government pay for Crimea's absorption into Russia. The Black Sea peninsula was annexed in March, an action seen by most Russians as righting what they considered a historical wrong by late Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev who gifted Crimea to Ukraine in 1954, long before the Soviet Union collapsed. The need to help support Crimea's economy and its 2.3 million population has put a new strain on Russia's federal budget at a time when the country is sliding towards recession. Some state employees say they have already been asked to donate a day's pay to help Crimea - a demand some have balked at. The Finance Ministry has also suggested personal income tax may have to be increased by 1-2 percent to help cover the costs and the government had already heard calls for Russia to introduce a progressive taxation mechanism. Krutov said the draft law could be a step in that direction and played down the impact on society. "The social burden would be minimal and the influx of cash to the budget would be significant," Krutov said. "The economic reality and international experience increasingly show that progressive taxation is a step that Russia needs to make in the near future." He said the draft could go to a vote in the autumn and, if approved, could bring in 300 billion to 500 billion roubles ($8.6 billion to $14.30 billion) a year. The small group of Russia's rich accounts for more than a third of total personal income in the country, according to data from Federal Tax Service. Criticism of the proposal has so far been muted - critics would risk sounding unpatriotic and uncharitable as the annexation of Crimea is widely supported and has boosted Putin's ratings. But an instant online poll by Snob magazine, which is aimed at the wealthy, showed 66 percent of respondents did not support the idea of a solidarity tax. (See also July 6 story Crimea euphoria fades for some Russians))($1 = 34.9320 Russian Roubles) (Addtional reporting by Maria Tsvetkova, Writing by Lidia Kelly, Editing by Timothy Heritage) FREE AppDownload
This spring a $1.3 billion heist rocked Macau's VIP gambling world, and now we're seeing how that impacted the massive casinos that operate there. The short story is that it hasn't been great. According to Morgan Stanley, VIP revenue dropped 2% in May and 17% in June. That's the first time that revenue has slowed since 2012. What the heist did was disrupt the normal operations of the junket system. When it's working smoothly, China's real high-rollers head to Macau's VIP rooms to bet big. Those rooms are operated by junkets (the junkets can also be called VIP junket operators or VIP room promoters). The gamblers get treated like royalty, and the junkets make money from their games. Win or lose, the junkets take a cut of every wager placed in a game. That's called "rolling chip volume." In this model, investors in these junkets make 1% to 2% "guaranteed returns". When the heist happened, investors got skittish and started pulling their money or demanding a higher return. It was $1.4 billion, after all. In the table below (from Morgan Stanley), you'll see that numbers were down across the board in Q2 2014. In terms of VIP revenue Sands China and Wynn Macau were hit the hardest seeing 23% and 22% declines respectively. Mass revenue declined everywhere except for Wynn Macau and MGM China. Morgan Stanley Last month, when we talked to Macau investor Jason Ader, founder of hedge fund SpringOwl Asset Management, he told us that this event could be Macau's Lehman Moment — the moment everyone in the business realizes that it's going to have to shift gears. That shift, he explained, would be away from VIP high rollers and toward retail gamers. And indeed, despite that fact that Sands China was the casino that took the hardest VIP revenue hit, Morgan Stanley still thinks it's positioned to win the Macau game. Why? Because it's best positioned in "mass market" gaming. From the report: The least susceptible to VIP slowdown vs. peers as Sands China has 70% of EBITDA from mass market or 80% including non-gaming; (B) Dragon Palace opened in May,and smoking could be allowed in that area as it is fully enclosed, would ramp up and boost 2H14 mass market outperformance. In addition, the company is capable of further increasing the share of complementary hotel rooms from current 20-30%. Cotai Central sourced 50 new premium mass tables, 20 from mass and 30 from VIP ; (C) LVS focuses on capital return/dividend payment, which could get reflected in Sands China in future in terms of special dividend /capital return too. There are other bright spots that analysts believe could bring more people to Macau in Q3 — the end of the World Cup (which lead Chinese sports lottery sales to grown 83%,) improving Chinese data (if you buy those numbers) and loosening Chinese monetary policy (a double edged sword). None of this, however, means that Macau's transition from a place of VIP high-rollers won't be to families that want to see shows and play baccarat won't be difficult. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA trader in the Dow Jones Industrial Average stock index futures pit at the Chicago Board of Trade waves his hands to get the attention of fellow traders as he shouts orders.Stocks are higher but off their best levels after the S&amp;P 500 earlier today hit an all-time intraday high. The Dow is up 54 points, the S&amp;P 500 is up 8 points, and the Nasdaq is up 25 points. Earlier this morning, the latest CPI report from the BLS showed that inflation increased less than expected in June. It's also been a busy morning for earnings, with McDonald's results disappointing, while Coca-Cola's earnings per share beat expectations by a penny. In addition to the CPI report, two other economic reports came out this morning: existing home sales and the Richmond Fed manufacturing survey. Existing home sales climbed 2.6% in June to an annualized rate of 5.04 million, topping economists' expectations for a 1.9% increase to a 4.99 million annualized rate. The Richmond Fed's latest manufacturing report came in at 7, beating expectations for a reading of 5 and jumping from last month's reading of 3.  Activist investor Bill Ackman is also giving what he called "the biggest presentation of his career" this morning on Herbalife, a company he has been famously short for more than 18 months. Click here for our live coverage of Ackman's presentation.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA screen displays the share price for pharmaceutical maker AbbVie on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeWASHINGTON (Reuters) - As more U.S. corporations do deals to cut taxes by shifting their tax domiciles overseas, the Senate Finance Committee will hold a hearing on Tuesday focused on these transactions known as inversions. Nine such deals have been agreed to this year by companies ranging from banana distributor Chiquita Brands International, Inc to drugmaker AbbVie Inc and more are being considered. The transactions are setting a record pace since the first inversion was done 32 years ago. Witnesses at the Senate Finance Committee's hearing will include government officials and academics. Chairman Ron Wyden, a Democrat from Oregon, is expected to call for stand-alone legislation to respond to the flurry of inversions that has Washington on edge. Democrats, searching for campaign issues before November's congressional elections, have jumped on inversions, and several of them have offered bills that would curb the deals. But no new law is likely to result as long as Republicans contend that inversion rules need to be part of a broader overhaul of the tax code, policy analysts said. The Republican-controlled U.S. House of Representatives will not act on inversions "unless there's comprehensive tax reform, and that's dead for this year," said Greg Valliere, chief political strategist at Potomac Research Group in a client note on Monday. Inversions are still rare, but they are becoming more common. Of the roughly 60 deals done since 1982, more than half have come in just the last six years, a Reuters review showed. An inversion involves a U.S. corporation buying or setting up a smaller company abroad, then shifting its tax home base to that company's country, which typically has lower tax rates than in the United States. Such deals seldom mean a U.S. corporation physically leaves home. Usually an inversion means that a company will open a small office abroad, perhaps in England or Ireland, as a new address for tax purposes, leaving major operations intact. But the move can put foreign earnings out of the reach of the Internal Revenue Service and make other tax savings possible that can boost a multinational company's bottom line. U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew urged Congress last week to take steps quickly to discourage inversions. In a letter to members of Congress, he said corporations that do inversions want to keep U.S. advantages - such as intellectual property protection, research support, financial security and reliable infrastructure - without paying for them. President Barack Obama's 2015 budget proposed making inversions harder to do by raising the foreign ownership required. Congressional Democrats have made similar proposals. Drugstore chain Walgreen Co is weighing a possible inversion. Drugmaker Pfizer Inc's bid in April to buy UK rival AstraZeneca Plc was structured as an inversion. That deal collapsed, but it drew attention to the issue.   (Editing by Jan Paschal) FREE AppDownload
The Richmond Federal Reserve said its latest manufacturing survey showed a reading of 7. Consensus was for a reading of 5, up from 3 in June. Manufacturing employment advanced nine points to a reading of 13. New orders and shipments were also higher. Capacity utilization was lower.  Here's what it's looked like recently: Richmond Fed  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuriko NakaoSolar powered houses are pictured in Ota, 80km northwest of Tokyo, October 28, 2008Existing home sales climbed 2.6% in June to an annualized rate of 5.04 million. Economists were expecting sales to rise 1.9% to 4.99 million. “Inventories are at their highest level in over a year and price gains have slowed to much more welcoming levels in many parts of the country," said Lawrence Yun of the National Association of Realtors. "This bodes well for rising home sales in the upcoming months as consumers are provided with more choices. On the contrary, new home construction needs to rise by at least 50 percent for a complete return to a balanced market because supply shortages – particularly in the West – are still putting upward pressure on prices.” The median existing-home price was $223,300, up 4.3% from a year ago. The NAR notes that this is the 28th consecutive rise in prices. “Access to affordable credit continues to hamper young, prospective first-time buyers,” said the NAR's Steve Brown. “NAR recommends that FHA reduce high annual mortgage insurance premiums for all qualified homebuyers and eliminate the insurance requirement for the life of the loan. FHA’s HAWK program is a good start, but it should offer further reductions for participating home buyers.” During the period, the national aveerage rate for the 30-year, conventional, fixed-rate mortgage was 4.16%, down from 4.19 in May. FREE AppDownload
ChipotleChipotle is now the most popular brand among teenage males.  Piper Jaffray's most recent survey among teens shows that the burrito chain edged out competitors like Starbucks and Taco Bell.  "So of course we are really happy about that because those young kids become lifelong customers and they bring their kids and their parents and their friends and their parents to the restaurants as well," Chipotle CEO Steve Ells told investors and analysts.  Chipotle's status is also a threat to teen apparel retailers like Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, American Eagle, and Aeropostale, Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors, told Business Insider. "That menu price increase is coming straight out of the registers of teen apparel retailers this back-to-school season," Sozzi said.  For the first time in the Piper Jaffray survey's history, teens are spending as much on food as they are on clothing.  At the same time, young people also moving away from expensive brand names and flashy logos. They prefer to spend on clothing they feel is high-quality and comfortable.  Sales at the major teen retailers have been falling for years.  Abercrombie &amp; Fitch is responding to this cultural shift by redesigning stores and offering more logo-free merchandise.  But as teens spend more on food, apparel retailers will have an even harder time getting a piece of their limited incomes.  FREE AppDownload
emrank/flickrCrocs shares are up more than 11% after the footwear maker announced earnings and revenue that beat analysts' expectations. The Colorado-based firm announced earnings per share of $0.36 per share, $0.05 better than the Capital IQ Consensus Estimate of $0.31, according to Briefing.com. Revenues climbed 3.6% year-over-year to $376.9 million. Consensus was for $372.76 million. Crocs came in with Q3 guidance that was in-line with expectations. Goldman recently named Crocs as its lone M&amp;A candidate among smaller consumer stocks. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe minutes of the previous FOMC meeting noted: “The information reviewed for the June 17-18 meeting indicated that real gross domestic product (GDP) had dropped significantly early in the year but that economic growth had bounced back in recent months.” In her July 15 congressional testimony, Fed Chair Janet Yellen was a bit more cautious on the outlook: “The [Q1] decline appears to have resulted mostly from transitory factors, and a number of recent indicators of production and spending suggest that growth rebounded in the second quarter, but this bears close watching.” She was particularly concerned about housing, which “has shown little recent progress.” Yellen concluded: “Although the economy continues to improve, the recovery is not yet complete.” That’s an astonishing conclusion given that real GDP has been expanding since Q3-2009 for 19 quarters, and has been in record-high territory since Q2-2011. The average length of the six expansions since Q2-1961 was 27 quarters, excluding the short upturn from July 1980 to July 1981. Obviously, Yellen is a monetary dove and is inclined to keep interest rates near zero for much longer than most of her colleagues on the FOMC. A weaker-than-expected Q2 GDP report would favor her approach. In her testimony, she warned about the “false dawns” that tricked Fed officials in recent years. Yellen is right to be concerned about the recent stalling of homebuilding activity. Housing starts averaged 980,000 units (saar) during Q2, up slightly from Q1’s 925,000 unit pace, but below Q4-2013’s 1.03 million units. Single-family starts have been stuck around 600,000 (saar) since the start of the year. Residential construction could be slightly negative in the next GDP report because completions of single-family homes fell from 613,000 units during Q1 to 606,000 units during Q2. Construction spending on home improvements has been surprisingly weak this year, falling 12.5% over the past five months through May. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: False Dawn? (1) Q2 GDP release coincides with next FOMC meeting. (2) Curbing our enthusiasm. (3) Might it be half as much as expected? (4) Beware of “false dawns.” (5) Consumer spending still leading the way higher. (6) Residential construction has stalled, while spending on home improvements is down. (7) Capital spending on equipment looking good, but not so good on structures. (8) Inventories turn from big drag to small boost. (9) Exports are up, but imports are up more. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Great innovations and progress are coming for humanity, but so too are threats of unprecedented magnitude. Climate change. Cyber terror. Hunger. Though such terms frequently appear in discussions about the future, the reality of these problems is often lost on us. Unfortunately, scientists and economists agree that we cannot keep distancing ourselves forever. If left unchecked, many of these problems will become global catastrophes by the year 2050.  Produced by Ryan Larkin. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
@CristianoHerbalife just released a statement, citing findings from Walter H. A. Vandaele, Ph.D. of Navigant Economics, LLC, that says the company is not a pyramid scheme. This announcement from Herbalife comes ahead of Bill Ackman's latest presentation on the company, which yesterday he said is the "most important presentation" of his career.  In December 2012, Ackman famously declared the Herbalife was a pyramid scheme and that the stock would eventually go to $0.  In March of this year, the FTC announced that it opened an investigation into Herbalife. After Ackman yesterday said that he would make a new presentation on Herbalife, shares of the multi-level marketing company plunged, and the stock was lower in pre-market trading. After the market open, shares were up about 1%. Here's the full release from Herbalife: LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Herbalife Ltd. (NYSE:HLF) today released the findings from research and analysis conducted by Walter H. A. Vandaele, Ph.D. of Navigant Economics, LLC regarding Herbalife’s U.S. business operations. Dr. Vandaele, engaged by the Company to conduct this economic analysis, assessed whether Herbalife’s operations appropriately are classified as a beneficial, legitimate Multi-Level Marketing (“MLM”) firm. “Herbalife’s U.S. business operations are consistent with the socially beneficial MLM model and inconsistent with the socially harmful pyramid scheme model.”Dr. Vandaele is an economic expert with significant experience in, among other areas, the regulation and operations of firms in the consumer goods industry. Among his many professional accomplishments, he has previously served as Economic Advisor to the Director, Bureau of Competition and as Assistant Director for Regulatory Evaluation, Bureau of Consumer Protection at the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”). Among his numerous determinations, Dr. Vandaele concluded that, “Herbalife’s U.S. business operations are consistent with the socially beneficial MLM model and inconsistent with the socially harmful pyramid scheme model.” Dr. Vandaele conducted extensive research and analysis to compile his report, which supports Herbalife’s U.S. business practices and validates the Company’s classification as an MLM. Key findings of his research include: 1. An estimated 97% of Herbalife’s U.S. product volumes are purchased from Herbalife for end-use consumption. The vast majority of Herbalife’s product volume (80%) is consumed by individuals outside the Member network (39%), or consumed by Members who join the Herbalife network primarily to receive product discounts for their own use or that of their family (41%). Applying an economic test that would require Member performance payment incentives to be primarily funded out of retail-based product sales to be classified as a legitimate MLM, Herbalife’s U.S. business operations constitute an MLM and not a pyramid scheme. Based on this test, at least 62 percent of total Herbalife product purchases would need to be retail-based to represent the primary funding source of Member performance payment incentives (or at least 46 percent based on an alternative definition of Member compensation that includes Members’ wholesale purchase discounts). 2. Herbalife products have significant intrinsic value and market demand. 3. The investment required for Members to join Herbalife is not large and is mostly recoverable. Member starter pack purchases, unsellable inventory, and discretionary training material purchases can all be returned to Herbalife through a 100% money-back return policy. 4. For those who choose to participate, the Herbalife business opportunity offers a reasonable prospect of operating a financially successful business: Members have a reasonable prospect of being able to profit from reselling Herbalife products.The low participation costs allow lower level Members to resell profitably.Many Members who choose to pursue the resale business opportunity do in fact earn performance payment incentives. An estimated 32% of those individuals eligible for performance payments with one or more Members in their downline earned at least $1,000, 7% earned at least $10,000, and 2% earned at least $50,000.Members can earn significant performance payments in reasonable periods of time. Of the three highest level Members, 64% were only in this position 10 years or less and 26% were Members for 5 years or less. Dr. Vandaele’s findings are based on review and analyses of a variety of information and data sources, which was performed beginning in the summer of 2013. This information includes results obtained from Herbalife-sponsored surveys of its U.S. customers and Members that were undertaken by the market research firms Lieberman Research Worldwide (“Lieberman”) and The Nielsen Company, B.V. (“Nielsen”). For the Lieberman survey of Herbalife Members conducted in June 2013, Dr. Vandaele participated in the design of the survey sample, the development of the survey instrument and the analysis of the survey responses. In addition to survey results, Dr. Vandaele also obtained from Herbalife an extract of profile and financial data for all individuals enrolled as U.S. Herbalife Members at any time during calendar year 2012. These data include for each Member, information such as start and termination dates, level achieved in the marketing plan, number of recruited downline Members, volume of product purchases, and performance payment incentives received from Herbalife for product purchases by their downline. The data did not include any Member’s name, address, or other similar identifying information. Walter H. A. Vandaele, Ph.D. Walter H. A. Vandaele is a Managing Director in the Washington, D.C. office of Navigant Economics, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Navigant Consulting, Inc. Navigant Economics is a consulting firm providing expertise primarily in economics, finance, public policy, and business strategy. Dr. Vandaele is an economist knowledgeable in the fields of microeconomics, industrial organization, econometrics, and statistics. His educational background includes a Licentiaat (MBA) in July 1966 from the University Faculties Saint Ignatius (University of Antwerp), in Antwerp, Belgium, and a Doctorandus in Economics, cum laude, in 1969 from the Tilburg University, the Netherlands. He also received a Master of Business Administration in 1973 and a Ph.D. in 1975, both from the University of Chicago. Dr. Vandaele has held several academic positions in the economics and business departments at the University of Chicago, Harvard University, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He has published two books in the field of statistics and econometrics and has over a dozen published articles on economic subjects. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderChipotle is up 12% to $659.68 this morning.   Chipotle crushed Q2 expectations on Monday, with earnings of $3.50 per share, on revenue of $1.05 billion, coming in higher than expectations for $3.09 per share on $989.7 million. Comp sales also surged 17.3%.  Now, Robert M Derrington at Wunderlich Securities has raised his price target to $680, from $560. He also raised his 2014 earnings per share (EPS) target to $13.50 from $12.60. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Danny MoloshokThe Federal Reserve didn't invite Wall Street on vacation this year. On August 21, the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City is set to begin its popular annual economic symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. And this year, Wall Street economists won't be there. According to Bloomberg, the jilted sell-side economists include Vincent Reinhart of Morgan Stanley, Jan Hatzius of Goldman Sachs, and Ethan Harris of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Meredith Whitney, who has attended in the past, also didn't get the invite.  In the past, the Jackson Hole symposium has served as an opportunity for the Fed to hint at its upcoming policy moves. In 2010, then-Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke prepared everybody for a round of quantitative easing, which became QE2.  And again in 2012, Bernanke used his speech at Jackson Hole to prep markets for another round of quantitative easing, or QE3, which is still ongoing and is on course to finish in October. This year's symposium is taking place under the title, "Re-Evaluating Labor Market Dynamics," and citing Federal Reserve spokeswoman Diane Raley, Bloomberg said the audience for this year's conference, "is designed to be a complement" to the focus on labor markets. Maybe next year, guys. FREE AppDownload
The latest inflation numbers are out, and they're good news for people who are worried about rising inflation. Core CPI — a measure of inflation that excludes volatile food and energy prices — rose just 0.1% for the month. This was down from the 0.2% that they grew in the previous month, and also down from the 0.2% that was expected. Headline CPI rose 0.2%, which was right in line with expectations. For stock market bulls, this is good news. The muted inflation reading adds no new pressure on Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen to increase interest rates sooner than expected. In previous months, core CPI had been ticking up rapidly, but Yellen referred to this gain as "noise," and this report helps bolster her view. Markets are ticking up on the news. Here's a look at the CPI by category breakdown. BLS FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungThe McDonald's Restaurant USA #1 Store Museum is seen in Des Plaines, Illinois, May 26, 2012.McDonald's just announced its Q2 financial results, and the numbers look disappointing. Earnings came in at $1.40 per share, missing expectations for $1.44. Global comparable store sales were flat, which was weaker than the modest 0.8% gain expected. U.S. comparable store sales tumbled 1.5%, which was worse than the 0.3% decline expected. "Results for the quarter reflected negative comparable guest traffic amid ongoing broad-based challenges," said management. "Heading into 2014, we acknowledged that we did not expect any material changes to the operating environment this year," said CEO Don Thompson. "As such, full year 2014 global comparable sales are expected to be relatively similar to year-to-date June performance, with July global comparable sales expected to be negative. While near-term results are expected to remain muted, sizable growth opportunities remain, and we are committed to pursuing these opportunities through continuous improvement in everything we do - from the food we serve, to our engagement with our customers, to the management of our financial resources." Management noted that June comparable store sales plunged 2.5% versus a 0.8% increase expected. The stock is down by around 2.5% in premarket trading. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJob seekers stand in line to meet prospective employers at a career fair in New York CityLONDON (Reuters) - More than half of consumers globally expect job prospects to be good to excellent in the year ahead, a survey showed on Tuesday. That helped push global consumer confidence up in the second quarter to its highest since the first quarter of 2007, according to the survey by global information and insights company Nielsen. India overtook Indonesia as the most optimistic consumer market, while Portugal and Slovenia were the most pessimistic. Japan and Hong Kong saw the biggest declines in confidence from the previous quarter. The Nielsen Global Consumer Confidence Index rose 1 point in the second quarter to 97, according to the survey, conducted between May 12 and 30. The reading headed closer to the 100 mark that signals optimism among consumers. U.S. consumers were the eighth most upbeat globally as optimism about job prospects surged. "Payroll growth is visible across a range of (U.S.) sectors, which is also positive," said Venkatesh Bala, chief economist at the Cambridge Group, a part of Nielsen. "However, real-wage growth of workers has been anemic so far, and needs to pick up substantially, along with other improvements in the labor market, in order for consumer spending to increase in a broad-based way." By region, consumers in the Asia Pacific were most confident about job prospects with 65 percent seeing favorable job opportunities for the year ahead, up from 64 percent in the first quarter. Globally, 56 percent of respondents to the survey viewed their personal finances positively, up from 55 percent over the past three consecutive quarters. North America reported the biggest increase, with 63 percent of respondents feeling secure in money matters over the next 12 months, up from 59 percent in the first quarter. While consumer confidence in debt-laden euro zone economies remained weak it improved sharply in Italy, which Nielsen attributed to confidence in Prime Minister Matteo Renzi's new government, formed in February. Confidence also continued to slowly improve in Greece, France and Spain. Outside the euro zone, consumer sentiment in Britain rose to its highest level since 2007 as the country's economy continued to outperform euro zone peers. Ukraine, meanwhile, saw a rebound in consumer sentiment after a sharp fall in the first quarter following a political crisis and tensions with Russia after Moscow annexed the Crimea region. The Nielsen survey covered more than 30,000 online consumers across 60 markets.       (editing by John Stonestreet) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ZmeyevA pro-Russian separatist shows members of the media a black box belonging to Malaysia Airlines flight MH17, before its handover to Malaysian representatives, in Donetsk July 22, 2014.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: The Calm Before The Storm. Markets are up around the world ahead of a busy day of economic reports, earnings announcements, and one hedge fund manager's presentation. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is up 0.8%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.9%, and Germany's DAX is up 0.9%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.8% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 1.7%. U.S. futures are pointing up with Dow futures up 50 points and S&amp;P futures are up 5.4 points. The Presentation Of A Lifetime. At 9:15 a.m. ET, Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman will give what he has called "the most important presentation" of his career. "You're going to learn why Herbalife is going to collapse. And that's a pretty strong statement. But this is the largest fraud – public fraud in terms of scale, of countries involved, harm to people," he said on CNBC Monday. Ackman has been shorting the multi-level marketing company, betting that its stock price would go to $0. A Crucial Inflation Update. Today's 8:30 a.m. consumer price index report will be one of the more anticipated inflation reports in recent months and years. Economists estimate CPI climbed by 0.3% month-over-month in June and 2.1% year-over-year. Excluding food and energy, prices are estimated to have risen 0.2% and 2.0%, respectively. "Higher energy prices should boost headline CPI," said Credit Suisse economists. "Unadjusted gasoline prices moved up in June, and seasonal factors expect a decline ... Recent CPIs suggest core is normalizing from a period of unusual weakness. Goods prices have stabilized, and the more 'persistent' segment of inflation (especially shelter) seems to have turned up. Labor costs remain subdued, however, so any pickup should be gradual." Home Sales Update. At 10:00 a.m., we'll get the June existing home sales report. Economists estimate sales climbed 2.0% to an annualized rate 4.99 million. "Pending home sales surged 6.1% in May, which suggests improvement in closed contracts in subsequent months," said Bank of America Merrill Lynch economists. "Moreover, inventory has picked up, even controlling for the typical seasonal patterns, which should allow for greater transactions. The inventory figures are worth monitoring, as months supply has already reached 5.6 months." Here Comes Apple. Apple reports is Q2 earnings after the closing bell. "Truth be told, this is the most boring of Apple's quarterly reports," said Business Insider's Jay Yarow. "But, analysts have fallen in love with Apple all over again, so we'll see if Apple breaks their hearts." Netflix Comes Right In Line. Netflix reported Q2 revenue and earnings that came right in line with expectations. Management noted that a recent rate hike had "minimal impact" on membership. "Fifteen years after launching our subscription service, we have over fifty million members enjoying Netflix in over 40 countries," said management. "As we gain new members, we are investing to further improve our content and member experience, and to expand the global availability of our service." Chipotle Smokes Expectations. Chipotle Mexican Grill crushed Q2 earnings expectations as comparable store sales surged 17.3% during the quarter. Analysts were looking for 10.5% growth. "As more of Chipotle's markets are touched with menu price increases this quarter, the company is teed up for at least another two quarter[s] of strong earnings growth that could materially surpass consensus (the amount of unknown as consensus estimates will climb following this report)," Brian Sozzi, the CEO of Belus Capital Advisors, said in an email. What's That Mean For McDonald's? McDonald's announces it's Q2 financial results before the opening bell. Analysts are expecting the company to report EPS of $1.44 on revenue of $7.29 billion. Global comparable store sales are expected to have climbed by 0.8% driven by strength in the Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa. House Price Update. At 9:00 a.m., the FHFA will release its May report on U.S. home prices. Economists estimate prices increased by 0.2% in May. "We look for the FHFA Home Price Index to remain unchanged in May, consistent with the behavior of other home price indices during the same period," said Barclays economists. Along The Mid-Atlantic Coast. The Richmond Fed manufacturing report will be published at 10:00 a.m. Economists estimate this regional activity index climbed to 5 in July from 3 in June. "The New York and Philadelphia Fed surveys already have been released for July," said UBS' Kevin Cummins. "Both suggested further improvement in the growth of manufacturing output." FREE AppDownload
AFP Photo/Omar TorresDerrick hands remove the drilling tool with a sample of the marine seabed at La Muralla IV exploration oil rig, operated by Mexican company "Grupo R" and working for Mexico's state-owned oil company PEMEX, in the Gulf of Mexico on August 30, 2013 Mexico's Senate has approved legislation to implement historic constitutional reform that would open the country's oil and gas industry to foreign investment for the first time since 1938. In an 85-26 vote, lawmakers passed the last of four packages of laws Monday to end the monopoly held by state oil company Pemex for 75 years in the exploration and exploitation of energy resources. The Chamber of Deputies must now vote on the measures, which the leftist opposition had tried to modify. President Enrique Pena Nieto hailed the marathon voting that began Thursday as an example of Mexico's "political civility and maturity". The leftist Party of the Democratic Revolution and the Labor Party rejected the measures, which were initially approved in December, saying the country would be stripped of its natural resources, especially oil. They warned the law would trigger "expropriation". The measures set rules for Pemex, which provides a third of the country's tax revenue, and the Federal Electrical Commission to function as "productive state enterprises" with autonomy. They also pave the way for private production and supply of electricity. Pena Nieto, who has already scored successes in education, property, finance and telecommunications reform, says the energy reform will modernize Pemex and boost oil production, which fell dramatically in the last decade. The government also says the reform will benefit the nation by lowering energy costs, creating jobs and reversing the steady drop in oil production. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Good morning. There are four important pieces of economic data out today. Here they are, from Calculated Risk: • At 8:30 AM ET, the Consumer Price Index for June. The consensus is for a 0.3% increase in CPI in June and for core CPI to increase 0.2%.• At 9:00 AM, the FHFA House Price Index for May. This was original a GSE only repeat sales, however there is also an expanded index. The consensus is for a 0.3% increase.• At 10:00 AM, Existing Home Sales for June from the National Association of Realtors (NAR). The consensus is for sales of 4.99 million on seasonally adjusted annual rate (SAAR) basis. Sales in May were at a 4.89 million SAAR. Economist Tom Lawler estimates the NAR will report sales of 4.96 million SAAR.• Also at 10:00 AM, the Richmond Fed Survey of Manufacturing Activity for July. The consensus is for a reading of 5.5, up from 3 in June. Of these, the one you really want to watch is CPI, since one of the big questions is whether inflation is picking up. If it is, then the Fed might be pressured to hike interest rates sooner. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Jessie On A JourneyLONDON (Reuters) - European markets rode a global rebound in risk appetite on Tuesday helped by the first signs of cooperation from Ukraine's pro-Russian separatists over the downed Malaysian Airlines plane. After days of uncertainty, a train carrying the remains of some of the almost 300 victims was heading for Ukrainian government territory and flight recorders had been passed to Malaysian authorities by separatist leaders. It helped settle the recent market nerves, lifting shares both in Europe and Asia and pushing back many safe-haven assets like the yen, gold and government bonds that have been in demand over the last week. Europe's FTSEurofirst 300 index &lt;.FTEU3&gt; was up 0.7 percent as the main bourses in London &lt;.FTSE&gt;, Frankfurt &lt;.GDAXI&gt; and Paris &lt;.FCHI&gt; all climbed, while dollar-traded Russian stocks in Moscow &lt;.IRTS&gt; saw their first rise in almost two weeks. The rouble also firmed, trading 0.5 percent stronger against the dollar at 35.03 &lt;RUBUTSTN=MCX&gt; and the euro at 47.36 &lt;EURRUBTN=MCX&gt;. "The separatists have reportedly met several of the key demands coming from Malaysia and Western countries," Sberbank Investment Research analysts said. The dollar crept up 0.1 percent to 101.48 yen &lt;JPY=&gt;, having pulled back from a low of 101.09 hit late last week, while gold &lt;XAU=&gt; dipped about two dollars to $1,305 an ounce. The rebound in risk was also aided by more solid U.S. company earnings and merger activity in the previous session, though analysts remained wary about Ukraine and Russia given the delicate situation. EU foreign ministers gather later in the day in Brussels to discuss the events and possibly recommend further sanctions against Russia. Russia's Security Council, headed by President Vladimir Putin, is also due to meet in Moscow.   U.S. DATA In Asian trading, MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan &lt;.MIAPJ0000PUS&gt; rose about 0.7 percent to be at its highest since 2011. "Investor sentiment has settled as the VIX has stayed calm," Amundi Japan equity research and strategy department chief economist, Akio Yoshino, said. In the Gaza Strip the Palestinian death toll jumped to more than 500 and Israeli losses rose to 29. The United States stepped up efforts to secure a ceasefire but hopes remain slim. The yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note &lt;US10YT=RR&gt; stood at 2.478 percent in European trading, not far from its U.S. close of 2.475 percent. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond &lt;US30YT=RR&gt; inched down to 3.262 percent from its U.S. close of 3.264 percent on Monday, when it fell as low as 3.249 percent, the lowest since June 2013. Investors were also awaiting U.S. consumer prices data due at 1230 GMT (8.30 a.m. EDT) for clues to the timing of monetary tightening by the Federal Reserve. The Labor Department is expected to report that U.S. inflation eased slightly to 0.3 percent in June, after rising food prices pushed the index to its biggest increase in more than a year in May. "It will be interesting to see how euro dollar trades into the CPI numbers," Saxo Bank head of FX strategy, John Hardy, said. "If it's higher than expected, is it dollar positive on the view that it pulls the Fed guidance forward on the first rate hike? Or is dollar negative because the Fed is seen being complacent on inflation and behind the curve?" The euro was largely steady at $1.3524 &lt;EUR=&gt;, holding above a five-month low of $1.3491 touched on Friday.   (Additional reporting by Lidia Kelly in Moscow and Lisa Twaronite in Tokyo; Editing by Louise Ireland) FREE AppDownload
French officials defended President Francois Hollande's decision to push ahead with delivery of a helicopter carrier to Russia in defiance of calls by key allies Britain and the U.S. Speaking on the eve of an E.U. meeting to discuss sanctions on Moscow over the downing of a civilian airliner over Ukraine, Hollande said late on Monday the first Mistral warship would be delivered as planned in October but a decision on a second would depend on Russia's attitude. It was the clearest signal yet from Paris that it intended to go through with the controversial deal despite the Ukraine crisis and came only hours after British Prime Minister David Cameron said it would be "unthinkable" for his country to fulfill such an order. The $1.62 billion contract for the two warships, signed by ex-president Nicolas Sarkozy's conservative government in 2011, was the first by a NATO member country to supply Russia with military equipment. The New York Times has noted that the deal would "augment the Russian military’s capabilities against the very nations that now appear to be most vulnerable to the Kremlin’s pressure."  Some 400 Russian sailors arrived in France on June 30 to begin training on the first Mistral. They are being housed aboard a Russian ship docked in the port of Saint-Nazaire. U.S. President Barack Obama expressed concerns about the Mistral contract in June because of Russia's support for separatists in eastern Ukraine. A senior U.S. administration official said on Monday that Washington continued to oppose the deliveries. "Just because the Americans say 'jump' we shouldn't jump," Xavier Bertrand, a former minister under Sarkozy and senior member of his conservative opposition UMP party, told France Inter radio. "France's word, its signature, must be respected." The wrangling over the warships also highlights the difficulties the 28-member E.U. has had in agreeing on a joint line for dealing with Russia, a major gas supplier to countries such as Germany and Italy, as well as to central Europe. "Hollande is not backing down. He is delivering the first (ship) despite the fact he is being asked not to," Jean-Christophe Cambadelis, head of Hollande's ruling Socialist Party, told Tele television on Tuesday. "This is a false debate led by hypocrites ... When you see how many (Russian) oligarchs have sought refuge in London, David Cameron should start by cleaning up his own backyard." The E.U. can't agree on imposing tough sanctions on Russia over its destabilizing actions in Ukraine as Russian natural gas powers E.U. homes and business while Russian oligarchs park their money in U.K. banks. Nick Witney, a defense analyst with the European Council on Foreign Relations, told The Wall Street Journal in June that the dispute over the sale illustrated "how Europe's reliance on Russian resources risks unraveling strategic alliances that helped the West win the Cold War." While pressure for tougher action has mounted following the shooting down last week of a Malaysia Airlines plane in an area of eastern Ukraine controlled by the separatists, E.U. foreign ministers were not expected to deepen sanctions significantly on Tuesday. Diplomats said it was more likely they would agree to hasten implementation of measures already agreed against Russian individuals at their meeting in Brussels. (Reporting by Yann Le Guernigou; Writing by Mark John; Editing by Paul Taylor)   FREE AppDownload
Will Wei, Business InsiderIt will probably be easier to type on the new larger iPhone screen display.(Reuters) - Apple Inc has asked suppliers to manufacture between 70 million and 80 million of its two upcoming large-screen iPhones by the end of the year, its largest initial production run of iPhones, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the matter. Its forecast for the iPhones with 4.7-inch (11.9 cm) and 5.5-inch (14-cm) displays is much larger than the initial order last year of between 50 million and 60 million versions of the iPhone 5S and 5C, people told the Journal. (http://on.wsj.com/1rlhh4G) The report did not identify the suppliers. Both iPhone 6 screens will be larger than the 4.0-inch panels on Apple's existing iPhone 5S and 5C models. The new phone models are also expected to feature metal cases similar to the iPhone 5S and likely come in multiple colors, these people said. Both iPhone 6 screens are expected to use in-cell touch panel technology - built into the screen and allowing for thinner construction than with standard touch panel films - that was introduced with the iPhone 5, sources told Reuters in March. There could be difficulties with in-cell production technology for the larger 5.5-inch size, one of the sources told Reuters then. To factor in the possibility of a higher failure rate for displays, Apple has asked component makers to be prepared to make up to 120 million iPhones, people told the Journal on Monday. (Reporting by Mridhula Raghavan in Bangalore; Editing by Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary Cameron(L-R) Credit Suisse officials CEO Brady Dougan, Robert Shafir and Hans Urlich-Mesiter are sworn in before the Senate Homeland and Governmental Affairs Investigations Subcommittee on Capitol Hill in Washington February 26, 2014. ZURICH (Reuters) - Credit Suisse reported its biggest quarterly loss since the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, due to a 1.6 billion Swiss franc ($1.78 billion) charge taken following a May settlement with U.S. authorities over tax evasion charges. The Zurich-based bank swung to a second-quarter loss of 700 million francs. A Reuters analyst poll called for a 581 million franc net loss. "I want to reiterate that we deeply regret the past misconduct that led to this settlement and that we take full responsibility for it," Credit Suisse Chief Executive Brady Dougan said in a statement. "The continued trust and support of our clients helped us mitigate the impact of the settlement on our business."  (Reporting By Katharina Bart) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John Stillwell/PoolBritain's Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge, carries her son Prince George alongside her husband Prince William as they visit the Sensational Butterflies exhibition at the Natural History Museum in London, July 2, 2014. Good morning! Here's what people will be chatting about on Tuesday. 1. Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak said on Tuesday that an agreement had been reached with Ukrainian separatists to recover the bodies of victims from the downed Malaysia Airlines passenger jet. The bodies are on a train headed for the Netherlands, where most of the passengers came from, Reuters says. The plane's two black boxes will also be handed over to Malaysian authorities.  2. A piece of wreckage from the Malaysia Airlines plane that was shot down in eastern Ukraine last week "bears telltale marks of small pieces of high-velocity shrapnel," The New York Times reports. The damage "is consistent with the effects of a fragmenting warhead carried by an SA-11 missile," the Times noted, which is "the type of missile that American officials have said was the probable culprit in the downing of the plane." 3. Netflix said its second-quarter profits more than doubled, rising to $71 million from $29 million a year earlier. The streaming service added 1.7 million users between March and June with popular original series like "Orange is the New Black" and "House of Cards" helping to drive subscriptions. 5. Indonesia is expected to name its new president on Tuesday, following an election where both candidates claimed to have won. Unofficial results show that Jakarta governor Joko Widodo beat former army general Prabowo Subianto, although Subianto is making a last-ditch effort to contest the votes.   6. South Korean officials confirmed Tuesday that a heavily decomposed body found in a plum field south of the capital last month belonged to billionaire Yoo Byung-un, head of the family that owned the operator of a ferry that sank in April and killed more than 300 people, the Guardian reports. The businessman went missing after the disaster and "had been the subject of the country's largest manhunt," the paper said.   6. The chief executive of Tesco — Britain's biggest supermarket chain and the world's third biggest retailer — quit after the company was forced to issue its second profit warning in two years. Philip Clarke, 54, will be replaced Dave Lewis, 49, the executive of the personal care division at Unilever.  7. Starbucks says some of its stores sourced chicken from Shanghai Husi, the factory that previously supplied food to McDonald's and KFC in China before it was shut down on Sunday amid allegations it used expired meat. McDonald's said that Husi also sold meat to its branches in Japan.  8. Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), an often deadly respiratory illness that's related to the SARS, was detected in air samples from a Saudi Arabian barn with an infected camel. The discovery is worrying because it suggests the virus can be transmitted through the air, making it more likely to spread.  9. Yahoo bought mobile ad company Flurry for an undisclosed sum on Monday. Yahoo said in a press release: "By joining Yahoo, Flurry will have resources to speed up the delivery of platforms that help developers build better apps, reach the right users, and explore new revenue opportunities." 10. Prince George, son of Duke and Duchess of Cambridge William and Kate, celebrates his first birthday on Tuesday. Pictures of the young royal on an outing with his parents at the Natural Museum of History in London were released in honor of the big day.  And finally... Robert Downey Jr. has been named the highest-earning actor for the second year in a row on Forbes' annual list of the world's most powerful celebrities, rolling in an estimated $75 million between June 2013 and 2014.  FREE AppDownload
