viviandnguyen / Flickr Almost 40% of Americans get less than 7 hours of sleep a night, a recent Gallup poll found, and an estimated 70 million Americans have a sleep disorder.  Everyone knows that it's important to get enough sleep — but you may not realize just how many things can go wrong when you don't. Here are 25 unfortunate risks of partial and total sleep deprivation, some more common than others. "Complaints of irritability and [emotional] volatility following sleepless nights" are common, a team of Israeli researchers observed. They put those complaints to the test by following a group of underslept medical residents. The study found that the negative emotional effect of disruptive events — things like being interrupted while in the middle of doing something — were amplified by sleep loss. Source: Sleep, 2005 Scientists don't yet know exactly why sleep deprivation leads to headaches — but it's a connection doctors have noticed for more than a century. Migraines can be triggered by sleepless nights, and 36 to 58% of people with sleep apnea wake up with "nondescript morning headaches." Source: Headache, 2003; Headache, 2005 Sleepiness has long been an issue among adolescents. One study of middle school students found that "delaying school start times by one hour, from roughly 7:30 to 8:30, increases standardized test scores by at least 2 percentile points in math and 1 percentile point in reading." But it's not just kids. Short-term memory is a crucial component of learning, and sleep deprivation significantly impaired the ability of adult volunteers to remember words they'd been shown the day before. In another study, researchers found that while people tend to improve on a task when they do it more than once, this isn't true if they are kept awake after they try it the first time — even if they sleep again before doing it again. Source: Nature, 1999; Nature Neuroscience, 2000; Education Next, 2012 People who are underslept seem to have hormone imbalances that are tied to increased appetite, more cravings for high-calorie foods, a greater response to indulgent treats, and a dampened ability to control their impulses — a very dangerous combination. It's true that you burn more calories when awake, but not nearly enough to cancel out the many excess calories you consume when exhausted. Source: Journal of Clinical Endocrinology &amp; Metabolism, 2012; PLOS Medicine, 2004; Nature Communications, 2013; PNAS, 2013 Sleep deprivation is associated with tunnel vision, double vision, and dimness. The longer you are awake, the more visual errors you'll encounter, and the more likely you are to experience outright hallucinations. Source: International Journal of Occupational Medicine and Environmental Health, 2010 When researchers kept people awake for 88 hours, their blood pressure went up — no big surprise there. But even subjects who were allowed to sleep for 4 hours a night had an elevated heart rate when compared to those getting 8 hours. Concentrations of C-reactive protein, a marker of heart disease risk, increased in those fully and partially deprived of sleep. Source: Journal of the American College of Cardiology, 2004; PLOS ONE, 2009; Sleep Medicine Reviews, 2012 Your reaction time is severely impeded when you don't get enough sleep. When researchers gave West Point cadets two tests that require quick decision-making, some were allowed to sleep between the tests, while others were not. Those who had slept did better the second time — those who had not did worse, and their reactions slowed down. A study in college athletes found similar results. Source: Sleep, 2009; Asian Journal of Sports Medicine, 2012 You know that great thing your immune system does, where when you get an open wound of some kind it doesn't always get infected immediately? Prolonged sleep deprivation and even one night of sleeplessness can impede your body's natural defenses against microorganisms. Source: American Journal of Physiology, 1993; The FASEB Journal, 1996 Planning to make some changes to your portfolio? You might want to make sure you're well-rested. "A single night of sleep deprivation evoked a strategy shift during risky decision making such that healthy human volunteers moved from defending against losses to seeking increased gains," researchers concluded. Source: The Journal of Neuroscience, 2011 When people sleep, the body slows down its normal urine production. This is why most people don't have to pee in the night as much as they do during the day. But when someone is sleep deprived, this normal slowdown doesn't happen, leading to what researchers call "excess nocturnal urine production." This condition may be linked to bed wetting in children and, in adults, it's tied to what's called nocturia — the need to use the bathroom many times during the night. Source: American Journal of Physiology, 2010; American Journal of Physiology, 2012 Having trouble paying attention to what you're reading or listening to? Struggling with anything that requires you to truly focus? "Attention tasks appear to be particularly sensitive to sleep loss," researchers have noted. If you want to stay alert and attentive, sleep is a requirement. Otherwise, you enter "an unstable state that fluctuates within seconds and that cannot be characterized as either fully awake or asleep," and your ability to pay attention is variable at best. Source: Archives of Italian Biology, 2001; Seminars in Neurology, 2009 Vaccines work by spurring your body to create antibodies against a specific virus. But when you don't sleep, your immune system is compromised, and this doesn't work quite as well. In one small study, 19 people were vaccinated against Hepatitis A. Ten of them got 8 hours of sleep the following night, while the rest pulled an all-nighter. Four weeks later, those who had slept normally had levels of Hepatitis A antibodies almost twice as high as those who'd been kept awake. Another study found that a sleepless night did not have a long-term effect on immunity after a flu vaccine, it concludes that the effect might be specific to certain diseases. "Sleep should be considered an essential factor contributing to the success of vaccination," the Hep A researchers wrote. Source: Psychosomatic Medicine, 2003; Journal of Immunology, 2011; BMC Immunology, 2012 Severe sleep deprivation might make you sound like a bumbling idiot — much like having way too much to drink. "Volunteers kept awake for 36 hours showed a tendency to use word repetitions and clichés; they spoke monotonously, slowly, [and] indistinctly," one study noted. "They were not able to properly express and verbalize their thoughts." Source: Sleep, 1997; International Journal of Occupational Medicine and Environmental Health, 2010 If you're wondering why you're sick all the time and seem to pick up every bug that travels around the office, it's probably because you're not getting enough sleep. When a group of 153 people were exposed to a common cold, those who had gotten less than 7 hours of sleep in the two weeks prior were almost 3 times more likely to get sick than those who'd had 8 or more hours of sleep. How well you sleep is also a factor – those who had spent 92% of their time in bed actually asleep were 5.5 times more likely to catch a cold than those who had been peacefully slumbering 98-100% of the time they were in bed.  Source: Archives of Internal Medicine, 2009 One in 250 Americans suffer from Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), and sleep deficiencies make its symptoms much worse. Regular sleep loss also makes you more likely to develop both IBD and inflammatory bowel syndrome, which affects an estimated 10-15% of people in the U.S. And patients with Crohn's disease were twice as likely to experience a relapse when they weren't getting enough sleep. Source: World Journal of Gastroenterology, 2013 Drowsy driving is often compared to drunk driving: You really shouldn't do either. "Motor vehicle accidents related to fatigue, drowsy driving, and falling asleep at the wheel are particularly common, but often underestimated," one review concluded. Pilots, truck drivers, medical residents, and others required to stay awake for long periods of time "show an increased risk of crashes or near misses due to sleep deprivation."   Source: Seminars in Neurology, 2009 Testosterone is an important component of sexual drive and desire in both women and men. Sleeping increases testosterone levels, while being awake decreases them. Sleep deprivation and disturbed sleep, consequently, are associated with reduced libido and sexual dysfunction, and people suffering from sleep apnea are at particular risk. Source: American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 2007; Behavioral Brain Research, 2009; Journal of Sexual Medicine, 2009; Sleep Medicine, 2010; Brain Research, 2011  People in pain — especially those suffering from chronic pain — tend not to get enough sleep. This makes sense: Pain can wake you up in the night and make it hard to fall asleep in the first place. But recently, researchers have begun to suspect that sleep deprivation may actually cause pain or at least increase people's sensitivity to pain. One study found that after research subjects were kept awake all night, their pain threshold — the amount of painful stimulus they were able to endure — was lower. Source: Journal of Sleep Research, 2001; Sleep Medicine Reviews, 2006  Being awake when your body wants you to be asleep messes with your metabolism, which in turn increases your risk for insulin resistance (often called "pre-diabetes") and type 2 diabetes. "Interventions to extend sleep duration may reduce diabetes risk," one study in adolescents concluded. And four large studies in adults found a strong association — though not a cause-effect relationship — between regular sleep loss and the risk of developing diabetes, even after controlling for other habits that might be relevant. Source: Journal of Applied Physiology, 2005; Sleep, 2012; Annals of Internal Medicine, 2012 Most people notice that when they're sleepy, they're not at the top of their game. One study found that one sleepless night contributed to a 20-32% increase in the number of errors made by surgeons. People playing sports that require precision — shooting, sailing, cycling, etc. — also make more mistakes when they've been awake for extended periods of time. Source: The Lancet, 1998; Physiology &amp; Behavior, 2007 Scientists are just beginning to investigate the relationship between sleep and cancer, and different kinds of cancer behave differently. But since disrupted circadian rhythm and reduced immunity are direct results of sleep deprivation, it's no surprise that preliminary research seems to indicate that people who don't get enough sleep are at increased risk for developing certain kinds of cancer, most notably colon and breast cancers. Source: Journal of the National Cancer Institute, 2003; Pathologie-biologie, 2003; Cancer, 2011; AAOHN Journal, 2011  Sleep disruptions in the elderly can lead to structural changes in the brain that are associated with impaired long-term memory — and sleep-related memory deficits have been observed in the general adult population as well. As early as 1924, researchers noticed that people who slept more forgot less. Poor sleep and not enough of it have also been linked to higher levels of ß-Amyloid, a biomarker for Alzheimer's. Source: Cell Signal, 2012; Nature Neuroscience, 2013; JAMA Neurology, 2013 A 2013 study shed some light on why sleep is tied to so many different aspects of our health and wellness. Poor sleep actually disrupts normal genetic activity. After one week of sleeping less than 6 hours per night, researchers found that more than 700 genes were not behaving normally, including some that help govern immune and stress responses. Some genes that typically cycle according to a daily (circadian) pattern stopped doing so, while others that don't normally follow a daily pattern began doing so. What does this mean? Just one week of less-than-ideal sleep is enough to make some of your genetic activity go haywire. Source: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 2013 In a classic study led by Nobel Prize-winning psychologist Daniel Kahneman, a group of 909 working women kept detailed logs of their moods and day-to-day activities. While differences in income up to $60,000 had little effect on happiness, a poor night's sleep was one of two factors that could ruin the following day's mood. (The other was tight deadlines at work.) Another study reported higher marital happiness among women with more peaceful sleep, although it's hard to say whether happy people sleep better, better sleep makes people happier, or — most likely — some combination of the two. Insomniacs are also twice as likely to develop depression, and preliminary research suggests that treating sleep problems may successfully treat depressive symptoms. Source: Science, 2004; Behavioral Sleep Medicine, 2009; Journal of Affective Disorders, 2011 Many health problems are associated with sleep deprivation and poor sleep, but here's the big one: People who consistently do not get 7-8 hours of sleep are more likely to die during a given time period. Put more simply: We all die eventually, but sleeping too little — or even too much — is associated with a higher risk of dying sooner than you otherwise might.  Source: Sleep, 2010; Sleep Medicine Reviews, 2010  FREE AppDownload
Wikipedia The 2014 Strategic Investment Conference: Investing in a Transformational World Stuck in a Liquidity Trap The Economic Singularity The Minsky Moment The Event Horizon The Glide Path Los Angeles, Miami, Washington DC, Argentina, and South Africa I fully intended to write today about a recently released academic paper that illustrates nearly every bad idea currently being bandied about in the field of economics. The insidious part is that the paper is considered mainstream and noncontroversial. Simply reading it required me to up my blood pressure medicine dosage. It is going to take me a little longer to finish that letter, and I realized that it needs a certain setup – one that coauthor Jonathan Tepper and I conveniently wrote a few months ago and included in the book Code Red. So next week we'll take a deep dive into the most dangerous economics paper written in a long time (that is perhaps only minor hyperbole on my part); but today, by way of setup, let's think about central banks and liquidity traps and see if we agree that central bankers are driving the car from the back seat based upon a fundamentally flawed theory of how the world works. That theory helped produce the wreck that was the Great Recession and will have its fingerprints all over the next one. So this week we'll have a preliminary round before putting on the sparring gloves next week. Here is a part of chapter 7 from Code Red. By the way, the book has done very well and is getting great reviews, with 49 readers giving us five stars. And three people who apparently didn't read the book gave it one star anyway. Check out the reviews on Amazon. Return to top » The 2014 Strategic Investment Conference: Investing in a Transformational World But before we turn to the chapter, I want to note that this year for the first time we are not requiring Strategic Investment Conference attendees to be accredited investors. A change of venue that gives us a little more room and a shuffling of the speaking schedule allow us to open the event to everyone. If you are from outside the United States, you will not have as much trouble getting accepted into the conference as you may have encountered in the past. I am really excited about this change and hope that we have a significant contingent of non-US citizens at the conference. The speaker lineup is certainly international in breadth. We sent out a note earlier this week encouraging you to register for the Strategic Investment Conference, which is coming up in mid-May. This is our 11th conference (cosponsored by Altegris Investments), and it will be our biggest and most comprehensive yet. Our attendees regularly say it is the best investment conference they attend anywhere. Click on this link to learn more. Rather than simply listing the names as we normally do, I have provided a little color about who the speakers are and what we can expect to hear. Register now to get the early-bird discount, which lasts for only a few more days. Return to top » Stuck in a Liquidity Trap From Code Red, by John Mauldin and Jonathan Tepper Like a car, an economy has lots of moving parts; everyone thinks they know how to drive it when they're in the back seat; and it crashes too often. But on a more serious note, the analogy of a car works especially well when you think of where large parts of the global economy are. Today central banks can make money cheap and plentiful, but the money that is created isn't moving around the economy or stimulating demand. They can step on the accelerator and flood the engine with gas, but the transmission is broken, and the wheels don't turn. Without a transmission mechanism, monetary policy has no effect. This has not always been the case, but it is today. After some credit crises, central banks can cut the nominal interest rate all the way to zero and still be unable to stimulate their economies sufficiently. Some economists call that a "liquidity trap" (although that usage of the term differs somewhat from Lord Keynes's original meaning). The Great Financial Crisis plunged us into a liquidity trap, a situation in which many people figure they might just as well sit on cash. Many parts of the world found themselves in a liquidity trap during the Great Depression, and Japan has been stuck in a liquidity trap for most of the time since their bubble burst in 1989. Economists who have studied liquidity traps know that some of the usual rules of economics don't apply when an economy is stuck in one. Large budget deficits don't drive up interest rates; printing money isn't inflationary; and cutting government spending has an exaggerated impact on the economy. In fact, if you look recessions that have happened after debt crises, growth was almost always very slow. For example, a study by Oscar Jorda, Moritz Schularick, and Alan Taylor found that recessions that occurred after years of rapid credit growth were almost always worse than garden-variety recessions. One of the key findings from their study is that it is very difficult to restore growth after a debt bubble. Central banks want to create modest inflation and thereby reduce the real value of debt, but they're having trouble doing it. Creating inflation isn't quite as simple as printing money or keeping interest rates very low. Most Western central banks have built up a very large store of credibility over the past few decades. The high inflation of the 1970s is a very distant memory to most investors nowadays. And almost no one seriously believes in hyperinflation. The United Kingdom has never experienced hyperinflation, and you'd have to go back to the 1770s to find hyperinflation in the United States – when the Continental Congress printed money to pay for the Revolutionary War and so started a period of extremely high inflation. (That's why the framers of the Constitution introduced Article 1, Section 10: "No state shall ... coin money; emit bills of credit; make any thing but gold and silver coin a tender in payment of debts....") Japan and Germany have not had hyperinflation for over sixty years. Today's central bankers want inflation only in the short run, not in the long run. As Janet Yellen recognized, central banks with established reputations have a credibility problem when it comes to committing to future inflation. If people believe deep down that central banks will try to kill inflation if it ever gets out of hand, then it becomes very hard for those central banks to generate inflation today. And the answer from many economists is that central bankers should be even bolder and crazier, sort of like everyone's mad uncle or, more politely, to be "responsibly irresponsible," as Paul McCulley has quipped. In a liquidity trap the rules of economics change. Things that worked in the past don't work in the present. The models of economies that we mentioned above become even less reliable. In fact they sometimes suggest actions that are in fact actually quite destructive. So why aren't the models working? Sometimes the best way to understand a complex subject is to draw an analogy. So with an apology to all the true mathematicians among our readers, today we will look at what we can call the Economic Singularity. Return to top » The Economic Singularity Singularity was originally a mathematical term for a point at which an equation has no solution. In physics, it was proven that a large enough collapsing star would eventually become a black hole, so dense that its own gravity would cause a singularity in the fabric of spacetime, a point where many standard physics equations suddenly have no solution. Beyond the "event horizon" of the black hole, the models no longer work. In general relativity, an event horizon is the boundary in spacetime beyond which events cannot affect an outside observer. In a black hole it is "the point of no return," i.e., the point at which the gravitational pull becomes so great that nothing can escape. This theme is an old friend to readers of science fiction. Everyone knows that you can't get too close to a black hole or you will get sucked in; but if you can get just close enough, you can use the powerful and deadly gravity to slingshot you across the vast reaches of spacetime. One way that a black hole can (theoretically) be created is for a star to collapse in upon itself. The larger the mass of the star, the greater the gravity of the black hole and the more surrounding space-stuff that will get sucked down its gravity well. The center of our galaxy is thought to be a black hole with a mass of 4.3 million suns. We can draw a rough parallel between a black hole and our current global economic situation. (For physicists this will be a very rough parallel indeed, but work with us, please.) An economic bubble of any type, but especially a debt bubble, can be thought of as an incipient black hole. When the bubble collapses in upon itself, it creates its own black hole with an event horizon beyond which all traditional economic modeling breaks down. Any economic theory that does not attempt to transcend the event horizon associated with excessive debt will be incapable of offering a viable solution to an economic crisis. Even worse, it is likely that any proposed solution will make the crisis more severe. Return to top » The Minsky Moment Debt (leverage) can be a very good thing when used properly. For instance, if debt is used to purchase an income-producing asset, whether a new machine tool for a factory or a bridge to increase commerce, then debt can be net-productive. Hyman Minsky, one of the greatest economists of the last century, saw debt in three forms: hedge, speculative, and Ponzi. Roughly speaking, to Minsky, hedge financing was when the profits from purchased assets were used to pay back the loan; speculative finance occurred when profits from the asset simply maintained the debt service and the loan had to be rolled over; and Ponzi finance required the selling of the asset at an ever higher price in order to make a profit. Minsky maintained that if hedge financing dominated, then the economy might well be an equilibrium-seeking, well-contained system. On the other hand, the greater the weight of speculative and Ponzi finance, the greater the likelihood that the economy would be what he called a deviation-amplifying system. Thus, Minsky's Financial Instability Hypothesis suggests that over periods of prolonged prosperity, capitalist economies tend to move from a financial structure dominated by (stable) hedge finance to a structure that increasingly emphasizes (unstable) speculative and Ponzi finance. Minsky proposed theories linking financial market fragility, in the normal life cycle of an economy, with speculative investment bubbles that are seemingly part of financial markets. He claimed that in prosperous times, when corporate cash flow rises beyond what is needed to pay off debt, a speculative euphoria develops; and soon thereafter debts exceed what borrowers can pay off from their incoming revenues, which in turn produces a financial crisis. As the climax of such a speculative borrowing bubble nears, banks and other lenders tighten credit availability, even to companies that can afford loans, and the economy then contracts. "A fundamental characteristic of our economy," Minsky wrote in 1974, "is that the financial system swings between robustness and fragility and these swings are an integral part of the process that generates business cycles." In our previous book, Endgame, we explore the idea of a Debt Supercycle, the culmination of decades of borrowing that finally ends in a dramatic bust. Unfortunately, much of the developed world is at the end of a 60-year-long Debt Supercycle. It creates our economic singularity. A business-cycle recession is a fundamentally different thing than the end of a Debt Supercycle, such as much of Europe is tangling with, Japan will soon face, and the United States can only avoid with concerted action in the next few years. A business-cycle recession can respond to monetary and fiscal policy in a more or less normal fashion; but if you are at the event horizon of a collapsing debt black hole, monetary and fiscal policy will no longer work the way they have in the past, or in a manner that the models would predict. There are two contradictory forces battling in a debt black hole: expanding debt and collapsing growth. Raising taxes or cutting spending to reduce debt will have an almost immediate impact on economic growth. But there is a limit to how much money a government can borrow. That limit clearly can vary significantly from country to country, but to suggest there is no limit puts you clearly in the camp of the delusional. Return to top » The Event Horizon In our analogy, the event horizon is relatively easy to pinpoint. It is what Rogoff and Reinhart call the Bang! moment, when a country loses the confidence of the bond market. For Russia it came at 57% of debt-to-GDP in 1998. Japan is at 240% of debt-to-GDP and rising, even as its population falls – the Bang! moment approaches. Obviously, Greece had its moment several years ago. Spain lost effective access to the bond market last year, minus European Central Bank intervention. As did Italy, with other countries to follow. As an aside, it makes no difference how the debt was accumulated. The black holes of debt in Greece and in Argentina had completely different origins from those of Spain or Sweden or Canada (the latter two in the early '90s). The Spanish problem did not originate because of too much government spending; it developed because of a housing bubble of epic proportions. 17% of the working population was employed in the housing industry when it collapsed. Is it any wonder that unemployment is now 25%? If unemployment is 25%, that both raises the cost of government services and reduces revenues by proportionate amounts. The policy problem is, how do you counteract the negative pull of a black hole of debt, before it's too late? How do you muster the "escape velocity" to get back to a growing economy and a falling deficit – or, dare we say, even a surplus to pay down the old debt? How do you reconcile the competing forces of insufficient growth and too much debt? The problem is not merely one of insufficient spending; the key problem is insufficient income. By definition, income has to come before spending. You can take money from one source and give it to another, but that is not organic growth. We typically think of organic growth as only having to do with individual companies, but we think the concept also applies to countries. The organic growth of a country can come from natural circumstances like energy resources or an equable climate or land conducive to agricultural production, or it can come from developing an educated populace. There are many sources of potential organic growth: energy, tourism, technology, manufacturing, agriculture, trade, banking, etc. While deficit spending can help bridge a national economy through a recession, normal business growth must eventually take over if the country is to prosper. Keynesian theory prescribed deficit spending during times of business recessions and the accumulation of surpluses during good times, in order to be able to pay down debts that would inevitably accrue down the road. The problem is that the model developed by Keynesian theory begins to break down as we near the event horizon of a black hole of debt. Deficit spending is a wonderful prescription for Spain, but it begs the question of who will pay off the deficit once Spain has lost the confidence of the bond market. Is it the responsibility of the rest of Europe to pay for Spain or Greece? Or Italy or France, or whatever country chooses not to deal with its own internal issues? Deficit spending can be a useful tool in countries with a central bank, such as the US. But at what point does borrowing from the future (and our children) come to be seen as a failure to deal with our own lack of political will in regards to our spending and taxation policies? There is a difference, as I think Hyman Minsky would point out, between borrowing money for infrastructure spending that will benefit our children and borrowing money to spend on ourselves today, with no future benefit. The deficit has to be controlled, of course. To continue on the current path will only feed our Black Hole of Debt even more "mass," making it that much harder to escape from. But to try and power away (cutting the deficit radically) all at once will blow the engines of the economy. Suddenly reducing the deficit by 8% of GDP, either by cutting spending or raising taxes, is a prescription for an almost immediate depression. It's just basic math. As we outline in Endgame (shameless plug), each country has to find its own path. But it's clear that Spain, like Greece, is simply going to have to default on part of its debt. So will Ireland and Portugal. Japan will resort to printing money in amounts that will boggle the imagination and terrify the world, as they finally come to grips with the fact that they must deal with their deficit spending. Return to top » The Glide Path Indulge us for a moment as we think about our own country. The United States still has the chance to pursue what we call the "glide path" option. We can reduce the deficit slowly, by say 1% a year, while aggressively pursuing organic growth policies such as unleashing the energy and biotechnology sectors, providing certainty to small businesses about government healthcare policies, reducing the regulatory burden on small businesses and encouraging new business startups, creating a competitive corporate tax environment (a much lower corporate tax with no deductions for anything, including oil-depletion allowances), implementing a pro-growth tax policy, etc. We can balance the budget within 5-7 years. If the bond market perceived that the United States was clearly committed to a balanced budget, rates would remain low, the dollar would be stronger (especially as we become energy independent), and we would steam away from the black hole. If something like Simpson-Bowles could be accomplished, with an even more radically restructured tax policy, it would be enormously bullish for the United States in particular and for the world in general. Healthcare is clearly the challenge, but a compromise can be crafted, as has been demonstrated by the several bipartisan proposals that have been sponsored by conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats. The key word is compromise. The crucial outcome is whether we can achieve the compromise that will be needed to get us on a glide path to a balanced budget. If a compromise is not crafted in the next few years, it will be even more difficult in 2016, which is an election year. That may be too late, as the bond market may be watching Europe and Japan imploding and wonder why the United States is any different. Remember, the event horizon is determined by the confidence of the bond market in the willingness and ability of a country to pay its debts with a currency that has a value that can be maintained. Trillion-dollar deficits will call into question the value of the dollar. That will mean higher interest rates, which will mean a much bigger, more deadly black hole. We should note that something similar to the glide path was tried during the Clinton administration. Spending growth was controlled and the economy was allowed to grow its way out of debt. While the U.S. economy is fundamentally weaker today than it was then, it should still be possible for the U.S. free-market economy to once again become an engine of growth. We think the analogy of an Economic Singularity is a good one. The Black Hole of Debt simply overwhelms the ability of current economic theories to craft solutions based on past performance. Each country will have to find its own unique way to achieve escape velocity from its own particular black hole. That can be through a combination of reducing the debt (the size of the black hole) and growth. Even countries that do not have such a problem will have to deal with the black holes in their vicinity. As an example, Finland is part of the eurozone and finds itself gravitationally affected by the black holes of debt created by its fellow eurozone members. And China has recently seen its exports to Europe drop by almost 12%. I would imagine that has been more or less the experience of most countries that export to Europe. In science fiction novels, a spaceship's straying too close to a black hole typically results in no spaceship. There are also hundreds of examples of what happens to nations that drift too close to the Black Hole of Debt. None of the instances are pretty; they all end in tears. For countries that have been trapped in the gravity well of debt, there is only the pain that comes with restructuring. It is all too sad. The usual response by central banks when confronted with a debt crisis is to provide liquidity and create more money. But as we'll discover in the next section, not all money is created equal; and central banks don't really control the broad money supply at all. Return to top » Los Angeles, Miami, Washington DC, Argentina, and South Africa A quick housekeeping note. I was autographing about 300 Code Red's late last Sunday night, and – let's just blame it on having taken a sleeping pill earlier – in the process of signing books and looking at emails I somehow managed to fat-finger the delete key on my entire inbox. I was some 200 emails behind, and now they are dispersed among the 50,000 or so deleted emails of the past year. I leave emails in my inbox because I intentionally do not want them to go out of sight, since I intend to act on them in some way. While I remember a few messages that were in there, there are many more that are simply gone from memory. If I owe you something, you might want to shoot it back at me. It is rather odd to be in Dallas where it is a beautiful 60° day and to see the massive snowstorm on the East Coast. Who knew that we should be holding the Winter Olympics in Raleigh, North Carolina? I'm enjoying my longer than usual respite from travel, but by the end of the month I will see my schedule pick up aggressively. I will be in Houston for a night, back home for a few days before I go to Los Angeles, and then fly cross-country to Miami. From Miami I will go to Washington DC for a few days of meetings. Then it's back home for almost two weeks before I head to Argentina and then South Africa for a month. Thanks for the recommendations on South African game lodges last week. Based on your suggestions we have booked what looks to be a very nice four days of relaxation prior to a hectic speaking trip around South Africa. It will be interesting to be in two of the more stressed emerging markets and to see firsthand what is happening. I will report back. It also looks like a trip to Europe is shaping up in early May, prior to my Strategic Investment Conference. And Italy in early June for a little working vacation. It's time to hit the send button and then head to the gym. It seems that every so often somebody turns the dial down on my metabolism, and it becomes harder and harder to maintain my weight. Since I can't find out who is turning the dial down, my only response is to ramp up my gym time and turn down that second piece of bread. Have a great week, and I hope the weather turns better for those on the coasts. Return to top » You're trying to figure out how it all fits together analyst, John Mauldin (c) Millennium Wave Advisors www.mauldineconomics.com This article originally appeared at Thoughts From The Frontline.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Al Powers/Invision/AP Microsoft may have a problem on its hands. Not Windows 8, but its latest video-game console, the Xbox One. Based on recent sales data, rival Sony's PlayStation 4 is significantly outselling Microsoft's offering -- in the U.S., at a rate of 2-to-1. While a poorly selling Xbox One isn't great for Microsoft, investors in Electronic Arts could ultimately be the ones most exposed. NPD data shows Sony dominating MicrosoftAccording to research firm NPD, Sony's PlayStation 4 was the top selling video game console in the US during the month of January, edging out Microsoft's Xbox One. VentureBeat puts the figures at around 280,000 for the PlayStation 4 and 145,000 for Microsoft's Xbox One. On a cumulative, global basis, Sony has sold about 5.1 million PlayStation 4s, while Microsoft has sold 3.4 million Xbox Ones, according to data compiled by VGChartz. The discrepancy is even more notable in light of the fact that Sony still hasn't released the PlayStation 4 in its home market of Japan. At the same time, Sony seems to be struggling with supply constraints, as many retailers in the U.S. have completely sold out of their allotted shipments. Moreover, the PlayStation 4 doesn't even really have any video games worth playing. As new consoles, neither the PlayStation 4 nor the Xbox One has a robust catalog of offerings, but with exclusives like Dead Rising and Killer Instinct, Microsoft's Xbox One seems to have the better lineup. Why is the Xbox One struggling?There are myriad of reasons to explain why Microsoft's console isn't selling as well as Sony's. But the most significant by far is the price difference -- at $500, Microsoft's console is a full $100 more expensive than Sony's machine. That $100 difference is likely due to the inclusion of Microsoft's Kinect, an accessory most core gamers (the sorts of people likely to purchase a console early in its life) don't seem to want. At the same time, Microsoft's console is slightly less powerful than Sony's, resulting in marginally better graphics. Electronic Arts could be the one most exposedThe Xbox isn't really part of Microsoft's core business, so in that respect, the lack of sales shouldn't really have too much of an effect on Microsoft's bottom line. But one company that could see an impact is Electronic Arts. Titanfall, arguably Electronic Arts' most anticipated game of the year, will be exclusive to Microsoft's Xbox One platform (it will also be available for the PC and the Xbox 360, but the Xbox One version has received most of the focus) There's also Plants vs Zombies: Garden Warfare, a game that, like Titanfall, will be exclusive to the Xbox One in terms of next-generation consoles. With a lesser install base, it's possible that both of these games could be a retail disappointment, failing to generate the sales Electronic Arts had been anticipating. Still early in the console warThat said, it's still early in the console war. Sony's last console, the PlayStation 3, was a retail disappointment early in its life, as consumers struggled with its high asking price. Ultimately, however, the PlayStation 3 was able to close the gap with Microsoft's Xbox 360, as Sony gradually cut the price and delivered a slate of quality exclusives. Maybe Microsoft will be able to pull off something similar. Nevertheless, at least for now, Microsoft appears to be far behind.     FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidIn many ways, the development of the Internet in China was the same two-step process as it has been elsewhere: wait for American winner to emerge, launch Chinese version of same. First came the Chinese Amazon, Alibaba. That was followed by a Sino-Google called Baidu. When it comes to online financial services, however, the Chinese are following a different trajectory. Traditional financial market players such as banks and brokerage houses have not yet captured China’s rapidly expanding middle class, and the country’s Internet giants are angling to beat them to the punch.  At this point, of course, e-commerce in the U.S. or Western Europe is pretty much synonymous with commerce itself. Most Americans purchase goods online using a credit card, a debit card, or the likes of PayPal. But as recently as five years ago, Chinese consumers had no easy way to purchase goods over the Internet. That’s changing in ways that are unique to the world’s largest e-commerce market, as a team of China-based Credit Suisse analysts write in a recent report called, “Internet Finance: A Force For Creative Destruction?” In 2004, only about 1 percent of Chinese citizens had credit cards, and while that number grew quickly, by 2008 it was still less than 10 percent of the population. While Americans used to be wary of giving their credit card numbers out online, most would-be online shoppers in China didn’t even have credit card numbers. Chinese Internet giant Alibaba capitalized on that disconnect with the 2004 launch of its online payment arm, AliPay. AliPay has been a smashing success, amassing 150 million users by February 2009 and 300 million today. But it wasn’t just a PayPal clone, simply transferring money immediately from buyers to sellers. Why? Because Chinese consumers were, and still are, somewhat wary about being fleeced by local businesses and individuals. To allay that fear, Alipay developed an escrow model that holds the payment in a dedicated account until the customer confirms that the purchased goods have been delivered and were as advertised. That simple wrinkle set what was a dormant Internet payment market on fire, and the total value of online transactions swelled from nearly nothing in 2008 to around RMB 4 trillion ($660 billion) in 2012, according to Credit Suisse. At that point, a number of competitors quickly sprang up, including Tenpay (a subsidiary of the Internet giant Tencent) and BaiPay (launched by Baidu, the company behind the premier Chinese-language search engine). A few old-line financial institutions, such as China UnionPay – which is a payment system very similar to Visa – also got in on the action, but the majority of the market has gone to the Internet players. Alipay controls just under half of the online payment market, Tenpay around 20 percent, and China UnionPay just over 10 percent. (China UnionPay is still the dominant system for processing offline transactions, but has a much smaller piece of the online payments market.) All three focus on regular consumers looking to shop or pay bills online, while smaller competitors have sought out niche markets. China PnR, for example, targets travel agents by fronting them money to purchase tickets. (It gets reimbursed when the traveler pays.) Despite the rapid growth of e-commerce, many Chinese consumers still don’t fully trust credit or payment services, and Credit Suisse estimates that between 30 and 40 percent of all online transactions are still handled via cash on delivery. But that proportion is declining, as more Chinese embrace the convenience of using online services to settle their utility bills, top up pay-as-you go cell phone accounts, and even pay off their credit cards. The analysts predict that total online payment transactions could quadruple from 2012 levels to RMB 16 trillion ($2.64 trillion) by 2016. The real prize, however, could be what comes after the online payment market matures. Millions of newly minted middle-class Chinese are keen to access financial services ranging from simple bank accounts and loans to more complex financial products such as insurance or brokerage accounts. And once again, Chinese Internet companies are positioning themselves to compete with traditional banks, brokers, and insurance companies in the space. It’s as if Amazon started offering checking accounts. Alibaba has already dived in. Its subsidiary, Alipay, finally received a third-party payment license from the Chinese government in May 2011 after 11 years of waiting. Over the past three years, Alibaba has also acquired interests in three small loan companies and launched an online market place for insurance products. The company’s boldest move came with the June 2013 launch of a money market fund called Yu’E Bao, which literally translates to “leftover treasure.” As of Jan. 15, the fund had around RMB 250 billion ($41 million) in assets under management, and some 49 million accounts. Remarkably, it seems as if e-commerce companies might be the driving force behind wholesale changes in Chinese finance itself. Chinese money market funds had RMB 575 billion ($95 billion) under management in November 2013 and Credit Suisse estimates that figure could grow as high as RMB 5.4 trillion ($891 billion), or 10 percent of GDP, by 2020. That would represent faster growth as a proportion of GDP than money markets experienced after arriving on the scene in the United States in the late 1970s. Other financial products, including equity funds, could enjoy the same kind of rapid growth, Credit Suisse’s analysts say. The big question is who’s going to provide them: old-school financial firms or the increasingly diversified Internet giants. It can be tough to separate people from their trusted financial services providers, which is why many traditional brokers and banks have managed to hang on to so many customers in the U.S. But the game changes when the customers get convenient service 24 hours a day, seven days a week, from online financial product providers – with the added bonus of earning a return multiple times higher than that from conventional institutions. That being the case in China, newer players are in a position to truly compete. Need a bank? Without the need to invest in branches, online players’ costs are likely to be lower. Wondering which brand to entrust with your money? Baidu has an enormous marketing platform, thanks to its impressive traffic (around 6 billion search queries a day)and 460,000 existing advertisers, and gets its name in front of as many Chinese as any bank ever will. And talk about establishing a relationship with them when they’re young: Alibaba says that the average Yu’E Bao account holder is 26 years old. That young clientele is attracted by the relatively low risk of the service, easy access to funds, and the fact that accounts are linked—clients can use their Yu’E Bao funds to purchase goods and services online. Last year, Alibaba co-founder Jack Ma made what seemed to be a prediction: “If the banks don’t change, we’ll change the banks.” But he had the tense all wrong. It’s already happening. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerA suspected prostitute puts on clothes at a hotel room during a police raid, as part of plans to crackdown on prostitution, in Dongguan, Guangdong province, February 9, 2014.  BEIJING (Reuters) - The Chinese government on Friday sacked the police chief of the southern "sin city" of Dongguan following a candid report by the state broadcaster on the underground sex industry there, the official Xinhua news agency reported. Yan Xiaokang, who was also Dongguan's vice mayor, was removed from his posts for dereliction of duty, Xinhua said, quoting Communist Party officials in Guangdong Province. "Yan's dereliction of duty led to the persistent illegal sex trade in Dongguan, which has reflected very badly on the city, both domestically and internationally," Xinhua reported, citing a party statement. It added that another seven Dongguan officials were also sacked in relation to the case. China outlawed prostitution after the Communist revolution in 1949, but it returned with a vengeance following landmark economic reforms three decades ago, and has helped fuel a rise in HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases. While the government carries out periodic crackdowns, it is unusual for state media to cover them in such a high-profile way or for top officials to comment on the problem. Almost 1,000 people have been detained in a sting operation involving thousands of police in Dongguan, which is located at the heart of China's Pearl River Delta industrial hub in Guangdong, not far from Hong Kong. China's main state broadcaster, China Central Television (CCTV), aired a half-hour report on Sunday chronicling what appeared to be extensive and open prostitution in five towns across Dongguan. Secretly shot footage showed scantily-clad women parading on a stage and managers of venues speaking openly about prostitution services. Provincial Communist Party boss Hu Chunhua, a rising star tipped for future national leadership, stressed the need "to conduct an extensive trawling-style crackdown on the entire city", according state media. The CCTV report was widely watched across China and sparked extensive comment on social media, with many people criticizing the government for targeting the sex workers themselves rather than the powerful business interests believed behind the trade. The party's official People's Daily took aim at the criticism and calls to legalize the sex trade on Friday, saying in a commentary that prostitution was a "blasphemy against civilization". The Dongguan region has long been known as a center for the sex industry. While periodic sweeps against vice have been carried out, including during sensitive periods such as the 2008 Beijing Olympics and 2010 Asian Games in Guangzhou, the industry has thrived. Law enforcement often appears to be lax. (Reporting by Ben Blanchard; editing by Andrew Roche) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGeneral view of Arena Pantanal stadium in Cuiaba CUIABA, Brazil (Reuters) - An October fire at a Brazilian World Cup stadium caused far more damage than previously reported, according to a report by local prosecutors obtained by Reuters, raising questions about whether the stadium will be ready for the competition and why government officials have insisted the blaze was minor. State officials overseeing construction of the still-unfinished Arena Pantanal in the western city of Cuiabá, which is among 12 Brazilian cities scheduled to host games, have long said the October 25 fire wasn't a major cause for concern. However, an 18-page report prepared in December by the Mato Grosso state Public Ministry, an independent judicial body similar to the district attorney's office in the United States, warned that the blaze caused "structural damage" that "could compromise the overall stability of the construction." The report was delivered in December to the state agency overseeing the stadium's construction, the Extraordinary Secretariat for the World Cup, or Secopa. State prosecutors provided Reuters with access to the document, whose content has not been previously disclosed to the public. It is unclear whether the damage described in the report has since been fixed. Prosecutors are scheduled to conduct a follow-up inspection of the fire site next Thursday, and they said they hoped the disclosure of the report's contents would lead local officials to be more cooperative and transparent than they have until now. Mato Grosso state government officials continue to say that the fire did not cause structural damage. "It has been impossible to get good information to this point," said Clovis de Almeida, a prosecutor at the Public Ministry. "We will make sure that no games occur (at the stadium) until the safety is completely guaranteed." Under Brazil's complex legal system, the Public Ministry has a preventive role in addition to its prosecutorial mandate. Almeida is part of a special unit of prosecutors charged with monitoring the state government's actions as it prepares for the Cup. World soccer body FIFA, which organizes the World Cup, said it was "unaware" of any structural damage caused by the fire, although it said its own recent inspections had indicated no major consequences. FIFA will "double-check" based on any allegations made in the report, Zurich-based spokeswoman Delia Fischer told Reuters by telephone on Saturday. The Mato Grosso office of the Federal Public Ministry announced on Thursday that it is opening its own investigation into the fire, based on the state body's report. The fire, and the conflicting reports over its fallout, raise new doubts about whether Brazil will be ready to receive roughly 600,000 foreign visitors expected to attend the World Cup from June 12 to July 13. Several stadiums have been plagued by repeated construction delays and a rash of accidents that have killed six workers. Mendes Junior, the company building the stadium, referred all media enquiries to Secopa. That entity's chief, Mauricio Guimarães, said in an interview on Thursday that "of the reports we have, all of them say there was no structural damage." OFFICIALS SAY ALL REPAIRS WERE MADE The blaze, which police say may have resulted from arson, occurred in the basement level of one of the stadium's two main grandstands, which will hold roughly 10,000 people. On Saturday, in response to Reuters' specific questions about the Public Ministry's report, Secopa sent a statement reiterating that it had received reports "guaranteeing that there was no structural damage to the Arena Pantanal, and that all the necessary repairs to the area caused by the fire have already been (made.)" The Public Ministry report includes photos of cracks in concrete pillars that, it says, are part of the stadium's core structure. "It is emphasized that the loss of resistance of these elements could compromise the overall stability of the construction," said the report, which was based on an inspection by an independent local civil engineer, Jonathan Almeida Nery. According to the report, other photos show "complete decomposition" of concrete on the ceiling above where the fire occurred, as well as "less severe ... but important" damage to the stadium's steel frame. The study concludes with Nery's "strong recommendation that the real damage suffered by the structure be verified, by means of tests." It is unclear whether builders have conducted such tests since the fire occurred. Reached by telephone on Saturday, Nery confirmed the report's contents and said he was "relieved" its findings were being made public. Asked why local officials still say the fire didn't cause structural damage, he said: "I don't know. Even the engineers at the site told me there was." Nery added that he believed the problems at the stadium were "fixable" if addressed properly. The Arena Pantanal is one of five Brazilian stadiums running behind schedule, having missed a December deadline for completion. FIFA has warned that unfinished facilities may be excluded from the tournament, with the most worrisome delays occurring in the southern city of Curitiba. Any such exclusion would cost cities millions of dollars and be a major embarrassment for local politicians and World Cup organizers. ARSON SUSPECTED Fischer, the FIFA spokeswoman, said via email that the soccer body was aware only of "insulation material, piping, electrical cabling, pathways and switchboards, etc, (being) damaged as a result of the fire." The first pre-World Cup test scheduled for the facility is a game between Brazilian soccer teams set for early April. FIFA's secretary general, Jerome Valcke, visited the construction site last month. A Reuters reporter took a guided media tour of the Arena Pantanal early Thursday, accompanied by a spokesman for Secopa and a representative of Mendes Junior. The builder did not allow the reporter access to the area affected by the fire because it was "under construction," according to the spokesman. The cause of the fire remains a mystery. Investigators believe the fire started with styrofoam and that it was "criminal" in nature, involving either negligence or arson, said Luciene Oliveira, an official at the Mato Grosso state judicial civil police. Mendes Junior executives believe the fire was lit by a disgruntled construction worker who has since left the site, a source with knowledge of the investigation told Reuters. Oliveira declined comment on that possibility, but said police were looking for a witness who, they believed, has fled to the interior of the state. The stadium is not the only aspect of Cuiabá's preparations that has experienced problems. A new $700 million light rail system that was supposed to be ready for the World Cup now isn't scheduled to be finished until December, five months after the tournament ends, Guimarães said. A new airport terminal has also suffered delays, with work still continuing on the external structure. Guimarães said the existing airport could handle demand during the Cup if the new structure isn't finished on time. The World Cup matches scheduled for Cuiabá are June 13, between Chile and Australia; June 17, between Russia and South Korea; June 21, between Nigeria and Bosnia, and June 24, between Japan and Colombia. (Editing by Todd Benson, Martin Howell and Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
Nicholas EckhartKmart is in trouble. Sears Holdings, Kmart's parent company, has closed more than 300 Sears and Kmart stores since 2010, and the company has announced plans to close at least another dozen Kmart stores within the first half of 2014. Photographer Nicholas Eckhart has been tracking Sears and other struggling retailers for years on his blog Dead And Dying Retail. We compiled his images of Kmart stores that have been abandoned or appear to be struggling. FREE AppDownload
Allen StanfordFive years after learning they were victims of a $7 billion Ponzi scheme, investors in the Stanford Financial Group say they feel abandoned, even though their losses rival those in the Madoff scam that was revealed two months earlier. Unlike the Madoff case, in which a court-appointed trustee has said he is well on his way to recovering all of the investors' principal—estimated at $17.5 billion—Stanford victims have recovered less than one penny on the dollar since the Securities and Exchange Commission sued the firm and a court placed it in receivership on Feb. 17, 2009. "I do have to say the Stanford victims do feel like the stepchildren in the Ponzi world," said Angela Shaw Kogutt, who estimates her family lost $4.5 million in the scam. Shaw heads the Stanford Victims Coalition, which has been trying for years to drum up support in Washington. Some 28,000 investors—10 times the number of direct investors in the Madoff case—bought certificates of deposit from Stanford International Bank in Antigua, which was owned by Texas financier R. Allen Stanford. Stanford's U.S. sales force had promised the investors—many of them retired oil workers—that the CDs were at least as safe as instruments from a U.S. bank. But a jury later found most of the clients' money financed Stanford's lavish lifestyle instead of the high-grade securities and real estate it was supposed to. (Read more: Whether PIN or signature, smart cards are coming) Stanford, who portrayed himself as a self-made billionaire, exuded the American Dream. He claimed to have built his global financial empire from a family insurance business in his rural hometown of Mexia, Texas. A generous contributor to politicians of all stripes, Stanford effectively took over the financial sector in Antigua while nurturing rumors of his unique connections. But asked directly by CNBC in 2009 about suggestions he was a government informant, Stanford demurred. "You talkin' about the CIA?" he asked. "I'm not gonna talk about that." On the eve of the fifth anniversary of the scandal, Dallas attorney Ralph Janvey, appointed by a federal judge to head the receivership and round up assets for the victims, said he feels the victims' pain. "Even though my team and I have worked hard and made much progress over the last five years, the process of unwinding the fraud and the pace of recovering money have been frustratingly slow," Janvey wrote in an open letter to "all those affected by the Stanford fraud." In the Stanford case, progress is relative. Last April, Janvey won court approval to begin distributing $55 million to some investors. In the letter, he said $25 million has already been distributed, another $5.5 million could be paid this month and another $18 million in Stanford assets from Canada could be distributed this year as well. But the rest of the investors' money was either spent by Stanford or is tied up in litigation. Janvey said some $200 million in assets is in Swiss banks and tied up in the criminal forfeiture process. He has sued dozens of people and institutions that allegedly profited from the Ponzi scheme, seeking more than $680 million. The prospects for recovering anything close to that amount, however, are unclear. "Asset recovery litigation is difficult, lengthy and expensive," Janvey wrote. "The defendants, many of whom have significant resources, are defending the cases aggressively, and many of the favorable rulings in these cases have already been appealed." Further complicating matters, victims allege: the Justice Department has not been as aggressive in the Stanford case as it has been in the Madoff case. Even the federal judge overseeing the Stanford receivership, David Godbey in Dallas, made note of the apparent contrast during a status hearing Jan. 16, a week after authorities announced a $2 billion settlement with JPMorgan Chase for its role in the Madoff scandal. "I read with interest in the media that JPMorgan Chase is paying the Madoff folks a whole bunch of money. I assume our check will follow shortly," Godbey said, according to a transcript of the hearing. No fewer than five banks—though not JPMorgan Chase—have been sued in the Stanford case for allegedly facilitating the fraud, but there have been no signs of interest from criminal authorities. A spokesman for the Justice Department did not respond to a request for a comment. The government did prosecute Allen Stanford and several of his top executives. Stanford, 63, is serving a 110-year sentence at a federal penitentiary in Florida. He has appealed his 2012 conviction on 13 criminal counts, but with his assets frozen and having fired his court-appointed attorney, Stanford is representing himself and filing handwritten legal motions from prison. One was filed March 4, 2013 andanother on March 12, 2013. "I or any other American citizen deserve better than this," he wrote in a filing last March. "The presumed innocent part of our constitution is only a myth in America today." The pending appeal is yet another complication for Stanford's victims, since approximately $300 million he was ordered to forfeit as a result of his conviction cannot be released until the appeals process is complete. But one of the biggest sources of frustration for the victims is another stark contrast to the Madoff case. (Read more: SAC still on hook in insider trading probe: Source) The Securities Investor Protection Corp. (SIPC), which insures U.S. brokerage accounts, has refused to pay Stanford victims, while qualified Madoff victims are eligible for SIPC's maximum coverage of $500,000 per account. The SEC sued SIPC in 2012 on behalf of the Stanford investors, arguing they also were entitled to coverage, as Stanford's U.S. brokerage was an SIPC member. But SIPC says its insurance covers only securities, and even if the Stanford CDs are considered securities, they are worthless. The judge in the case sided with SIPC. A federal appeals panel is considering the SEC's appeal, and victims are anxiously waiting for a ruling. "I really think the only chance the victims really have to recover something is either years down the road or through SIPC," said Kogutt of the victims' coalition. Because many of the victims are elderly, there is no time to waste. Since the scandal broke in 2009, 176 of Stanford's investors have died. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
BarclaysRolling 3-month sales growth. America would rather have that dark blue line back.The unusually harsh winter weather has had a very clear unfavorable impact on the U.S. economy. The January jobs report, retail sales report, and industrial production report all came up short of expectations. The only businesses that seem to be doing well are the utility companies. "Output at electric and natural gas utilities surged 4.1 percent on strong heating demand because of the extremely cold weather," said the Federal Reserve in Friday's industrial production report. Oddly, nonstore retail sales fell 0.6% month-over-month in January. These are online sales, a corner of the retail sector that could've benefited from consumers holed up in their homes. Some economists took notice: "...However, with online sales also dipping, after steady growth during the previous four months, there may be some indication that other factors beyond the usual weather effect suspect may be at play..." -Millan Mulraine, TD Securities "...However, movements in some other components are more difficult to square with that as a catch-all explanation – such as a drop in internet sales and a strong gain in building materials..." -Peter Newland, Barclays "...Although consumer spending over the internet declined, 0.6 percent, as well. Too much shoveling snow..." -Chris Rupkey, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Hopefully, Rupkey is right and it was just "too much shoveling snow." Or maybe it'll get revised away. Speaking of revisions: "On the headline measure, sales were revised down in each of October, November, and December, such that growth in Q4 as a whole is now estimated to be an annualized 3.2% q/q (previously 4.2%, Figure 1)," said Barclays' Newland. "Core sales were down 0.3% in January and revised lower in December and November as well, such that our Q4 GDP tracking estimate fell by four-tenths to 2.2% q/q (saar). While some positive payback can be expected later in the quarter (absent the possibility of continued negative weather effects in February), the decline in January puts consumption on a weak grounding for Q1." For now, we'll hold our breath until we see whether or not this is weather or not. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gus RuelasGeraldine SundstromIn case you haven't noticed, two of the most powerful women on Wall Street working on two different sides of the Atlantic could soon be out of a job. The two women are JP Morgan's Blythe Masters, the New York City-based head of JP Morgan's commodities unit, and Geraldine Sundstrom the emerging markets chief at European hedge fund behemoth Brevan Howard. Masters, an economist, is widely credited with creating the credit default swap, and was the youngest woman to become a managing director at the bank at age 28. She could leave the bank entirely when her unit is sold due to regulatory concerns surrounding the banks' ownership of physical commodities. That ownership is a development that only transpired in the five years since the financial crisis, when banks were in a regulatory limbo that allowed JP Morgan to pick up commodities businesses from failing banks at fire sale prices. Now that the dust is settling, the Fed is requiring banks that have retail businesses to sell these assets, and JP Morgan is complying. JP Morgan is currently in discussions to sell the business to Mercuria Energy Group Limited. YouTube/ColumbiaBusinessBlythe Masters, Head of Global Commodities at JPMorgan ChaseA JP Morgan spokesman declined to comment on what that would mean for Masters, though Bloomberg reports that she likely won't join Mercuria. What seems clear is that Masters' future is uncertain. Over the last week she joined and then quit a Commodities Futures Trading Commission advisory group, if that's any indication. In Europe, Geraldine Sundstrom is leaving Brevan Howard as the hedge fund shuts down its emerging markets fund after a dismal year of losses. This summer, when the fund was down 11%, Bloomberg reported that Brevan Howard had no plans to close the unit. With Sundstrom at the helm, it had made money in 2008 when everything else was bleak. But Bloomberg also reported that Brevan Howard's master fund, with nearly $28 billion in assets, has never recorded an annual loss since starting in 2003. So Sundstrom's 15% loss on her $2 billion fund this year is simply not in Brevan Howard's DNA.  Wall Street should worry about all this. Aside from having two brilliant bankers on the loose (try competing with Blythe Masters for a job, I dare you), taking women out of the boardroom can turn it into an echo chamber.  Companies do not innovate having the same kinds of people spew out the same kinds of ideas from the same perspective. Diversity is a challenge, and the best ideas are ones that can take a test and pass — that are challenged and proven. Former Bank of America executive Sallie Krawcheck said as much in an interview with Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle today. She says that women in corporate America haven't gone sideways, they've gone backward. "The numbers speak for themselves," said Krawcheck. "What I've seen a lot of is, 'I gotta have this person in this job because it's so important.' And what we find and the research shows when we're under periods of stress, that person who you feel like, I see how that person can do the job, is typically someone who looks like you." We'll be watching very closely to see where these ladies land.  FREE AppDownload
Another round of snow is expected for the tri-state region on Saturday, just two days after a major winter storm battered large parts of the Northeast.  The National Weather Service in New York issued a winter weather advisory in effect from 11 a.m. EST Saturday morning until 11 p.m. this evening.  The affected regions include New York City, the lower Hudson Valley, northeast New Jersey, southwest Connecticut, and western Long Island.  Forecasters are calling for 2 to 4 inches of snow, beginning late this morning and continuing through tonight. Wind gusts of up to 35 mph are expected with temperatures in the lower 30s, the Weather Service said.  Here's the latest warning map, updated Saturday, Feb. 15, at 10:45 a.m. EST. National Weather Servicec FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesNeel Kashkari, who oversaw the government's bank bailout in 2008, spoke to us about running for governor of California.  Kashkari is running as a Republican and his platform is focusing on just two key issues— jobs and education.  He considers himself to be a moderate Republican. His focus isn't on social issues.   "What the Republican party is being cast as is not why I'm a Republican," he said in a telephone interview with Business Insider. "It's not the Republican party I believe in. I'm a Republican because I believe economic growth is the most powerful force to lift people up. I believe that the Republicans should be the party that's fighting for the middle class and fighting for the poor. Our solutions are not more welfare. Our solutions are a good education and a good job."  We spoke to Kashkari about TARP and his time at Goldman Sachs among other topics.   Kashkari was appointed by Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson to oversee the Troubled Asset Relief Program that bailed out the banks during the height of the financial crisis. He told us his experience working with both sides of the aisle on TARP will help him in his gubernatorial run. After the Treasury, Kashkari worked at  PIMCO as the head of global equities.  He also worked at Goldman Sachs in San Francisco from 2002 until 2008.  Below is a transcript from our Q&amp;A (Note: This has been lightly edited for clarity): BI: How do you think your experience with the Treasury helps you while running for governor in California?  NK: The TARP is the best example in modern American history of Republicans and Democrats coming together to tackle a terrible, terrible crisis. And I think that experience of getting Republicans and Democrats to work together will help me get Republicans and Democrats to work together in Sacramento. We have a crisis in California—We have 24 percent of the state living in poverty. We have 17 percent of the state in need of work. And we have schools that are ranked 46th. And right now, the status quo is devastating for millions of California families. And what I want to do is bring that same—you know, the experience of the financial crisis with it, you don't break the back of a crisis with small policies. You're required to use overwhelming force. I want to bring that same overwhelming force and break the back of the crisis that's been hammering California families.   BI: I'm looking at the years you were at the Treasury... Some people might say 'That's not many years in public service.' How would you answer people if they ask you about not having much experience as a political leader?  NK: Well, three years battling the worst economic crisis that our country has faced since the Great Depression, I think, is great training to tackle the crisis that's hammering California families. By the way, there are a lot of other folks who ran for governor as their first elected office whether it's Ronald Reagan or Mitch Daniels or President George W. Bush or Mitt Romney. There are a lot of examples of very successful governors for whom that was their first elected office.  BI: How about folks out there who might criticize your experience with the Treasury and say that it was just about bailing out the banks?  NK: We hated having to intervene and use tax payer resources. We wanted to let all the banks fail because they deserved to fail. No one owed them anything. But when we realized we were facing a Great Depression scenario where literally your ATM might not work , literally might not be able to cash your paycheck, that's when we realized we had to intervene.  But, if we were going to intervene, we were going to do it in a way that protected the taxpayers. And that's why I'm really proud of the fact that the program that  I ran while we deployed $422 billion dollars we got every dollar back and we even made a $13 billion profit for the taxpayers. There's no program in American history that's ever done that.  BI: Can you discuss what sort of strengths you gained during your experience whether it was at Goldman Sachs, the Treasury or PIMCO? What sorts of values have you gained in your experiences? NK: One of the things that was critical in Washington was that we worked arm-and-arm with the legislative branch, so executive branch and legislative branch working together. We focused on the biggest crisis facing our country and we said, 'We will work with anybody of any party who is committed to tackling this crisis' and we did. So, I worked with Judd Gregg on Republican side and I worked with Barney Frank on the Democratic side. We put politics aside and said, 'Let's do what's the best thing for our country'. And we got Republicans and Democrats to work together and to put politics aside. So that's a critical skill that I think is directly relevant to Sacramento.  BI: Are you still keeping in touch with some of your former colleagues as you run? Have you talked to Hank Paulson or Bill Gross? And have they given you advice? If they have what sort of advice have they given you?  NK: Hank [Paulson] is a big supporter of mine...He's been a donor to my campaign, which I really appreciate. Hank is a spectacular leader. He's somebody who's so laser focused on tackling problems, will work with anybody, how to get things done and focused on results. I learned a tremendous amount from him. He continues to be a mentor and friend to me. And others around the country who have given me a lot of advice. Mitch Daniels has given me a lot of advice both on politics, but also on economic policy. Jeb Bush has given a lot of advice on education policy. You know, I don't have all the answers, so what I do is I tap into all the experts around the country to get their best ideas and figure out what we can bring to California.   BI: Is there anything specific in terms of advice that has really resonated with you?  NK: One of the things that's critical is getting out there and really letting people get to know you in a way that most candidates don't do. So when Mitch Daniels ran for governor of Indiana he traveled all around the state and he never stayed in a hotel. He would spend the night in some random Indiana family's home as a way to let them genuinely get to know him and him to get to know them. When Jeb Bush ran for governor of Florida he said education is going to be my signature issue. He set a goal of visiting a hundred schools in Florida. He ended up visiting 250 schools in Florida. But again, it demonstrated a real genuineness and authenticity. And so I'm using those as role models for me as I'm traveling all around the state going in some of the poorest communities in California...whether it's visiting and attending service at African-American churches in south central L.A., visiting food banks, homeless shelters, etc. getting out there and really letting people get to know me and me get to know what's happening on the ground in communities across California. That's been critical, but that's something that I learned from Jeb Bush and Mitch Daniels that they did very effectively.  BI: I noticed that your campaign is focusing on education and jobs and not so much social issues. Can you speak about that.  NK: My platform is very simple — jobs and education. Because I feel like with 17 percent of Californians in need of work, millions of Californians are struggling, a lot of kids are graduating from college with thousands of dollars of student loan debt and no jobs and that's a huge problem. Then, with education we're ranked 46th in the country. I grew up in a middle class family. My family was not wealthy, but I did have one big advantage growing up and that is my parents were educated and they insisted that I got a good education. Because I got that education, every opportunity has been opened to me and that's just not true for millions of Californians today. I feel like if we do these two things, we unleash the private sector to create good jobs and we put people back to work and we fix the schools so kids are getting a good education. If we do those two things, most of the other problems in our state become a lot easier to solve. We'll have less crime, fewer kids getting on drugs, fewer kids entering gangs. Our budget will be much much stronger because we'll have fewer people who need support from welfare and many more taxpayers in the state. To me, we can't do everything at once, so let's focus on the most important issues facing the state and that's jobs and education.  BI: What are you thoughts on Wall Street now today since we're past the financial crisis whether it's insider trading or the regulations?  NK: The insider trading is outrageous. It's fraud. Insider trading has been going on for a long time and I don't think the Justice Department is being anywhere near aggressive enough in pursuing these cases... The U.S. District attorney has a record of...79 and 0. But he's not going after the hard cases...Why isn't Steven A. Cohen, why isn't he prosecuting him for criminal fraud or criminal insider trading? How is it possible that all of the underlings are guilty, but the guy whose name on the door he didn't know. This is like a bad mob where all the street thugs are guilty, but the mob boss didn't know what's going on. So the DOJ needs to be much more aggressive and willing to take some career risk at losing some cases if that's what it means. Because if they're not prosecuting these guys, yeah they preserve their perfect track record, but then the guy's getting off scot-free and that's ridiculous.  To me, I think the DOJ needs to be much more aggressive in pursuing the insider trading and fraud cases. Insider trading and fraud undermine everyone's confidence in the whole system. That does damage for all of us.  BI: Anything with regulations?  NK: I think that the Dodd-Frank bill is very well intentioned. I think it's going to be years before we know the full implications of that. I think the one thing that's very good is the banks have more capital today. That's the buffer against bad things happening. Banks should have more capital so I'm happy about that. Whether we've got the rest of the regulations right, I don't know yet. Unfortunately it's probably going to be years before we know it. We just have to remain vigilant. We can't let ourselves fall into a false sense of security.  BI: What would you say to people who criticize you for having worked at Goldman in the past?  NK: My job. I was based in California.  My job was to help start up companies in California raise money and pursue strategic transactions. So a start up would come to us and say, "Hey, we want to build a new plant. We want to expand and hire a lot of people." My job was to help them raise that money. What I did in California is very, very different than some of the misdeeds that were going on in New York. And, I'm proud of what I did in California because I helped California businesses compete globally. So I hope people will give me the chance to explain what I did and look at my record for themselves and draw their own conclusions.  BI: Can you talk to me about the moment when you decided, 'I'm going to run for governor in California'? What was it that made you want to do this. NK: The truth is I first started thinking about this after the 2012 presidential election after Governor Romney lost. I was a supporter of his. I thought he would have been an excellent president. In California, the Democrats took over a super majority in both the legislative bodies—the assembly and the senate. And so I just looked at this as someone has to be willing to fight and turn this around. What the Republican party is being cast as is not why I'm a Republican. It's not the Republican party I believe in. I'm a Republican because I believe economic growth is the most powerful force to lift people up. I believe that the Republicans should be the party that's fighting for the middle class and fighting for the poor. Our solutions are not more welfare. Our solutions are a good education and a good job. For me, this is also about rebuilding the Republican party around a very positive economic platform, a very inclusive message that's bringing all ethnicities into the Republican party and also socio-economic groups into the Republican party. And so, that's when I started thinking about it and then I spent a year meeting with families across the state that are struggling, meeting with Republican across the state to share my ideas and get their thoughts and also meeting with potential donors to see if we will be able to raise the resources to run a competitive campaign. And it was a culmination of those three areas of work that finally lead me to make the decision of 'Yes, this makes sense. I'm going to run for governor.' BI: How do you think you're going to be able to compete with the current governor, Jerry Brown?  NK: Well, Governor Brown is certainly going to have far more resources than we are. But, the facts are unfortunately on our side. Twenty-four percent of Californians live in poverty. Governor Brown has no answer. Seventeen percent of Californians need work. Yet, Governor Brown has no answer. Our schools are ranked 46th. Governor Brown has no answer. And the people of California feel the pain because they are the families who are struggling. They're the ones worrying about keeping a roof over their head, keeping food on the table. I've been visiting food banks that are doing robust business because families don't have jobs. I want to put every food bank in California out of business because we put people back to work and they don't need to turn to those food banks for their dinner. So if you look at Governor Brown's re-elect numbers, he's pretty popular. Fifty percent of Californians like him and approve of him so to speak, but only about 1/3 of California voters think he should be re-elected and that's because families are struggling. They know they're struggling. They know the state is not back. And every time he pats himself on the back for solving all the problems it rings hollow. It's as though he's tone deaf of what people on the street are really feeling and I want to be a voice for all of them.  FREE AppDownload
(Photo by China Photos/Getty Images)BEIJING (Reuters) - China's banks disbursed the most loans in any month in four years in January, a surge that suggests the world's second-biggest economy may not be cooling as much as some fear. Chinese banks lent 1.32 trillion yuan ($217.6 billion) worth of new yuan loans in January, beating a 1.1 trillion yuan forecast and nearly three times December's level, the People's Bank of China said in a statement on Saturday on its website. It is usual for loans to spike in January when banks try to lend as much as they can to grab market share, but last month's surge was still the largest since January 2010. Saturday's figures may assuage those who worry about China's hazy economic outlook following recent data that showed conflicting trends. Distortions to the data as a result of January's Lunar New Year holiday is part of the problem, and some analysts believe it won't be till April before they get finally get some clarity on what is happening. Some economists cautioned against reading too much into the latest figures. "The bigger picture is that bank loan growth has been effectively flat since the middle of 2013," Capital Economics said in a note, adding that broader credit growth is at its lowest in nearly one and a half years. "We think that tight monetary conditions are probably here to stay." Total social financing, a broad measure of liquidity and credit in the economy, was 2.58 trillion yuan in January, double the previous month's figure due to the surge in bank loans. Compared to a year ago, Capital Economics said growth in total social financing had eased to 17.4 percent in January, the lowest in about a year-and-a-half and down from December's 17.8 percent. The broad M2 money supply was up 13.2 percent last month from a year earlier, in line with a Reuters poll forecast of a 13.2 percent rise. Outstanding yuan loans were up 14.3 percent from a year earlier versus forecasts for growth of 13.9 percent. Bank lending is a centerpiece in China's monetary policy as banks lend at the government's behest, and are told how much to lend and when to lend. January's lending surge aside, China's central bank has consistently signaled in recent months that it wants to temper credit growth to slow a rapid rise in debt levels across the economy. It has focused in particular on keeping short-term interest rates elevated to force banks to stop lending to speculators or high-risk borrowers. Analysts polled by Reuters in January said they expect China's economy to grow 7.4 percent this year, an enviable performance for a major economy, but still the worst for China in 14 years. The economy grew 7.7 percent last year. A series of surveys that showed Chinese factories and service firms suffered a marked fall in business in January and had heightened worries about an unexpectedly sharp economic cooling. But the disappointing trend was countered this week by a surprisingly strong trade report that showed import growth at a six-month high, a performance that baffled some analysts. ($1 = 6.0668 Chinese yuan) (Reporting by Koh Gui Qing; Editing by Jeremy Laurence and Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
Shiller didn't just see last decade's housing bubble coming; he was in a position to do something about it. From 1990 to 2004, Shiller sat on the economic advisory panel of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, holding the attention of the only people in the world powerful enough to stop the housing bubble by raising interest rates. So here's the trillion-dollar question: Did Shiller warn his Fed colleagues that the housing bubble was doomed to burst, taking the economy down with it? Yes -- but only timidly. "I felt the need to use restraint," Shiller said in Dan Gardner's book, Future Babble. "The consensus in the group was that there was no bubble and no need to raise interest rates. To suggest otherwise was distinctly uncomfortable. I [made my point] very gently, and felt vulnerable expressing such quirky views." Shiller summed up the experience perfectly: "Deviating too far from consensus leaves one feeling potentially ostracized from the group, with the risk that one may be terminated." Here is a man of unquestioned authority who had conviction in his beliefs and understood -- no, discovered -- the psychological tricks our brains play on us when thinking about money. Yet he still felt pressure to conform. If Shiller is vulnerable to groupthink, believe me, you and I are, too. The word "groupthink" was first used not to describe amateur lemmings, but coined in a 1972 study showing how seasoned professionals working in their field of expertise tended to follow each other off a cliff toward bad decisions. It doesn't matter how much experience or education you have in a subject. Most of us are hardwired from birth to follow the crowd. One of the biggest ironies in investing is that while almost everyone thinks they are a contrarian, almost no one actually is. I remember 2007, right before the market peaked. Just about everybody I knew thought they were a value investor, zigging where others zagged. But at investing conferences, you found out that all these guys were basically buying the same stocks. What people thought was a contrarian view was actually rampant groupthink. It felt great when you, the "contrarian," had your views confirmed by another "contrarian." But contrarianism isn't supposed to feel good, and you're not supposed to have it confirmed by others. That's why so few can actually do it. It's rare -- not impossible, but rare -- that someone can remain blissfully content when everyone else around them thinks they're crazy. One of the nastiest tricks our minds play is convincing nearly all of us that we can be that person. After World War II, there was widespread fear and curiosity about societies conforming to a unified belief, namely communism. Sociologists began studying how humans conform, and conducted some fascinating studies. In the 1950s, Solomon Asch brought a group of students together and asked them to solve a set of problems, such as whether two lines were the same length. These were simple problems with obvious answers. But several of the students weren't trying to pick the right answers. They were actors working for Asch, purposely giving the wrong answers in front of their peers.  Asch repeated the study with varying numbers of actor-students blurting out the wrong answers. His conclusion: Three-quarters of the test subjects went along with the actors' wrong answers at least once. In any given experiment, at least one-third of test subjects ignored the obvious answer and followed the actors. Just one in four consistently gave the right answer even when their acting peers disagreed with them. Even when everyone around you is giving an obviously wrong answer, your tendency to second-guess yourself, not want to embarrass yourself, and your natural desire to fit in can trump every bit of rationality you think you have. Rather than assuming you can be a contrarian investor, and learning the hard way that you can't, I think it's better to put your finances on some form of autopilot, especially if you can build a contrarian bent into that system. It's how you become a smart investor while taking emotions out of the equation. Dollar-cost averaging -- investing the same amount of money each month come rain or shine -- is one of the best ways to do this. This doesn't necessarily mean you have to invest in index funds. Investing, say, $1,000 a month, every month, into a group of your favorite stocks might beat saving up cash and tactically trying to get in after a market crash. This is probably the most sensible strategy for investors with a history of following the crowd to buy-high, sell-low disappointments. If you're investing a mix of stock and bond index funds, rebalancing your portfolio at the same time each year is another way to automatically become a contrarian. Say you want a portfolio with 80% stocks and 20% bonds. If stocks have a great year and push your portfolio to 85% stocks and 15% bonds, you sell a portion of your stocks and use the proceeds to buy bonds until the 80/20 ratio is back in balance. Do this every year. You'll probably do great over time. Still think you have the disposition to be a contrarian? The best way I know to go about this is to plan out your contrarianism ahead of time. I do this with a chart directing how much money I plan to invest when the market falls by a certain amount. My goal is to use history to guide my contrarianism, investing enough money in moderate market downturns while keeping a sufficient amount to take advantage of lower prices if things get worse. If I had $1,000 in my contrarian fund, I'd deploy it like this: The Motley Fool What's important is that you understand that your ability to think you're a contrarian is probably not as powerful as your innate desire to fit into crowds. Anything you can do today to make investing less emotional will make you a better investor tomorrow.  Check back every Tuesday and Friday for Morgan Housel's columns on finance and economics.    Contact Morgan Housel at mhousel@fool.com The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
Credit SuisseThis chart presents something of a paradox: it shows that the correlation between a country's stock market returns and the same country's growth in per-capita GDP is actually negative. The findings may be counterintuitive, as one would expect countries with higher rates of economic growth to produce superior investment returns. Elroy Dimson, Paul Marsh, and Mike Staunton, researchers at London Business School, revisit this conundrum in the latest Global Investment Returns Yearbook published by the Credit Suisse Research Institute. "Many investors and commentators have misunderstood the evidence on economic growth and equity performance," say Dimson, Marsh, and Staunton. "Though difficult for investors to capture in portfolio returns, stronger GDP growth is generally good for investors. Why, then, has it been so difficult to make money by buying the stocks of countries that are improving their economic position?" The authors break down in detail the answers to this question and the reasons why this negative correlation holds, but here is the quick version, boiled down to four main points (emphasis added): The first explanation is of course that stock prices impound anticipated business conditions. As we showed in our 2010 paper, although past economic growth does not predict subsequent equity market movements, stock prices do predict future economic growth. Markets anticipate the macro-economy. To use public information to try to predict the market is to bet against the consensus view set by a multitude of other smart and informed global investors. Secondly, a strategy of buying the shares of countries that are advancing economically is a strategy of buying companies that are on average becoming less risky, and hence offer a lower expected return. It is more risky to invest in companies in distressed economies. Other things held constant, the expected return on equities in successful, growing economies should therefore be lower than the expected return in declining economies. Third, there may be limits to arbitraging global mispricing. There is extensive evidence that investors bid up the prices of growth assets, to the point that their long-run return is below the performance of distressed assets (sometimes referred to as ‘value’ investments). Some observers regard this as mispricing, and contend that it offers opportunities for arbitrageurs. The strategy would be to buy equities in distressed markets and to short-sell securities in fast-growing markets. However, short-selling can be costly and risky, thereby allowing 'hot' markets to remain overpriced, and to yield disappointing long-run returns. Last, there is the question of luck. Some countries have resources — agricultural, extractive, capital, or intellectual — that may confer an advantage compared to other nations. If that advantage is appreciated and already priced in by investors, there can be no expectation of superior investment returns. But if the consensus undervalues those resources, then an astute or lucky investor may outperform. In the 20th century, resource-rich countries like the U.S., Canada, Sweden, or Australia prospered. In the opening decade of the 21st century, commodity-rich and low-labor-cost emerging markets prospered. Some of the successes and disappointments may be attributable to Fortuna — the goddess of luck. Click here to read the full analysis, which begins on page 17 » FREE AppDownload
