Oracle CEO Larry Ellison  had a great explanation as to why the company missed fourth-quarter and full-year revenue expectations: Oracle is actually kicking butt. It sold a lot of new cloud-computing contracts and that revenue won't show up right away, he explained to Wall Street analysts on the company's quarterly conference call. Another fourth-quarter miss for Oracle is particularly shocking. That's always the company's biggest quarter, as salespeople push to close deals and make their annual quotas and bonuses. To be fair, Oracle didn't have a bad quarter or year. It grew sales 3% for the year, to a record $38.3 billion. It dropped $13.2 billion to the bottom line in net income (non-GaaP, excluding unusual items), up 2% over last year.  Still, this is two years in a row that Oracle missed Wall Street's expectations for its fourth quarter instead of meeting, or even exceeding, them. And investors were not pleased. The stock tanked in after-hours trading. It's currently down about 5% to about $40 a share, compared to Thursday's closing price of $42.51. flickr/senchangOracle CFO Safra CatzBut Ellison and CFO Safra Catz had a good explanation: the company is selling a lot of cloud services, in some cases instead of regular software. For the first time, Oracle broke out how well its cloud services are doing: The Software-as-a-Service and Platform-as-a-Service clouds were up 23% to $1.1 billion (on a GAAP basis), while the Infrastructure-as-a-Service revenues were $456 million for the year. That's still a pittance compared to Oracle's software business: $9.4 billion worth of new software licenses revenues for the year (flat over last year) and $18.2 billion worth of product support and license updates, up 6%. Still, selling a lot of cloud will make a company look like its revenue has stalled. With a software contract, the revenue is recognized right away. But the cloud is a subscription billed over time. Revenue is only recognized when the monthly/quarterly/annual bill is paid. But cloud is better for a software company over the long haul. Customers will pay more money for it over time. They save in other ways, because they don't need to buy hardware. There are three types of cloud-computing services, and Ellison wants Oracle to dominate two of them because they are the most profitable. "Oracle is focused like a laser on one goal over the next few years: becoming the No. 1 company in cloud computing in the two most profitable segments: Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) and Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS)," Ellison said. SaaS is when companies rent software applications over a network like the internet. Salesforce.com is the best-known SaaS company. PaaS is when companies use the cloud to host the apps that they've written. This is what app developers use. The third is called Infrastructure-as-a-Service. It's currently dominated by Amazon, which keeps cutting prices, making it a low-margin game. IaaS is when companies rent servers and operating systems and run whatever software they want on that. Oracle offers IaaS, too, but Ellison is not keen on pushing that business, he said. That's because he'll reel in 40% to 50% margins for SaaS and PaaS, he says, the same margins as Oracle is making now selling software. It can do that because Oracle owns all the pieces necessary to run a cloud, including the hardware, the development software (Java), the database and the apps. "We buy electricity and buildings, everything else we make. We think we can deliver these cloud serves without compromising margins whatsoever," he said. Still, if Oracle really wants to convince investors that it owns the cloud, there's an another way to do it: Show them the money. In addition to reporting cloud revenues on its individual services, it could showcase cloud bookings, backlog or Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR), or some other figure that indicates the amount of money under contract, not yet billed. If that number takes off, so will investor confidence in Oracle's future. FREE AppDownload
Federico CiccareseGood morning! It’s Friday, and here’s what you need to know… 1. A global market rally yesterday failed to follow through to the US session with Dow and the S&amp;P only up 0.1% and the Nasdaq shedding the same amount. The ASX and the Nikkei roared yesterday, up 1.6% on the confluence of Janet Yellen’s reassurance that the Fed still has a dovish outlook, and for Australia a slight uptick in the iron ore price which appears to have hit at least a temporary floor. The Asian markets are already looking ahead to the HSBC manufacturing PMI coming out next week, expected to rise from 49.4 to 49.7 in June. 2. But the signs keep coming that the US recovery is gathering pace. The Philly Fed’s survey of business conditions came in stronger than expected overnight. As Joe Weisenthal notes, the good data from May is being followed by more in June, pointing to a potential above-trend return to growth that people have been craving for a long time – and critical for the overall picture on global confidence. 3. Budget bodyguards. You know the public is angry in Australia when cabinet ministers have to be assigned bodyguards. James Massola reports at the SMH  that Joe Hockey, Julie Bishop and Christopher Pyne are among the ministers who have had Close Personal Protection staff assigned to them because of the hostile crowds protesting against the budget at some recent events. More here. 4. Global financial negotiations. Wikileaks has released documents from the negotiations of the global “Trade in Services Agreements” which will have a significant impact on the future of the Australian financial industry. The draft conditions would give global banks much greater freedom to operate in Australia, but there are other provisions that would help Australian banks grow internationally too. There’s also a proposal from the US and the EU that would allow an outside authority to rule on decisions made here by ministers and the courts. 5. Pirate kings. It’s known that Australia is a problem country for content piracy but for the first time we’ve got a handle on the scale of the problem. As Ben Collins reports, almost three million Australians visited the top two illegal download websites – The Pirate Bay and Kickass torrent – last month, according to Nielsen data. That’s just the top two sites; there are many more, not to mention popular torrenting software like BitTorrent and uTorrent. With Nielsen estimating the online market at 17.3 million in Australia it’s clear this is not a fringe issue but an entirely mainstream phenomenon in the country. 6. The iWatch is coming. It’ll have a 2.5 inch screen, mass production will start in July, and they’re aiming to ship 50 million units in the first year. We’re not exactly sure of the features but the basics will include the ability to read notifications to your phone on the device as well as heart rate monitoring. The idea is that by gathering location, content, and biometric data the device will be able to figure out what you’re doing at the time. Samsung’s Galaxy Gear devices already have some of these basics in market. More here. 7. News Corp v Mail Online – iPad edition. The Australian’s media writer Darren Davidson has a most amusing account of an encounter (in Cannes, no less) with the publisher of the MailOnline in Australia, Martin Clarke. It’s about a serious matter, though: News Corp is threatening to sue the Mail for allegedly plagiarizing large amounts of content from News Corp titles. Davidson reports that, after approaching the Mail executive with questions about the matter, Clarke took his iPad and walked off with it. An encounter ensued and there’s a transcript which includes Davidson saying, “Martin, why have you stolen my iPad?”, and “Okay, I’ve been physically assaulted again by a representative from the Mail Online.” Davidson also claims associates of Clarke poured beer over him. The full story’s at The Oz. 8. Here’s why you hate your job. The fact you don’t like your boss might be a given, and it’s way down this list which includes 16 other reasons why your commute seems filled with unhappy strangers. This Quora thread sounds depressing, but it’s actually a great self-evaluation tool that might be the kickstart you’ve been looking for. 9. England’s loss. Poor old England are on the verge of being knocked out of the World Cup after a 2-1 loss to Uruguay this morning, which featured two incredible misses from Wayne Rooney. They can still make it through to the next round – if Italy beat Costa Rica and Uruguay, and if England beat Costa Rica by at least two goals. Nate Silver gives it a 3.5% chance of happening. 10. Be a millionaire shouting at a screen. The world’s most popular YouTuber is Felix Kjellberg, the Swede better known as PewDiePie online (no, me neither). He makes a staggering $4 million a year from his YouTube channel, which is mainly him playing video games with some comedy commentary. Here’s a montage that gives a flavor of what he’s up to. Have a smashing weekend. I’m on Twitter: @colgo This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Trust Levels In The Wealth Management Industry Spiked In 2014 (Capegemini/RBC Wealth Management)  The trust of high net worth individuals (HNWI) in wealth managers climbed 13.5 percentage points to 74.7% in Q1 2014, according to the latest World Wealth Report from Capegemini and RBC Wealth Management. Trust levels in firms climbed 15 points to 76.4%. "European HNWIs were a big driver behind the overall increase in trust, registering a 17.8 point increase in trust in financial markets and a 19.2 point increase for regulators," according to the report.  Capegemini/RBC With One Word, Janet Yellen Torpedoed A Key Catalyst For Market Volatility (Business Insider)  Following the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) announcement yesterday, Fed chair Janet Yellen said recent inflation data has been noisy. Morgan Stanley's Matthew Hornbach called that the "biggest surprise of the FOMC press conference." That characterization of inflation served to negate the market-moving ability of the data point. And Wall Street has clearly been bored by low volatility.  "The Fed’s characterization of recent inflation readings as “noisy” and the preponderance of evidence to the contrary leave us feeling as if the Fed is likely to dismiss most economic data deviations from slower-moving trend processes," said Hornbach. "Under the “dismissive” framework, implied market volatility should increase less for a given economic surprise than under our previous framework – a “reactive” framework based on the idea that the Fed would be more data dependent. As a result, we turn neutral on implied volatility." Merrill Vet Heads To Cantor Fitzgerald To Help Grow Wealth Management (Business Insider)  Cantor Fitzgerald Wealth Partners has hired Scott Hotham from Merrill Lynch to help grow its wealth management business. Hotham had was managing director and head of institutional client solutions and strategy at Merrill Lynch. Prior to that, Hotham was regional managing director of the South Atlantic Region at Merrill overseeing 1,400 employees across six states. "As we continue to expand, Scott and other seasoned professionals who are joining our platform add tremendous value to our clients, strengthen our ability to attract other talented advisors, and expand our breadth of services," Stan Gregor, CEO of Cantor Fitzgerald Wealth Partners said in a press release. What The Fed's Latest Outlook Means For Investors (BlackRock Blog) On Wednesday, it was revealed that mean expectations for the benchmark Fed funds rate see it at 1.2% by the end of 2015, and 2.5% by the end of 2016. The longer-term the Fed reduced its terminal target Fed funds rate projection to 3.75%. But what does all this mean for investors? "An investor can think of the federal funds rate and QE as a gas pedal," writes Matthew Tucker in a piece for BlackRock Blog. "…We still don’t expect the Fed to hit the brakes and push the fed funds rate above the “longer run policy rate”; instead we expect continued declining acceleration." Citing his colleague Rick Rieder, Tucker points out that this outlook offers two key opportunities for investors. 1. "Long-end municipals in the U.S. Munis took a considerable hit a year ago when interest rates rose sharply, but have gained momentum in the past two quarters as interest rates have declined and sentiment has improved; we believe there is value to be found here as a source of income in a continued yield challenge environment."2. "The housing sector continues to improve, and while its recovery has slowed recently, we believe the upward trend will continue.  The continued low level of market volatility is also good for MBS performance." The Only Short-Term Strategy That Makes Sense In The Current Market (The Wall Street Journal) This is a difficult time for advisors helping their investor search for yield. "The longer the duration of the bond, the greater the risk that its value will decline," writes Hugh Lamle, president of M.D. Sass Investors Services, in a WSJ column. "Short-term bonds are less susceptible to that risk, but consequently, their yields tend to be very low." But he does argue that mortgage-backed securities are an exception.   "Currently, these securities yield around 1.85% to their weighted average duration, almost twice that of comparable securities that are not U. S. government mortgage-backed issues," he writes. "What's more, mortgage-backed securities pay monthly interest which means they're generating cash that you can frequently reinvest monthly at potentially higher rates when and as they eventually rise. The ability to redeploy that cash into higher-yielding bonds helps protect against the potential damage done by rising interest rates. Given those advantages, it is just about the only short-term strategy in today's market that really makes sense." FREE AppDownload
Robert Johnson for Business InsiderReally expensive and worryingly empty. That's what we thought about Atlantic City's Revel Casino Hotel when we visited in February 2014. It was not a good combination. Now, the megacasino has filed for bankruptcy, the second time it has done so in the past two years. Revel is reportedly telling employees it will shut down this summer if it doesn't find a buyer. The complex cost $2.6 billion to build and is New Jersey's second-tallest building. It opened in April 2012, but 11 months later was forced to file for bankruptcy. We photographed the beautiful interior of the casino while reflecting on how it and the rest of Atlantic City fell on hard times.
It can be counterintuitive to hear about labor shortages even as the national unemployment rate remains elevated. The issue behind this is the skills gap. In other words, those available to work don't have the skills for the open jobs. "According to the Conference Board’s Help Wanted Online Data Series, employers are having the most difficulty filling professional occupations," note Wells Fargo's Anika Khan, Michael Brown, and Blaire Zachary. "For professionals, there is about only one unemployed worker for each online ad, and for occupations like computer and mathematics, medical professionals, architects and engineers, there is a clear shortage of workers with the ratio barely above zero. "Although labor demand, as measured by online ads, is split fairly even between professional and services/production ads, about 80 percent of unemployed workers seeking employment online are looking for services/production occupations. Currently, there are more than four unemployed workers for each vacancy in services/production fields. The ratio is much higher for construction and grounds maintenance workers at 6.7 and 5.8 unemployed workers for every job ad, respectively." According to the data, the category with the biggest supply/demand imbalance is Farming, Fishing, and Forestry. Wells Fargo FREE AppDownload
lincolnman65/flickr Revel, the Atlantic City mega-casino, has filed for bankruptcy — the second time it's done so in the past two years, Bloomberg reports.  Revel cost $2.6 billion to develop and is New Jersey's second-tallest building.  It opened in April 2012, but 11 months later was forced to file for bankruptcy. The development posted an operating loss of $21.7 million in the first quarter of 2014. Earlier today the AP's Wayne Parry reported that Revel was telling employees it would shut down this summer if it didn't find a buyer. Parry cited a letter being circulated among the staff's workers.  Bloomberg's Christopher Palmeri reported in November that Atlantic City had seen casino revenue shrink 40% since 2007 thanks to a confluence of negative factors, including regional competition, Hurricane Sandy, and the wider U.S. slowdown. Revel's neighbor, the project formerly called the Atlantic City Hilton, filed for bankruptcy protection last winter. New Jersey plunged at least $260 million to revive the project in 2011 after construction had stalled. Morgan Stanley was an original partner, having sunk $1.25 billion into the project. FREE AppDownload
Time MagazineCarl Icahn has sent a letter to the board of Family Dollar that says the company should be put up for sale immediately. Icahn disclosed the letter in a filing with the SEC.  Following the filing, and Icahn's subsequent tweet, shares of Family Dollar are up more than 2.5%. Icahn's letter apparently comes following a dinner with Family Dollar CEO Howard Levine. Icahn wrote that following the discussion at dinner, "it was apparent that we have a strong difference of opinion as to the future of our company." Icahn previously disclosed a 9.4% stake in the discount retailer earlier this month.  Following disclosure of Icahn's initial stake, shares of Family Dollar surged about 10%.  Fox Business News' Charlie Gasparino reported after Icahn's initial stake, that Icahn would push for "some kind of merger" of the company, with Dollar General a possible partner for Family Dollar.  Here's Icahn's full letter:  June 19, 2014 Mr. Howard LevineFamily Dollar Stores, Inc.10401 Monroe RoadMatthews, North Carolina 28105 Dear Howard: Although we appreciated the cordial nature of our discussion at last night’s dinner, it was apparent that we have a strong difference of opinion as to the future of our company. Family Dollar has consistently underperformed its peers on most, if not all, operating metrics (same store sales, total revenue growth, sales per store, sales per square foot, operating margins, capital structure efficiency, etc.) and faces growing competition. In addition, the company’s shares have underperformed not only the shares of its peers but also the S&amp;P 500 index over the last 1-year and 3-year periods. But perhaps more importantly, we believe that for a number of reasons we discussed last night it is imperative that Family Dollar be put up for sale immediately. We believe there would be significant interest from strategic and financial buyers who could recognize massive synergies from an acquisition of the company. And it is clear that now is a perfect time to sell, given the advantageous stock market and interest rate environment. We also believe, based on the makeup of Family Dollar’s shareholder base as well as the precipitous rise in the market value of the company’s shares after we announced our position, that an overwhelming majority of the company’s shareholders would be in favor of a sale. Consolidation in this space is inevitable and we believe that now is not the time for continued passivity. We believe the company has been in limbo for far too long. As we mentioned to you last night, we would like to work in a friendly and collaborative manner with you and, in order to effectuate this, we believe that three of our representatives should be added to the company’s board of directors immediately. We would expect that these individuals become part of a newly formed board committee that would be tasked with immediately beginning a process to approach the most likely buyers of the company. Our experience and competence in this arena should be obvious to all. However, we don’t believe there is any time to waste and don’t wish to wait until the next annual meeting. Therefore, if we cannot achieve this collaboratively, we intend to take this matter directly to shareholders by commencing a written consent solicitation within the next few weeks to remove all of the members of Family Dollar’s board of directors and replace them with individuals that will have a shareholder mandate to sell the company. Bringing our proposal for an immediate sale of Family Dollar directly to stockholders will allow them to evaluate the merits of our suggestion and permit them a say in the future of their company, an approach that all responsible fiduciaries should support. Nevertheless, we view that as a last resort. We welcome an opportunity to engage directly with you and your financial and legal advisors to discuss constructively the merits of our ideas. But time is of the essence. We hope to hear from you shortly. Finally, Family Dollar’s bylaws purport to require that any stockholder’s notice with respect to an intent to make a nomination of any person for election as a director of the company through a written consent solicitation must include “a completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement” to furnish certain information to the company. Because we are considering a written consent solicitation, we hereby request this form of questionnaire, representation and agreement. Kindly forward the same, as promptly as possible, to Mr. Jesse A. Lynn, Assistant General Counsel, Icahn Enterprises LP, 767 Fifth Avenue, 47th Floor, New York, New York 10153, or via electronic mail at jlynn@sfire.com. Very truly yours, Carl C. Icahn FREE AppDownload
It reported Q4 adjusted EPS of 92 cents and revenue of $11.3 billion.  Analysts were expecting 95 cents per share on $11.48 billion in revenue. So that's an all-around miss.  The stock is dropping in after-hours trading. Oracle's sales increased 3%, which is good. But analysts were expecting a healthy year-over-year nearly 5% increase in sales this quarter, which is historically Oracle's biggest as salespeople push to close deals and make their year-end quotas and bonuses. This was also its fiscal fourth quarter. For the year, Oracle reported $2.87 EPS (excluding special items) and $38.3 billion in revenue. Analysts were looking for $2.91 in earnings per share for the year on $38.45 billion in revenue. So that's another all-around miss. Last year, it also reported a miss on revenue, both for the fourth quarter and for the year, although it was spot on with profits. It reported 87 cents EPS for the quarter and $2.68 EPS for the year. It brought in $10.95 billion in revenue for the quarter and $37.18 billion for the year.  Oracle has been struggling off and on to meet revenue targets for a while now and spent much of its fiscal 2013 in cost-cutting mode, analysts told Business Insider. One analyst told us that many employees didn't get their full 2013 bonuses or any bonus at all. As for its fiscal 2014, that's been hit or miss, too, particularly on revenues. Last quarter: a miss, the quarter before that, a much-needed beat, and the previous three quarters, all misses.  Oracle declared cash dividend of $0.12. For the quarter: For the year:   Here's the press release: REDWOOD SHORES, CA -- (Marketwired) -- 06/19/14 -- Oracle Corporation (ORCL) today announced that fiscal 2014 Q4 total revenues were up 3% to $11.3 billion. Software and Cloud revenues were up 4% to $8.9 billion. GAAP Cloud software-as-a-service (SaaS) and platform-as-a-service (PaaS) revenues were up 25% to $322 million, while non-GAAP SaaS and PaaS revenues were up 23% to $327 million. In addition, Cloud infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) revenues were up 13% to $128 million. New software licenses revenues were unchanged at $3.8 billion. Software license updates and product support revenues were up 7% to $4.7 billion. Overall hardware systems revenues were up 2% to $1.5 billion with hardware systems products up 2% to $870 million, and hardware systems support up 2% to $596 million. In Q4, both GAAP and non-GAAP earnings per share were lowered by $0.02 due to a non-operating loss caused by exchange rate changes in Venezuela. Furthermore, last year's Q4 GAAP earnings per share increased $0.04 because of a $269 million acquisition price reduction. As a result of these two factors, Q4 GAAP earnings per share were unchanged at $0.80 compared with last year, while GAAP net income was down 4% to $3.6 billion, and GAAP operating income was down 2% to $4.9 billion. Q4 GAAP operating margin was 43% in the quarter. Non-GAAP earnings per share were up 6% to $0.92, but would have been $0.94 if not for the currency loss in Venezuela. Non-GAAP net income was up 2% to $4.2 billion while non-GAAP operating income was up 3% to $5.8 billion. The non-GAAP operating margin was 51%. GAAP operating cash flow on a trailing twelve-month basis was $14.9 billion. For fiscal year 2014, total revenues were up 3% at $38.3 billion. GAAP Software and Cloud revenues were up 5%. GAAP Cloud SaaS and PaaS revenues were up 23% to $1.1 billion while Cloud IaaS revenues were $456 million. New software licenses revenues were unchanged at $9.4 billion while software license updates and product support revenues were up 6% to $18.2 billion. Total hardware system revenues were flat at $5.4 billion. GAAP operating income was up 1% to $14.8 billion, and GAAP operating margin was 39%. Non-GAAP operating income was up 3% to $18.1 billion, and non-GAAP operating margin was 47%. GAAP net income was unchanged at $11.0 billion, while non-GAAP net income was up 2% to $13.2 billion. GAAP earnings per share were $2.38, up 5% compared to last year while non-GAAP earnings per share were $2.87, up 7%. "Our cloud subscription business is now approaching a run rate of $2 billion a year," said Oracle President and CFO Safra Catz. "As our business has transitioned, more software revenues are being recognized over the life of a subscription rather than upfront. We're making this transition to cloud subscriptions and ratable revenue recognition while continuously increasing our top-line revenue and our bottom-line profits year-after-year." "We have transformed Sun's commodity hardware business into a profitable and growing Engineered Systems business," said Oracle President Mark Hurd. "Our overall hardware business grew 2% in constant currency this past year. We saw record levels of Engineered Systems shipments and expect to deliver our 10,000th unit in Q1." "Oracle is now the second largest SaaS company in the world,&amp;quot; said Oracle CEO Larry Ellison. "In SaaS, we're in front of everybody but salesforce.com. In IaaS we're larger and more profitable than Rackspace. We have by far the most complete portfolio of modern SaaS and PaaS products in the industry: CRM: Sales, Service &amp; Marketing; HCM: HR, Payroll &amp; Talent; ERP: Accounting, Procurement, Supply Chain &amp; more. All these SaaS products run on the world's most powerful PaaS: the Oracle in-memory multitenant database and Java. We plan to increase our focus on the Cloud and become number one in both the SaaS and the PaaS businesses.&amp;quot; The Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.12 per share of outstanding common stock. This dividend will be paid to stockholders of record as of the close of business on July 9, 2014, with a payment date of July 30, 2014.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mohamed AlhwaityMen watch the 2014 World Cup Group B soccer match between the Netherlands and Australia on a laptop, at a camel market in Daba near Tabuk. Stocks were little changed after yesterday's rally following the latest Fed meeting. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: Don't Miss: Actually, There Is One Last Thing To Debate About The Great American Shale Boom » FREE AppDownload
LiveLeakNorway is going to ban begging. NewsinEnglish.no reports a majority has been formed to pass a bill that would allow municipalities to impose their own begging bans starting this summer, and a nationwide ban could come sometime next year. A similar ban had been repealed in 2005. Supporters of the campaign say they will attempt to focus public resources on more targeted ways to assist the country's impoverished, such as providing further assistance to drug addicts and expanding public housing. A recent poll showed two-thirds of Norwegians support the criminalisation of begging, the FT's Richard Milne said. At $100,000, the country has one of the world's highest per capita GDP levels.  Critics say the proposal is a backdoor-ban on the country's Roma population, which comprise a large portion of the country's panhandlers. “It is very discouraging that the first issue the [governing parties] break with [coalition members] over is of such a shameful unsociable character,” Iselin Nybø of the country's Liberal Party said. “I am also very disappointed that [the Central Party] sets up to treat the weakest in this way.” The fate of the Roma has become a "question" in much of Europe, which is usually a really bad sign. There are about 11 million on the continent, still mostly concentrated in south-central Europe but with large populations in Spain and France.  The French government has proven among the most aggressive in targeting its Roma population — it just convicted 26 on charges of running a robbery syndicate, and the interior minister recently caused controversy by arguing only "a minority" of Roma would ever be capable of integrating into French society. As the New York Times' Dan Bilefsky reported recently, a large chunk of undocumented Roma "live in squalid encampments on the outskirts of French cities."  Debate over integrating Roma has been around for decades. The greatest successes have come in Spain Bilefsky notes: Of its 750,000 Roma, nearly half are under 25. But almost all finish primary school, although a much smaller percentage complete high school. Spanish Roma living in substandard housing has fallen to 12% from approximately 75% in 1978. "Isidro Rodriguez, the foundation’s director, cited access to free education, health care and social housing following the anti-Roma repression of the Franco years," Bilefsky wrote. (First spotted on the FT.) FREE AppDownload
The countries that are home to the most millionaires are also producing large numbers of new millionaires, according to the latest annual World Wealth Report from Capgemini and RBC Wealth Management. Nearly 2 million people around the world joined the ranks of high-net-worth individuals in 2013, according to the report. High-net-worth individuals (HNWIs) are people with investable assets of $1 million or more, excluding their primary residence and collectibles. The U.S. and Japan, which were already home to nearly half of the world's HNWI population, accounted for 55% of the HNWI population growth in 2013. And the top four markets — the U.S., Japan, Germany, and China — accounted for nearly 70% of HNWI population growth in 2013. World Wealth Report 2014 Some other note able takeaways from the above graph: See the full report here. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA trader on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange rubs his temples July 29, 1999 as stocks plunged after economic data showed a steep rise in wage costs and intensified speculation the Federal reserve may again raise interest rates. In late afternoon trading the Dow Jones industrial average was off 216.56 points at 10,755.51.Stress on Wall Street is nowhere to be found. The St. Louis Fed today announced that its Financial Stress Index fell to an all-time low for the second time in three weeks. The index is based on 18 data series, which include interest rates and the spread between certain interest rate-sensitive securities or benchmarks.  A reading of 0 represents normal financial market conditions. The index, measured on a weekly basis, dates back to 1993. Here's what it looks like in chart form. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis This reading is just the latest in a series of indicators showing how and why things are so quiet in the market. And this trend does not appear to be going away. Last night, the VIX hit a new low for the year. We recently chronicled why volatility is down here.  Yesterday, the Federal Reserve held steady on monetary policy, and now the economy looks primed for a rebound in the second half of the year. Here we go.  FREE AppDownload
What do you do if you're a billionaire who wants to change apartments without leaving your building? Well, you simply buy the duplex downstairs.  That's just what Israel "Izzy" Englander, founder of the hedge fund Millennium Partners, reportedly did at New York City's swanky 740 Park Avenue, according to Paris Match (via Curbed). The billionaire purchased the apartment from the country of France, which was once used by the French ambassador, for $70 million, a whopping $22 million over the asking price. A three-way bidding war pushed up the apartment's price, Curbed reports.  Features of the palatial home include hardwood flooring, high ceilings, classic moldings, five fireplaces, and a small planting terrace. Among the 18 rooms, six are staff and maids' rooms, with a servants' hall and a two-bedroom master suite.  Let's see for ourselves:  This is 740 Park Avenue, one of Manhattan's most famous and powerful buildings. Located on the 12th and 13th floors, the apartment has an astounding 18 rooms with 38 windows. Google mapsA private elevator vestibule opens to a 35-foot marble gallery and the staircase leading to the second floor.Sotheby'sOff the gallery is a baronial corner living room. The yellow accents offset the formal furniture.Sotheby's And if you step through the living room, you enter what looks like could be part of the library.Sotheby'sOn the same floor room is the 10-person dining room with large windows and a fireplace.Sotheby'sThere's also a study, complete with old-world paintings, wallpaper, and a fireplace.Sotheby'sHere's the floor plan: Street Easy FREE AppDownload
screenshotFelix Kjellberg, the Swedish YouTube phenom better known as PewDiePie, is making roughly $4 million a year in ad sales, according to a profile of the internet star in The Wall Street Journal. Most of Kjellberg's earnings are reportedly straight profit, coming from more than 27.8 million subscribers to his YouTube channel. Last year, Kjellberg's PewDiePie channel became the most watched on Google's online video service, passing up internet sensations such as One Direction and Miley Cyrus. And since last July, he has tripled his number of subscribers. Kjellberg is best known for posting videos of himself playing certain video games while narrating to the viewer. Kjellberg first created the channel in August 2009. PewDiePie is a partner with and the top brand name of Maker studios, which sold itself to Walt Disney in a March deal that could eventually be worth nearly $1 billion.  Kjellberg has said that his videos are encouraging developers to create games that others would enjoy watching. "It's cool to have this kind of influence, but at the same time it's kind of scary," Kjellberg said. Kjellberg attended college in Gothenburg, Sweden, but dropped out and sold hot dogs to get by. The original name for his YouTube account was PewDie, which is a combination of the "pew" sound of a laser gun and "die" for death. But, after losing an account password, he needed a new name, and decided to add "Pie" to the end of his name. His most popular video, "A Funny Montage," has gotten more than 51 million views since it was posted June 4, 2013. (Warning: explicit language)  FREE AppDownload
Facebook/The Full SchillingNew York City's Financial District is the economic center of the entire U.S. But the area is a hidden gem when it comes to bars, pubs, and brew houses. We set out to find the coolest watering holes by reading Yelp reviews, surveying FiDi locals, and checking the places out on our own. From the Full Shilling on Pearl Street to Beckett's on Stone Street, here are the best places to drink in the Financial District. FREE AppDownload
OECDRising inequality is one of the hottest topics up for debate, especially following the success of French economist Thomas Piketty's book "Capital in the 21st Century." The OECD is out with a new report on rising income inequality. The key finding that stands out, is that the risk of poverty has shifted from the elderly, those over the age of 65, to young adults, those between the ages of 18 and 25. Here are the key takeaways from the report: FREE AppDownload
PIMCO's Bill Gross stepped to the podium at Morningstar's annual investor conference in Chicago Wednesday. And according to people tweeting from the event, as soon as he did so, it got weird. First, Gross walked up in stunners and to a cheesy cover of "Smooth" by Carlos Santana and Rob Thomas (put your headphones on to hear).  Bill Gross sporting some fun shades for his #MICUS session. pic.twitter.com/iX3OyHSbUC He looks like Mr. Smith from "The Matrix" RT @MStarScottBurns: @PIMCO Gross comes out in sunglasses! #MICUS pic.twitter.com/Ffh8bBFa9c Bill Gross jokes he wants to pull a "manchurian candidate" on reporters, hypnotizing them about him being a good guy #MICUS @PIMCO Bill Gross tells reporters to repeat after him "Bill Gross is the kindest, bravest, warmest most wonderful human being you've met" And he also called himself the Justin Bieber of bonds. .@pimco's bill gross just called himself the @justinbieber of bonds. fyi. For all that, he also said this: Bill Gross: "I've never been happier at work." #MICUS But WSJ's Scott Patterson probably summed this situation up best. Something weird is going on with Bill Gross FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerTribal fighters and members of Iraqi security forces carry their weapons as they take part in an intensive security deployment on the outskirts of Diyala province June 14, 2014.  Stocks are lower and the price of gold and oil are higher as the situation in Iraq remains unstable. The Dow is down 38 points, the S&amp;P 500 is down 3 points, and the Nasdaq is down 20 points. Gold is trading above $1300 an ounce, more than 2% higher than yesterday, and Brent crude oil is just below $115 a barrel. President Obama spoke this afternoon regarding the situation in Iraq. Earlier today, weekly jobless claims were reported at 312,000, roughly in-line with expectations.  The Philly Fed's June business outlook survey came in at 17.8, blowing away expectations for a 14.0 reading. The report also showed that more than 70% of respondents expect an increase in production in the second half of the year.  In corporate news, shares of BlackBerry are rallying after the smartphone maker reported earnings that crushed expectations.  T-Mobile shares are up about 0.6% after the company last night announced it would let users rent an iPhone 5s for free for a week. T-Mobile CEO John Legere then went off on a profanity-laced tirade against AT&amp;T and Verizon  FREE AppDownload
Toni Rodriguez delivers envelopes and packages for Mess Kollective around New York City by bicycle. With a customer option titled "The Scary Fast," one can imagine how interesting things become on the streets.   Produced by Justin Gmoser Follow BI Video: On Facebook 
"The Fifth Estate"Julian Assange as portrayed by actor Benedict CumberbatchWikiLeaks' latest leaked document is the secret draft text for the Trade in Services Agreement (TISA) Financial Services Annex.  TISA is a global trade agreement that covers 50 countries and 68.2% of world trade in services, according to WikiLeaks.  The organization said in a press release that, "Despite the failures in financial regulation evident during the 2007-2008 Global Financial Crisis and calls for improvement of relevant regulatory structures, proponents of TISA aim for further deregulate global financial services markets." Current World Trade Organization parties negotiating TISA include, the U.S., Japan, Australia, and the European Union's 28 member states. A preliminary analysis of the leaked financial services chapter of TISA written for WikiLeaks by Jane Kelsey, a Law Professor at the University of Auckland in New Zealand, argues that the financial industry has captured global rule making. Kelsey writes that, "TISA is designed for and in close consultation with the global finance industry, whose greed and recklessness has been blamed for successive crises and who continue to capture rule making in global institutions." Kelsey also argues that the leaked draft shows governments signing on to TISA will be expected to extend current levels of financial deregulation, face pressure to authorize potentially toxic insurance products, and risk a legal challenge if they adopt measures to preventing or responding to another crisis. The full draft of TISA has not been released, and Kelsey notes that without the full text and background documents any analysis is necessarily tentative.  The draft text leaked today comes from the April round of negotiations, the sixth negotiation round held since the first meeting in April 2013.  The next round of negotiations will take place later this month in Geneva. FREE AppDownload
Photography by Michael McNamara/Shooting LAAlmost everyone wants a home on the water.In its annual Luxury Lifestyle Report, Sotheby’s International Realty breaks down what’s important to wealthy real estate buyers. When it came to amenities, Sotheby’s International Realty brokers said the number of clients who wanted a home with “smart amenities” has increased drastically over the last two years. These include appliances, lighting, entertainment systems, security, and more that can be controlled remotely from anywhere in the world. China’s wealthy real estate investors also valued space to display their massive art collections, while U.S. buyers were mostly interested in having a multi-car collector’s garage, according to the report. Courtesy of Sotheby's Luxury Lifestyle ReportBut location was definitely the top priority for luxury buyers around the world, with 71% of respondents telling Sotheby’s International Realty they would pay more for the home's location over its size, historic significance, or previous (famous) owners. And where do the 1% around the world want to live? Anywhere close to the water. Luxury buyers in the U.S., Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Sweden, Switzerland, the U.K., Brazil, Hong Kong, Japan, Thailand, China, Australia, New Zealand, as well as those in Caribbean and Central America all searched predominantly for waterfront properties on sothebysrealty.com. But high-end buyers from Spain, Venezuela, and Mexico were all more likely to look for mountain mansions. Russia was a major outlier, with its wealthy residents searching for countryside properties 83% of the time. The survey was sent to Sotheby’s International Realty's affluent consumers over 25 years old all over the world, from the U.S. to China, between January 28 and February 18, 2014. Search data came from sothebysrealty.com using Google Website Analytics between January 1, 2013 and January 1, 2014. You can read more about the methodology here. FREE AppDownload
Pratt & Whitney If you take a quick perusal of the latest Philadelphia Fed survey of business conditions, you can't escape the conclusion: This is happening. And by this, we mean the above-trend economic acceleration we've been craving for a long time. Here's the headline summary of what businesses reported seeing: Manufacturing firms responding to the June Business Outlook Survey indicated that regional manufacturing activity expanded this month. The survey's indicators for general activity, new orders, and shipments were positive for the fourth consecutive month and improved from their readings in May. Current employment was also higher among the reporting firms this month. The survey's indicators of future activity improved notably, suggesting that firms are more optimistic about continued growth over the next six months. Today's survey is not the only sign that things are on the mend. On Monday, a survey from the New York Fed had similar conclusions. And in fact the "New Orders" index for manufacturers surged to its highest level in four years. Empire Fed Meanwhile, there's evidence that credit creation is really starting to kick into a higher gear, which is absolutely crucial for sustainable economic momentum. Here's a look at the year-over-year growth in loans and leases at commercial banks. This number has been on a solid uptrend all year. FRED A couple of weeks ago, when we first started getting economic data for the spring, we declared that the moment of truth for the economy was right now. You see, the economic data for May was quite solid, but in and of itself, it didn't prove that the economy was reaccelerating. Why? Because May might have just reflected pent-up demand from the weak, cold-weather depressed winter. But now we're getting June numbers, and they remain quite solid. It looks like this is the real deal. FREE AppDownload
"Mean Girls"LONDON (Reuters) - British investigators are examining millions of electronic messages which include fresh evidence of possible collusion by a small group of top currency traders, sources say. The investigators have been handed chatroom transcripts showing senior dealers at the big banks that dominate the largely unregulated foreign exchange market routinely sharing intelligence on orders they were about to place for clients. The traders pooled order details from hedge funds and discussed the prices they should be offered, said the sources, who have seen some of the messages at the centre of an international probe into alleged collusion in world foreign exchange markets. In a chatroom transcript from April 2012, two traders discussed the "spread" that should be given to a certain hedge fund. The fund wanted a spread of five basis points on its foreign exchange order, but the first trader offered a spread of six. A wider spread is effectively a less advantageous price to the customer, in this case the hedge fund, and a more attractive price to the market-making bank.     "I don't like this guy, as he's asking two or three banks at the same time," said the second trader in the chat, according to a person familiar with the contents of the transcript.     "I'd show 6 to good guys but guys like that I'm going to show 7 in future," the trader added.     The first trader then decided to quote a spread of 7 basis points, said the person familiar with the transcript.     Reuters didn't see the confidential transcripts, read verbatim to Reuters by one source. The Financial Conduct Authority, the main British regulator, and the Alternative Investment Management Association, an umbrella group representing the global hedge fund industry, declined to comment. Any evidence of collusion would be another blow to some of the world's largest banks, already hit by big fines and new regulations in the wake of world financial meltdown five years ago. The latest estimates by banking sector analysts of likely fines for such anti-competitive practices in the currency market now far exceed the $6 billion levied to date in the Libor interest rate rigging scandal – some by up to six times. Although the laissez-faire nature of currency markets means criminal laws may not have been broken, several U.S. civil lawsuits have already been filed alleging collusion that allowed banks to profit at the expense of their customers. The anti-trust division of the U.S. Department of Justice has also said it is investigating collusion. The chatroom transcripts from 2011 and 2012, which are in the hands of the FCA, are between three senior traders at three of the world's largest FX banks. All three traders have since been sanctioned to one extent or another by their banks, sources have told Reuters. Between them the three banks account for around 30 percent of the $5.3 trillion global daily average turnover, according to Euromoney magazine. The three banks declined to comment. The traders either declined to comment or could not be reached. The traders, although ostensibly competitors with each other, united against certain hedge funds because they felt the need to "protect themselves against the hedge funds' aggressive trading strategy which abused liquidity," according to one source. European Union laws due to come into force in 2016 will make manipulation of the currency rates a criminal offence, with jail terms of up to four years. Britain plans to follow with suit with its own statutory regulation. The investigation into the traders involves the DoJ and FCA and around a dozen authorities and regulators around the world. They are focusing on trading activity around the afternoon "London fix", where the market agrees on one daily price despite the fact dealing is continuous worldwide around the clock, rather than on regulated exchanges.   Some 40 FX employees at many of the world's biggest banks have been placed on leave, suspended or fired as part of the global investigation - including one employee at the Bank of England - although no individual or institution has been accused of any wrongdoing. The market has agreed that the prevailing exchange rate at 4 p.m. in London for around 160 currency pairs will serve as a global benchmark to be used by a range of players who need access to foreign currency. The WM/Reuters fix is compiled using data from Thomson Reuters and other providers, and calculated by WM Company, a unit of State Street Corp. Thomson Reuters is one of the various distributors of the rate. Thomson Reuters is the parent company of Reuters News, which is not involved in the fixing process. FREE AppDownload
Broadview NetworksThe graphic above shows the largest company by revenue in every state. Created by Mike Simmons in collaboration with Broadview Networks, the map drew information from Hoover's — a Dun &amp; Bradstreet company — database of company profiles. The site updates information based on figures available from the most recent fiscal year. Simmons based decisions for each state off company headquarters and excluded any subsidiaries or government agencies as well as companies with foreign offices. Some of the top companies make perfect sense, like Exxon in Texas, with $438.3 billion in revenue; General Motors in Michigan, $155.4 billion; and Wal-Mart in Arkansas, $476.3 billion. Others, however, deliver a shock. You might think Microsoft or Boeing reigns in Washington, but a look at the data reveals that Costco, with $105.1 billion in revenue, actually comes out on top.  These states, as some of the biggest in the country, naturally house many of the companies with the most revenue, too. Visit Hoover's and use the filers at the bottom to check the top companies in your state.
This is not going to be tidy. Yes, Argentina has said that it is willing to negotiate with a group of hedge fund managers that have been suing the country for full payment on Argentine bonds dating back to the country's last financial collapse in 2001.  With interest, it's about $1.7 billion. And yes, the two parties — NML (the hedge funds) and Argentina — met yesterday in the office of Judge Thomas Griesa, the judge whose order that Argentina pay the hedge fund managers in full was essentially upheld by the Supreme Court on Monday. But there are still a few very ugly loose ends to tie up here. One of them being the little matter of a $907 million payment due June 30th that Argentina owes exchange bondholders, the 92% of investors holding these bonds who did take a haircut on the same debt that NML owns. Because Judge Griesa lifted the stay on payment put in place during Argentina's appeal to the Supreme Court, that payment calendar is back in motion. And Argentina needs to figure something out as soon as possible, for according to Judge Griesa's order, it cannot pay exchange bondholders without paying the holdouts as well. That means there needs to be some fast talking, but Jorge Capitanich, the head of Argentina's cabinet, has said the country will not send a delegation to New York City to negotiate. On that news, Argentine bonds reversed the gains they made Wednesday on the news that the country would negotiate. Perhaps this is what Judge Griesa was talking about when he said at the meeting: "Really a promise of good faith from Argentina gives me little confidence that the country will make its payments." He also said that President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner's fiery language regarding the "vulture" funds does not help matters either. So what are Argentina's options? (Aside from changing the jurisdiction of the bonds from the U.S. to Argentina, a cockamamie scheme concocted by Finance Minsiter Axel Kicillof that Griesa shot down yesterday.) UNC Law Professor Mark C. Weidemaier wrote an excellent post about it on the legal blog, Credit Slips. We'll bullet the options he outlined below: Another option that Weidemaier didn't point out, but is always implicit in this story, is that Argentina can also decide to defy the Court and potentially set off another bomb in its own economy. What the professor did say is that the best thing the country can do is try to find a way to keep the stay going and buy more time to come up with a plan. But who knows if Judge Griesa is down for that. (Likely, he's not.) What we do know is that Argentina has $28 billion in its Central Bank right now. That's it. If it manages to show international markets that it is negotiating in good faith, it can likely raise more money by issuing new bonds. Right now it can't, uncertainty over this case has made that impossible. Like one Argentine bond trader told Business Insider — "the disaster window is always open." Keep that in mind. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/ Eugene GologurskyDeeb A. Salem and Lauren C. Salem.A young former Goldman Sachs trader thinks that the $8.25 million bonus the bank awarded him was too low, Bloomberg News reports. Deeb Amin Salem, a 35-year-old star mortgage trader, told his mom he was expecting $13 million for his 2010 bonus, the report said citing Financial Industry Regulatory Authority arbitration documents. Instead, he got $8.25 million.  The year before, Salem was paid a $15 million bonus. That was more than Goldman CEO Lloyd Blankfein took home for his 2009 bonus, Bloomberg pointed out. According to the report, Salem thought he was being punished for what he wrote in his 2007 self-evaluation. His review was made public back in 2011 by a U.S. Senate panel. Here's what he wrote about what he did well during the mortgage meltdown:  "In May, while we were remain[ing] as negative as ever on the fundamentals in sub-prime, the market was trading VERY SHORT, and susceptible to a squeeze. We began to encourage this squeeze, with plans of getting very short again, after the short squeezed [sic] cause[d] capitulation of these shorts. This strategy seemed do-able and brilliant, but once the negative fundamental news kept coming in at a tremendous rate, we stopped waiting for the shorts to capitulate, and instead just reinitiated shorts ourselves immediately." Salem joined Goldman in 2001 after graduating from Princeton. While at Goldman, he became the head trader in the structured product group and led that desk during the mortgage crisis. According to Bloomberg News, a $3 million bonus for his 2011 performance is what caused him to leave for a hedge fund in 2012. He's currently working as a portfolio manager for GoldenTree Asset Management.  A spokesperson for Goldman told Bloomberg News that Salem's claims are "utterly ridiculous."  Salem's claims were recently rejected by a FINRA panel. His attorney has just filed a petition in New York State Supreme Court. Salem is seeking $16.5 million from the bank ($9.5 million and about 41,000 shares in deferred compensation), the report said.  FREE AppDownload
ABC News American Apparel has ousted founder and CEO Dov Charney.  Charney's firing stemmed from ongoing allegations of misconduct, the company said in a statement.  But parting ways with Charney, who is the top shareholder at his company, won't be easy, said Eric Beder, analyst at Brean Capital.  "It's an awkward situation to get rid of your CEO when he owns more than a quarter of the company," Beder told Business Insider. "The new CEO will have to sort out that situation."  Charney will still have considerable say in company decisions like hiring executives and board members until he sells his shares, Beder said.  When reached by phone, Charney declined to comment.  While the company hasn't commented on the allegations that led to Charney's departure, analysts don't believe it had to do with his performance.  Earlier this year, the company faced being delisted from the Nasdaq. Despite financial woes, Charney had begun to turn around the business, and fundamentals were solid, Beder said.  "If this were business-related, it would have happened sooner," Beder said.  It's also unlikely that Charney is leaving the company over money. From the beginning, he has insisted on making clothes in the United States, foregoing the profits he could have made by taking his business overseas. Charney has faced repeated sexual harassment allegations, but the vast majority were found to be bogus.  Beder expects the details of Charney's firing to be made public in the coming weeks.  "I would be shocked if this doesn't go to some court, meaning we'll find out what happened," Beder said.   The company culture at American Apparel, which uses sexy marketing to sell high-quality basics made in Los Angeles, will probably remain the same, according to Beder.  "The company still has a big cult following despite everything its gone through, and it understands customers," Beder said. "The future is pretty bright." FREE AppDownload
Business Insider / Jillian D'OnfroAmazon's phone debuted to mixed reviews. Observers concluded — rightly, I think — that the whizzy new features and specs that Amazon created won't be impressive enough to allow Amazon to immediately grab a major chunk of the premium-smartphone market. But observers also noted — again rightly, I think — that Amazon's phone will appeal to some people and, in any event, is only the first step in what is likely to be a typically Amazonian long-term attack on the incumbent phone makers. In a couple of years, Amazon's phone(s) will likely be much cheaper, especially for members of Amazon Prime. And the company will likely be nibbling at the gargantuan profits enjoyed by the two dominant premium-smartphone makers, Apple and Samsung. But it bears noting that Amazon's phone has already solved the most annoying problem with the iPhone, at least my iPhone: The storage problem. I take a lot of pictures with my iPhone. And, for two reasons, I don't like deleting those pictures. First, I like looking at them. Second, I worry that if I delete them, I'll somehow lose them forever. Yes, I understand that "cloud storage" solves this problem, and I use cloud storage. But I don't like Apple's cloud storage, because it strikes me as expensive and because I don't want to have to pay Apple even more to be even more locked into Apple's platform than I already am.  Apple is already the most profitable company in the world. And I already pay Apple thousands of dollars every year or two to buy its gadgets. So I feel like Apple should just throw in more storage for free and not force me to use the free storage of companies like Flickr. But Apple isn't throwing in storage for free. Instead, Apple is insisting on charging me a lot of money for that storage, despite the fact that, one, Apple can totally afford to give me free storage (it's the most profitable company in the world) and that, two, free Apple storage would lock me into the Apple ecosystem for life. In other words, this seems to be another short-term-greedy decision by Apple that puts short-term profits ahead of long-term value and lock-in. For what it's worth, I am an Apple shareholder, and I don't like this choice as a shareholder, either. I would rather see Apple investing a tiny portion of its monstrous profits to make its customers happier and more locked in. I would feel much better about Apple's long-term sustainable competitive advantage if Apple did that. In short, as both an Apple shareholder and an Apple customer, I wish Apple would make the decision that Amazon just did, which is to sacrifice some near-term profit to engender long-term customer loyalty and lock-in. Apple says it cares deeply about the experience for those who use its products. So it's surprising to me that Apple would allow my daily usage of its flagship product to consist of constant notifications like this: Henry Blodget And this: Henry Blodget And this:  Henry Blodget Yes, I know that I can stop that from happening by deleting more of my photos. But I've already told you I don't like to do that. I wouldn't mind so much if I knew that the photos were being stored in the cloud by an awesome company that would never lose them. But I still don't have that confidence. And Flickr doesn't automatically story my photos right away. Anyway, Amazon has already eliminated this issue and frustration for its customers. If I get an Amazon phone, all my photos will be stored forever, for free, by a company that is really good at cloud services. No, that is not enough to make me dump my iPhone and buy an Amazon phone. I've been waiting three years for a big-screened iPhone, and I'm not going to switch platforms now when I'm on the verge of finally getting one. But this does make me think even more fondly of Amazon (of which I am also a shareholder). And it makes me wish that Apple would learn at least this one little thing from Amazon: It's worth sacrificing some near-term profit to make your customers happier and more loyal for the long term. Especially when you're already the most profitable company in the world. SEE ALSO: A Demonstration Of All The Cool New Features On Amazon's Phone Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
Bruce Bennett/Getty Images The Philadelphia Fed's June business outlook survey came in at 17.8. Expectations were for a reading of 14.0, slightly lower than May's 15.4 reading. The report said current employment was higher among reporting firms this month and the survey's indicators of future activity "improved notably." Among the report's respondents, 73.9% expected an increase in the firm's production during the second half of the year. The prices paid index increased 12 points, and has now increased 24 points over the past two months.  From the report: "The index has remained positive for four consecutive months and is at its highest reading since last September. The current new orders and shipments indexes also moved higher this month, increasing 6 points and 1 point, respectively. Indicators also suggest improved labor market conditions this month. The employment index remained positive for the 12th consecutive month and increased 4 points. The percentage of firms reporting increases in employment remained higher than the percentage reporting decreases. The workweek index was also positive for the fourth consecutive month and increased 4 points." This chart from the Philly Fed shows the index over the last twenty years. Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia More to come... FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsDuring her post-FOMC meeting press conference on Wednesday, Fed Chair Janet Yellen characterized the recent inflation data as "noisy." Morgan Stanley's Matthew Hornbach said that response was the "biggest surprise of the FOMC press conference." Hornbach attributed "the lion's share of the market reaction" to her characterization. In case you missed it, stock markets surged and volatility (as measured by the CBOE Volatility Index) collapsed. Traders and investors around the world pay close attention to quarterly, monthly, and weekly economic reports as they make their next trades. One good or bad report has the power to cause volatility to spike in the stock, bond, commodity, and currency markets. More recently, the focus has been over whether the data would alter monetary policy decisions. Recent inflation data have signaled that inflation is accelerating, an issue that was believed to encourage more hawkishness at the Fed. But Yellen simultaneously dodged the issue altogether and crushed the market-moving power of the high-frequency economic data traders love so much. "The Fed’s characterization of recent inflation readings as “noisy” and the preponderance of evidence to the contrary (see Exhibit 1) leave us feeling as if the Fed is likely to dismiss most economic data deviations from slower-moving trend processes," said Hornbach. "Under the “dismissive” framework, implied market volatility should increase less for a given economic surprise than under our previous framework – a “reactive” framework based on the idea that the Fed would be more data dependent. As a result, we turn neutral on implied volatility." Wall Street is already bored to death by the low market volatility. If Hornbach is right, then this period of low volatility could be here for a while longer. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mark Blinch  Earlier this week, venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz invested $44 million in Instacart, a grocery delivery company.  At its core, Instacart is just an app that connects people. If you want groceries, you go to Instacart, and punch in what you want. Instacart then finds someone who can pick up the groceries and deliver them to you. Instacart is the latest example of venture investors pouring money into what is being called "people marketplaces."  Uber and Lyft are the biggest, best know examples of this phenomenon. Lyft connects people looking for a ride in a car with people that own a car and are free to drive other people around. It's like a cab, but operated by non-cab drivers. Uber just raised $1.2 billion in funding. Earlier this year, Lyft raised $250 million. Then there's TaskRabbit, which gets people to do random tasks for other people. It has raised over $30 million in funding.  There are plenty of others. This sector has exploded in popularity.  All of these companies are the children of eBay, more or less. eBay allowed people to sell their stuff to other people online. In the mobile world, people are now selling themselves and their ability to deliver services and labor.  There's two reasons this trend formed.  The first is the explosion in smartphones and apps, which was driven by the iPhone. We now have little computers in our pockets that track location and deliver information instantly.  The second is that the economy remains weak. Andreessen Horowitz partner Jeff Jordan explained this on a podcast this week.  Calculated Risk"Today, you got this mobile army of underemployed people," said Jordan, who was CEO of OpenTable before joining Andreessen Horowitz. "If there was full employment, this might not be quite as interesting. The whole employment relationship between the U.S. worker and employers has changed and there are a lot of people looking for decent paying jobs.You've got a bunch of potential people who want to earn money all with mobile phones." So, in a way, Wall Street kick started this trend. It was Wall Street that inflated the housing bubble, which then burst, which sank the U.S. economy. The economy remains weak from an employment perspective. The people in search of work have given up on trying to get traditional jobs, and are now pursuing alternative employment options like what Uber, Lyft, Instacart, TaskRabbit, etc. offer. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS / Samantha SaisA hedge fund was hacked in a complex attack that hampered the firm's trading strategy and send information about its trades to offsite computers, according to a report by CNBC's Eamon Javers. The report, which doesn't name the hedge fund, said the attack was thwarted by technicians at BAE Systems Applied Intelligence. The attacked firm is a client of BAE. The attack had not been previously disclosed. From CNBC:  "Paul Henninger, global product director at BAE Systems Applied Intelligence, said the hack represents one of the most complex he's seen in a new wave of attacks designed to extract business strategy information from firms in a range of industries... 'It's pretty amazing,' Henninger said in an interview Wednesday from London. 'The level of business sophistication involved as opposed to technical sophistication involved was something we had not seen before.' He said BAE technicians in recent weeks have also spotted a cyberattack that used malware to take over a large property and casualty insurer's underwriting system. Using the compromised system, the criminals created fake insurance policies and filed claims against them, he said." Javers reported that it isn't known if the hedge fund reported the attack to the SEC or FBI, but said that BAE estimated it cost the firm "millions." Cyberattacks were in the news during the last holiday shopping season after Target reported a massive breach of its credit card system.  The retail and credit card industry often discuss the procedures they have in place for preventing cyberattacks, but this should serve as a wake up call for the financial industry. (via CNBC) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Juan MedinaWeekly jobless claims totaled 312,000. This was slightly less than the 313,000 that was expected by economists. Last week's jobless claims report was revised up to 318,000 from 317,000. Continuing claims came in at 2,561,000, below expectations for 2,600,000. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson, Chief Economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics said, "In one line: The gentle downtrend is still intact, signalling robust payroll gains." Shepherdson added: "Jobless claims fell to 312K from 318K, close to the consensus, 313K. Last week's claims were revised up by 1K. We had hoped for a slightly bigger decline but the downward trend in claims is still in place. The trend is now at about 315K, down from about 340K at the turn of the year. The short-term relationship between claims and payrolls is weak, partly because claims measure only the pace of layoffs and have nothing to say directly about hiring, but over time a 10K drop in claims is consistent with payroll growth accelerating by about 25K, so the decline this year is consistent with sustained gains well in excess of 200K." This chart form Pantheon shows the continued downtrend in initial claims. Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
Federal Reserve "The Fed, whether run by Ben Bernanke or Janet Yellen, is in no rush, after so many head fakes over the last four years, to jeopardize the recovery by tightening too soon or reducing accommodation too quickly. That’s it. Full stop." That's from Dan Greenhaus at BTIG (@danBTIG) and we think it's the most succinct characterization of what's happening with the Fed and the economy. Basically, there's evidence that the economy is picking up, but as we said yesterday, Yellen is a dove and will not risk a premature tightening. That's it. FREE AppDownload
We're always negotiating both at work and at home. And there's a science to getting it right. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video on Facebook
Flickr/Miihaly HELSINKI (Reuters) - Tax authorities in Finland are turning to poetry in a bid to get more firms to file their tax returns electronically. Starting this summer, the national tax administration in the Nordic country will send those businesses who still file tax returns on paper a reminder that e-returns are possible. Some 70 percent of firms and associations already file e-returns, the tax administration said. Below the poem written by the agency and translated by Reuters: "Pencil and eraser, No longer a racer. Electronic is in - a clear win! Come and experience, Drop your resilience! (Reporting by Sakari Suoninen) FREE AppDownload
APBlackBerry's earnings for last quarter are out. It's a beat. The stock was up at least 10% for much of the day. Here are the most important stats: BlackBerry has been going through a transition since last fall. Since its new mobile operating system BlackBerry 10 failed to resonate with consumers when it launched in early 2013, the company has decided to focus on its core enterprise users. However, the brand is still popular in some emerging markets like Indonesia, so the company is leveraging that demand by releasing new devices in those markets. One such device is the is the BlackBerry Z3, which launched in Indonesia last quarter. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe price of a barrel of Brent crude rose to $114 yesterday from a recent low of $104 on April 2. Rising oil prices can be a sign of global economic strength. Or else they can be caused by geopolitical crises that threaten to disrupt, or actually do disrupt, the supply of oil. In the latter scenario, rising oil prices can also cause a recession. Which way are the markets leaning right now? Consider the following: (1) Industrial commodities. The current increase in the price of oil is obviously related to the turmoil in Iraq, and concerns that ISIS will disrupt the country’s oil production. As a result, the CRB raw industrials commodity spot price index has been falling recently. The price of gold hasn’t budged much, suggesting that the risks of higher inflation attributable to the recent rise in oil prices are offset by the risks of a recession. (2) Stock prices. The S&amp;P 500 was highly correlated with crude oil prices from 2008-2012. Since then, the two have decoupled, with stocks rising to new record highs since March 28, 2013, while the oil price has been moving sideways in a volatile range. The recent rise in oil prices hasn’t disturbed the S&amp;P 500, which was back at a record high yesterday. The S&amp;P 500 Transportation index has also held up very well. It is down only 0.6% from its record high on June 9. Needless to say, the S&amp;P 500 Energy sector has been boosted by the turmoil in Iraq. It is up 4.2% so far this month, and 10.9% ytd, the second best-performing sector of the S&amp;P 500. (3) The dollar. The trade-weighted dollar tends to be weak when oil prices are rising. Oil exporters may be diversifying some of their revenues into other currencies. In addition, if rising oil prices signal strong global economic growth, then investors may be seeking more opportunities outside of the US. Despite the recent increase in oil prices, the dollar has actually firmed a bit. This may indicate a mini flight to safety, especially since global economic growth remains subpar and vulnerable to an oil shock. (4) Emerging markets. Rising oil prices should be bad news for emerging economies. However, the Emerging Markets MSCI has tended to be positively correlated with the price of Brent crude oil more often than not. That’s because when emerging economies are strong (weak), they tend to drive the price of oil up (down). The recent rise in oil prices hasn’t slowed the recent advance in the EM MSCI. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: The Plots Thicken. (1) Investors love Obama. (2) President’s critics say he is MIA. (3) Crises bring out the golfer in our President. (4) Disastrous consequences? (5) So why are stock prices up so much? (6) Are investors isolationists? (7) Why get in the middle of the Middle East’s Hatfields and McCoys? (8) So far, markets aren’t indicating that Iraqi turmoil will cause a recession. (9) Is the dot plot more information than we need from the Fed? (10) Focus on S&amp;P 500 Energy sector, recently upgraded to market weight. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Neil Hall/Reuters John Fernald of the Federal Bank of San Francisco is out with a working paper that looks at economic productivity and potential output before, during, and after the financial crisis. Fernald's biggest finding: labor productivity was slowing before the financial crisis. Labor productivity, as defined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, is output relative to labor hours used the produce the output. Basically, how much people work and how much they get done in that time. The IT boom changed the workforce's productivity in a big way. Fueled by what Fernald calls, "the exceptional contribution of IT," labor productivity growth from the mid-1990s to the early 2000s broke its long-term linear trend line to the upside. This chart below shows the broken trend. John Fernald/Federal Reserve Bank of San FranciscoAnd this broken trend shows that the financial crisis didn't materially affect labor productivity, which started declining before the 2007-2008 bursting of the housing bubble and subsequent crisis. From Fernald (emphasis ours): "A natural hypothesis is that the slowdown was the flip side of the mid-1990s speedup. Considerable evidence... links the [total-factor-productivity] speedup to the exceptional contribution of IT— computers, communications equipment, software, and the Internet. IT has had a broad-based and pervasive effect through its role as a general purpose technology (GPT) that fosters complementary innovations, such as business reorganization. Industry TFP data provide evidence in favor of the IT hypothesis versus alternatives. Notably, the euphoric, “bubble” sectors of housing, finance, and natural resources do not explain the slowdown. Rather, the slowdown is in the remaining ¾ of the economy, and is concentrated in industries that produce IT or that use IT intensively. IT users saw a sizeable bulge in TFP growth in the early 2000s, even as IT spending itself slowed. That pattern is consistent with the view that benefiting from IT takes substantial intangible organizational investments that, with a lag, raise measured productivity. By the mid-2000s, the low-hanging fruit of IT had been plucked." Fernald also includes this chart, which shows where Congressional Budget Office's projected economic potential in both 2007 and 2014. The CBO's projections are shown against actual total-factor-productivity and GDP rates, as well as Fernald's own projection about where the economy might be headed. John Fernald/Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco Fernald's paper is long and extremely technical, but as Dietrich Vollrath notes at The Growth Economics Blog, the paper raises two important points to keep in mind: the Great Recession may be less "Great" than previously thought, and barring another IT revolution, labor productivity and resulting economic potential isn't what we once thought it could be. (via The Growth Economics Blog) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonPeter Arispe from Mexico works as a quality control checker at the American Apparel factory in downtown Los Angeles October 17, 2008.Good morning! Here's what you need to know: It's A Yellen Rally. The world stock markets are on a tear in the wake of yesterday's dovish Fed monetary policy announcement. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is up 0.8%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.9%, Germany's DAX is up 0.8%, Spain's IBEX is up 1.0%, and Italy's FTSE MIB is up 1.1%. This follows huge gains in Asia where Japan's Nikkei closed up 1.6% and Australia's S&amp;P/ASX closed up 1.6%. ICYMI, Here's What Yellen Said. From yesterday's FOMC statement: "When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. The Committee currently anticipates that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run." Here's BI's Joe Weisenthal: "What that means is, she's not overly concerned about the economy overheating, and not inclined to tighten policy early. And that's the big takeaway from [Wednesday's] FOMC events. At every opportunity, Yellen &amp; Co. took the dovish turn." Volatility Collapses. If you already thought market volatility was low, you were probably surprised to see volatility collapse further in the wake of Yellen's comments. The CBOE Volatility Index sunk to as low as 10.57 on Wednesday afternoon. When asked about low volatility, Yellen said that the Fed has no target for it. She also said she was unsure if it was caused by complacency. Facebook Goes Down. The social network went down across parts of Asia and Europe. According to Bloomberg's Tim Culpan and Bianca Vazquez Toness, the roughly 30 minute outage affected users in Tokyo, Johannesburg, London, Paris, New Delhi, Amsterdam, Moscow, and Taipei. "We resolved the issue quickly, and we are now back to 100 percent," said the company. American Apparel's Dov Charney Is Out. Dov Charney, the controversial founder of American Apparel was ousted by the company's board for cause. "We take no joy in this, but the Board felt it was the right thing to do,” board member Allan Mayer said in a statement. “Dov Charney created American Apparel, but the Company has grown much larger than any one individual and we are confident that its greatest days are still ahead." Roll-Royce Buybacks. British industrial giant Rolls-Royce is the latest company to announce that it'll shovel a ton of cash back to its shareholders. Its board announced that it would launch a 1 billion pound — or $1.7 billion — share buyback program. CEO John Rishton explained: "As no material acquisitions are planned, and reflecting the strength of our balance sheet, we will return the proceeds of the Energy sale to our shareholders." UK Retail Sales Slip. UK retail sales fell 0.5% month-over-month in May, which is the first decline in four months. This was largely due to a 2.4% drop in food sales. According to Bloomberg's Fergal O'Brien, this more than offset a jump in apparel sales thanks to demand for replica soccer jerseys ahead of the World Cup. Jobless Claims. At 8:30 a.m. ET, we'll get teh latest weekly tally of initial unemployment claims. Economists estimate claims slipped to 313,000 from 317,000 last week. "Initial jobless claims continue to linger below 320k," said Nomura economists. "This suggests that layoffs have bottomed out and that more hiring will be needed to spur job growth." Philly Fed. At 10:00 a.m. ET, we'll get the Philadelphia Fed' June Business Outlook report. Economists estimate the regional report's activity index fell to 14.0 in June from 15.4 in May. "Last month the new orders and shipment indices both posted meaningful declines, suggesting that the underlying trend is a bit weaker than the solid headline print would suggest," said Barclays economists. "That being said, all of the major components remain firmly in expansionary territory and are consistent with an improving manufacturing sector." Yo. A startup mobile app called Yo — which allows user to message the word "Yo" to friends — briefly attracted a lot of attention and ire on Wednesday. Venture capitalist Marc Andreessen warned naysayers about dismissing the concept too quickly. From his tweets this morning: "Yo is an instance of "one-bit communication" — a message with no content other than the fact that it exists. Yes or no. Yo or no yo ... Other instances of one-bit communication: Police siren, flashing stop light, "Open" sign, light turned on, taxicab roof indicator lit." Andreesen noted that deliberate missed calls, a form of one-bit communications, are popular in developing parts of Asia where phone calls are just too expensive. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo via Militant WebsiteBAGHDAD (AP) — Sunni militants have hung their black banners on watch towers at Iraq's largest oil refinery, a witness said Thursday, suggesting the vital facility had fallen to the insurgents in control of vast territories across the country's north. A top Iraqi security official, however, said the government still held the facility. The fighting at Beiji, some 250 kilometers (155 miles) north of Baghdad, comes as Iraq has asked the U.S. to launch airstrikes targeting militants from the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant. While U.S. President Barack Obama has not fully ruled out the possibility of launching airstrikes, such action is not imminent, officials said, in part because intelligence agencies have been unable to identify clear targets on the ground.The Iraqi witness who drove past the Beiji refinery, said militants also manned checkpoints around it. He said a huge fire in one of its tankers was raging at the time. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he feared reprisals. The Iraqi security official said the government force protecting the refinery was still inside Thursday and that they were in regular contact with Baghdad. The refinery's workers had been evacuated to nearby villages, he said. Helicopter gunships flew over the facility to stop any militant advance, the official said. The insurgent took over a building just outside the refinery and were using it to fire at the government force, he said. The Beiji refinery accounts for a little more than a quarter of the country's entire refining capacity — all of which goes toward domestic consumption for things like gasoline, cooking oil and fuel for power stations. Any lengthy outage at Beiji risks long lines at the gas pump and electricity shortages, adding to the chaos already facing Iraq. The campaign by the al-Qaida-inspired Islamic State militants has raised the specter of the sectarian warfare that nearly tore the country apart in 2006 and 2007, with the popular mobilization to fight the insurgents taking an increasingly sectarian slant, particularly after Iraq's top Shiite cleric made a call to arms on Friday. The Islamic State has vowed to march to Baghdad and the Shiite holy cities of Karbala and Najaf, home to some of the sect's most revered shrines, in the worst threat to Iraq's stability since U.S. troops left in late 2011. The militants also have tried to capture Samarra, a city north of Baghdad and home to another major Shiite shrine. In an incident that harkens back to the dark days of Iraq's sectarian bloodletting of 2006 and 2007, the bullet-riddled bodies of four men, presumably Sunnis, were discovered in the Shiite Baghdad district of Abu Dashir on Thursday, police and morgue officials said. The bodies were handcuffed and had gunshot wounds to the head and chest. Also in Baghdad, a roadside bomb hit a police patrol on a highway in the east of the city, killing two police officers and wounding two, police and hospital officials said. Earlier Thursday, a car bomb exploded inside a parking lot in Baghdad's southeastern Shiite neighborhood of New Baghdad, killing three people and wounding seven, the officials said. All officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to the journalists. The U.S. has pushed Iraq to present its people a clear coalition to fight the militants, with Vice President Joe Biden offering praise Wednesday for Iraq's Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish leaders as a means to tamper the sectarian anger roiling the country. It's unclear whether that will work, as Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki's Shiite-led government has faced widespread dissatisfaction from the nation's sizable Sunni and Kurdish minorities.Al-Maliki, a Shiite, has rejected charges of bias and instead said the crisis has led Iraqis to rediscover "national unity." "I tell all the brothers there have been negative practices by members of the military, civilians and militiamen, but that is not what we should be discussing," al-Maliki said Wednesday. "Our effort should not be focused here and leave the larger objective of defeating" the militants. Still, al-Maliki's outreach remain largely rhetoric, with no concrete action to bridge differences with Sunnis and Kurds, who have been at loggerheads with the prime minister over their right to independently export oil from their self-rule region in the north and over territorial claims. Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said Wednesday that his country had formally asked the U.S. to launch airstrikes against positions of the Islamic State. Gen. Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, confirmed the U.S. had received a request for air power to stop the militants, but highlighted the uncertain political situation in Iraq. "The entire enterprise is at risk as long as this political situation is in flux," told a Senate panel Wednesday. He added that some Iraqi security forces had backed down when confronted by the militants because they had "simply lost faith" in the central government in Baghdad. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
YoFor a few hours on Wednesday, tons of folks were buzzing about a new free mobile app called Yo, which simply allows you to message the word "Yo" to your friends. That's all. A one word message. As with most new ideas, people across social media were quick to dismiss Yo. But legendary venture capitalist Marc Andreessen thinks the naysayers should be a bit more open-minded. REUTERS/Fred Prouser Marc Andreessen"[T]here's a fascinating aspect lots of people are missing," tweeted Andreessen on Thursday morning. "Yo is an instance of "one-bit communication" — a message with no content other than the fact that it exists," he explained. "Yes or no. Yo or no yo. Other instances of one-bit communication: Police siren, flashing stop light, "Open" sign, light turned on, taxicab roof indicator lit." But Andreessen singled out the "most interesting instance" of one-bit communication: the global missed call phenomenon. Here's Wikipedia: A missed call is a telephone call that is deliberately terminated by the caller before being answered by its intended recipient, appearing as a "missed call" on the receiver's cellphone. It is commonly used in South Asia, the Philippines and Africa as a way of communicating pre-agreed messages for free. For example, a group of friends may agree that two missed calls in succession means "I am running late". In Bangladesh, missed calls make up 70% of cellular network traffic at any given time. The Cellular Operators Association of India, COAI, has instituted a study to understand the revenue implications of missed calls in India. Industry estimates of loss of revenue due to this social phenomenon are 20–25% to as much as 30%. At least one company in Bangalore is using this "tool" to generate business. The culture of the missed call has also been used by political parties like the Aam Aadmi Party as a call to action to drive membership. After reading this, it doesn't take a whole lot of imagination to see that there may be a big audience for apps like Yo. "So the hilarity around Yo includes two problematic biases: Bias that one-bit comm isn't useful, and bias that all markets are like the US," he said. "I'm not saying Yo will be the next $100B social media powerhouse," he added. "But instant dismissal makes little sense; let's learn &amp; keep minds open." Some wise words from the veteran venture capitalist. Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
USDA.govMarkets are up a healthy amount early in Europe's trading session. Britain's FTSE is up 0.7%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.7%. Germany's DAX is up 0.8%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.5%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.8%. This follows huge gains in Asia where Japan's Nikkei closed up 1.6% and Australia's S&amp;P/ASX closed up 1.6%. All of this follows Wednesday Federal Reserve monetary policy announcement where Fed Chair Janet Yellen reiterated her dovish stance on monetary policy. "When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent," said Yellen. "The Committee currently anticipates that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run." "What that means is, she's not overly concerned about the economy overheating, and not inclined to tighten policy early," reported BI's Joe Weisenthal. "And that's the big takeaway from [Wednesday's] FOMC events. At every opportunity, Yellen &amp; Co. took the dovish turn." Last week, Bank of England governor Mark Carney warned that tighter monetary policy could come to Britain sooner than markets anticipate. Some folks were concerned the Fed and Yellen could use similar language. But that certainly wasn't the case. U.S. futures are up modestly with Dow futures up 4 points and S&amp;P futures up 0.5 points. FREE AppDownload
A list of potential bidders for the Bitcoin auction was accidentally leaked by the U.S. Marshals Service on Wednesday, according to the agency. The Marshals Service confirmed that it accidentally released the names in an email to update interested parties on the auction’s guidelines. "The U.S. Marshals Service inadvertently sent an email today revealing the email addresses of people who had submitted questions about the Bitcoin auction to a general USMS mailbox that had been created for the auction," Lynzey Donahue, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Marshals, said in an emailed statement. "The USMS apologizes for this mistake which was in no way intentional," the statement said. The news was first reported by the New York Times, citing a report from CoinDesk, an online website devoted to Bitcoin. (http://nyti.ms/1lANHXU) The U.S. government said last week it plans to auction about 30,000 bitcoins, the electronic currency, valued at about $17.4 million, on June 27 the U.S. Marshals Service said. FBI seized the bitcoins during a raid in October on the Internet marketplace Silk Road, known as a hub for transactions involving illegal drugs and criminal activities. The seized bitcoins are part of the civil forfeiture and criminal action brought against Silk Roadowner Ross William Ulbrich and the assets of Silk Road, the U.S. Marshals Service said. CoinDesk has a list of people who inquired about the auction, including Fred Ehrsam, the co-founder of Coinbase, a Bitcoin payment processor, the New York Times said. (Reporting by Tanvi Mehta in Bangalore; Additional reporting by Narottam Medhora and Ankit Ajmera; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonAn attendee dressed in a Bitcoin costume listens to people speak about mining for Bitcoins as he attends the "Inside Bitcoins: The Future of Virtual Currency Conference" in New York April 8, 2014. TOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's leading Liberal Democratic Party said it decided against regulating bitcoin for the time being, after the collapse of Tokyo-based bitcoin exchange Mt. Gox prompted them to consider more scrutiny of the virtual currency. Mt. Gox, once the world's biggest bitcoin exchange, filed for bankruptcy in February after saying hackers stole 750,000 bitcoins belonging to its customers. "Basically, we concluded that we will, for now, avoid a move towards legal regulation," Takuya Hirai, an LDP lawmaker who leads the party's internet media division, said on Thursday, adding that a final decision would be made after hearing more opinions on the subject. The use of electronic currencies has drawn the attention of governments around the world who are unsure whether, and how, to regulate them. U.S. agencies ranging from the New York bank regulator to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission have also been looking into possible regulation. A task force of U.S. state regulators is also working on the first bitcoin rulebook, hoping to protect users of virtual currency from fraud without smothering the fledgling technology.   (Reporting by Ritsuko Ando; Editing by Clarence Fernandez) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiWomen, dressed in ceremonial kimonos, pose in front of an electronic board showing stock prices after the New Year opening ceremony at the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE), held to wish for the success of Japan's stock market, in Tokyo.TOKYO/AKITA Japan (Reuters) - Confidence of Japanese manufacturers held steady in June while the service-sector mood rebounded from the prior month, an encouraging sign for the economy as it tries to hold its ground in the face of soft exports and weakening consumption. The readings in Thursday's Reuters Tankan poll - which strongly correlates with the Bank of Japan's key tankan quarterly survey - reinforce policymakers' confidence that the world's third-largest economy can weather the pain of a recent national sales tax increase. Still, the BOJ may face renewed pressure for additional stimulus if the weakness in exports persist, threatening to derail a recovery which kicked in last year following near two decades of economic stagnation. In a speech on Thursday that underscored some of the uncertainties ahead, BOJ board member Yoshihisa Morimoto warned of risks to the export outlook as demand in emerging Asian markets fail to gather momentum. He said there were "both downside and upside risks" to the BOJ's projection that exports will rebound, depending on how overseas economies perform. "We must continue to scrutinise the outlook for emerging economies, as well as developments in Europe's debt problem and the U.S. economy," Morimoto told business leaders in Akita, northeastern Japan. His comments follow data on Wednesday which showed Japan's exports fell for the first time in more than a year, hit by a drop in shipments to Asia and the United States. Some market players worry that the hit from the April 1 tax increase to 8 percent from 5 percent and weak shipments could prove bigger than expected, squandering the progress made over the last year thanks to Tokyo's massive fiscal and monetary stimulus. Still, Morimoto stuck to the central bank's upbeat view on the economy, saying it is likely to continue recovering moderately with the pain from the tax hike on household spending seen receding around summer. The Reuters Tankan backs Morimoto's confidence, with manufacturers' morale seen improving in September, while the service-sector mood is expected to worsen but hover at relatively high levels. The monthly poll of 400 major manufacturers and service-sector firms, of which 260 replied during the June 2-16 period, suggests that the BOJ's tankan due July 1 may show the impact of the April tax hike is limited. That would be encouraging to the central bank, which has indicated it is willing to look through short term dips in growth without the need for additional stimulus. "Firm readings reflect steady earnings at listed firms. Non-manufacturers seem to be more affected by the tax hike, but the pullback in demand has bottomed out," said Yoshimasa Maruyama, chief economist, Itochu Economic Research Institute. "We need to scrutinise more upcoming data to determine the impact of the tax hike including household incomes. But the BOJ tankan is likely to show only slight decline in business sentiment given readings in the Reuters poll." EXTERNAL HEADWINDS Morimoto, a former utility executive and now among the BOJ's nine board members, cautioned that growth in emerging nations will lack momentum until they start to feel the benefits from a pickup in demand in advanced economies. Some companies in the Reuters poll also complained about lack of strength in external demand, particularly China and other emerging Asia. "The expansionary trend is continuing for our business as a decline in demand after the tax hike has been smaller than expected. However, demand from Asia and China has been slow," a transport equipment firm said in the Reuters Tankan. The central bank left monetary policy steady last week, signalling confidence that the economy is on track to meet its 2 inflation target next year without additional stimulus. Growth rebounded in the first quarter as consumers loaded up on goods ahead of the sales tax hike, but is seen slumping this quarter as the consumption-spike winds back. Morimoto said a positive cycle was kicking off as rising profits were encouraging firms to boost jobs, wages and capital expenditure. The bullish comments were reflected in the Reuters Tankan. Compared with three months ago, the survey's sentiment index for manufacturers inched up and that for service-sector firms fell slightly, pointing to relatively steady readings in the BOJ's quarterly tankan. In the Reuters Tankan, the index of sentiment among manufacturers stood at plus 19, unchanged from May, and up 1 point from three months ago. At plus 29, the service-sector gauge was up 8 points from May but down 2 points from March. Indexes are calculated by subtracting the percentage of pessimistic responses from optimistic ones. A positive reading means optimists outweigh pessimists. The index for manufacturers is seen edging up to plus 21 in September, while the service-sector gauge is expected to fall to plus 25, with optimists still far outnumbering pessimists.   (Additional reporting by Izumi Nakagawa; Editing by Kim Coghill &amp; Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
