The US had an ugly session that saw social media stocks lead the way down. And now Japan is following suit. Stocks are off 1.8%. Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
HoodlineA San Francisco landlord who slipped a controversial letter under the doors of all the tenants of his building with certain demands about their annual income and credit score has since retracted the letter, according to Hoodline. The landlord of the building in the Lower Haight neighborhood put a letter under tenants' doors last month that read:  The building policy/requirement of a current apartment applicant/resident is that they are able to establish that their minimum annual income is at least $100,000 - additionally required is a minimum FICO credit score of 725. We are not able to accept in our minimum income calculation any form of 'guarantor' or similar form of 'guarantee' offered of account of the apartment/resident applicant, by a friend of family member nor any other person or legal entity. Of course, more is required to qualify an apartment/resident/applicant, than income and credit score; but a minimum income and credit score requirement is a basic starting point.  But, according to Hoodline, it seems that national attention to the letter has caused the landlord to change his mind. An anonymous tipster sent Hoodline the landlord's new letter, which reads:  After reflection and guidance, I hereby rescind the April 25, 2014 correspondence to you.The information contained was flawed. My apologies for the confusion created. According to Hoodline: While the income and credit score requirements outlined in the original letter would be allowable stipulations for new tenants, they would not be legal grounds for evicting any current tenants, as the original letter seemed to threaten.  That could be the "flawed" information to which the owner is referring, although there's no further clarification in his letter issued today. At least some residents in that neighborhood can rest a little easier tonight. According to Realtor.com, the median income in that neighborhood is around $80,000.  FREE AppDownload
       The Money Marketeers have a long tradition of hosting policymakers and fostering informed public discussion, and I am delighted to join in this tradition.1&#160;               Last month I announced that I would be leaving the Federal Reserve Board at the end of May in order to return to my teaching position at Harvard. So I would like to take a moment to express my gratitude to my many colleagues at the Board and around the Federal Reserve System who have taught me so much--not just about economic policy, but about public service. It has been a privilege to work alongside such a talented and selfless group of people and to be a part of such a special institution.    
REUTERS/Kacper PempelTroops from the U.S. Army's 173rd Infantry Brigade Combat Team parachute from a Boeing C-17 Globemaster III during a NATO-led exercise "Orzel Alert" held together with Canada's 3rd Battalion and Princess Patricia's Light Infantry, and Poland's 6th Airborne Brigade in Bledowska Desert in Chechlo, near Olkusz, south Poland May 5, 2014.Markets are lower. Stocks fell and Treasuries surged in the US trading session, with the US 10-year yields hitting a low for the year. The Dow was down 0.68%, the S&amp;P 500 0.95% and the NASDAQ 1.09%. ASX futures are pointing to a fall of 25 points on the open. Could be an interesting day. US dollar weakness. The Australian dollar rose sharply overnight and is back near its 2014 highs, trading at US93.55c, about 1c up against the dollar in 24 hours. Instead of Aussie strength this is about the weakness in the US dollar – the Euro and Yen are also up strongly against the greenback. OECD budget warning. The OECD released its economic outlook overnight, which noted the recovery of advanced economics around the world. But it had a startlingly direct warning for Australia. “Given near-term uncertainties in the re-balancing of the economy away from investment in the natural resource sector, heavy front loading of fiscal consolidation should be avoided.” Translation: don’t cut government spending too fast, you might need it to cushion the blow from the end of the mining investment boom. Budget tweaks. The fundamentals of the federal Budget will have been locked away but there is apparent agonising about what to do with this deficit levy idea which polls suggest is deeply unpopular with voters. It has been canvassed at kicking in at 1% for people on $80,000 but then only affecting people on over $180,000; today News Corp reports the threshold is likely to be set at around $150,000. One piece of good news for business: a planned cut to the company tax rate will go ahead. We get all the details next Tuesday night. Alibaba and the IPO. The filing for one of the most hotly-anticipated stock market debuts of the year was lodged overnight by Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba. Revenue for the nine months to March was $US6.5 billion, up 57% year-on-year; while net income was an eye-popping $2.9 billion, up 305%. Alibaba is 24% owned by Yahoo and the stake has been one of the reasons for the stock’s big gains during Marissa Mayer’s time as CEO. Twitter smashed. The market really hates Twitter at the moment, even more so since last week’s earnings call suggested that the company might be struggling to grow its user base. But overnight was a horror show: the lockup period expired and employees cashed in, sending the stock down 18% for the session to all-time lows, below its IPO price. It hasn’t stopped there for tech companies: TripAdvisor reported earnings after the bell and the stock was down 18% on light revenue in after hours trading. Insider trading case. A 39-year-old Sydney man, Michael William Hull, from Cronulla, is facing 67 charges of insider trading for alleged profits of $600,000. ASIC says he got the information from someone in the investment banking department of a global financial services company. The AFR reports the tips came from a Credit Suisse analyst and were allegedly exchanged while the two went running in the Domain, the park on the east side of Sydney’s CBD. The penalties associated range from five to 10 years in prison and/or fines ranging from $220,000 to $450,000. Lewinsky’s blues. Monica Lewinsky is breaking her silence about her affair with Bill Clinton! She’s written about it for this month’s edition of Vanity Fair. You might remember that the whole story was exposed by online news machine Matt Drudge. “Thanks to the Drudge Report,” she wrote, “I was also possibly the first person whose global humiliation was driven by the Internet.” Simpsons did it. Here’s easily the craziest conspiracy theory of the quarter. An Egyptian TV network has dug out a 2001 episode of the Simpsons in which Bart and his mates parachute into a Middle Eastern country to teach the local women about bikinis and tether ball. A jeep in the video is emblazoned with a flag now being used by the Syrian opposition. The anchor on al-Tahrir television said it showed “what is happening in Syria today was premeditated”. Will fly down the back. If you’re feeling the absence of news about the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge since the end of their tour Down Under, here’s something for you. Prince William attended a friend’s wedding in Memphis recently and a local reporter spotted him on the flight to Dallas – in economy class on American Airlines. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
My friend and guest contributor Chris Turner offered some analysis along those lines last year using the S&amp;P 500 as the surrogate for the market (When Warren Buffett Talks … People Listen). For a broader measure of Market Cap, VectorGrader.com uses line 36 in the Federal Reserve's B.102 balance sheet (Market Value of Equities Outstanding) as the numerator. Since both GDP and the Fed's data are quarterly, the folks at VectorGrader.com do some interpolation and extrapolation to produce monthly estimates. Their latest chart is available to the general public here. The four valuation indicators I track in my monthly valuation overview offer a long-term perspective of well over a century. The raw data for the "Buffett indicator" only goes back as far as the middle of the 20th century. Quarterly GDP dates from 1947, and the Fed's B.102 Balance sheet has quarterly updates beginning in Q4 1951. With an acknowledgment of this abbreviated timeframe, let's take a look at the plain vanilla quarterly ratio with no effort to interpolate monthly data or extrapolate since the end of the most recent quarterly numbers. The strange numerator in the chart title, MVEONWMVBSNNCB, is the FRED designation for Line 36 in the B.102 balance sheet (Market Value of Equities Outstanding), available on the Federal Reserve website. Here is a link to a FRED version of the chart. Incidentally, the numerator is the same series used for a simple calculation of the Q Ratio valuation indicator. Unfortunately, the "market cap" numerator is rather stale. The Fed won't publish the Q1 data until the June 5th.  Click for a larger image For version that's current through Q1, I can offer a more transparent alternate snapshot over a shorter timeframe. Here is the Wilshire 5000 Full Cap Price Index divided by GDP. I've used the FRED data for the stock index numerator (WILL5000PRFC).  Click for a larger image A quick technical note: To match the quarterly intervals of GDP, for the Wilshire data I've used the quarterly average of daily closes rather than quarterly closes (slightly smoothing the volatility). What Do These Charts Tell Us? In a recent CNBC interview (April 23rd), Warren Buffett expressed his view that stocks aren't "too frothy". However, both the "Buffett Index" and the Wilshire 5000 variant suggest that today's market is indeed at lofty valuations, now above the housing-bubble peak in 2007. In fact, the more timely of the two (Wilshire / GDP) has risen for seven consecutive quarters and is now approaching two standard deviations above its mean — a level exceeded for six quarters during the dot.com bubble. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Jon RawlinsonFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. How Financial Advisors Can Find Their Niche (Nerd's Eye View)  As more people obtain their CFP certification, it's important for financial planners to have a niche, writes Michael Kitces at Nerd's Eye View. Many think that by being generalists they are casting a wider net but Kitces writes "this ultimately produces a marketing trap; casting the net wider may lead to more potential clients, but fewer actual clients." Advisors can define their niche through three key things: their "target clientele," the "unique expertise" they bring to the clientele, and the services they provide. Kitces also points out not everyone knows their niche on their first attempt but they should get on the path to doing so.  Kitces has an eight-step approach to get financial planners on their way to finding their niche. 1. Find someone you could work with or those who know people you can work with.2. Ask them to lunch or dinner and pick their brain about how you can serve them.3. Have questions about their industry.4. Ask them if they can introduce you to two or three people they might know to better understand the challenges they face. Ask if it's okay to follow up.5. Reach out to those people. 6. "Cull together what you've learned from your 10 lunch interviews into the initial stages of a business plan."7. "Share your prospective business plan with your 10 interviewees."8. Ask those 10 if they know others who "might be helped by the business you've just created with their input." Why Advisors Should Stop Ignoring Long-Term Bonds (The Wall Street Journal)  It's wrong to assume that low interest rates means you shouldn't invest in bonds, writes Stan Richelson of Scarsdale Investment Group in a new WSJ column. "This strategy of buying high-quality bonds for their cash flow and holding them to maturity works best with tax-free municipal bonds," writes Richelson. "But it also applies to taxable municipal bonds, high-grade agency bonds backed by a reputable bank, and even to some corporate bonds." By only considering short-term bonds, he argues that advisors are passing up on yields they can get from longer high-quality bonds.  "If you hold on to high quality bonds rated AA or better for the long term, rising interest rates are a good thing. When the interest comes in, when the bond comes due, or when the bond gets called, you want to reinvest that cash at a higher interest rate, not a lower interest rate." The Distorted Stock Market In One Chart (Citi) Typically stock prices fall when earnings expectations fall, and vice versa, but "markets stopped following fundamentals about two years ago," said Matt King, a credit products strategist with Citi. A chart from King's new presentation, "Distorted Markets" shows that earnings and stock prices have been diverging, with prices rising as earnings fall — this is what analysts call multiple expansion.  Citi ResearchWhy Investors Should Look For Boring Funds (Morningstar) Investors should keep an eye out for boring funds, according to Morningstar's Christine Benz. "One is that life is interesting enough. You probably don't need to have your investments be super exciting," Benz said. "Definitely the longer I have done this, the more I have been attracted to very boring investments." "The other key reason is that boring investments tend to keep people in their seats. They tend to lead to better outcomes, and here I'm using boring as kind of a proxy for lower volatility. When we look at our investor-returns data, which is return data that looks at when investors purchased various investment types and when they sold them, what we see is that lower-volatility investments tend to produce better outcomes. Investors buy them and they hang on, and that's really what we want to get people to do." Advisors Have A Great Opportunity To Coach Millennials (FA Mag)  A new report from Corporate Insight has found that financial advisors need a new approach if they hope to reach Millennials. This cohort tends to be conservative with its money and wary of the market. "There’s a great opportunity for advisors to coach millennials from a position of risk aversion to one of risk awareness," Alex Filiaci, senior analyst at Corporate Insight, told Jeff Schlegel at FA Mag. "It’s a great opportunity to educate millennials on the merits of the markets and to explain the risk of each type of investment and how they fit into their time horizon." FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsNow best known in the world of politics, the Bush Family made their fortune in oil and banking.Whether through money, talent, or just good publicity, certain families dominate American life.  There are legendary old money dynasties, twentieth century industrial dynasties, entertainment and sports dynasties, and political dynasties that hold a surprising amount of power for a democratic country. We picked out today's most impressive American dynasties and ranked them, considering historical legacy, current influence, and estimated wealth. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduardo MunozJeffrey GundlachThe U.S. housing market recovery has been one of the most bullish stories in the global economy. However, DoubleLine Funds' Jeffrey Gundlach thinks the party's over for homebuilder stocks. At Monday's Sohn Investment Conference, he characterized single-family housing as "over-believed and over-rated." Lately, multi-family homes like apartment buildings have a great place for investors as the demand for rentals continues to boom. "Renting is more appealing across all age groups, all parts of the U.S., city, suburb, small town and rural," said he said. Gundlach warned that the outlook for homeownership rates, which are near 19-year lows, is "bleak." He made his case for shorting the homebuilder ETF (XHB) with his 38-slide presentation, which is loaded with charts on debt and housing.
At work and at home, we want to know honesty when we see it. Here are some scientifically proven ways to know what you're looking at.
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesWhole Foods just put out an ugly Q2 earnings report and is down nearly 14% after-hours to $41.45 after reporting earnings. The retailer reported Q2 earnings of $0.38 per share, missing estimates for $0.41 per share. Comp sales were up 4.5% in the second quarter, missing expectations for a 5.4% rise. Whole Foods also lowered its fiscal year 2014 sales forecast to 10.5 - 11%, down from 11-12%. It expects FY14 diluted EPS of $1.52 to $1.56, down from prior outlook for $1.58 to $1.65. The retailer has come under increased pressure in the increasingly competitive natural foods sector. "As we continue to innovate and evolve at a fast pace, we are confident in our ability to gain market share and expect our sales to approach $25 billion over the next five years," said John Mackey co-CEO of Whole Foods Market in a press release. Whole Foods repurchased $15 million of common stock before the end of the quarter. FREE AppDownload
BIIPeople often discuss Bitcoin in terms of its price volatility: Is it up or down? Is it a good investment or a speculative bubble? But at BI Intelligence, we believe all the talk of price volatility obscures Bitcoin's real value: as a payments network. Bitcoin offers merchants and individuals an extremely low-cost, virtually frictionless payments system. Value can easily be transferred around the world without transmitting sensitive information that could be used for fraud, and without forcing merchants — or people sending international remittances — to pay exorbitant transaction fees. In  a recent report, BI Intelligence explains how Bitcoin works, from the moment when local currency is exchanged for bitcoins, to the moment when it reaches the electronic wallet of a receiving party. We look at the key advantages of Bitcoin compared to the legacy players in the payments industry and examine the challenges that Bitcoin faces as a payment network.  Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt; Here are some of the key elements from the report:  In full, the report: For full access to all BI Intelligence's charts and data on the Payments Industry, sign up for a free trial.   FREE AppDownload
Akintunde Akinleye/ReutersCountries and governments that host World Economic Forum meetings have a habit of attracting the attention of the world’s media, but this will hardly be the case when leaders from politics, business and civil society meet in Abuja this week for our annual Africa meeting. For the host Nigeria has, in its centenary year, been in the news a lot already, often for the wrong reasons. Nigeria is a country that not only embodies the hopes and challenges of a whole continent, but could actually determine them. Home to a quarter of sub-Saharan Africa’s population, it is now also its economic motor, growing much faster than the second largest economy, South Africa. A cultural behemoth, "Nollywood,” is now the country’s second largest employer behind agriculture. Nigeria has also become an increasingly active and energetic peacekeeper in the region. It is also a country enduring growing pains illustrative of the vast social and economic problems still felt by ordinary Africans all across sub-Saharan Africa. Problems that, if left unchecked, threaten to derail the considerable progress of recent years and plunge the region back into instability. On its road to becoming Africa’s largest economy, Nigeria has undoubtedly made mistakes. The fruits of economic growth have been distributed unevenly between north and south and rich and poor. Education could have been prioritized much sooner, corruption tackled before it diminished trust in leadership and damaged the fabric of the nation. But arguably Nigeria’s biggest mistake has been its failure to communicate its successes. In the 1990s, its economy was shrinking and on the verge of collapse. Between 2003 and 2006, things were hardly better, with growth registering around 2.5% – not bad for an advanced economy in the West, but nowhere enough for a country in its stage of development. Over the past decade, it has grown by an average of 7% per year. Nigeria has seen a turnaround of vast significance. It has enabled the creation of 1.6 million new jobs per year. There is still not enough to offer work to the 1.8 million young people that enter the labour market each year, but enough to bring the target within reach. New programmes focusing on bringing relief to small- and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs and the unskilled should strengthen the economy considerably. But growth is not an end in itself. Most importantly, Nigeria now has for the first time a platform on which to build institutions its people can be proud of. Plans for a social protection programme, an expansion of healthcare and a long-overdue overhaul of the education system can now be a realistic expectation. The conversation can at last look beyond growth to quality growth. This is exactly why now is the right time for the World Economic Forum to come to Nigeria. Under the theme, Forging Inclusive Growth, Creating Jobs, leaders from politics, business and civil society will come together to debate ways to tackle Africa’s biggest challenge: how to create a continent of increased prosperity and strong communities; of strong governments delivering quality services and leaving no one behind. This will mean holding Nigeria to account where it needs to be held to account, but also praising it when its actions serve as a role model for other African countries. We are not here to convey political endorsement or political point-scoring. We are here because Nigeria has a great role to play in building a better, more equitable Africa. It is an opportunity that must not be missed. Philipp Rösler is a Managing Director and Member of the Managing Board of the World Economic Forum. This article originally appeared at World Economic Forum.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Chinese internet giant Alibaba has officially filed for an initial public offering. The $1 billion fundraising target that Alibaba gives is just a placeholder and it will likely be raising much more, according to New York Times reporter Michael de la Merced.  Revenue for nine months ending December 31, 2013, was $6.5 billion, up 57% year over year. Net income over that same period was $2.9 billion, up 305% year over year. Alibaba is a Chinese e-commerce company with several businesses, including Taobao, a site similar to eBay, and Tmall, an e-commerce site for brands and retailers. Here are some important numbers you should know: Credit Suisse is the lead underwriter, along with Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, J.P. Morgan, and Citigroup.  Here is a table summary of Alibaba's financial performance (click to enlarge): Alibaba The company also created several infographics to explain how it works and its scale (click to enlarge): Alibaba Alibaba Alibaba Alibaba   FREE AppDownload
It's a total bloodbath in the world of tech stocks. After Twitter closed down a whopping 17.8% today, Zulily and TripAdvisor are crashing after announcing first-quarter financial results. Zulily — the deals website for moms — just reported a Q1 net loss of $0.02 per share. Analysts were looking for a breakeven quarter. The stock is down a whopping 19% in after-hours trading. It's worth noting that Q1 sales were up 87% year-over-year with active customers jumping 93% during the period. But with high-flying stocks like this, it's all about expectations. Here's the Zulily chart from MarketWatch: MarketWatchZulily Inc. TripAdvisor — the online travel-research site — just announced Q1 earnings of $0.54 per share, which is in line with expectations. But revenue was light coming in at $281 million versus the expectation for $283 million. The company also announced that it would be acquiring lafourchette, an online restaurant-booking site in Europe. The stock is down 17%. MarketWatchTripAdvisor FREE AppDownload
Highcorkett.comFirst Solar shares are up nearly 4% after-hours after announcing higher guidance 2014 guidance for earnings, margins and operating income. Q1 earnings for the Tempe-based solar systems provider came in at $1.10, a 66% increase from Q1 2013. Net sales hit $950 million, a 26% increase from Q1 2013.  The firm also announced improved new bookings. Here's the full guidance update: First Solar And here's the full quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year rundown: First Solar See the release here » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stringer Stocks sunk. Scoreboard: DOW:16,401.02, -0.78% S&amp;P 500: 1,867.72, -0.90% NASDAQ: 4,080.76, -1.38% And now the top stories: Twitter Combusts. Twitter shares got obliterated, falling nearly 18% to $31.80 after its corporate lockup ended, meaning employees could begin selling their shares, although execs like Dick Costolo are not.  Social Media Swan Dive. Twitter took other social media stocks down with it. Yelp fell 12%. LinkedIn lost 6%. Facebook was down 4%. Tesla Tanks. Tesla fell more than 3.5%. Late last night it withdrew a trademark for the "Model E," which is supposed to be half the price of a Model S. In a statement to BI, Tesla said it was not related to the rollout of the Gen-3  production timeline. French Rejection. The French government rejected GE's bid for conglomerate Alstom's power holdings.  Merck Drops Unit. The pharma giant said it would sell its entire over-the-counter unit to Bayer for $14.2 billion. Trade. The Census said the trade deficit shrank in February, but by less than expected. "We are inclined to see these swings in exports and imports mostly as post-winter corrections; the trend in the core deficit is about flat," said Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson. Earnings. Stay tuned for earnings from First Solar, Disney, Whole Foods, and Trip Advisor Don't Miss: 9 Basic Facts About American Commerce Everyone Should Know » FREE AppDownload
Sean Gallup/Getty ImagesBillionaire business magnate and philanthropist George Soros — who has long bankrolled drug policy reform and harm reduction causes — has published an op-ed in today’s Financial Times. It’s in support of a new report from the London School of Economics, which is signed by five winners of the Nobel Prize for economics and calls for an end the international War on Drugs. Soros describes the report as “the most thorough account of the war on drugs” to date. Authored by some of the world’s top economists, it outlines the far-reaching damages wrought by international counter-narcotics efforts, and recommends that governments give top priority to evidence-based drug policies, moving away from prohibition and towards harm reduction. With this message, Soros writes: “I heartily concur.” “For more than four decades, governments around the world have pumped huge sums of money into ineffective and repressive anti-drug efforts,” he continues. “These have come at the expense of programs that actually work such as needle exchanges and substitution therapy. This is not just a waste of money, it is counterproductive.” Soros is the founder of Open Society Foundations, which has done extensive work in promoting harm reduction programs. “For too long the UN has worked to enforce a ‘one-size-fits-all' model around the world, based on a belief that prohibitionist policies alone would solve the global drug problem,” writes Soros. One reason it has failed, he explains, is because of the “highly adaptive” nature of drug markets: “Repress the business in one country and it springs up elsewhere.” As an example, he points to Colombia, where attempts to crack down on the cocaine trade simply pushed it towards Mexico (leading to a 20% rise in the Mexican murder rate). People in the US have borne the impact of the drug war, too: 25% of the world’s prisoners are in US jails, even though we make up only 5% of the global population. Worldwide, 40% of the 9 million people in prison are incarcerated for drug-related offenses. But Soros believes “change is still possible” and hopes the new LSE report could herald a new direction in global drug policy. He writes: “We have a once-in-a-generation opportunity to fix a broken global framework for coping with the drug crisis. The costs of doing nothing are too great to bear.” FREE AppDownload
Oxford Said Business SchoolMonday, at the Sohn Investment Conference, Bill Ackman treated everyone in attendance to a 110-slide presentation/history lesson/pitch on government housing insurers Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. It was part long thesis, part political speech. The activist investor believes the stocks, currently trading around $4.20 a piece, could head up somewhere between $23 and $47. That is, of course, if Washington doesn't go ahead with its plan to dismantle the two insurers and totally reimagine the way Americans buy their homes. Politicians have wanted to dismantle Fannie and Freddie ever since the two entities were caught up in the center of the financial crisis and needed gigantic bailouts. The way Ackman sees it, the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage is as American as apple pie and monster truck rallies, and Fannie and Freddie are the only two entities big enough to handle all the demand from Americans who want to live the dream. Plus, since they're over 70% owned by the American government, if they succeed we all succeed. To politicians, "big" is part of the problem with Fannie and Freddie. They're scarred from 2008 and want to reduce systemic risk associated with size — the kind of risk that made it necessary for the government to take Fannie and Freddie into conservatorship during the financial crisis. Ackman, for his part, doesn't see a problem with size, he sees a problem with bad loans. In his plan, Fannie and Freddie get to stay huge but are reformed to take on fewer risky assets. The only change he would make would be to get rid of a little something called the 'net worth sweep.' The short version is that back in 2012 the government amended its agreement with Fannie and Freddie so it was the only shareholder that got any of their profits. That also happened to be the year Fannie and Freddie became profitable. Naturally, some shareholders were furious, including hedge fund Perry Capital, which started suing the government over this in the summer of 2013. A win for Perry Capital is the ideal situation for Ackman. In that scenario, for Ackman to win this battle the government has do to something it has excelled at recently — which is nothing. For the government to win this battle, it has to pass a bill. "They [investors like Ackman and Bruce Berkowitz] have taken a calculated, educated risk that the government's not going to do what needs to be done," former Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson told Business Insider in January. Paulson is on the government's side on this one. The most well-known plan to wind down Fannie and Freddie and turn them into something smaller is sitting in a congressional committee right now. It was proposed by Senators Bob Corker (R-TN) and Mark Warner (D-VA) last June. It's called the The Corker-Warner Housing Finance Reform and Taxpayer Protection Act, and Ackman seemed to be countering that plan throughout his presentation yesterday. The bill would wind down Fannie and Freddie in five years and set up the Federal Mortgage Insurance Corporation (FMIC). The FMIC would act as insurance the same way the FDIC does for banks, protecting 10% first-loss, private capital in the mortgage market. It would also be required to hold "a minimum reserve balance of 2.5 percent of the outstanding balance of covered securities as a catastrophic backstop that would only be utilized in the event that the 10 percent first-loss private capital is completely wiped out," according to the bill. In his presentation, Ackman made a couple of arguments that referenced ideas in this plan. First off, he said that there isn't enough private capital floating around to cover that 10% figure, which would be about $500 billion. How does he know? Because over the last decade private companies in the United States have only shelled out about $386 billion for IPOs. You can decide whether or not you think that's a fair comparison. He also said the pain of subprime losses will scare away investors — which is something you should ask all the hedge funds specializing in mortgage strategies that have killed it over the last couple of years. Another private sector problem, he said, is that banks simply wouldn't do their part and pick up the slack of leftover mortgages not held by the FMIC. Their share of the mortgage market has actually declined slightly since the Savings and Loans crisis of the 1980s, and in 2013 Fannie and Freddie made up 61% of the mortgage market. But here's the thing — these Fannie and Freddie mortgages are making money. That's why the government is finding them so hard to wind down. It's also why Ackman wants them to live on for his investors. Ackman correctly points out that we don't know what Fannie and Freddie would look like in their next life, but if they're making money now, it's not crazy to think Wall Street would see opportunity in their reincarnation. So who else wants a piece? FREE AppDownload
ReutersIt's been a bloodbath for social media stocks today.  Twitter took a beating after insider's were allowed to sell shares for the first time since the IPO. And this weakness seems to have spread to other social media stocks. Twitter however has been falling since it announced earnings last week.  Here's a quick round-up: FREE AppDownload
There are many ways to get rich. You can work on Wall Street or launch the next big tech startup. But one time-honored path to wealth is to marry into money. To make that a little easier for New Yorkers, we found the best neighborhoods in Manhattan for finding single millionaires. Marketing intelligence service WealthEngine provided us with data on unmarried Manhattanites with net worth of at least $1,000,000.  It's a little easier to find a wealthy bachelor than a bachelorette: WealthEngine's data set of single millionaires had 2,967 men, but only 1,822 women. We made maps of Manhattan, broken down by ZIP code, showing which areas had the most millionaire singles. Unsurprisingly, parts of Chelsea and Greenwich Village and the Upper West Side are good places to go to find wealthy bachelors and bachelorettes. Here are the millionaire men: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from WealthEngine And here are the millionaire women:  Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from WealthEngine   FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVDavid Einhorn.Greenlight Capital's David Einhorn, who has been critical of the Federal Reserve's monetary policy, told Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle and Erik Schatzker about a dinner conversation he had recently with former Federal Reserve Board Chair Ben Bernanke. "I got to ask him all these questions that had been on my mind for a very long period of time," he said. "And then on the other side, it was, like, sort of frightening, because the answers weren’t any better than I thought that they might be. I asked several things. He started out by explaining that he was 100% sure that there’s not going to be hyperinflation. And not that I think that there’s going to be hyperinflation, but it’s like how do you get to 100% certainty of anything?" Einhorn also talked to Bernanke about his "jelly donut" thesis. "My [jelly donut] thesis is that it’s like too much of a good thing," he explained. "Like lowering rates and quantitative easing and these stimulative things, they help but with a diminishing return. And eventually you go too far and it’s like eating the 35th jelly donut. It just doesn’t help you. It actually slows you down and makes you ... makes you feel bad. And my feeling has been that by having rates at zero for a very, very long time, the harm that we’re doing to savers outweighs the benefits that might be seen elsewhere in the economy." Bernanke told Einhorn that he was just wrong. Here's Einhorn: Well, he said ... first of all, he says, you’re wrong. That was good. And then he said the reason is if you raise interest rates for savers, somebody has to pay that interest. So you don’t create any value in the economy because for every saver there has to be a borrower. And what I came back to him [with] was ... I said, but wait a minute. You said for a long time we haven’t had enough fiscal stimulus, and who’s on the other side of the low-interest trade? It’s the government. And so if the government ... if we raise the rates, the government would have to pay more money to savers. You’d have the bigger deficits. You’d create the stimulus, the fiscal stimulus that you’ve been complaining that Congress wouldn’t give to you, right? And savers would benefit from the higher rates and because savings is spent at a very high rate in terms of interest — interest income on savings is spent at a high percentage, you’d get a real flow through into the economy. The interview then pivoted toward the effects of monetary policy on inequality, and Einhorn said he couldn't remember exactly what Bernanke had said. As for new Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen, Einhorn said he's keeping an "open mind."  "I would love to see if she had a better reason for rates to remain at zero at this stage of the economy," he said. Einhorn also talked about technology stocks, investment strategy, activist investing, and high-frequency trading during his hour-long segment on Bloomberg. Here's the full transcript, courtesy of Bloomberg TV:  STEPHANIE RUHLE: We’re going to get right to our second big exclusive guest this morning.  We are shifting from telecom to hedge funds.  David Einhorn is here.  He runs the $10 billion long-short fund Greenlight Capital, and he made headlines recently by declaring the tech sector to be in a bubble.  So we need to clarify that because as usual, the media never seems to get it right David, now do we?  DAVID EINHORN:  Well, I don’t know.  We’ve written -- we wrote in the letter that there’s -- that we thought there’s another tech bubble, but we said it was an echo bubble.  And I’d like to emphasize the echo, meaning it’s a smaller bubble.  It’s not contained with all tech.  We’re actually massively long tech.  We’re -- our biggest position is Apple and then Micron and Marvel (ph), but we think that there’s a sub-segment of tech which is high momentum stocks that have gotten completely out of control in terms of their valuation, and we think that those stocks actually did reach sort of a bubble proportion.  RUHLE: And they’ve gotten out of control why, because everyone’s just rushing to be in the tech sector and buying anything that they’ve got (ph)? EINHORN: Well it’s a combination. These are mostly very good businesses, but there’s a difference between what the right price for a very good business is and where some of these stocks have gotten. And this is what happens in bubbles and what happens in momentum. If you have good news and it’s a penny or a percent better than you thought it was and then the stock has to gap up 15 percent higher in response to that, and you do that four or five or six quarters in a row, before you know it the stock has doubled or tripled but the results might only be 5 percent better than you thought that they were and the valuations got out of control.  ERIK SCHATZKER: Valuations out of control. David, you wrote in your letter to investors for the first quarter that you see some of these stocks dropping by 90 percent. So good businesses that are overvalued by that much? EINHORN: Well let me clarify it. What I was saying was is in the previous bubble back in 1999-2000, even the best stocks fell --  SCHATZKER: Right, like Amazon for example or Cisco, right?  EINHORN: And those were the best ones. The worst ones fell even more than that. Some of them practically went out of business, right? And what I’m saying is when these stocks become disconnected, they’re very difficult to short because when they’re at a price that’s a silly price they can just keep going. And so twice a silly price is not twice as silly.  SCHATZKER: And some of them are recent IPOs where the float is tiny, right? EINHORN: Well that too, but it doesn’t matter because it can be a very big company or it can be a small company. But twice a silly price is not twice as silly. It’s still just silly. And so once these things disconnect and then they decide to come back the other way and people say, all right, I’m a grown investor. What would I be willing to pay for this? But I’m disciplined, so I have to look at the multiples now. And now you start looking at the multiples. There’s a really long way for these stocks to fall. And then where a value investor gets interested it’s -- it’s even less (inaudible). SCHATZKER: Which multiples matter to you the most? EINHORN: Well for simplicity, just cal it PE for now. SCHATZKER: Well some of them don’t have E. EINHORN: (Inaudible) that’s a problem because some of these businesses, not only don’t they have earnings, they don’t really have serious plans to make earnings in the future. SCHATZKER: I look -- I ran a -- because I know you do this kind of thing. Now my attempt at it is far less sophisticated and comprehensive than yours, but I looked at stocks with a billion dollars of market cap trading at 10 times price to sales and that are traded here in the United States. There’s 89 of them, and the first nine that come up don’t have any earnings at all and aren’t expected to have any earnings in the next 12 months. And we’re talking about stocks trading at as many -- as much as 2,900 times sales. EINHORN: Wow. That’s a lot. SCHATZKER: Yeah. Now 89, and that doesn’t even include the one that I know you’ve shorted, Athena Health. EINHORN: Right. Right. No. Look, I don’t think we have a generalized stock market bubble, but I do think we have a certain number of stocks that have caught everybody’s fancy, attention. There’s good stories behind a lot of these stocks and these companies, but the valuations I think have just gotten out of control.  SCHATZKER: So what’s in -- you’ve taken a different approach than perhaps the conventional route, which would be pinpointing, identifying overvalued single-name stocks and shorting them and instead gone for a basket approach. What’s in the basket? EINHORN: Well, a whole number of stocks. Probably many of the ones on your list. We identified one  yesterday as an example. I don’t really want to get into all the different ones that are in the basket, but I think it’s -- I think people can more or less sort these things out. Certainly we’re not saying like Apple is a short or Micron is a short. We’re long those things. SCHATZKER: But is Twitter a short, for example? Twitter’s a company that people, as you know, have raised many valuation concerns about and it shows up on my list. EINHORN: Yeah. Well here’s the thing. Like when we put out this letter, half the people were very upset that they thought we were talking our book. And the other half of the people were upset that we weren’t telling them all the names. So you really couldn’t please anybody. So I thought I’d bridge this yesterday by giving out one, by giving out one.  RUHLE: But why do you have to please anyone? You’re a hedge fund investor. The only people you need to satisfy are your investors. Go fish. You don’t have to write a letter. You don’t have to tell anybody anything.  EINHORN: Well let’s be clear. The letter is to our investors. RUHLE: But everybody gets it. EINHORN: This is an investor letter, right? It gets out there. We have a lot of investors, so we have to send it to a lot of people. And as a result, it does -- it does get out there. And (inaudible). RUHLE: Well why can’t you talk your book? Isn’t that what everybody does every day of their lives? EINHORN: I think adding information to the market so that people can sort these things out, I think it’s constructive and that’s why we tend to sometimes share our thinking. SCHATZKER: You started to come to these ideas not just in the first quarter but several quarters ago. In fact, in the third quarter you wrote to your investors that investors that -- that the market tin general was getting increasingly creative in its behavior. What did you mean by that and is it more creative now, and if so, how? EINHORN: Yeah. Well look, I think we -- the best we can do as value investors is we’re never going to be long these things. We’re not going to be long Athena Health at --  (CROSSTALK)  SCHATZKER: -- guy. I can see that. EINHORN: We’re disciplined value, guys. So the best that we can do is hope to not be short them too much at the wrong time. And so we did a very good job I think in hindsight last year not really being short these or not being short much of them. And then this year it seemed like the environment was beginning to turn and maybe things were heading towards a peak, and so we shorted a whole bunch of them. RUHLE: You want to talk about Athena? EINHORN: Sure. RUHLE: So walk us through the idea behind it. EINHORN: Sure. Look, I think Athena is -- is a very good example of this. This is a good business with a good strategy and a good product and a good management that’s doing good things for the world, but it stock is just at the wrong price and it’s really as simple as that. And what happened was is a few weeks ago Morgan Stanley came out with this conventional DCF valuation where they projected out the results until 2030 and we just looked at that and said, wow, how are you going to get from a 10 percent margin before stock comp to a 30 percent margin? And we thought about the business, and we just don’t think that the assumptions that they’re using there are plausible. RUHLE: Well you say -- or you said in your presentation they weren’t a cloud company. What exactly would constitute a cloud company then?  EINHORN: Well the way I look at it is there’s two types of -- of these Internet companies. There’s ones that have sort of a network effect and there’s others that don’t really have network effects. A network effect to me means that having more users on the network makes the site more valuable to each user. So eBay is a great example of this. Everybody likes auctions and -- and knows if you want to auction something off you go to eBay because that’s where the buyers are going to be and the buyers know where the sellers are going to be. So it’s very hard for a new entrant to come in and penetrate that. So eBay is able to extract value from that network by charging fees and commissions and so forth. But there’s other types of Internet companies where your relationship is very much with the provider. So having lots of customers, it might help the provider be a little more efficient. It might help them run their business better, but it doesn’t really present them with a competitive position that allows them to earn like huge excess profits over a long period of time. And I think Athena sort of falls more into that latter category. SCHATZKER: David, if I understand it correctly, you have raised the concern that Athena may not be able to compete with other large vendors like Epic (ph), for example. EINHORN: Yes. SCHATZKER: Now -- EINHORN: And the bull case really requires them to make a huge inroads into the hospital market. SCHATZKER: Okay. So I can understand how investors may have duped themselves into believing that Athena Health can do that, but what about customers? Ascension Health is become a client of Athena Health and that’s a pretty big company. Are they similarly duping themselves?  EINHORN: No, no, no. Athena has a good product and -- and they have customers and they have real customers, and I wouldn’t tell Ascension or anybody else not to use their product. I think it’s a fine product. I think the market opportunity is maybe smaller than people think because they’re already up to 37,000 doctors, which is a lot, and they concentrate in these -- in the ambulatory business, so not in the hospitals. So a large amount of the doctor population is away from them. And if hospitals buy up doctor practices, the available pool shrinks. Plus there’s been a huge move towards electronic health records. The stimulus provided huge incentives for doctors to take these systems on and a lot of them have done that. And Athena has captured part of that, but there’s been now a huge penetration of electronic health records and in the next year or two we think they’re going to run into a saturation and their growth is going to slow down. RUHLE: And what’s your timing? So I want to just make it -- I know you’ve said -- I want to make it very clear. This is not the case -- the way you’re looking at this, you’re saying it’s a good company. This is not a Green Mountain, a Lehman. Those were much different scenarios. For here, this is about price. Correct? EINHORN: That’s correct.  SCHATZKER: When does the market wake up and revalue these overvalued stocks? EINHORN: Well I don’t know. Perhaps it already has. It’s possible that the top was in -- a few weeks ago.  SCHATZKER: So the biotech sell-off, for example --  EINHORN: The stocks have come in a lot. Now we won’t know. In a year it will be very clear was that the top, was that not the top, did they rally back. Certainly they’re going to have sharp rallies even if they are going to continue to go down, and we’ll know in hindsight whether this was the top or whether this was a correction and so forth. Our strategy is to have relatively small positions in a large number of these things and let time be on our side.  SCHATZKER: Talk to us a bit more about the warning signs. Stephanie and I remember what they were -- what they were back in the 1999-2001 timeframe. RUHLE: Every single night in New York City another tech party for another company that you didn’t know what they did. SCHATZKER: Eyeballs, for example, price to earnings ratios of 1,000 or more. What are they today?  EINHORN: Look, I don’t know about the multiples, but we’ve seen -- we’ve seen a lot of concentration on addressable markets. We’ve talked about a lot of things with average (inaudible).  SCHATZKER: So people just like blue-skying their opportunities. EINHORN: You mentioned it. Price to sales because there is no earnings, right? And there’s not really a forecast for earnings over any intermediate period of time. There’s just a hope that you’ll achieve a critical mass and eventually margins -- SCHATZKER: Well hey, there’s a good example for that, right? Amazon generates profit but at an incredibly skinny margin. And it seems focused on building a customer base and revenue more than anything else, and for a long time investors have been pretty happy with that idea. EINHORN: The stock has done terrifically.  SCHATZKER: Until earlier this year.  EINHORN: The stock has done terrifically, absolutely, and they can continue to do terrifically until -- until they don’t. But the truth of the matter is with something like like Amazon -- SCHATZKER: (Inaudible) the way things go, right? EINHORN: With Amazon you’re still looking at a rather fancy -- fancy PE there.  SCHATZKER: So back to the warning signs. What else? What else -- (CROSSTALK) EINHORN: -- you saw things that -- look, I went through this in 1999 and 2000 and -- and tried to watch what I saw. Some things happened was shorts couldn’t stay involved. The daily pain was simply too much and you saw these parabolic or whatever kind of moves, and you saw that in a lot of these stocks. If you put up the stock chart of Athena, it certainly did that up to 200. And it was very, very hard. You could see short sellers being carried out of these things where even if they thought that they were right they weren’t able to keep (inaudible).  SCHATZKER: And there we see the corrections. EINHORN: And then you also see that the short interest goes way down, right? And so in a lot of these stocks there’s much lower short interest now than there was before. Another thing you saw was I think the King Digital IPO. These IPOs -- people were buying these IPOs without thinking too much about them because they were going up 40 percent the next day or 30 percent the next day.  SCHATZKER: Or because their kids played Candy Crush. EINHORN: No, not that one, but all the other ones that came out in the previous few weeks were having these huge pops. And when there’s huge pops in the IPOs, everybody calls up the underwriters and just gets them whatever it is and they don’t really analyze the companies or think about it. They just want the money on the first -- first day’s worth of trading. And then if the stocks hold those prices it brings out the next IPO.  What you saw with King, they priced it not so well and then the stock traded down. And I think around that same time there was a secondary offer of -- of Veve. VEVE is the ticker that the -- that they did. They priced that in the hole (ph) and then that didn’t trade very well. And that sort of told me that we were beginning maybe to get towards the end of -- of the cycle. RUHLE: Had those two names in your basket? EINHORN: I’m not mentioning any more names. SCHATZKER: How many are in the basket? EINHORN: Lots  SCHATZKER: How many is lots? Well I don’t know, are we talking about 100 names? EINHORN: Dozens. Dozens of names. SCHATZKER: So bigger than a bread box, smaller than a Volkswagen Beetle.  EINHORN: Perfect. RUHLE: Does it make it exceptionally hard to know how to be a value investor right now? Because fundamentally, no one’s going to disagree with you. But when we look at the IPO market, when we look at hedge funds, insurance companies everyday walking into work, they need to return. These deals look great. When they know they can get a big allocation, it’s attractive to buy. How do you keep that discipline at a time when momentum seems to be on your side? EINHORN: Well, sometimes it’s a struggle and -- and you have to play -- we like -- we like the time arbitrage. We like to get our analysis right and sometimes just wait longer than other people, and that’s one of the things that -- our horizon for investments is not usually a day or a week or a month. We tend to on the long side be really one to four years, which is ancient on Wall Street these days particularly with hedge funds. RUHLE: Then is it unfair that -- EINHORN: There’s a lot to do on the long side. RUHLE: Then is it unfair that activists are getting this brand right now? They’re good-time Charlies. They’re only in for a very short period, when Bill Ackman just said yesterday he’s got a six to seven-year time horizon. You’re saying four years. Do activists have the wrong brand right now?  EINHORN: Well I’m not going to sort out the differences between me and Bill. I think that they’re considerable. I think for us we’re doing the same thing that we’ve always done. We’re not suddenly more activist. In fact, we’re really not that activist. We did a thing with Apple about a year and something ago. Before that I think it was four or five years prior to our prior activism thing. It doesn’t mean we couldn’t turn around tomorrow and wind up declining to do something, but these are very -- very infrequent. Yes, but I’m not going to argue with people who want to characterize. I don’t see myself that way. RUHLE: All right. David, we have to take a quick break. SCHATZKER: I’m Erik Schatzker with Stephanie Ruhle and David Einhorn. He’s -- (CROSSTALK) SCHATZKER: -- of Greenlight Capital. So far a terrific conversation. David, I want to turn our attention away from individual stocks, we might go back there in a moment, and talk about the macro environment, quantitative easing, things that you have for a long time raised concerns about. You were at the Ira Sohn conference yesterday presenting one of your best investing ideas, shorting Athena Health. And Paul Tudor Jones, another hedge fund manager, was at Ira Sohn yesterday and he said this. “What we desperately need is a macro doctor to prescribe central bank Viagra because otherwise it’s going to continue to be somewhat dull.” Now Paul may share your concerns about quantitative easing, but quantitative easing has been awfully good for people who are long the stock market at the very least. Do you share that view? EINHORN: Well look, I adore Paul. We do Robin Hood together. He is one of my -- my favorite managers around. SCHATZKER: And an awfully smart guy. EINHORN: And an awfully smart guy. I don’t really think that they should set macro policy to create volatility for macro fund managers. That doesn’t strike me. So I think he’s going to have to live with the environment that -- that he gets on -- on that. That being said, as you know, I’ve been very critical of the monetary policy over the last few years. SCHATZKER: Jelly donuts and all. EINHORN: They jelly donuts. RUHLE: All right. Well you recently had dinner with Ben Bernanke. What went down? We didn’t get to be there. EINHORN: Well, it was -- I watched him for years in front of Congress and speaking and watched him on TV and “60 Minutes” and -- RUHLE: And what was your opinion of him before you had dinner?  EINHORN: I was -- I’ve been critical. I’ve been critical of him for a very long time. And the dinner for me, in one way it was cathartic because I got to ask him all these questions that -- that had been on my mind for a very long period of time, right? And then on the other side, it was like sort of frightening because the answers weren’t any better than I -- than I thought that they might be. SCHATZKER: What did you ask him? EINHORN: I asked several things. He started out by explaining that he was 100 percent sure that there’s not going to be hyper inflation. And not that I think that there’s going to be hyper inflation, but it’s like how do you get to 100 percent certainty of anything? Like why can’t you be 99 percent certain and like how do you manage that risk in the last 1 percent? And he says, well, hyper inflations generally occur after wars and we didn’t have -- that’s not here. And we -- we -- there’s no sign of inflation now and Japan’s done a lot more quantitative easing than we’ve done, and they don’t have it. So -- and if there is a big inflation, the Fed will know what to do. That was kind of the answer. And -- RUHLE: What did you say?  EINHORN: That was it. Then it went to the next question. So then a few minutes later it came back and I got to ask him about the jelly donuts. And my thesis is that it’s like too much of a good thing. Like lowering rates and quantitative easing and these stimulative things, they help but with a diminishing return. And eventually you go too far and it’s like eating the 35th jelly donut. It just doesn’t help you. It actually slows you down and makes you -- makes you feel bad. And my feeling has been that by having rates at zero for a very, very long time the harm that we’re doing to savers outweighs the benefits that might be seen elsewhere in the economy. So I got to ask him about this  SCHATZKER: Okay, and what did he say? EINHORN: Well he said -- he said -- first of all he says, you’re wrong. That was good. And then he said the reason is if you raise interest rates for savers, somebody has to pay that interest. So you don’t create any value in the economy because for every saver there has to be a borrower. And what I came back to him was I said, but wait a minute. You said for a long time we haven’t had enough fiscal stimulus, and who’s on the other side of the low interest trade? It’s the government. And so if the government -- if we raise the rates, the government would have to pay more money to savers. You’d have the bigger deficits. You’d create the stimulus, the fiscal stimulus that you’ve been complaining that Congress wouldn’t give to you, right? And savers would benefit from the higher rates and because savings is spent at a very high rate in terms of interest -- interest income on savings is spent at a high percentage, you’d get a real flow through into the economy. SCHATZKER: One of the questions you’ve raised about quantitative easing in one of your letters to investors was about inequality. Did you get any satisfaction from Ben Bernanke on the question of whether quantitative easing exacerbates inequality? EINHORN: Yeah. He -- he sort of -- that did come up and I don’t remember exactly what he said. So I don’t want to --  SCHATZKER: It wasn’t memorable. EINHORN: No. SCHATZKER: How about this notion that Warren Buffett has propagated that the Fed has become with its $4 trillion balance sheet the greatest hedge fund in history? EINHORN: Yeah. I’m not sure that’s meant as a compliment. SCHATZKER: But did that issue come up? There were a number of people (inaudible). EINHORN: Yeah. There were people -- there were people who were asking, yes, and he says -- he says the Fed can manage their way out of it when the time comes.  SCHATZKER: But in a persuasive way? Did he -- did he convince anyone? RUHLE: Or did he say Janet’s problem now, not mine? I’ll have another drink. EINHORN: He was -- he was very supportive of Janet. SCHATZKER: No doubt. RUHLE: Are you? EINHORN: I want to keep an open mind here. I saw her speak at the Economics Club a couple weeks ago and I was impressed by her speech. I thought -- she said, look, we have a base expectation, but things change. And when things change, we’re going to change our policy. I thought that was good. She’s -- I don’t look at one economic factor to drive things. I’m going to look at all of the factors. I thought that was good. I think the way she’s approaching problems at least conceptually is very good. I’d love to see if she has a better reason why rates should remain at zero at this stage in the economy, but you take these things and see where she goes. She’s just gotten started.  SCHATZKER: David, you wrote a few months ago, “No one is really sure what the Fed is focused on.” Between your dinner with Bernanke and Janet Yellen’s public statements to the press or in congressional testimony, do you feel you have any better an idea of what the Fed is focused on? EINHORN: Well, I’m not sure -- I’m not sure where you’re quoting me from exactly. And so I’m not sure -- SCHATZKER: Third quarter letter to investors. EINHORN: Yeah, thank you. I could use a sentence on either side. SCHATZKER: Fair point, fair point. I don’t have the context. I do have it here, but I’m not going to bother looking it up. EINHORN: Thank you. I apologize. SCHATZKER: Do you feel -- no, that’s fine. Do you feel any more confident about the Fed’s ability to manage that $4 trillion balance sheet than you felt before? You worry, for example, that if we run into greater economic -- if not greater -- if we run into economic headwinds at some point in the next few years and the Fed still has trillions of dollars, it’s not going to be able to (inaudible). EINHORN: If you start -- if you start at a zero rate and you start with a huge amount -- huge balance sheet and the economy turns down, the available tools that they will have are limited and there’s a risk that they will have to choose a tradeoff between doing something exceedingly aggressive, right, versus allowing a -- a crisis situation to fester. And they might choose to do something exceedingly aggressive and it may have a -- that 1 percent outcome.  RUHLE: David, why I -- while I only like to see you on Bloomberg Television, we had a chance to see you on “60 Minutes” just a few weeks ago right around Michael Lewis’s book and Flash Boys. And when I first saw “60 Minutes” I said, I get it. David Einhorn’s behind this. He’s supporting Michael Lewis’s argument. And then Michael Lewis sitting right here said David Einhorn’s a dumb tourist in this. Help me make sense of all this. Where do you stand? Because you’re not a dumb tourist to us.  EINHORN: Well thank you. Look, I think what we saw was we saw a little bit of a structural problem in the market. The market has gotten better and better and better over the years, but there’s a little bit of inefficiency with some of the market structure with the fragmentation. And we ran across these fellow who had an idea as to how to make a better platform for investors, IEX. And so we said here’s a little bit of a problem. We can help be part of that solution. We invested a little bit of money with them. We encouraged our friends to invest with them.  RUHLE: All right. David, we have to go to a quick commercial. We’ll be back with more in just a minute. Stay here. SCHATZKER: With us, David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital. David, we almost did something really unfair to you, and Stephanie and I just aren’t about that. So -- RUHLE: It was filling me with anxiety. You’re giving the answer, the music’s beginning, I’m stressing. SCHATZKER: Stephanie asked you a really important question and we didn’t give you enough time to answer. EINHORN: You’re really nice not to give me the hook like that. I appreciate that. SCHATZKER: So let’s do it again. Stephanie was asking you about high-frequency trading. Michael Lewis’s book Flash Boys, the exchange, the new kind of marketplace -- stock marketplace, IEX, that he’s praised and you’ve supported. And then our interview with Michael Lewis in which he referred to you almost ironically because it was in the context of a poker game, something that you happen to be pretty good at, as a dumb tourist at a casino. So let’s go back to what you were saying before.  EINHORN: All right. I was explaining before that we -- we were educated about some of the problems in the market and we helped gather up friends to invest in IEX and get that platform going off. And I should really actually call out my head trader Bruce Gudkin (ph) who did an amazing job of talking to other traders, talking to the investment banks trying to help them build their -- their network. And we’ve been really big supporters because we think that this is one of several things that probably need to be done to help level the playing -- level the playing field.  SCHATZKER: Okay. So how do you go from being an IEX supporter, backer, organizer effectively, together with your head trader Bruce, to in Michael Lewis’s description a dumb tourist? I don’t -- I don’t really -- do you get -- (CROSSTALK) SCHATZKER: Why would he single you out as the schmo at the -- at a rigged poker table? EINHORN: Yeah. Look, that’s okay. Stephanie, you asked him about his fact checking. RUHLE: Yeah. EINHORN: What he does is sense checking rather than fact checking. And so that’s probably what he -- (CROSSTALK) RUHLE: Isn’t that dangerous to do to -- EINHORN: He wanted to tell his story his certain way. I think he was providing a good service because it is based on a true story and I think he is identifying some problems in the market that -- that can be improved upon. And so let’s not quibble too much about how he tells it. RUHLE: Would you call the stock market rigged in the way that he does or simply needs improvement?  EINHORN: No, I wouldn’t -- I wouldn’t go that way at all. But there are some opportunities for it to get better for investors. And I’m hoping that IEX would -- would be part of that. SCHATZKER: David, it’s been a pleasure having you back here on “MARKET MAKERS.”  RUHLE: An absolutely pleasure. Watch the full interview below:  FREE AppDownload
Scott Olson/Getty ImagesI’m sure you agree that people are about the same at their core. Most of us care about deeply about our family. We all want to be happy, healthy, and safe. That’s the case no matter how much money you have stuffed inside your pillow. But wealthy people do think differently. It’s unmistakable and undeniable. I have worked with the rich and not-so-rich for 30 years. I’ve seen how the well-heeled ruminate in their own way and how that variation makes and keeps them rich. The good news is that anyone can copy “rich think” and come out much better on the other side. So how do rich people think? People who make a lot of money and hold on to it realize they don’t have all the answers. As a result, they are always on the lookout for new and better ways to do things. They surround themselves with people who offer different approaches. They have mentors and accountability partners. They are willing to consider ideas that conflict with their current way of doing things. If the new approach is better, they adapt. Their ego doesn’t get in the way of their intellect. When they are wrong, they don’t fight it or take it personally. Contrast that with people who think they have it down. Their mind tells them they have life mastered. As a result they can’t learn anything. Worse, they don’t see it when the universe says “no”. They stick to their antiquated approach and usually get run over by reality. You don’t have to be a genius to ask the right questions. You just can’t be lazy. That’s because it takes work to get all the answers to the many questions you have to ask in order to really understand a given situation. It’s much faster and easier to ask a few irrelevant questions and then steam ahead than to sit down and really ask all the important questions. Let’s say you are thinking about a major decision. A quick approach might be to consider a few superficial questions that just reinforce your preconceived notions. But a “rich think” approach would include such tough questions as: You can see which method is harder but leads to far better results. Rich folks aren’t afraid to ask the right questions and then do whatever it takes to get the answers. People who stay stuck often give up before the miracle arrives. People who use “rich think” see the obstacles of course (because they ask the right questions) but are willing to work hard to overcome them. Worthwhile goals take time to achieve. Rich people understand this and stay on track. Other people get frustrated when they don’t get instant results and they move on. Sadly, the person who hops around like that is caught in perpetual start-up mode because he’s always beginning something new and never gets to see the fruits of her labor. This point leads back to the issue of asking the right questions. The effective person continually asks herself if her actions are bringing her closer to or further away from her goal. If she finds that she’s drifting, she corrects course and gets back on track. Less effective people rarely self-assess. As a result they tend to be unproductive. Small people jump at the chance to criticize. They just love finding the flaws in other people and can’t wait to shine the spotlight on those defects. They dig putting others down. Of course there are people with money who are mean and nasty. But they aren’t rich or wealthy because they are usually alone and miserable. Rich people, truly rich people, do just the opposite. They seize every chance they get to praise others and always work hard to soften any negative review. This keeps alliances strong, builds teams and motivation. It excites others and brings out the best in them. Everyone wins. Napoleon Hill interviewed the wealthiest people in the United States about 90 years ago. He found that almost without exception rich people focus on helping others get what they want. It was that singular and fanatical focus on the customer that made these men and women successful. When people only do their jobs because of the money they usually lead poor lives. Find a way to make money helping other people get what they want and you’ll have more business than you can handle. If you are employed by someone else. The quickest way to your promotion is to follow the “ABH” rule — Always Be Helping! If you are looking for one word to summarize how the rich think it is humility. A truly humble person asks questions, is of service, treats others with dignity, keeps her eye on the ball, has patience and is willing to do the work. Above all, a humble person values herself and all other humans equally. She respects her own gifts and those of others. As a result she is open to the utmost this life has to offer. This article originally appeared at Wealth Pilgrim.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
anko.gaku_ula/flickrThis morning, Goldman Sachs put out a report on "Womenomics" — the crucial role that women will play in stabilizing Japan's economy. There are tons of great nuggets which we are in the process of extracting. But one stopped us in our tracks: At 21.3 million, the number of registered pet and dogs and cats now outnumbers the total number of children under the age of 15, at 16.5 million. Japan’s total population is forecast to shrink 30% to just 87 million by 2060. By that same year, people 65-and-older will comprise 40% of the country. To be sure, Japanese dog breeds can't be beat for adorability. But the seriousness of the demographic challenge the country faces can't be overstated. FREE AppDownload
Google FinanceStocks are sliding deeper into the red in early afternoon trading. The Dow is now down 124 points or 0.7%. The Nasdaq is down 51 points or 1.2%. Twitter is leading the way lower with shares down 15%. The company's lockup expires today, which means its the first day since the IPO that employees can cash in on their stock. Other stocks that are getting slammed include Netflix (-3.4%), Target (-3.1%), and Amazon (-3.1%). Tuesdays have generally been a good to be in stocks. "Coming into today, amazingly, fifteen out of the seventeen Tuesdays of 2014, (88%), have been "up"-days for the market," noted Rich Barry in the NYSE MAC Desk mid-day update. "In fact, if you only counted Tuesday performance for the S&amp;P 500, on a year-to-date basis, the index would be up a whopping 9%+." Unfortunately, there's little to no economic rationale for this. So, all things being equal, no one should be surprised that stocks would sell-off today. Trade Deficit Narrows Earlier today, we learned that the U.S. trade deficit narrowed 3.6% to $40.4 billion in March from $41.9 billion in February. Including prior revisions, the net effect of this report on GDP is negative. "[T]he trade figures suggest that the second estimate, due at the end of this month, will show that GDP actually contracted slightly in first quarter," said Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. Let's not forget that the trade report is one of the more lagged datapopints. "Exports of goods and services almost back to November’s all-time record," said Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey. "Don’t worry about a modest downward revision to first quarter’s GDP report as the trade deficit in goods narrowed a little. Exports are rising sharply and that is good for manufacturing and jobs. For the U.S. economy, exports are leading the way. The economy is stronger than you think."   FREE AppDownload
Wealthy individuals looking to invest in real estate should check out Tel Aviv, Dublin, and Chicago. Those are three of cities identified on a new list of "rising stars" for real estate investors from real estate developers Candy &amp; Candy, Deutsche Asset &amp; Wealth Management and Savills. The 12 cities on the list are set to "outperform the prime world cities and show strong residential price growth as they become more fully invested" in the next few years, and may offer lower-priced alternatives to "safe haven" cities like London and New York, the report writes. Here's the list, from most expensive residential property to least. "Prime" real estate is at the top-tier of the market, in the most desirable neighborhoods; "Secondary" real estate is the bulk of the residential market — mainstream properties in ordinary neighborhoods.Courtesy of Candy & Candy     And a map showing where those cities are located:Courtesy of Candy & Candy According to the report, real estate is becoming an increasingly mainstream asset class for ultra-wealthy investors. Investors from markets – Germany, Japan and the United States – account for 39% of global real estate holdings by ultra-high-net-worth individuals (those with assets of $30 million or more). FREE AppDownload
Flickr/PetraToday's young people can retire comfortably with $1 million in the bank. All it takes is starting early, spending 15 minutes a year rebalancing their portfolio, and avoiding financial professionals who are mostly concerned with making themselves money. At least that's the message of William Bernstein, cofounder of investment management firm Efficient Frontier Advisors, who recently published the short ebook "If You Can: How Millennials Can Get Rich Slowly." It clearly resonates. The book, available for free on his website and for 99 cents on Amazon, is being snapped up by readers, and a New York Times story about Bernstein has spent the last several days at the top of the publication's most emailed list. The popular interest seems to be a combination of older people sharing the text with their young family members and unspoken anxiety about saving for retirement, Bernstein tells Business Insider. "Of course, what I'd really like to believe," he says, "is that I've successfully stoked latent public outrage over a retirement system that expects the folks who teach our kids and flip our burgers to somehow, against all odds, manage their retirement portfolios."So how can you get rich slowly? Here's some of Bernstein's advice, excerpted from the ebook with his permission: ***  Would you believe me if I told you that there's an investment strategy that a seven-year-old could understand and that will take you 15 minutes of work per year, outperform 90% of finance professionals in the long run, and make you a millionaire over time?  Well, it is true, and here it is: Start by saving 15% of your salary at age 25 into a 401(k) plan, an IRA, or a taxable account (or all three). Put equal amounts of that 15% into just three different mutual funds:  Over time, the three funds will grow at different rates, so once per year you'll adjust their amounts so that they're again equal. (That's the 15 minutes per year, assuming you've enrolled in an automatic savings plan.)  That's it; if you can follow this simple recipe throughout your working career, you will almost certainly beat out most professional investors. More importantly, you'll likely accumulate enough savings to retire comfortably.  William J. BernsteinInvestment advisor William BernsteinMost young people believe that Social Security won't be there for them when they retire, and that this is a major reason why their retirements will not be as comfortable as their parents. Rest assured that you will get Social Security; its imbalances are relatively minor and fixable, and even if nothing is done, which is highly unlikely in view of the program's popularity, you'll still get around three-quarters of your promised benefit.  The real reason why you're going to have a crummy retirement is that the conventional "defined benefit" pension plan of your parents' generation, which provided a steady and reliable stream of income for as long as they lived, has gone the way of disco. There's only one person who can repair the gap left by the disappearance of these plans, and you know who that is. Unless you act with purpose and vigor, your retirement options may well range between moving in with your kids and sleeping under a bridge in the rain.  Further, the most important word is the IF in the above "if you can follow this simple recipe," because, you see, it's a very, very big if.  At first blush, consistently saving 15% of your income into three index funds seems easy, but saying that you can become comfortably well-to-do and retire successfully by doing so is the same as saying that you'll get trim and fit by eating less and exercising more. People get fat because they like pizza more than fresh fruit and vegetables and would rather watch Monday night football than go to the gym or jog a few miles. Dieting and investing are both simple, but neither is easy. (And I should know, since I've been much more successful at the latter than at the former.)  In your parents' day, the traditional pension plan took care of all the hard work and discipline of saving and investing, but in its absence, this responsibility falls on your shoulders. In effect, the traditional pension plan was an investing fat farm that involuntarily limited calorie intake and made participants run five miles per day. Too bad that, except for the luckiest workers, such as corporate executives and military personnel, these plans are disappearing.  Bad things almost inevitably happen to people who try to save and invest for retirement on their own, and if you're going to succeed, you're going to need to avoid them. To be precise, five bad things — hurdles, if you will — must be overcome if you are to succeed and retire successfully:   People spend too much money. They decide that they need the newest iPhone, the most fashionable clothes, the fanciest car, or a Cancun vacation. Say you're earning $50,000 per year, 15% of which is $7,500, or $625 per month.  In this day and age, that's a painfully thin margin of saving, and it can be wiped out simply by stringing together several seemingly innocent expenditures, each of which might nick your savings by $100 or so per month: a latte per day, a too-rich cable package, an apartment that's a little too tony, a dress or pair of brand-name sneakers you really don't need, a few unnecessary restaurant meals and, yes, an excessive smart phone plan you could, if you had to, not only live without, but also function better without.  Life without these may seem spartan, but it doesn't compare to being old and poor, which is where you're headed if you can't save. You might even save the whole $625 in one fell swoop just by living with a roommate for a while longer, instead of renting your very own place. Again, as bad as having a roomie may be, it's not nearly as awful as living on cat food at age 70. Let's assume you can save enough. You're not home free, not by a long shot. You've got four more barriers to get by. You'll need an adequate understanding of what finance is all about. Trying to save and invest without a working knowledge of the theory and practice of finance is like learning to fly without grasping the basics of aerodynamics, engine systems, meteorology, and aeronautical risk management. It's possible, but I don't recommend it. I'm not suggesting that you need to get an MBA or even read a big, dull finance textbook. The essence of scientific finance, in fact, is remarkably simple and can be acquired, if you know where to look, pretty easily. (And rest assured, I'll tell you exactly where to find it.)  Learning the basics of financial and market history. This is not quite the same as the above hurdle; if learning about the theory and practice of finance is akin to studying aeronautics, then studying investing history is akin to reading aircraft accident reports — something every conscientious pilot does.  The new investor is usually disoriented and confused by market turbulence and the economic crises that often cause it; this is because he or she does not realize that there's nothing really new under the investment sun.  A quote often misattributed to Mark Twain has it that "History doesn't repeat itself, but it does rhyme." This fits finance to a tee. If you don't recognize the landscape, you will get lost. Contrariwise, there's nothing more reassuring than being able to say to yourself, "I've seen this movie before (or at least I've read the script), and I know how it ends."  Overcoming your biggest enemy — the face in the mirror — is a daunting task. Know thyself. Human beings are simply not designed to manage long-term risks. Over hundreds of thousands of years of human evolution, and over hundreds of millions of years of animal development, we've evolved to think about risk as a short-term phenomenon: the hiss of the snake, the flash of black and yellow stripes in the peripheral vision. We were certainly not designed to think about financial risk over its proper time horizon, which is several decades. Know that from time to time you will lose large amounts of money in the stock market, but these are usually short-term events — the financial equivalent of the snake and the tiger. The real risk you face is that you'll be flattened by modern life's financial elephant: the failure to maintain strict long-term discipline in saving and investing.  As an investor, you must recognize the monsters that populate the financial industry. They're very talented chameleons; they don't look like monsters; rather, they appear in the guise of a cousin or an old college friend. They are also self-deluded monsters; most "finance professionals" don't even realize that they're moral cripples, since in order to function they've had to tell themselves a story about how they're really helping their customers. But even if they're able to fool others and often themselves as well, make sure they don't fool you.  Only if you can clear all five of these hurdles can you successfully execute the deceptively simple "three fund strategy" I've outlined above. This excerpt is from "If You Can: How Millennials Can Get Rich Slowly" by William Bernstein. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ruben SprichLast week we learned the Case-Shiller 20-city home price index was up 0.76% month-over-month and 12.86% year-over-year in February. Calculated Risk's Bill McBride points out Zillow has begun forecasting Case-Shiller a month early, and that it's worth looking at what they say "since they have been pretty close." Well here's what they say: Home price appreciation in the U.S. is basically about to grind to a halt. Here's Zillow economic research director Svenja Gudell from a few days ago: Case-Shiller indices have shown very little slowing in monthly appreciation, as they continue to show a somewhat inflated picture of home prices. At the risk of sounding like a broken record, we have been expecting them to finally show what other housing indicators have long been indicating: a broad slowdown in home value appreciation across the nation. Finally, February numbers are showing more of a slowdown and you can actually see the slowdown in the data (before, it was more talked about than actually shown), and this slowdown will carry into the March numbers.  Zillow now forecasts March will see a 0.8% gain  for the 20-City Composite Index — the same as January's revised figure — and just an 11.9% YOY price increase in March. The next Case-Shiller comes out May 27. You can see in this recent Zillow chart a kink has sprung up in the appreciation trend: Zillow And here's Zillow vs. Case-Shiller recently: Zillow FREE AppDownload
Ernst & Young G20 Entrepreneurship Barometer 2013A new report by the London-based Centre for Policy Studies has found that the United States has produced the third most self-made billionaires currently in the world, putting it behind only Hong Kong and Israel, when considered as a percentage of the total population.  To determine the number of these "super entrepreneurs," the Center analyzed billionaires that have appeared on Forbes' list of richest people between 1996 and 2012.  With the help of Ernst &amp; Young's Entrepreneurship Barometer, an annual survey that ranks the best countries to start a business, as well as other sources, we examine what has made the U.S. so successful at producing billionaire entrepreneurs and profitable new businesses. With the corporate tax rate sitting around 40% (35% federal rate plus an additional 5% at the state and local level), it may come as a surprise that the United States' tax structure is cited by the report as one of its entrepreneurial strengths. That seeming discrepancy lies in the fact that the U.S.'s tax rate, when measured as a share of GDP, is incredibly low. According to the OECD, the U.S.'s corporate taxes accounted for 2.6% of GDP in 2012. As recently as 2011, corporate taxes accounted for 1.3%. For reference, in the 1950s, corporate taxes accounted for around 5%. Canada (26%), Norway (28%), and New Zealand (28%) all have a nominally lower corporate tax rate than the United States. Yet all three have higher corporate taxes as a share of GDP: 2.9%, 10.4%, and 4.4%, respectively. That means those three countries actually raise more revenue from corporate taxes than the United States proportionally, and U.S. companies pay a smaller share of their profits in income tax than corporations in those countries. While tax policy is a constant left/right argument, many believe that high tax rates discourage entrepreneurship. Many in the U.S. love to harp on the country's high statutory tax rate, but corporate taxes are actually lower than they've ever been. Add in the multitude of loopholes, tax shelters, and exemptions that corporations take advantage of, and you can understand why Warren Buffet has called the notion that corporate taxes are high "a myth." While many entrepreneurs complain that the U.S.'s regulatory environment is complex, the country is actually an easy place to start a business when compared to the rest of the world. The 2013 "Ease Of Doing Business Index" ranks the United States as fourth, behind only Singapore, Hong Kong, and New Zealand. The index measures regulations that affect the formation and running of businesses, such as the time and minimum capital to start a business and the procedures for purchasing property, obtaining permits, and managing bankruptcy. Similarly, the OECD index of regulations ranks the U.S. as half as burdened by regulations as Western European countries. Here's some hard numbers on how much easier running a business is in the U.S.: Ernst & Young G20 Entrepreneurship Barometer 2013On nearly every statistical measure for taxes and regulations, the U.S. scores better than the average across all G20 countries. As the financial center of the world, it's not surprising that the United States' biggest advantage may be its financial markets. According to Ernst &amp; Young, markets in the U.S. are not only large, but "efficient and highly liquid." In addition, the U.S. benefits from a deep network of angel investors, venture capital firms, specialty banks, and crowdfunding solutions to provide capital to new, innovative businesses. The United States also benefits from an established innovation system that supports research and development. Only Japan and South Korea currently spend more money on R&amp;D as a percentage of GDP. Take a look at how the U.S. compares to the G20 average: Ernst & Young G20 Entrepreneurship Barometer 2013 The entrepreneurial spirit is central to American culture. Billionaire founders of Microsoft, Apple, Google, and Facebook are just the latest wave in a long tradition that began with titans like Henry Ford, Thomas Edison, Andrew Carnegie, and John D. Rockefeller.  Ernst & Young G20 Entrepreneurship Barometer 2013Entrepreneurs in the U.S. are able to take advantage of elite research universities and a close association between higher education and the business world, in the form of science parks, business incubators, and venture funds. While the connection between Stanford University and Silicon Valley is the most immediate example, Cornell's new high-tech campus is similarly trying to become a hub for the NYC startup scene. In general, Americans are also more receptive to the risks associated with starting a business. The culture in the United States, unlike many countries, is one of support. Look at how U.S. entrepreneurs view business failure:Ernst & Young G20 Entrepreneurship Barometer 2013President Obama is not the first president to publically support small businesses and entrepreneurship, but he has famously made them a centerpiece of his economic program. He has called small businesses "the engine of our economy," suggesting that they drive growth and create jobs. According to Ernst &amp; Young, 79% of U.S. entrepreneurs say that the country's culture encourages entrepreneurship. By comparison, the G20 average is around 57%.  All in all, America remains a business powerhouse, with an infrastructure and culture that produces more self-made billionaires than most other nations. Here's an overview of how the U.S. ranks in five categories on Ernst &amp; Young's Entrepreneurship Barometer: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steve MarcusBillionaire hedge fund manager Steven A. Cohen, who reportedly took home $2.4 billion in compensation last year, got a personal loan from Goldman Sachs earlier this year that was backed by his art collection. Bloomberg News' Miles Weiss reports: Goldman Sachs Bank USA, parent to the firm’s private bank for the very rich, filed a notice with the Connecticut Secretary of the State reporting that Cohen had pledged “certain items of fine art” under a security agreement dated Feb. 28, which didn’t specify how much money was borrowed. The February filing is the first to show Cohen receiving an art loan from Goldman Sachs. Michael DuVally, a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to comment on the amount of the loan, as did Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Cohen at Sard Verbinnen &amp; Co. Cohen is an avid collector. His personal collection includes pieces by Monet, Picasso, Jasper Johns, Jeff Koons, Damien Hirst, Willem de Kooning, Francis Bacon and Andy Warhol, according to a 2010 Vanity Fair profile. He's also said to keep a live tattooed Wim Delvoye pig in his Connecticut compound.  Last year was rough for Cohen.  In November, his once $14 billion SAC Capital pleaded guilty to criminal insider trading charges and agreed to pay a $1.8 billion fine. SAC is now called Point72 Asset Management. It's no longer allowed to manage outside capital. Today, it operates as a family office hedge fund that manages Cohen's personal wealth and money of its employees, which comes to about $9 billion in assets under management.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsBasking SharkLast Wednesday, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch released a brief paper titled "A Transforming World." To demonstrate the kinds of themes it is looking at, the firm provided the following 15 crazy facts: (Via FT Alphaville) FREE AppDownload
The company's lockup expired today, so many employees probably sold. However, it's worth noting Twitter's biggest investors and stakeholders likely aren't selling. Twitter's stock has been falling a lot since the company reported earnings last week. Investors appear to be worried that the company's user base isn't growing very quickly even though its financials are pretty good. Twitter has 255 million monthly active users, which is smaller than other social networks like WhatsApp (500 million), LinkedIn (300 million), and Facebook (1.28 billion). However, even though Twitter isn't growing its users very quickly, CEO Dick Costolo said last week that its mobile ad network reaches up to 1 billion people. Twitter bought mobile ad network MoPub last year. Some think that even though Twitter may never become a massive social network on the scale of Facebook, it has a nice lifeline thanks to the MoPub acquisition. Here's a look at Twitter's stock decline since its IPO day: CNBC FREE AppDownload
In the long run, earnings are the most important driver of stock prices. So, it would make sense that stock prices would fall if earnings expectations fell and vice versa. But in recent years, that relationship hasn't held.* "Markets stopped following fundamentals about two years ago," said Matt King, a credit products strategist with Citi. In a new presentation, King included a slide titled "Distorted Markets," which included the chart below. As you can see, stock prices generally move in the same direction as analysts earnings revisions. But in the right side of the chart, you can see where things get confusing. When earnings and price diverge like this, analysts say that the market multiple is increasing, a phenomenon that is notoriously hard to see coming. This is not super unusual over short-term periods. It is, however, a great illustration of why investing takes patience. Citi Research *We've written about it here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, and here. FREE AppDownload
Renting an apartment is no easy or cheap task. There are broker fees, security deposits, credit checks, and the list goes on and on. It's enough to make you tired just thinking about it, let alone going through with the process. But some San Francisco residents got an extreme punch in the gut when this letter was slipped under their doors last month:HoodlineAndrew Dudley, who writes for Hoodline, says "a reader who wishes to remain anonymous sent in the above letter, which was slipped under the door of every unit in his rent-controlled building near Haight and Fillmore [in San Francisco] recently." The letter reads: The building policy/requirement of a current apartment applicant/resident is that they are able to establish that their minimum annual income is at least $100,000 - additionally required is a minimum FICO credit score of 725.  We are not able to accept in our minimum income calculation any form of 'guarantor' or similar form of 'guarantee' offered of account of the apartment/resident applicant, by a friend of family member nor any other person or legal entity.  Of course, more is required to qualify an apartment/resident/applicant, than income and credit score; but a minimum income and credit score requirement is a basic starting point.  Dudley says his tipster believes the letter may have come after a few of the building residents began to fight the management company in question. Sites like SFGate describe Lower Haight as a neighborhood that "evokes images of the long-gone '60s hippie culture" mixed with "exclusive boutiques, high-end vintage-clothing shops, secondhand stores, internet cafes, and hip restaurants."  "Neo-punks, club kids, fashionistas, tourists and neighborhood folks are equally at home here, whether they have come to get a new piercing, grab a burrito, find the latest drum 'n' bass 12-inch or just people-watch from a cafe," SFGate concludes. In short, it's hardly San Francisco's answer to Manhattan's Upper East Side. But this letter from a landlord seems to hint that the times, they are a-changing. "While minimum income and credit score requirements such as these are legal," Dudley writes, "it's striking that a six-figure salary is now required just to meet the minimum standard for a rental in the neighborhood."  Business Insider has reached out to several management companies in the Lower Haight area of San Francisco for comment. FREE AppDownload
Looking at social media activity in a densely populated area like New York City can reveal a lot about the people who live there. A new set of maps from the DOLLY Project at the University of Kentucky uses geotagged tweets to demonstrate where members of certain social groups are concentrated around the city.  The first map compared tweets that referenced hipsters with those that mentioned bro culture.  "Although mortal enemies in the wild, we wanted to see whether domestication (via urbanization and Twitter) might cause these archetypes to adapt different grazing patterns," DOLLY analysts wrote in a blog post. The study was conducted on tweets that were posted between June 2012 and March 2014, and the data was normalized to prevent particularly active Twitter users from skewing the results.  In that time period, there were 12,319 tweets with "hipster" references, represented by the darker areas on the map below. In a not-very-surprising conclusion, they found that hipsters were more concentrated in the gentrifying areas of Brooklyn like Williamsburg and DUMBO, as well as in Manhattan's SoHo and NoHo neighborhoods.  Tweets mentioning bros, on the other hand, were much more common — 239,412 tweets referencing the college-aged, partying male demographic — and generally seemed to be located in a belt around Manhattan. Bros are represented by the lighter-colored hexagons on the map. floatingsheep.org The DOLLY project also created a map comparing tweets from NYC bankers and artists.  Bankers, represented by the dark hexagons in the map below, tweeted most often from the Financial District and the residential Upper West Side and Upper East Side neighborhoods. Interestingly enough, they also tweeted from the area's airports fairly often.  Artists seemed to be distributed in several different areas around the city, especially Brooklyn, Queens, and upper Manhattan.  floatingsheep.org "These two examples illustrate how using more context-appropriate methods for aggregating and visualizing geotagged social media data can provide meaningful (or at least interesting!) insight into the spatial distribution of cultural-economic identities in the city," the analysts wrote.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerElon Musk, CEO of Tesla MotorsTesla pulled a trademark for its Model E design.  The move was first spotted by Jalopnik on Monday night.  The Model E was supposed to be the company's third ground-up design after the models S and X — which, if you put all those letters together... The model E was expected to cost about half of a model S. Tesla has not yet responded to an emailed request for comment. Shares are down more than 2% Tuesday. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg.comDespite most hedge fund managers fell short on  the market's returns last year, the top 25 highest-earning hedge fund managers in the U.S. pocketed a combined $21.15 billion, according to an annual ranking by Institutional Investor’s Alpha magazine. In fact, their multibillion-dollar payday is the highest since 2010, according to the report.  In the last five years, David Tepper, 56, founder of Appaloosa Management, has made the 'Alpha's Rich List' and in the last two years he has topped it. Known as a distressed investor who got his start investing in junk bonds, Tepper brought home $3.5 billion in 2013. The 30 Most Successful Hedge Funds On Wall Street In 2013 Steven Cohen of SAC Capital Advisors and John Paulson of Paulson &amp; Company came in 2nd with $2.4 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively. The $2.7 trillion hedge fund industry has sought billions of dollars from the wealthy as well as from pension funds and endowments. Last year, investors poured $63.7 billion into hedge funds alone, according to DealBook. Head over the Institutional Investor for the rest of the list&gt; FREE AppDownload
The 'Einhorn Effect' is not only brutal but also takes a while to wear off, apparently. This morning, after the hedge fund manager laid out his short thesis on athenahealth (ATHN) at the Sohn Investment Conference, the stock is still plunging, and has fallen over 12%. Einhorn said that athenahealth's CEO, Jonathan Bush, and Wall Street banks like Morgan Stanley are deluded about its capabilities, and consequently its stock price. At that point it was at $126, but as Einhorn spoke the stock fell 7% in after hours trading. “Jonathan Bush likes to compare athenahealth to Amazon because they both have websites," he said during his presentation — and followed that comment with brutal clip after clip of a giddy Bush ("yes, that Bush family," said Einhorn) talking about the company's wildly optimistic future. Einhorn's bull thesis for the stock is for it to fall to $50, his bear case is that it could go to $14. Anyway check out the chart below. That's what it's like to get 'Einhorn'd.' Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
However, forward earnings have also been falling for the EMU MSCI and UK MSCI since 2011, and they both have higher P/Es of 13.9 and 13.4, respectively. So EMs still look cheap relative to Europe. They are especially cheap relative to the 15.3 multiple in the US, which is clearly discounting that the index’s forward earnings continues to rise into record territory, as discussed below. What about the forward earnings of individual EMs? India, Indonesia, and South Africa have relatively expensive P/Es because their forward earnings are making new highs. On the other hand, Mexico’s forward earnings is declining. China seems cheap, especially since its forward earnings is also in record-high territory, but it’s been falling recently. Brazil’s forward earnings looks terrible, continuing to flat-line as it has been doing since 2006! Turkey has been flat-lining since mid-2011, but may be starting to move to new highs again. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Urge to Emerge. (1) Rotating in Chicago. (2) A year of living less dangerously. (3) Hunting for value among EMs. (4) Some EMs are cheaper than others. (5) Forward earnings rising to record highs in India, Indonesia, and South Africa. (6) China looking toppy. (7) Mexico isn’t cheap. (8) Brazil’s earnings in a coma. (9) Fragile Five leading the EM rally. (10) As expected, Q1 earnings season showing typical better-than-expected results. (11) No sign of profit margin reverting to the mean. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
This post is sponsored by OppenheimerFunds.   We're in the fourth year of an income famine. That's what economists call it when the Fed sets interest rates at low levels while investment-grade bonds are yielding less than inflation. That can lead to a budget crisis for anyone on a fixed income. Krishna Memani, chief investment officer at OppenheimerFunds, says investors can either do nothing — and see their incomes shrink — or pull away from the Fed and decide on a differentiated fixed-income model that takes the right kind of risks. Investors should contact their advisers so they can start a new conversation about growth, income, and protection.* Watch the video above to find out more.  Learn more at GrowthIncomeProtection.com. * Protection is positioned as an investment goal. Investing in certain securities may help to hedge against certain risks, but does not imply any guarantee from loss. Mutual funds are subject to market risk and volatility. Shares may gain or lose value. Fixed income investing entails credit risks and interest rate risks. When interest rates rise, bond prices generally fall.  Oppenheimer funds are distributed by OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. is not affiliated with Business Insider. Carefully consider fund investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses. Visit oppenheimerfunds.com, call your advisor or 1.800.225.5677 (CALL OPP) for a prospectus with this and other fund information. Read it carefully before investing.  © 2014 OppenheimerFunds Distributor, Inc. Find out more about Sponsor Posts. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Eduardo MunozActivist investor Bill Ackman, the CEO of Pershing Square Capital Management, is bullish Fannie Mae. Ackman gave a 110-slide presentation at the 19th annual Sohn Conference yesterday, detailing why he's bullish on the government-controlled mortgage giant. According to Ackman, the potential return is tenfold.  Fannie's stock is trading just above $4 per share. Ackman sees the stock price ranging from $23 to $47 in the future. Fannie and Freddie needed massive bailouts amid the financial crisis but have in recent quarters become wildly profitable again. And a number of hedge funders have been bullish for a while. Ackman's Pershing Square owns 115,569,796 shares of Fannie and 63,505,693 shares of Freddie Mac. As Ackman puts it, this investment is like "owning a royalty on the housing-finance market." Pershing Square proposes a plan to reform the GSEs, rather than liquidate them. "The best way to maintain widespread availability and affordability of the 30-year, fixed-rate, prepayable mortgage and provide substantial profit to the taxpayer is to reform the GSEs," according to the presentation.  Ackman's recommendations include increasing capital requirements for GSEs, eliminating the fixed-income arbitrage business, subjecting GSEs to increased regulatory oversight, and developing appropriate compensation and government policies. We've included a copy of the presentation: FREE AppDownload
APOn his campaign website, Republican Illinois gubernatorial candidate and billionaire R8 Capital Partners founder Bruce Rauner describes himself as "a self-made businessman who had no inheritance or family wealth" and "has never let his success change him." As evidence of this, the site notes that Rauner "still drives a 20-year-old camper van, wears an $18 watch, and stays in the cheapest hotel room he can find when he’s on the road." However, court documents from Rauner's 1993 divorce indicate his penchant for more extravagant items including jewelry, antique furniture, and dishware. Rauner and his first wife, Elizabeth, were divorced in 1993 after she said she had discovered he was allegedly having an affair. As part of their settlement agreement, the couple divided up their assets, which included properties, frequent-flyer miles, and millions of dollars. As part of the settlement, Rauner requested to keep his "jewelry and personal effects." There was also a long list of "household furniture and personal property" that was allocated to Rauner. Based on the list, Rauner evidently has a taste for fine furniture. Among other things, he was allocated a "mahogany curved leg table," "sideboard and butler's cart," "Victorian chairs," and a "blue oriental rug." He also made sure to keep dishes, including "6 gold leaf dessert plates," a "Wedgewood Queensware plate," and an "Atlantis decanter and 4 glasses." Rauner also took some other household items: a set of "Swedish candlesticks," "brass fireplace tools," "brass sconces," and an item tantalizingly described as a "bronze elk head." Rauner's taste in interior decorating was previously documented in 2004 when Private Equity International wrote about his "cigar room" in Chicago's Sears Tower (now the Willis Tower). PEI noted the room was "adorned with mounted, taxidermic birds," featured "a tall humidor filled with expensive brands of cigars," and "plush seating." Rauner told PEI he used the room as a "marketing tool." "There are a lot of investment bankers and entrepreneurs who love a cigar when they're relaxing and talking about things. I find it a big icebreaker. I've had people call me and say, ‘Bruce, we haven't met in the cigar room for a while,’” he said. Rauner's campaign did not immediately respond to a request for comment on this story. View the full list of Rauner's favorite things below.   Circuit Court of Cook County  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingBerkshire Hathaway Chairman Warren Buffett (L) and Vice Chairman Charlie Munger As we consider these men pioneers of long-duration common stock investing, we wanted to share what we believe were the best nuggets of wisdom from the weekend.  1. Thou Shalt Not Envy. Munger: “We are way better off by not adding to a culture of envy."  At Smead Capital Management, our motto is "Only the Lonely Can Play." Sticking to your own discipline when other investors are temporarily doing better than you, is effectively avoiding envy. We don't envy the returns others make in their disciplines and hope our investors stick to the kind of long durations emphasized by Berkshire Hathaway.  2. Thou Shall Hire Great People and Over-trust Them. Buffett: "They make mistakes, but we get more success overall."  Mr. Buffett sounded like author Jim Collins who said, "get the right people on the bus." We try to look for this in our investments and attempt to do this in our own company.  3. Thou Shall View Competition as the Enemy of Competence. Munger: “Don't try out for the NBA if you are 5'2" tall. To find a circle of competence, compete against idiots.  The slowness of what we do causes few to compete with our model."  In essence, we think Buffett and Munger were saying that one should invest in S&amp;P 500 index sectors, industries and companies where the consensus is fearful. Buffett has said that you "pay a high price for a cheery consensus" and gave a loud re-endorsement of CEO Brian Moynihan at Bank of America. The long duration confidence and "slowness" of what we do in our large bank holdings will be a source of future success, in our lonely opinion!  4. Thou Shall Value Qualitative over Quantitative. Buffett: "Aesop Was Right (a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush). Fisher was qualitative in analyzing stocks, Graham was quantitative and Charlie convinced me that Fisher is correct."  Our eight criteria have a clearly qualitative bent and do not emphasize the deep value pattern of Ben Graham. We will comment more about this subject next week, related to recent statistics which show that long-term Alpha is connected to low-capex and high free-cash flow generation companies. 5. Thou Shalt Remove Ignorance from Investing. Munger: "Investing and business success is about ignorance removal."  We have argued for years (just ask my kids) that all the math you need to be a great investor is learned by the end of 7th grade. Don't let complexity and high math fool you in the investment vehicles you analyze. We contend that successful investing in common stocks comes in long durations and from doing something which is relatively simple, but humanly hard to execute. Charlie said that See's Candy taught Warren and him about brands and led to the purchase of Coke in 1988. In effect, it "removed some of their ignorance" associated with brands. Warm Regards, William Smead FREE AppDownload
Many people have trouble getting to sleep or waking up in the middle of the night – here are the reasons and how to fix the problem. Produced By Matt Johnston.Follow BI Video: On Facebook
BEAThe U.S. trade deficit narrowed 3.6% to $40.4 billion in March from $41.9 billion in February. Economists were forecasting a $40.0 billion deficit. Exports increased to$193.9 billion from $190 billion. Imports climbed to $234.3 billion from $231.8 billion. "Overall, though, we are inclined to see these swings in exports and imports mostly as post-winter corrections; the trend in the core deficit is about flat," said Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson. Including prior revisions, the net effect of this report on GDP is negative. "[T]he trade figures suggest that the second estimate, due at the end of this month, will show that GDP actually contracted slightly in first quarter," said Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. "Overall, whether Q1 GDP expanded or contracted slightly is of little importance now. The monthly data clearly show a big resurgence in activity and employment over the past couple of months, confirming that the earlier weakness was weather-related." Here's some color from the BEA: Goods The February to March increase in exports of goods reflected increases in capital goods ($2.1 billion); industrial supplies and materials ($0.9 billion); automotive vehicles, parts, and engines ($0.6 billion); other goods ($0.3 billion); and foods, feeds, and beverages ($0.1 billion). A decrease occurred in consumer goods ($0.3 billion). The February to March increase in imports of goods reflected increases in consumer goods ($1.2 billion); foods, feeds, and beverages ($1.0 billion); capital goods ($0.9 billion); and other goods ($0.8 billion). A decrease occurred in industrial supplies and materials ($0.5 billion). Automotive vehicles, parts, and engines were virtually unchanged. The March 2013 to March 2014 increase in exports of goods reflected increases in capital goods ($2.8 billion); consumer goods ($1.5 billion); foods, feeds, and beverages ($1.5 billion); and automotive vehicles, parts, and engines ($0.6 billion). Decreases occurred in industrial supplies and materials ($0.6 billion) and other goods ($0.2 billion). The March 2013 to March 2014 increase in imports of goods reflected increases in consumer goods ($4.1 billion);  capital goods ($3.2 billion); automotive vehicles, parts, and engines ($1.6 billion); foods, feeds, and beverages ($1.0 billion); industrial supplies and materials ($0.8 billion); and other goods ($0.1 billion). ServicesExports of services increased $0.2 billion from February to March. Increases in other private services ($0.2 billion), which includes items such as business, professional, and technical services, insurance services, and financial services, and in passenger fares ($0.1 billion) were partly offset by a decrease in travel ($0.1 billion). Changes in the other categories of services exports were relatively small. Imports of services decreased $0.7 billion from February to March. The decrease was more than accounted for by a decrease in royalties and license fees ($0.7 billion), which in February included payments for the rights to broadcast the 2014 Winter Olympic Games. Decreases in travel ($0.1 billion) and in passenger fares ($0.1 billion) also contributed. Partly offsetting these decreases were increases in other transportation ($0.2 billion), which includes freight and port services, and in other private services ($0.1 billion). Changes in the other categories of services imports were relatively small. The March 2013 to March 2014 increase in exports of services was $3.3 billion or 6.0 percent. The largest increases were in other private services ($2.0 billion), in travel ($0.7 billion), and in royalties and license fees ($0.6 billion). Within other private services, the largest increase was in business, professional, and technical services. The March 2013 to March 2014 increase in imports of services was $1.8 billion or 4.8 percent. The largest increases were in other private services ($1.5 billion) and in other transportation($0.2 billion). Within other private services, the largest increase was in business, professional,and technical services. FREE AppDownload
Thanks to the Great American Shale Boom, U.S. oil production hit a 25-year high in December and is expected to continue its roll. In 2011, the Energy Information Administration estimated that there are 827 trillion cubic feet of technically recoverable shale gas reserves in the U.S. Despite concerns surrounding hydraulic fracking — primarily regarding tainted drinking water — the bullish case for the boom begins with this map of North American shale deposits (published by reddit user hitchinvertigo): EIA
REUTERS/Junko Kimura-Matsumoto/PoolU.S. President Barack Obama (L) attends a news conference with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at the Akasaka guesthouse in Tokyo April 24, 2014. The Trans-Pacific Partnership sounds deadly boring. It’s not. The potential impact on humanity from this proposed mega-deal is impossible to measure. TPP could bankrupt families in Kansas and enrich them in Kuala Lumpur. Or make patented medicine wildly unaffordable for sick people in poor places. Or even imprison citizens of 12 countries for pirating Game of Thrones episodes. Or maybe, as its proponents claim, TPP could plug the US into Asia’s rising markets and give the global economy a needed jolt. Either way, if secured, it will be a corporation-friendly game changer for 800 million people. The thing is, average people are banned from seeing its inner workings. TPP, as it stands, is classified. The White House can see it. Leaders in negotiating nations can see it. About 600 reps from America’s most powerful corporations can see it. But the American public is forbidden from perusing the deal, and the people they elect are barred from negotiations. Though Congress will eventually decide its fate, US lawmakers are increasingly frustrated at TPP’s intense secrecy. Given the way trade deals work on Capital Hill, they may get precious little time to review the colossal pact before deciding whether to make it law. The secrecy has even riled up Obama’s own political camp. “When I say we’ve been shut out, we have been shut out,” said Louise Slaughter, a Democrat Party congresswoman from New York. Her remarks came in advance of President Barack Obama’s late April tour of Asia, where he negotiated for TPP’s approval in Malaysia, the Philippines and Japan. “Rumors that I have been hearing,” Slaughter said in a press call, “is that the financial services and pharmaceuticals sectors in the United States are really running this whole operation and they will be making out like bandits. Well, we don’t know.” Another lawmaker, Congressman Alan Grayson, contends that the agreement “hands the sovereignty of our country over to corporate interests.” Even prominent economist Paul Krugman, a free trade proponent, calls it “almost weirdly out of touch with both economic and political reality.” What little we know about TPP comes from a few leaked documents. (Thanks, Wikileaks.) As a free-trade deal, its core mission is killing fees for imports and exports between every country involved. But TPP also appears to push major restrictions on the free flow of internet content, life-saving medicine and much more. Now is the time to pay attention to TPP. The White House hopes to finalize the deal by the end of 2014. There’s no set date for a vote in the US Congress, which will determine the trade deal’s fate. But once they are slated to vote — and the full deal is made public — the White House wants a “fast track” process that will give lawmakers 90 days to vote up or down with no opportunity for amendments. Here are six ways the pact could potentially change the world. 1. TPP would create an international free trade zone of unprecedented proportions If the White House gets its way, TPP will give rise to a massive America-led free-trade zone, stretching from tropical Malaysia to the mountains of Peru. It would bring NAFTA-style rules to as many as 14 nations and 40 percent of the world’s economy. The White House has cited estimates that the deal could kick-start “as much as $123.5 billion in additional exports from the United States.” Nations at the negotiating table, or officially interested in joining, include Western powers (USA, New Zealand, Canada, Australia), a few affluent Asian nations (Japan, Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore) and some lesser-developed Asian nations (Brunei, Vietnam and Malaysia). It also includes several Latin American nations (Mexico, Peru, and Chile). China, for one, isn’t playing ball. Yet. A key White House trade rep says he’d “love nothing more” than to get China on board. Free trade deals are often pitched as a way to “level the playing field” because they wipe out domestic rules that protect key industries from outside domination. But that’s where things get squishy. Protections for patents, copyrights and the environment, for example, are in the eye of the beholder. They can be regarded as essential regulations or trade barriers, and are subject to intense lobbying— which is why the secrecy is doubly troubling. And the nations involved in TPP are vastly different in size and influence. 2. TPP would clear the way for more internet policing Remember the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA), the anti-piracy bill scrapped after public backlash? Leaked documents suggest TPP, if passed, would police the internet in a similar way. TPP is great for America’s embattled film and music industries. They’d gain unprecedented power to punish anyone with digital content violating copyright rules. That would include straight-up rips of a Tupac song. It could also include creative spin offs — say, a parody video of cats dancing to Tupac. It may even designate these violations as “criminal” offenses. That would mean prison time. The leaked draft makes it very clear that TPP doesn’t care if you had “no direct or indirect motivation of financial gain” from illegally downloading a song, or if you’re running a secret factory printing thousands of pirated DVDs. 3. The pact would mean pricier medicine for many Pharmaceutical conglomerates are another big force behind TPP. The pact would give them longer-lasting monopolies on the drugs they create. If a US corporation invents a new medicine — anything from pain killers to meds for HIV patients — they can typically get at least 12 years of exclusive production rights. After that, competitors can release cheaper generic versions. This brings life-saving medicine within reach for the world’s poor and middle classes. But leaked TPP documents suggest drug makers would gain increased rights to “evergreen” their creations and keep prices high. There’s even a proposal allowing firms to patent a specific surgical procedure. In effect, a doctor in Tokyo could get sued for using a breakthrough tumor removal technique patented in California. Or vice versa. 4. It would ban job-promoting “Buy American” rules A range of laws force government agencies to purchase American products. Many police departments, for example, are forbidden from replacing their Ford cruiser fleet with Hondas — even if they’re cheaper. The goal is to keep the tax dollars at home, where they boost employment (and increase the tax base).  That’s textbook protectionism, which TPP seeks to tear down. The potential effect: firms from Ho Chi Minh City and Houston would get the same shot at supplying products to the US and other governments. 5. TPP would allow patents on life forms Under TPP, corporations that bred a new zucchini seed into existence or created a genetically altered cow would effectively own their new biological creations. The deal could extend patent law to “plants and animals.” This would require every country under TPP to take in corporate-owned genetically modified crops, which many nations have tried to strictly regulate. 6. TPP could mean the end of grisly cigarette packaging: If you buy a pack of smokes in Canada or Australia, you might encounter a photo of a tongue riddled with cancer lesions. Under existing laws, cigarette packs must be branded with gross-out images or dire warnings about the dangers of tobacco. But under leaked TPP proposals, these practices could bring on lawsuits from American tobacco firms. This has become a key sticking point with negotiators in Malaysia, where 40 percent of adult men smoke and the hospitals are overwhelmed by tobacco-related illness. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arnd Wiegmann People walk through the entrance of the headquarters of Swiss bank Credit Suisse at the Paradeplatz square in Zurich July 25, 2013.WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Credit Suisse Group AG is in talks with the U.S. Justice Department to pay as much as $1.6 billion to resolve an investigation into the bank's role in helping Americans evade U.S. taxes, a person familiar with the matter said on Monday. The penalty could be roughly twice the amount paid by UBS AG, which settled similar charges in 2009 for $780 million and agreed to identify its customers. Prosecutors have also been pushing for Credit Suisse to plead guilty in connection with the probe, two people with knowledge of the talks said. The settlement talks are ongoing, and the details are still being finalized. An agreement could come in the next few weeks, the sources said. (Reporting by Mark Hosenball and Aruna Viswanatha; Editing by Eric Beech) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressTraders in the S&P 500 pit at the Chicago Mercantile ExchangeStifel Nicolaus' Dave Lutz has got the rundown on what traders are talking about before the opening bell: Good Morning, and welcome to the 4Y anniversary of the “Flash Crash”!   US Futures are slightly higher, but on the lows of the session – Yesterday’s volume was almost 30% light to normal trends, and the thin catalyst calendar today coupled with overseas holidays may limit trading ahead of BOJ Minutes and Yellen tomorrow.   In Europe, The DAX is basically unchanged, but Europe volumes pacing 20% light with Banks and Miners your weakest spaces.   Ukraine stress is coming off a bit, with Moscow’s Micex up 1% - and seeing a reversal of some European “haven” plays.   Asia Trading was light with Holidays in Japan, South Korea and Hong Kong – but comments from BoJ’s Kuroda has a bid under the Yen – hitting Nikkei futures slightly.   China traded basically unchanged, while Aussie gained small.  Earings continues rolling today – we are looking at DTV, MOS, ODP, and UBS pre-open, with ALL, FSLR, GRPN, LBTYA, BID, TRIP and DIS after the close among others.  The 10YY is basically unchanged this Am, with some flows into Europe as Spain and Italy 10YY hit record lows.  Kuroda’s consumption tax comments have the Yen strengthening into the BOJ minutes, while stronger Eco data in Europe has the € hitting new 2Y+ highs against the $.   The A$ was unchanged after the country’s central bank left interest rates unchanged at 2.5 per cent and “made less of a fuss than expected about the Aussie’s strength.”  Overall, with the DXY testing 1Y lows – we have a tailwind for commodities.  We have a bid under some industrial metals – with Lead, Zinc and Copper all higher – Gold is weaker, approaching 200dma and $1300/oz support.  The energy complex is slightly higher, with WTI hanging by a thread over the 100dma into API data tonight.   Very quiet on the Catalyst front today – we have our Trade Balance at 8:30, a very small POMO at 11, and the ISM Semiannual Report On Business &amp; Economic Forecast at 1.  Overnight, we get API data, Fed’s Stein Speaks, China’s services PMI, and BOJ minutes.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Saul LoebU.S. Secretary of State John Kerry kicks a soccer ball around during an airplane refuelling stop at Sal Island, Cape Verde, enroute to Washington, DC, May 5, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Global growth forecast cut. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) slashed its forecast for global GDP growth in 2014 to 3.4% from its previous forecast of 3.6%. "[W]ith the world still facing persistently high unemployment, countries must do more to enhance resilience, boost inclusiveness and strengthen job creation," said OECD Secretary-General Angel Gurria. "The time for reforms is now: we need policies that spur growth but at the same time create opportunities for all, ensuring that the benefits of economic activity are broadly shared." UK looking strong. The OECD raised its 2014 forecast for UK GDP growth to 3.2% from an earlier estimate of 2.4%. Meanwhile, UK's services PMI index jumped to 58.7 in April from 57.6 in March. "The UK economic recovery shows no signs of running out of steam, and growth could even accelerate further in the second quarter," said Markit's Chris Williamsom. Another Pharma Mega-Deal. In the latest in a series of pharmaceutical industry mega-deals, Merck said it would be selling its consumer care business to Germany's Bayer for a whopping $14.2 billion. "Merck Consumer Care is a strong business with a portfolio of well-established product brands, such as Claritin, Afrin and Coppertone, that are leaders in their respective categories," said Bayer Chairman Dr. Marijn Dekkers. "The combination of Merck Consumer Care's complementary portfolio of products and geographic reach with Bayer's will create a global consumer care business better positioned to serve consumers around the world." Swiss Bank Tax Evasion Deal In The Works. The WSJ's Devlin Barrett and John Revill report that Credit Suisse is close to resolving a U.S. probe into allegations that the bank helped Americans dodge taxes. The deal would include a guilty plea and a settlement of more than $1 billion. French Energy Mega-Takeover Could Be Bigger. "The bid is not good enough," said French President Francois Hollande of General Electric's $16.9 billion bid for the energy arm of France's Alstom. France's owns about 1% of the company, reports Reuters. "For now I would prefer to get better offers." British bank earnings fall. British banking giant Barclays said its Q1 pretax profit fell 5% to 1.69 billion pounds, missing analysts estimate of 1.82 billion pounds. “A continued strong momentum across our retail, cards and corporate banking franchises, all of which generated higher returns year on year, offset by a significant decline in FICC income within the Investment Bank," said CEO Antony Jenkins. Ford Paralyzed In Venezuela. Reuters' Eyanir Chinea reports that For has "halted operations in Venezuela on Monday due to a lack of foreign currency to import parts for assembly." Multi-national corporations operating in the country have been slammed by currency volatility, including the stunning devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar in February. Market Update. Markets in Europe are basically flat with Britain's FTSE down 0.1%, Germany's DAX flat, and Spain's IBEX up 0.3%. Dow futures are up 10 points. Trade Balance. The U.S. trade deficit narrowed to $40.4 billion in March from $41.9 billion in February. This was basically in line with expecteations. "[T]he trade figures suggest that the second estimate, due at the end of this month, will show that GDP actually contracted slightly in first quarter," said Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth. "Overall, whether Q1 GDP expanded or contracted slightly is of little importance now. The monthly data clearly show a big resurgence in activity and employment over the past couple of months, confirming that the earlier weakness was weather-related." Famed Investor's Contrarian Bet. "Gazprom is by acclimation the world’s worst company managed by the worst kleptocrats ever assembled on one continent," said Jim Grant to Bloomberg TV's Stephanie Ruhle. Grant thinks the Russian energy behemoth is an attractive buy for investors with no time horizon constraints. "[T]he beginning, middle and end of the bull case on Gazprom is that good things happen to cheap stocks." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Ford Motor Co's logo is seen on top of the Ford Motor Company World Headquarters in DearbornCARACAS (Reuters) - U.S. automaker Ford &lt;F.N&gt; has halted operations in Venezuela on Monday due to a lack of foreign currency to import parts for assembly, workers at its plant said. Like other private businesses in Venezuela, carmakers have been complaining that the socialist government's currency controls are preventing them from importing essential products due to restrictions and delays in purchases of dollars. Workers, who spoke to Reuters on condition of anonymity, said the plant in the central city of Valencia would be paralyzed until the end of May. Transport Minister Haiman El Troudi confirmed the stoppage at the plant but said it should reopen in two weeks after a meeting between Ford representatives and government officials that resolved some "critical bottlenecks." The minister said state currency board Cencoez would release $20 million in debt to Ford this week. Toyota Motor Corp &lt;7203.T&gt; halted vehicle assembly in Venezuela in February for the same reasons. Venezuela's struggling auto industry saw first-quarter production fall 76 percent to just 3,424 vehicles, compared with 14,316 units in the same period of 2013, according to national automakers' organization Cavenez. Ford assembled only 499 cars in the first three months of 2014. Automobiles are just one sector of many where President Nicolas Maduro's government is facing clamor to release more dollars for imports. He says unscrupulous businessmen exaggerate needs in order to flip dollars on the black market for profit. But nevertheless ministers are holding urgent meetings with business heads to try and resolve problems and help reverse the slide in local production. Venezuela operates three exchange controls - at 6.3 bolivars per dollar for preferential goods, and at around 11 and 50 for other sectors via two Central Bank mechanisms. The dollar is trading at about 66-68 bolivars on the black market, according to illegal web sites that track it. General Motors &lt;GM.N&gt;, Mitsubishi &lt;7211.T&gt;, and Fiat Chrysler &lt;FIA.MI&gt; also have assembly plants in Venezuela. (Reporting by Eyanir Chinea; Writing by Andrew Cawthorne; Editing by Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAmerican biologist Dr. Craig Venter addresses a medical conference in Rome CHICAGO (Reuters) - Genome pioneer J. Craig Venter is teaming up with a unit of United Therapeutics Corp to develop pig lungs that have been genetically altered to be compatible with humans, a feat that, if successful, could address the urgent need for transplant organs for people with end-stage lung disease. Venter's privately held company Synthetic Genomics Inc on Tuesday said it has entered a multiyear deal with United Therapeutics' Lung Biotechnology Inc to develop the so-called humanized pig organs. The venture is intended to advance United Therapeutics' efforts to develop replacement organs grown in genetically altered pigs. According to the companies, about 400,000 people in the United States die each year from various forms of lung disease, and only 2,000 people are saved with a lung transplant. Prior efforts to use animal organs in people in need of a transplant, known as xenotransplantation, have failed because of differences in the genome that caused organ rejection and blood clots. “Our new collaboration with Synthetic Genomics is huge for accelerating our efforts to cure end-stage lung disease," Martine Rothblatt, chairman and chief executive officer of Silver Spring, Maryland-based United Therapeutics, said in a statement. Humans, pigs and most other mammals share about 90 percent of the same genes. What Venter's team will do is to determine which aspects of the pig genome need to be altered to make porcine lungs compatible with humans, avoiding the rejection response that occurs even in human-to-human transplants. "We're going to start with generating a brand new super-accurate sequence of the pig genome, and then go through in detail and compare it to the human genome," Venter, the founder and chief executive of Synthetic Genomics Inc, said in a telephone interview. "The goal is to go in and edit, and where necessary, rewrite using our synthetic genomic tools, the pig genes that seem to be associated with immune responses," said Venter, who is best known for his role in mapping the human genome over a decade ago and who created synthetic life in 2010. "We want to get it so there is no acute or chronic rejection," he said. Venter's team is tasked with editing and rewriting the pig genome and providing the United Therapeutics group with a series of altered cells. United Therapeutics will take those cells and transplant them into pig eggs, generating embryos that develop and are born with humanized lungs. If all goes well, Venter thinks his team will be able to deliver the cells in a few years. Testing the humanized organs in clinical trials to ensure they are safe in people will take many more years. Lungs are the hardest organ to transplant because they are so delicate in structure, Venter says. So, if the team succeeds in developing humanized pig lungs, hearts and kidneys from these animals may also prove to be suitable for human transplantation. As part of the agreement, Lung Biotechnology will take a $50 million stake in La Jolla, California-based Synthetic Genomics, which also will receive royalties and milestone incentives from the development and commercialization of the organs. Venter admits that just five years ago, the venture would have sounded like science fiction. But several research teams are working on the use of genetically altered pig body parts to help improve the supply of transplant organs. Last week, researchers at the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute reported at the American Association for Thoracic Surgery meeting in Toronto that they grafted a genetically altered pig heart into the abdomen of a baboon and kept it functioning, aided by the baboon's natural heart, for more than a year. (Editing by Mohammad Zargham) FREE AppDownload
BarclaysFixed income, currencies and commoditiesLONDON (Reuters) - Barclays &lt;BARC.L&gt; said a collapse in investment bank revenue hit first quarter profits and was still hurting income in April as the British bank works on an overhaul of the flagging business, expected to be announced later this week. Income from its investment bank fell 28 percent, largely because of a 41 percent drop in fixed income, currencies and commodities (FICC). FICC is hurting most banks since regulators have forced them to set aside large amounts of money to cover losses from risky trading, but Barclays' performance was far weaker than its rivals - which on average have seen a 12 percent profit fall - because of its heavy reliance on FICC and particularly rates trading, hit by low interest rates. Barclays said it would give details of its strategic overhaul on Thursday, adding that the first steps to realign its business had also affected first quarter income. Barclays shares dropped 3.7 percent by 04:40 am EDT (0840 GMT), reflecting investors' concerns that the bank has a lot to do, and that its reorganization looks tardy compared to rivals such as UBS &lt;UBSN.VX&gt; which has already overhauled its business to focus on its private bank to bolster earnings. The Swiss bank said on Tuesday it would further revamp its corporate structure to ensure it can be broken up more easily in a crisis, cutting the amount of money it must set aside for potential losses and allowing it to pay shareholders a special dividend. "There are significant uncertainties not only with the final version of the strategy but market factors as well," said Chirantan Barua, analyst at Sanford. Barclays Chief Executive Antony Jenkins wants to pull back from activities that use a lot of capital - which is expected to include European FICC and emerging markets units - to boost returns in the face of the tougher regulations and still sluggish markets. Barclays has also decided to quit commodities trading, although finance director Tushar Morzaria declined to specify any other changes ahead of the review details. The weak results add to ongoing concern at the bank that Jenkins faces a tough task in both taking a harder line on costs and preventing an exodus of U.S. staff. The bank raised 2013 bonuses despite a fall in profits in order to hold on to U.S. investment bank staff, prompting a backlash from shareholders. LOWEST COSTS SINCE 2009 The investment bank's weakness offset higher income in other parts of the bank and dragged adjusted profit before tax in the three months to the end of March down 5 percent from a year ago to 1.69 billion pounds ($2.85 billion). Barclays said it had cut its costs, which had been a concern among investors. Operating expenses, excluding its restructuring costs, fell 12 percent from a year ago to 4.2 billion pounds, which it said was the lowest quarterly costs for five years. Profits rose in UK retail banking, credit card arm Barclaycard and corporate banking. Barclays did not set aside any extra money to compensate customers for mis-sold loan insurance, but said seen "a significant spike" in complaints in March from claims management companies, mostly related to insurance sold more than a decade ago. (Editing by Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload
AFP/Marwan NaamaniAn image taken from Burj Khalifa, the world's tallest skyscraper, shows construction in Dubai.The International Monetary Fund called Tuesday on Dubai to take "stronger measures" to avert another property bubble, after prices rocketed at a rate reminiscent of the 2009 crisis. Authorities in the Gulf emirate have already doubled sales duties to four percent, and the central bank of the United Arab Emirates has tightened lending facilities. "These measures are good," said IMF regional director Masood Ahmed, adding however that there was a need for even tougher steps. "It is time to consider stronger measures particularly in ways to discourage a quick turnaround," Ahmed told a forum in Dubai, warning of renewed market activity aimed at fast profits. He suggested increasing sales duties substantially to prevent such activity, citing Singapore's 30-percent tax on sales made within a year of purchase as an example. "I think it is time to consider some stronger measures to try dampen what could possibly be speculative transactions in real estate," he said. The market remains "mostly a cash market" for the moment, he said, warning that if lending to the sector sees a big increase, tightening measures would be needed. Dubai's property sector expanded at breakneck-speed for years, driven by foreign investments, before the global financial crisis pushed it into free fall, shedding half of its 2008 records. But the market has recently made a strong comeback as investors flocked back into the emirate that is seen as a safe haven at a time of regional turmoil. Contrary to most Gulf monarchies, the sheikhdom has sizable property zones that have been opened to foreign buyers. The real estate sector has been recovering as Dubai's trade, tourism and transport have continued to grow, banking on large investments in the past few years. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA view of the Merck & Co. campus in Linden, New Jersey(Reuters) - Merck &amp; Co Inc has agreed to sell its consumer care business to Germany's Bayer AG for $14.2 billion, the companies said on Tuesday, adding to a string of major cross-border healthcare deals. "This acquisition marks a major milestone on our path towards global leadership in the attractive non-prescription medicines business," Bayer's chief executive Marijn Dekkers said in a statement. Merck said it expects after-tax proceeds of between $8 billion and $9 billion from the sale, which is expected to close in the second half of 2014. The transaction, the largest in the German healthcare industry since Bayer bought rival Schering in 2006, will make Bayer the second biggest over-the-counter drugs maker after Johnson &amp; Johnson. Bayer, the inventor of aspirin and maker of Bepanthen skin care products and Canesten antifungal creams, has repeatedly said it wants to overtake J&amp;J in the rankings. Reckitt Benckiser Group, one of the final contenders in the auction, said on April 30 it was no longer in active talks to buy the Merck business, leaving Bayer in pole position to win the business. J&amp;J commands about 4 percent of the consumer health market - worth nearly $200 billion at the retail level - followed by Bayer and GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) . Merck &amp; Co has around 1 percent with brands including Coppertone sunscreen and Claritin allergy medicine. The fractured industry is consolidating fast. Novartis and GSK will form a joint venture in consumer healthcare as part of their agreement last month to trade more than $20 billion worth of assets. Reuters first reported last month that Bayer and Reckitt had emerged as frontrunners in the auction with each offering roughly $13.5 billion, a price that could come close to $14 billion if the deal was finalized. (Reporting by Ludwig Burger in Frankfurt and Esha Dey in Bangalore; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila and Greg Mahlich) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFrench President Francois Hollande attends to a guest at the steps of the Elysee Palace in ParisPARIS (Reuters) - French President Francois Hollande said General Electric's &lt;GE.N&gt; bid for Alstom's &lt;ALSO.PA&gt; energy business is not acceptable as it stands and that the government's aim is to get better offers. "The bid is not good enough, it's not acceptable," Hollande told RMC radio on Tuesday. Asked whether it was possible that the state, which currently holds around 1 percent in Alstom, could itself increase its stake in the ailing engineering group, he said: "For now I would prefer to get better offers." Alstom said last week it was reviewing a binding $16.9 billion bid from GE for its energy arm, although it has not turned down a rival offer from Germany's Siemens &lt;SIEGn.DE&gt;. French Economy Minister Arnaud Montebourg also came out against the GE offer on Monday but opened the door for a deal that would also combine the two companies' rail businesses. "In its current form, we unfortunately cannot give backing to the proposals that you have made based solely on the purchase of Alstom's energy activities," Montebourg wrote in a letter to GE Chief Executive Jeff Immelt. Shares in Alstom were 1.1 percent lower at 29.03 euros by 0725 GMT (3.25 a.m. EDT), among the worst performers on a 0.2 percent firmer French blue-chip CAC 40 index &lt;.FCHI&gt;. (Reporting by Mark John and Ingrid Melander; Editing by James Regan) FREE AppDownload
APLONDON (Reuters) - Tesco, Britain's biggest retailer, will launch its first own-brand smartphone by the end of the year, building on the success of the Hudl tablet it launched last year, it said on Tuesday. A spokesman for the firm said the Tesco smartphone would run on Google's Android software and would be pre-installed with Tesco services. Tesco has sold over 500,000 Hudl tablets and plans to launch a second version later this year. Last month the firm's chief executive Philip Clarke vowed to win back shoppers with millions of pounds of price cuts after posting a second year of falling profits. (Reporting by James Davey; editing by Kate Holton) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTourists pose for photo with the Charging Bull during a morning snow in New York's financial district near Wall StreetWASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. economic growth is set to rebound strongly in the second quarter as the scars of a brutally cold winter fade, but inflation pressures will remain tame through 2015, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. In its latest economic outlook published on Tuesday, the OECD forecast U.S. gross domestic product expanding at a 3.9 percent annual pace this quarter, and it said it expects growth to maintain a brisk pace for the remainder of the year as well. An unusually cold and snowy winter held down GDP growth to a 0.1 percent rate in the January-March period, the government said in an initial estimate last week, and that figure already looks overstated. Data on construction spending and factory inventories for March that have come in since the GDP report was released have proven weaker than the government had assumed, suggesting the economy likely contracted. "However, forward-looking indicators, such as investment intentions and business expectations, and rises in measures of consumer and business confidence suggest activity is bouncing back," the Paris-based OECD said. Growth is expected to average 2.6 percent this year and quicken to 3.5 percent in 2015, the OECD said, as gains in asset prices boost household wealth and the drag from fiscal policy continues to lighten. Growth averaged 1.9 percent last year. "Household deleveraging and the rise in asset prices have caused household net wealth to rise significantly, which will help sustain consumption growth," the OECD said. The OECD said the risk to its bullish growth forecasts was that business investment would rebound less vigorously than projected if firms' growth expectations faltered. "On the positive side, households' stronger financial situation could reduce the savings rate, strengthening consumption more than projected," it said. "Economic growth could also be stimulated more robustly than expected by factors such as improved competitiveness and low energy prices." INFLATION SEEN TAME Despite the anticipated growth acceleration, inflation pressures are likely to remain benign, given sluggish wage growth. The unemployment rate is forecast averaging 6.5 percent this year, down substantially from 7.4 percent in 2013. Growth in unit labor costs, however, is seen averaging only 1.0 percent, unchanged from 2013, and the inflation indexes tracked most closely by the Federal Reserve are seen trending below the U.S. central bank's 2 percent target through 2015. "Monetary policy remains very accommodative, as is appropriate given slack in the labor market and weakness in price and wage developments," the OECD said. "Inflation has fallen to low rates, though some of the factors behind the fall are likely to be transitory, and wage pressures remain muted." The Fed has been reducing the amount of money it is injecting into the economy through monthly bond purchases. It is expected to end its bond-buying program later this year and gradually start to raise interest rates around mid-2015. In neighboring Canada, growth is expected to accelerate to 2.75 percent by the end of 2015, driven by exports. Consumption is forecast strengthening and investment in housing slowing to a more sustainable level. The OECD forecast Canadian inflation rising to nearly 2.0 percent by late 2015. "As inflation approaches the 2 percent target, monetary accommodation should be progressively withdrawn. Fiscal consolidation should continue as planned," the OECD said. (Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersChou shows the new HTC One M8 phone during a launch event in New YorkTAIPEI (Reuters) - Taiwanese smartphone vendor HTC Corp said on Tuesday it projects revenue in April-June to almost match that of a year earlier thanks primarily to sales of new flagship One M8 beating those of its predecessor. Revenue is likely to be in a range of T$65 billion ($2.16 billion) to T$70 billion, compared with T$70.67 billion in the same period a year prior, Chief Financial Officer Chialin Chang said at a quarterly investor conference. Chang said the manufacturer expects a second-quarter gross profit margin of 21.3 percent to 22 percent, and earnings-per-share of T$2.21 to T$3. HTC is likely to break even or book a profit in the first half, Chang said, after reporting a loss in January-March that was wider than analysts estimated at T$1.88 billion. (Reporting by Michael Gold; Editing by Christopher Cushing) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Eugene HoshikoTalk of a Chinese property bubble is back in the headlines.  Recently, leaked recordings showed that Mao Daqing, vice chairman of Vanke Group, made some bearish comments on the property sector. The recent slump in property sales and housing starts prompted Societe Generale's Wei Yao to write "the housing sector now poses the biggest downside risk to the Chinese economy." UBS' Tao Wang is out with a new note titled "Bubble Trouble: Are We There Yet?" Wang sees a 15% probability that a sharp property-market correction could cause GDP growth to slump to 5% in 2015. For the most part, chatter on property bubbles tends to focus on home prices, but when it comes to China, Wang thinks we should focus on construction volume.  That's because Chinese homebuyers use large down payments: 30% for their first home and 60% for their second mortgage. So a decline in prices doesn't trump up the pressure to sell homes, and the risk of mortgage default is smaller than what we have seen in the U.S., for instance. "A big drop in construction activity even without a large price correction would likely have serious negative impact on the industrial complex and, through that, economic growth and bank balance sheets," Wang writes. "Given that property investment accounts for almost a quarter of fixed investment, construction value-added is 13% of GDP, and there are extensive linkages between property and industrial sectors including steel, cement and construction machinery, the impact on the economy from a drop in construction volume is bigger than that from a worsening household balance sheet and consumption," she writes. A 10-percentage-point drop in construction-volume growth could cause a 2.5-percentage-point drop in GDP growth. UBS The other thing to remember is that new urban housing supply has outpaced demand. That's because Hukou, China's residency-permit system, largely leaves migrants out of the urban housing market. Wang writes that there are a few "tipping factors" that could trigger a sharp property-market correction: Wang writes that she doesn't see a big shift in these tipping factors but argues that the "risks are clearly rising."  A national property tax looks closer than it did before, though it isn't expected this year or the next. Households have access to alternate investment products, such as wealth-management products and properties abroad, and the pace of urbanization is expected to slow. China's efforts to deleverage means there will be less credit growth and less money to fuel construction. While Beijing is willing to act to stave off a sharp property crash, "there is a sizable and growing risk that the government's measures may not be sufficient to stabilize property activities and overall investment," writes Wang. "As investment demand for housing changes significantly and developers cut their construction more aggressively, which could aggravate difficulties at the local government level." Wang expects that the property downturn will "remain manageable." She modestly lowers her 2014 GDP forecast to 7.3% and her 2015 forecast to 6.8%. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Another day, another strong datapoint from the UK. This time it's the Services PMI index, which registered its best reading of 2014, with a reading of 58.7. Markit This number is down a bit from the low-60s reading that we saw late last year, but remember, with an index like this, any number above 50 indicates growth. And these numbers remain in the highest end of the historical range, so this is very strong. FREE AppDownload
Here is an excerpt from a post I wrote in 2012: Where are the construction jobs? Back in 2006, I predicted we'd see construction job losses in the seven figures. All through 2006 and into 2007, I was constantly asked: "Where are the construction job losses you predicted?" And then it started ... and the BLS reported construction employment fell 2.27 million from peak to trough. No one asks that question any more.There were several reasons why construction jobs didn't decline at the same time as housing starts. First, construction includes residential, commercial and other construction (like roads). Even after housing starts began to collapse, commercial real estate was still booming and workers shifted from residential to commercial (many commercial projects have long time frames - and many developers remained in denial). Also some construction workers are paid in cash (illegal immigrants), and these workers weren't counted on the BLS payrolls.Now people are asking "Where are the construction jobs?"Oh, Grasshopper ... the construction jobs are coming. And from Michelle Meyer last year on the lag between activity and construction employment: Construction Coming Back and other researchers More Research on Construction EmploymentNow is appears the pace of hiring is starting to pickup: Calculated Risk FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEmployees work at the butchery work bench during the opening day of upmarket Italian food hall chain Eataly's flagship store in downtown Milan(Reuters) - Euro zone businesses had a solid start to the second quarter of the year with activity picking up at its fastest pace in almost three years, surveys showed on Tuesday, suggesting a broad-based recovery is taking hold in the bloc. While Germany continued to lead the upturn, businesses in Spain and Ireland grew at their fastest pace since before the financial crisis. Survey compiler Markit said the Composite Purchasing Managers' Index pointed to second-quarter growth of 0.5 percent, which would be the strongest in three years. The data will come as a relief to the European Central Bank, which has so far shrugged off calls for extra stimulus through another interest rate cut or outright asset purchases. The ECB is expected to keep its key policy rates on hold when it meets next week, according to economists polled by Reuters, who also said euro zone inflation had fallen as far as it would go at 0.5 percent in March. &lt;ECB/INT&gt; The Composite PMI, widely seen as a good gauge of growth, rose to 54.0 in April, as expected by economists, from March's 53.1. It has held above the 50 mark that divides growth from contraction for 10 months in a row. Burgeoning new orders provided the boost, with the related sub-index rising to a 35-month high of 52.7 in April, while firms took on staff at the fastest pace since September 2011. "The final PMI confirms ... the euro zone started the second quarter with the fastest growth seen for three years," said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit. "The most exciting news is the strong upturns that are becoming apparent in Spain and Ireland, where the rates of growth rose to the fastest for seven and eight years respectively." Price rises remained muted, although the survey showed a slight acceleration in input cost rises which, coupled with the accelerating recovery, may ease concerns about disinflation. The index for the euro zone's vast service industry rose to a 34-month high of 53.1 in April from 52.2 in March thanks to a surge in new business to its highest since June 2011 and a slight rise in employment. Services business activity in France, Germany, Italy, Ireland and Spain all grew together for the first time since May 2011. - Detailed PMI data are only available under license from Markit and customers need to apply to Markit for a license. To subscribe to the full data, click on the link below: http://www.markit.com/Contact-Us For further information, please phone Markit on +44 20 7260 2454 or email economics@markit.com (Reporting by Sumanta Dey; Editing by Hugh Lawson) FREE AppDownload
BIGood morning! Markets are drifting slightly higher this morning. It's nothing dramatic anywhere though for now. The big news is that European service PMIs came out, and that now European output appears to be at its highest level in 3 years. Europe still has a long way to go, but the growth trend is broadbased and consistent, which is excellent news. Eurozone stock markets are slightly in the green. Today in the US we get the latest trade data. FREE AppDownload
