KCNA KCNA/ReutersEveryone's heard about North Korea, the hermit kingdom that hangs off the east coast of China. Condoleezza Rice called it an "outpost of tyranny." George W. Bush said it was one-third of the "axis of evil." And now James Franco and Seth Rogen are releasing a comedy about it, much to Pyongyang's disapproval. Despite all of that, we really don't know that much about North Korea. But what we do know is rather mindblowing. FREE AppDownload
Japan is now the world leader in inflation. At least among the world's major economies. This chart, tweeted by Tom Orlik of Bloomberg, shows inflation for the U.S., Eurozone, China, and Japan. As you can see, Japan is the only major economy that has inflation running meaningfully above 2%, while Europe continues to flirt with deflation. @TomOrlikJapan's inflation, however, has not come without some extraordinary measures from its central bank. Last year, newly-elected Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announced a "three arrow" plan to jumpstart the long-lagging Japanese economy. This plan involved a massive quantitative easing program, government stimulus, and structural reforms aimed at making Japan more competitive. People call it Abenomics. In a Bloomberg Brief report earlier this month, titled "Abenomics vs The Deflation Monster," Bloomberg gave an update of how Abenomics was doing. Overall? Call it two for three. Japan's fiscal and monetary stimulus measures are at least doing something. Japan's GDP has been mixed, and while first quarter GDP surged 5% annualized, this came ahead of a steep consumption tax hike which took effect April 1. Federal Reserve Bank of St. LouisIn the Bloomberg Brief report, Naohiko Baba of Goldman Sachs notes that since the BoJ launched its "first arrow" in April 2013, the central bank has purchased 70% of all newly-issued Japanese Government Bonds in total, and more than 100% on a net basis. As a result, the Bank of Japan's balance sheet has exploded in size as the nation's public debt to GDP is the highest in the world. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis Bloomberg BriefAnd while Japan may have seen inflation tick higher earlier this year, long-term it is still running below the BoJ's 2% target. As part of the Bloomberg Brief on Abenomics, Bloomberg's Tom Orlik and Jennifer Bernstein talked to Masaaki Kanno, chief Japan economist at JPMorgan Chase in Tokyo, who said that it will likely take into 2016 or 2017 for inflation in Japan to hit 2%.  Hitting its 2% inflation target however, could spell additional trouble for the BoJ. Currently, Kanno notes, Japan is monetizing its debt. Monetizing debt is a process whereby a central bank holds government securities it purchased — say through a quantitative easing program like the one Japan is currently undertaking — to maturity. After these bonds mature, the central bank returns money paid to it back to the government, effectively allowing the government to borrow money for free. The interest rate on Japanese Government Bonds, or JGBs, remains historically low, as the BoJ is basically the only one buying them. But if the BoJ ever signals an intention to taper its pace of asset purchases, Kanno says, the bond market is likely to react negatively. Kanno outlines a scenario in which the BoJ would only signal an intention to taper if inflation is at 2%, "so definitely no one will be willing to buy JGBs at 0.6% yield," Kanno told Bloomberg. This pushes bond prices higher, making it more expensive for the Japanese government to borrow, which limits its ability to undertake stimulus and puts any Japanese economic recovery at risk. Or worse. On the U.S. front, inflation data earlier this month came in in-line with expectations. The report showed that inflation rose 2.1% year over year, or 1.9% on a "core" basis, which excludes food and gas, though some expected the inflation number to surprise to the upside. Through the spring, CPI in the U.S. had been accelerating, and many argued that if this trend continued, it could put pressure on Fed Chair Janet Yellen to raise interest rates sooner rather than later. At its last FOMC meeting, Yellen said that the Fed is currently on track to finish its own quantitative easing program in October. After that, the countdown will begin to the Federal Reserve's first interest rate hike since 2006.  The most recent inflation data out of Japan suggests that through the second quarter, inflation remained above 3.5%. It is unclear, however, if the BoJ will act on this data. Here in the U.S., it also appears that, at least for now, inflation will not force the Fed's hand. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersDarden Restaurants CEO Otis answers questions during Reuters Food Summit in Chicago(Reuters) - Darden Restaurants Inc said on Monday that Clarence Otis would step down as chairman and chief executive officer, buckling under pressure from activist investors Barington Capital Group LP and Starboard Value LP. Shares of Darden, which just closed the sale of its Red Lobster chain and is working to boost business at its flagship Olive Garden restaurants, jumped 5 percent in extended trading. In further concessions, Orlando-based Darden said it would separate the chairman and chief executive roles, and clear the way for some of Starboard's proposed directors to be elected at its annual meeting. Barington Chairman and CEO James Mitarotonda, who had asked Darden to split the chairman and CEO roles, said the changes were not fast enough and did not go as far as needed, adding he had lost confidence in Otis's ability to lead. "While a leadership change at Darden and the appointment of an independent chairman are positive steps that are long overdue, we view the board's 11th hour gesture to concede three board seats to Starboard as 'too little, too late'," Mitarotonda said in a statement. The change required could only be accomplished by the election of a new slate of independent directors, he said. Barington represents a group that holds more than 2 percent of Darden's shares. Starboard launched a fight to take over Darden's board in May, saying the then-pending Red Lobster sale was a "destructive transaction" that ignored the rights of shareholders. Darden said on Monday its board expects to nominate nine directors for the 12 available seats at the Sept. 30 shareholder meeting. By doing so, Darden said it ensured that at least three of the nominees proposed by Starboard would be elected. Representatives from Starboard, which owns about 5.5 percent of Darden's shares, were not immediately available for comment. Howard Penney, a restaurant analyst at Hedgeye Risk Management and a vocal critic of Darden's management, had a one word reaction to the CEO's departure and the other news: "Amen!" Otis, who has been charge for a decade, will remain CEO until Dec. 31 or until a replacement is appointed. Darden named independent lead director, Charles Ledsinger Jr, as independent non-executive chairman, effective immediately. Earlier on Monday, Darden said it finalized the $2.1 billion sale of Red Lobster to Golden Gate Capital, a deal opposed by both Starboard and Barington, who were pressing for more comprehensive changes. Investor ire surged after Otis resisted putting the sale to a shareholder vote. A Darden spokesperson said Otis' departure was a "mutual decision" between the CEO and the board, and had been under discussion for some time. The exit package has not yet been determined. "With the Red Lobster sale complete and progress on our Olive Garden brand renaissance and other strategic priorities underway, this is the right time for me to step down," Otis said in a statement. Darden shares were up $2.23 to $47.15 in after-hours trading. (Reporting by Lisa Baertlein in Los Angeles and Devika Krishna Kumar in Bangalore; Editing by David Gregorio, Grant McCool and Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
YouTube / Warner Bros.Good morning! Let’s get to it… 1. Boring but better is how Morgan Stanley is characterizing the market outlook for the rest of the year. “Global growth is improving mildly, lowflation is here to stay, central banks remain accommodative, equity markets and the US dollar are grinding higher, and bond yields are going nowhere for now,” chief economist Joachim Fels wrote, adding: “Yawn.”  It’s a sentiment that’s been echoed in the Australian market for most of this year and huge surprises in results season goes here in Australia – Leighton kicked off yesterday – we can expect a broadly similar environment here between now and the end of the year. 2. As if to underline the point, the US market was almost dead flat in the overnight session, with the S&amp;P500 gaining 0.05 points to finish with a move of 0.0%. The Dow was up 0.1% and the Nasdaq, rogue that it is, was down 0.1%. Shanghai was up a huge 2.4% yesterday on a positive official outlook on growth, while the Nikkei was up 0.5%. ASX futures are down 7 points ahead of the open today in Australia. 3. Daniel Petre has a new tech fund. The former Microsoft executive has closed AirTree, which he launched with business partner Craig Blair, with $60 million that’ll be used to invest in early stage technology startups, the AFR reports. Investments will be in $2 million to $5 million parcels, and the backers are a mix of client groups from major banks plus private investors and families – for some, it’s their first time getting into technology. They’ve reportedly looked at 30 businesses already but haven’t tipped any money into any yet. 4. The ANZ-Roy Morgan consumer confidence weekly update is out this morning at 9.30am AEST. It was the chart we described, following the shock to Australian consumers inflicted by the federal budget, as the scariest chart in Australia, because if behaviour had followed the sentiment the economy could have been in real trouble. But lately it has been bouncing back in a big way, which is very good news, and also a reminder the political storms in Canberra have a tendency to blow out. As an aside, Tony Abbott’s personal approval ratings have seen a big jump in the latest Newspoll, following his handling of the MH17 disaster. 5. Australian police still can’t reach the MH17 crash site, because of ongoing fighting. We’re now in a situation where the Australian foreign minister is calling on both sides to abide by the UN Security Council Resolution. 6. Sydney City Council will unveil three new works of public art that will cost $9 million for the new George Street precinct today – they were approved by a vote last night without the public having been able to get a look at what the council, chaired by Clover “community inclusion” Moore, is planning to blow all the money on. Some have argued artists will be discouraged by the process if it’s more public. Question: could it potentially be worse if the public hates the final decision? It’s a great example of politicians who bleat on about transparency and consultation and then run away and hide when they’ve got a few million to splurge because, you know, politicians know so much about art. Still, we hope they’ve made a good decision. 7. Work with someone sneaky? They may have been spanked as a kid. Drake Baer has a fascinating round-up of what research says about the influence of your parents on your parents as an adult. 8. The Royals love a winner. That’s why they made a beeline for the Australian camp in Glasgow yesterday. Princes William, Harry and Princess Kate knocked around with our medal winners, who kept reeling in the golds, including their first mens’ 200m backstroke gold in 40 years. James Magnussen survived a scare in his 50m heat and both our hockey teams progressed comfortably. Australia is two golds ahead of the Poms and 12 medals ahead overall. 9. The space sex geckos have been saved. Russia has regained control of the satellite which had been orbiting uncontrolled while five geckos inside were being filmed having sex. The geckos are part of an experiment studying the effects of microgravity on reproduction systems and were thought doomed when Roscosmos couldn’t communicate with their spacecraft late last week. Now it’s all under control and they’ll make a fiery touchdown in September. 10. The Mad Max trailer dropped. George Miller’s fourth installment in the iconic road warrior series has been besed by expensive problems – namely, the fact it had to be moved to Africa because the Australian desert grew flowers – but it looks like it will return a healthy profit. The first extended look at Fury Road Comic Con yesterday was as hectic as the franchise has ever been. And Tom Hardy is ace as Max Rockatansky, clearly. Your bonus item this morning is that Mad Max trailer. Enjoy:  This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
screenshot/"The Usual Suspects""And like that ... he's gone."Cynk Technologies, which was briefly worth billions of dollars last month, saw its shares fall below $1 on Monday, and traders say it is only a matter of time before the stock is once again worth next-to-nothing. Cynk became a big market story as trading volumes soared and the company was briefly valued at more than $6 billion despite having no revenue and being described as "development stage." Trading was halted by U.S. regulators on July 11 for 10 days. Since that suspension ended, trading has been solely in privately brokered transactions, and brokerages are not allowed to solicit buyers or sellers. The stock dropped to 60 cents a share on Monday, after hitting a high of $21.95 on July 10. Most traders interviewed said the stock is likely to keep falling until it is once again worth no more than a few cents. Volume-weighted average price was $1.04. On the sole day in May that Cynk shares traded, Cynk was worth 6 cents a share. On April 9, the only day it traded that month, the stock was at 8 cents. Among the reasons cited for the current price was the minimal liquidity. With a thinly traded market, sellers have a bit of additional leverage, preventing the price from dropping to pennies. In addition, short sellers who had borrowed the stock were also buying it to close out positions, also elevating the price a bit, traders said. On Monday some 191,000 shares exchanged hands. Some 31,000 of those were traded through KCG Holdings and 32,000 more through Canaccord, according to a source familiar with the trades. site.introbiz.comScreengrab from IntroBiz, the company CYNK was behind.A trader at Canaccord, who would not identify himself, said any volume was attributable to short covering — traders who are buying because they had borrowed stock to sell it on the expectation of a price drop. KCG did not respond to requests seeking comment. Traders at other firms declined to go on the record because they did not want to be associated with the trading of the stock. Trading in Cynk stock was halted by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and later suspended by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on July 11. It closed at $13.90 on July 10, for a market value of $4.05 billion. At Monday's close of 60 cents, the company is now worth $174.9 million. The SEC had no comment, and FINRA was not available for comment. "There’s no revenue, no employees, one person has an office in some foreign country, and yet traders and investors somehow saw a reason to bid this thing up like crazy. I’m at a loss to explain it because it doesn’t make sense to me,” said Ken Polcari, director of the NYSE floor division at O’Neil Securities in New York. "Once it collapsed it should have gone to zero. Why is anyone still paying anything for it is beyond me." Volume in Cynk soared to almost 470,000 shares on Friday, the most on any day, but the stock traded off exchanges and only on buyers' or sellers' request.   (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Keith SrakocicFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Investors' Tendency To Take The Fed's Predictions Literally Is Bringing Complacency To The Markets (Vanguard)  With low interest rates and low bond market volatility there is some concern that investors are too complacent. "You see also [low] volatility, of course, as you mention, of interest rates and also of equity markets, [and] riskier assets in general, so that is concerning," Roger Aliaga-Diaz, senior economist at Vanguard said in a segment called 'Bonds: Calm before the storm?' "I don’t know if this really [is] the market or . . . the way investors are deciphering the code words that the Fed is trying to use in terms of forward guidance." "The Fed has been trying to be transparent and trying to give as much information as possible, and investors tend to take that information too literally sometimes, and that’s why the Fed is reminding investors that it’s really data-dependent. So, information the Fed gives depends on how they see the world right now, but if data change, they will change their view. Investors tend to think that the predictions of the Fed . . . are almost certain, and that could bring a little bit of sense of complacency to markets that we are watching closely." HighTower Adds 43rd Team To Its Partnership (InvestmentNews)  HighTower Advisors has added a $400 million registered investment advisor (RIA) Triad Wealth Stewardship to its partnership, reports Mason Braswell at InvestmentNews. Larry Knudsen and Dan Stober, founded Triad Wealth in 2007. HighTower's head of development, Michael Parker said the deal made sense because Knudsen and Stober wanted equity in HighTower. "They were attracted to the building process,” Parker told Braswell. "They're providing their own intellectual capital to building the company strategically and they're attracted to being an equity owner of HighTower rather than an owner of their independent practice." This is the 43rd team that HighTower added to its partnership. Everyone's Talking About How Junk Bonds Are In A Bubble (Business Insider)  Everyone thinks high-yield bonds are the next financial bubble. Dave Lutz at JonesTrading points out that recent investor surveys from Bloomberg and Bank of America found that 70% of those polled thought high-yield bonds are in a bubble. With the Fed keeping rates close to zero investors have clambered for  junk bonds in a quest for yield. Business InsiderHow Advisors Can Handle Baby Boomers And Generation X Clients (The Wall Street Journal)  Over the next 25 years, trillions of dollars in wealth will be transferred from the traditional generation, those born before 1945, to baby boomers and Gen Xers, writes Robert O'Dell, co-founder of Wheaton Wealth Partners, in a WSJ column. But younger generations manage their money very differently.  "Despite being optimistic workaholics, baby boomers aren't looking for a new best friend. Advisers should be respectful of their time. Create a schedule and stick to it," he writes. "Before asking for their business, advisers should show optimism and tell baby boomers their success stories. Don't overdo it, but let them know you're driven and successful like they are, and show them how you got to where you're at." Meanwhile, "Gen Xers are more cynical stalkers," O'Dell writes. "They were the first generation to conduct online research of claims made by product and service providers. Gen Xers are the most mistrustful generation." ART CASHIN: Three Things Worry Me Right Now (Business Insider)  Though stocks are at record highs, veteran UBS trader Art Cashin told King World News that three things still worry him. "[Geopolitics] still remains at the top," he said. "I think the ISIS group in Iraq can present a very clear, present, and almost instantaneous danger. Second, the connectivity and possible contagion of the financial systems. Europe in particular looks a little strange to me. They don’t have the same kind of central government bond system that we have. Certain benefits and protections that the Fed might still be able to find here will be denied there. And the mystery that is the Chinese banking system — that would be my third worry." "So from a financial standpoint, Europe and China. And in geopolitics, primarily what’s going on with ISIS.  The suicide bombers that are in Baghdad today may not stay in that part of the world. These people are very expansionary as far as terror is concerned." FREE AppDownload
APDETROIT (Reuters) - An influential consumer magazine on Monday called on Toyota Motor Corp to recall about 177,500 older Camry hybrid sedans to address potential power brake defects. Consumer Reports, which many consumers use when studying what vehicles to buy, said the Japanese automaker's decision to call for a service campaign or a warranty extension on two different problems covering cars from model years 2007 to 2011 does not go far enough. Under a service campaign, an automaker repairs cars as they are brought back to dealers by consumers. "Consumer Reports believes that Toyota should recall these cars," the magazine said. "What’s at issue here is a series of acknowledged defects in a crucial safety system. "A recall is more comprehensive and widely published than a mere service campaign, and owners don’t have to wait for a problem to happen before qualifying for the repair," Consumer Reports added. "Besides that, unlike extended warranties, recalls don’t expire and are performed proactively." Toyota spokesman John Hanson said in an email statement that the automaker was working with the U.S. safety regulators at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration on a probe related to the issue. “We believe our actions to address this issue are appropriate, and we are continuing to cooperate with NHTSA in its investigation,” he said.  Consumer reports said Toyota's decisions were prompted partly by consumer complaints filed with NHTSA. The complaints over the last several years have covered loss of braking performance, increased effort to press the brake pedal and other difficulties, the magazine said. NHTSA opened a "preliminary evaluation" probe into an estimated 30,000 Camry hybrid sedans from model years 2007 and 2008 after receiving 59 complaints of intermittent loss of assisted braking, resulting in increased stopping distances. NHTSA said it continues to evaluate all data as part of the investigation and will take action as needed. A preliminary evaluation is the first step in a process that can lead to a recall if regulators determine a manufacturer needs to address a safety problem. Consumer Reports, which pointed out Toyota's service campaign and extended warranty both broadened the scope of the potentially affected vehicles, said its review for the two model years NHTSA cited found power-brake complaints had risen to 269, with 14 crashes and five injuries. In the service campaign, a problem is potentially caused by a clogged brake-fluid reservoir filter and "front-brake assist could be temporarily lost," according to a Toyota notice to dealers. Instead of a recall, Toyota will alert owners to the campaign to install a new brake reservoir tank at no cost between now and June 30, 2017. In the other case, Toyota is extending warranty coverage of the anti-lock brake system's brake actuator from the standard three years or 36,000 miles, to 10 years or 150,000 miles, according to a separate dealer notice. Remedies could include a new actuator or reprogramming of the skid control electronic control unit. (Reporting by Ben Klayman in Detroit. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
Morgan StanleyThings are getting better in the U.S. economy. At least, that's the signal being sent by Morgan Stanley's proprietary Business Conditions Index. "The July MSBCI jumped 5 points to 77%, as the index recovered from a weak start to the year and is now at the highest level since August 2013," said Morgan Stanley's Vincent Reinhart. "The stronger July MSBCI is in line with regional manufacturing surveys reported so far and our expectations for a stronger July ISM Index." Reinhart pointed to optimistic expectations for capital expenditures and hiring plans. "Not only have firms increased hiring, but analysts also expect the pace of gains to accelerate over the next three months," wrote Reinhart. Morgan StanleyRegarding capex plans, the types of spending were skewed heavily toward technology spending. All of this is in line with Wall Street's expectation for the economy to heat up during the second half of the year. "Layoffs are falling and bank lending is accelerating — two powerful statistical indicators of the economy's building momentum heading into H2 14," said UBS's Maury Harris, who sees "three-handled" real GDP growth from now through 2015. "The major expected behavioral drivers continue to be pent-up demand and lagged positive credit impacts from earlier QE. From the Fed's perspective, housing is a downside risk, although we believe recently tepid mortgage applications and new home sales should pick up with better job creation and related household formation." "Global growth is improving mildly, lowflation is here to stay, central banks remain accommodative, equity markets and the US dollar are grinding higher, and bond yields are going nowhere for now," said Morgan Stanley's Joachim Fels, discussing the big picture in a note on Sunday. It's all good. FREE AppDownload
Margin Call screenshotMorgan Stanley plans to raise junior banker salaries by 25%, according to Bloomberg. This move shouldn't be that surprising. Wall Street banks have been implementing a variety of strategies — including actually giving them weekends — to improve the quality of life of their junior employees. The world isn't what it used to be. Banks face competition for their talent, especially from the tech sector. This pay boost specifically targets associates and vice presidents, people in their late 20s and early 30s who are easily poached by private equity firms and hedge funds, or who might want to take a few years to get their MBAs, only to never return to the bank. From Bloomberg: Associates at the largest investment banks can earn base salaries of $85,000 to $180,000, according to New York-based recruitment firm Options Group Inc. Salaries for vice presidents can range from $120,000 to $250,000, according to Options Group. Bonuses take those figures even higher. Total pay is usually determined at the end of a year. For 2013, Morgan Stanley deferred at least half of bonuses for any employee with total pay of at least $350,000 and incentive pay of $50,000, a person briefed on the policy said in January. For the record, a 25% pay increase in base salary also means a 25% bonus pay increase. Gotta get that in. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderAs part of Business Insider's latest Most Important Charts In The World feature, Dave Lutz at JonesTrading highlighted the relationship between the S&amp;P 500 and the iShares High Yield Corporate Bond exchange-traded fund (HYG), and the growing concern around junk bonds. High-yield bonds, also known as "junk" bonds, are bonds that receive a 'BB' or lower rating from S&amp;P or a 'Ba' or lower rating from Moody's, are bonds issued by companies, municipalities, or governments that are deemed to contain substantial risk of default.  With the Federal Reserve keeping interest rates near zero and inflation running below 2%, bond yields have remained low while stocks have rallied. In the "search for yield," investors have turned to these lower-rated bonds, which offer a higher yield than government or investment-grade corporate bonds, to get returns. The S&amp;P 500 and the HYG had been moving in lockstep over the last six months, but recently have diverged, with the HYG tumbling while the S&amp;P pushed to record highs. And this recent divergence, which in the last three months has seen the high-yield bond index fall 0.5% while the S&amp;P 500 has rallied nearly 6%, has Lutz calling for every equity trader to keep these indices in mind. Just today, the high-yield index fell 0.3% while the S&amp;P 500 was roughly unchanged. Lutz noted that recent client and investor surveys from Bloomberg and Bank of America Merrill Lynch indicate that 70% of those surveyed said the rally in high-yield bonds is in a bubble or close to one. Is the junk bond bubble bursting? Or is this just an orderly correction? Importantly, are stocks next to tumble? FREE AppDownload
The boards of trustees for the nation's Medicare programs released a report Monday that showed an economic trend some experts have described as one of the most important fiscal developments in over 30 years is having an even more dramatic effect than most previously realized.  In their annual report, Medicare's trustees said the program's trust fund that provides hospital care to the country's retirees — known as "Part A" — is expected to run out of money by 2030. This expiration date is four years later than earlier projections, a grace period that is due to federal spending on healthcare that is slower than ever due to savings from the implementation of the Affordable Care Act and other reforms. "While today’s report focuses on Medicare, it reflects broader trends in the health care system toward much slower growth in costs, a trend that has continued into 2014," wrote Jeanne Lambrew, the deputy assistant to the president for health policy, and Tim Gronniger, a senior policy adviser for the domestic policy council. Overall, the lifespan of Medicare's major trust fund has been extended 13 years since the passage of the Affordable Care Act. When the trust fund runs out, the federal government would be able to pay only part of the benefits owed to seniors, and that portion would keep declining over time.  Though the report highlighted the fact healthcare reform is helping to extend the life of the major Medicare trust fund, the trustees said more still must be done to shore up the long-term life of the program. The trustees estimated that without further action, the government would be able to pay out only 85% of Medicare benefits in 2030. The Medicare trustees' report builds on the overall optimism surrounding the slowing of healthcare costs in the U.S., which the trustees said on Monday were due to a mix of overall factors that include Obamacare, a weak economy, and other various reforms. Aside from the life extension of the Medicare trust fund, Medicare spending is slowing rapidly. The White House Earlier this month, the Congressional Budget Office released a report showing the slowdown in health costs would likely continue over the next 25 years, which mirrors the trustees' findings. The CBO said the federal government would spend about $250 billion less on major federal healthcare programs than it had forecast in 2010, the year the Affordable Care Act was signed into law. At the time, Peter Orszag, the former director of the Office of Management and Budget, told Business Insider the Medicare spending growth decline represented the "biggest fiscal development" in more than three decades. "Healthcare spending has always been the core fiscal problem facing the United States," Orszag said. "If we had passed legislation that knocked down long-term Medicare spending projections by 35% it would easily qualify as the biggest fiscal development since the early 1980s — and the fact that the changes are occurring for multiple reasons doesn’t alter that conclusion." The White House However, the news wasn't all good.  Despite the optimism generated by the decline in healthcare spending, the Medicare trustees' report contained a number of warnings about the future of the program and it urged lawmakers to take action to ensure the long-term viability of the program. The problem is still the same — a rapid rise in the U.S.'s over-65 population, combined with still-rising healthcare costs, will eventually drain the Medicare program down unless Congress intervenes.  Paul Spitalnic, the chief actuary for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, also warned many of Obamacare's cost reforms that have helped decrease spending might be difficult to maintain. Specifically, Spitalnic raised questions about the ability of health providers to sustain price reductions required under the law. "The Affordable Care Act is making important changes to the Medicare program that are designed, in part, to substantially improve its financial outlook," Spitalnic wrote in the report. "While the ACA has been successful in reducing many Medicare expenditures to date, there is a strong possibility that certain of these changes will not be viable in the long range." The trustees for Social Security were less optimistic in their annual report, however. Their report, which was also released Monday, projected the Social Security would remain solvent through about 2034. The massive retirement program's long-term forecast was unchanged from last year. And the first need for Congress to step in might come by 2016, when the program's disability fund will run dry, since millions more have joined the rolls of the program amid the economic downturn.  "Both of these vitally important programs are fiscally unsustainable over the long run and will require legislative intervention to correct,'' Social Security and Medicare trustee Robert Reischauer said at a press conference Monday, adding, "The sooner the policymakers address these challenges, the less disruptive the unavoidable adjustments will be." FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Robert GalbraithNutritional supplement-seller Herbalife reported second quarter earnings results and they came in weaker than expected. For the second quarter, the multi-level marketer reported adjusted earnings per share of $1.55 versus estimates of $1.57.  Revenue for the quarter came in at $1.31 billion versus estimates of $1.354 billion.  The stock was last trading down about 7.7% in the after-hours session following the earnings announcement.   Herbalife is the company that hedge fund manager Bill Ackman is  shorting. Last week, Ackman gave what he called "the most important presentation" of his career slamming the company again. As Ackman spoke, shares of Herbalife surged higher.  For more than 18 months, Ackman has been on a crusade against Herbalife–a maker of nutritional shakes he believes is operating as a "pyramid scheme" that targets poor people. It's his contention that regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, will shut the company down. Herbalife has denied and continues to deny Ackman's allegations.  A number of fund managers, most notably Carl Icahn, are long Herbalife's stock. Icahn, who owns a massive stake, said a couple weeks ago that he has not sold a single share of his position.  So far, Ackman has amassed hundreds of millions in paper losses on his short.  The FTC opened an investigation into Herbalife back in March.  Here's the earnings release:  LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Herbalife Ltd. (NYSE: HLF) today reported second quarter net sales of $1.3 billion, reflecting an increase of 7 percent compared to the same time period in 2013 on volume point growth of 5 percent. Adjusted1 net income for the quarter of $141.4 million, or $1.55 per diluted share, compares to 2013 second quarter adjusted net income of $150.7 million, or $1.41 per diluted share. On a reported basis, second quarter 2014 net income of $119.5 million, or $1.31 per diluted share compares to $143.2 million, or $1.34 per diluted share for the same period in 2013. "Herbalife has once again delivered strong results in sales and profitability while demonstrating our continued ability to enhance our earnings per share," said Michael Johnson, Herbalife's chairman and CEO. "Our performance is a testament to the enthusiasm our millions of consumers and members have for our products. Additionally, our independent members are successfully executing numerous growth strategies to further develop customer loyalty and encourage individuals across our network to lead healthier, nutritious lives. Our members are proud to be a part of a solution to global public health issues and we value the integral role they play in Herbalife's mission." For the quarter ended June 30, 2014 the company generated cash flow from operations of $156.9 million; invested $39.6 million in capital expenditures; and repurchased$581.3 million in common shares outstanding under our share repurchase program. Second Quarter 2014 Key Metrics2,3 Regional Volume Point and Average Active Sales Leader Metrics Updated 2014 Guidance Forward guidance excludes the impact of expenses (primarily for legal and advisory services) relating to the company's response to information put into the marketplace by a short seller, which the company believes to be inaccurate and misleading, expenses related to a FTC inquiry, and the impact of non-cash interest costs associated with the company's Convertible Notes and the expenses incurred related to the effort to recover costs related to the reaudit that occurred last year. Forward guidance is based on the average daily exchange rates of the first two weeks of July. Included in the guidance is the use of the GAAP rate for Venezuela of 10.6 to 1 for the balance of the year and excludes the potential impact of future devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar and future repatriation, if any, of existing cash balances in Venezuela. Based on current business trends the company's third quarter fiscal 2014 and full year fiscal 2014 guidance is provided below. September 30, 2014 December 31, 2014 Low High Low High   Share Repurchase Program Update During the second quarter, the company repurchased 9.8 million shares at an average cost of $59.41. There is currently $232.9 million remaining on the existing $1.5 billion share repurchase authorization. Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call Herbalife senior management will host an investor conference call to discuss its recent financial results and provide an update on current business trends on Tuesday, July 29, 2014 at 8 a.m. PT (11 a.m. ET). The dial-in number for this conference call for domestic callers is (877) 317-1296 and (706) 634-5671 for international callers (conference ID 66932104). Live audio of the conference call will be simultaneously webcast in the investor relations section of the company's website at http://ir.herbalife.com. An audio replay will be available following the completion of the conference call in MP3 format or by dialing (855) 859-2056 for domestic callers or (404) 537-3406 for international callers (conference ID 66932104). The webcast of the teleconference will be archived and available on Herbalife's website. About Herbalife Ltd. Herbalife Ltd. (NYSE:HLF) is a global nutrition company that sells weight-management, nutrition, and personal care products intended to support a healthy lifestyle. Herbalife products are sold in more than 90 countries through and to a network of independent members. The company supports the Herbalife Family Foundation and its Casa Herbalife program to help bring good nutrition to children. Herbalife's website contains a significant amount of information about Herbalife, including financial and other information for investors at http://ir.Herbalife.com. The company encourages investors to visit its website from time to time, as information is updated and new information is posted. _____________________1 See Schedule A - "Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for more detail.2 Supplemental tables that include additional business metrics can be found at http://www.ir.herbalife.com.3 Worldwide Average Active Sales Leaders may not equal the sum of the Average Active Sales Leaders in each region due to the calculation being an average of Sales Leaders active in a period, not a summation, and the fact that some sales leaders are active in more than one region but are counted only once in the worldwide amount. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any of our forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any of our forward-looking statements. Our future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent risks and uncertainties, such as those disclosed or incorporated by reference in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Important factors that could cause our actual results, performance and achievements, or industry results to differ materially from estimates or projections contained in our forward-looking statements include, among others, the following: • our relationship with, and our ability to influence the actions of, our Members; • improper action by our employees or Members in violation of applicable law; • adverse publicity associated with our products or network marketing organization, including our ability to comfort the marketplace and regulators regarding our compliance with applicable laws; • changing consumer preferences and demands; • our reliance upon, or the loss or departure of any member of, our senior management team which could negatively impact our Member relations and operating results; • the competitive nature of our business; • regulatory matters governing our products, including potential governmental or regulatory actions concerning the safety or efficacy of our products and network marketing program, including the direct selling market in which we operate; • legal challenges to our network marketing program; • risks associated with operating internationally and the effect of economic factors, including foreign exchange, inflation, disruptions or conflicts with our third party importers, pricing and currency devaluation risks, especially in countries such as Venezuela; • uncertainties relating to the application of transfer pricing, duties, value added taxes, and other tax regulations, and changes thereto; • uncertainties relating to interpretation and enforcement of legislation in China governing direct selling; • uncertainties relating to the interpretation, enforcement or amendment of legislation in India governing direct selling; • our inability to obtain the necessary licenses to expand our direct selling business in China; • adverse changes in the Chinese economy, Chinese legal system or Chinese governmental policies; • our dependence on increased penetration of existing markets; • contractual limitations on our ability to expand our business; • our reliance on our information technology infrastructure and outside manufacturers; • the sufficiency of trademarks and other intellectual property rights; • product concentration; • changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation; • taxation relating to our Members; • product liability claims; • whether we will purchase any of our shares in the open markets or otherwise; and • share price volatility related to, among other things, speculative trading and certain traders shorting our common shares. We do not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement or to report any events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS: 6/30/2014 6/30/2013 6/30/2014 6/30/2013 (1) As discussed in Note 2 of the quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2014, Selling, General and Administrative Expenses and Other Expense, net for the six months ended June 30, 2014 includes an $89.5 million pre-tax unfavorable impact related to the remeasurement of Venezuela Bolivar-denominated assets and liabilities at the SICAD I rate.   2014 2013   (Unaudited)   6/30/2014 6/30/2013 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:   SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION SCHEDULE A: RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES(unaudited and unreviewed), (Dollars in Thousand, Except Per Share Data) In addition to its reported results, the Company has included in the tables below adjusted results that the Securities and Exchange Commission defines as "non-GAAP financial measures." Management believes that such non-GAAP financial measures, when read in conjunction with the Company's reported results, can provide useful supplemental information for investors in analyzing period to period comparisons of the Company's results. Diluted earnings per share, as adjusted (7)   The following is a reconciliation of total long-term debt to net debt:   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS Democratic presidents have enjoyed 4.35% annual GDP growth on average since the end of World War II, while Republican presidents have seen GDP growth of just 2.54%, according to two Princeton economists. In a working paper published with the National Bureau of Economic Research, economists Alan Blinder and Mark Watson also say that the performance for nearly every other factor by which one can measure the health of the economy —  jobs growth and inflation, for instance — is superior under Democrats.  But political party has nothing to do with this outcome.  Almost all that success is to an overwhelming degree the result of luck. Since Harry Truman, the party of Jefferson has managed to avoid major oil shocks, ride through changes in productivity, and preside over a more stable international scene, they write. All of which are largely outside the bounds of domestic policy. "These factors together explain slightly more than half of the 1.80 percentage point" growth gap, they say. "The rest remains, for now, a mystery of the still mostly-unexplored continent." What's more, the apparent Democrat advantage has been eroding over time: The economists note most of the Democratic outperformance came in the first part of the surveyed years, during the Truman, Kennedy and Johnson administrations. Here's the breakdown by term... Blinder, Watson ...And by administration. Blinder, WatsonBottom line: Voters may be able to expect stronger economic performance from Democrats, but there's nothing the President him(or her)self can do to guarantee it. FREE AppDownload
Associated Press Dollar Tree announced today that it is buying Family Dollar.  Together, the dollar stores will be bigger than current industry leader Dollar General.  But the merger could "exert pressures on major food, household goods, and drink suppliers, including Pepsi, Hershey, and Clorox," Brian Sozzi, chief equities strategist at Belus Capital Advisors, writes in an op-ed for CNBC.  Proctor &amp; Gamble, Coca-Cola, and Unilever could also be affected, he says.  The acquisition means the chain has 13,000 stores, putting Dollar Tree in a great position to negotiate with suppliers on price, Sozzi writes.  That could have a domino effect on the industry. If Dollar Tree offers even lower prices, then Wal-Mart will become even more aggressive. Wal-Mart is already more expensive than dollar stores, Sterne Agee analysts wrote earlier this year. Sales at the retailer have fallen for the past five quarters.  "Wal-Mart has conceded the 'price leader' crown to Family Dollar," the analysts said.  Dollar chains have also stepped up their grocery offerings in recent years, making them an even bigger threat to Wal-Mart.  If Wal-Mart decides to become more aggressive on price, then that could cut into profits for big consumer companies who supply the mega-chain. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid"Some call it the summer lull, but to me it seems we have simply arrived in what we expected to be a 'boring but better' second half of the year," said Morgan Stanley's Joachim Fels. Fels is reiterating Morgan Stanley's house view, which it laid out in June. Morgan Stanley isn't the only Wall Street firm calling this market boring. Goldman Sachs recently characterized it as "challengingly boring." Things have been boring because frankly things have been pretty good. "Global growth is improving mildly, lowflation is here to stay, central banks remain accommodative, equity markets and the US dollar are grinding higher, and bond yields are going nowhere for now," said Fels. "Yawn." FREDAll of this generally good news has kept volatility out of the financial markets, making it quite boring for the pros on Wall Street who sell more of their services when things are moving. Of course there are various geopolitical risks out there lingering: Iraq, Ukraine, and Russia. And there are major concerns in overseas economies; Europe is weak and China is slowing. "Geopolitical risk is ever present but unpredictable by nature," said Deutsche Bank's Raj Hindocha and Marcos Arana. "While a large scale geopolitical risk event is not our base case, investors should be mindful of alternative scenarios relative to the benign outcome currently expected by markets." But for now we can't complain. After all, things are getting better. "Layoffs are falling and bank lending is accelerating — two powerful statistical indicators of the economy's building momentum heading into H2 14," said UBS's Maury Harris, who sees "three-handled" real GDP growth from now through 2015. "The major expected behavioral drivers continue to be pent-up demand and lagged positive credit impacts from earlier QE. From the Fed's perspective, housing is a downside risk, although we believe recently tepid mortgage applications and new home sales should pick up with better job creation and related household formation." So, boring. But better. FREE AppDownload
El Pollo LocoEl Pollo Loco, which soared more than 50% on its market debut Friday, again surged Monday. Shares in the Costa Mesa-based fire-roasted chicken specialists ended up 43% to $34.48.  BI's Hayley Peterson has explained why investors believe Pollo Loco could be the next Chipotle. Like Chipotle, it's a fast casual chain that serves Mexican-style food in large portions. Its same-store sales growth rate is comparable to Chipotle's, and actually surpassed Chipotle's in 2012 and 2013, according to The Motley Fool's Nickey Friedman.  El Pollo Loco, which translates to "the crazy chicken," is also extremely popular. It recently won second place for best-tasting fast food chicken restaurant in the country behind Chick-fil-A in a Consumer Reports survey. Chipotle shares were flat pre-market.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Siegfried ModolaStocks rose, but ultimately went nowhere on the first day of a busy week that will give us a ton of information about the U.S. economy. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. In the U.S., pending home sales in June fell 1.1%, an unexpected decrease as economists were expecting sales to rise 0.5%. The pace of sales, however, remains above average according to the National Association of Realtors. "Pending home sales remain below their year-ago levels, but after the upward moves during the three months through May, the y/y declines have become smaller," noted Barclays' Michael Gapen. "This report suggests the rebound in existing home sales following previous weather-related softness is complete, implying less momentum to sales in the third quarter." 2. Markit's "flash" services data for July was unchanged from the prior month at 61, which also beat expectation for a 59.9 reading. Of the report, Markit's economist Tim Moore said, "While a cyclical upswing appears underway across the service sector, the latest survey provides some indication that a smoother ride is not yet fully  entrenched. Service providers saw new business gains slip to a three-month low, while payroll growth moderated since June amid a drop in confidence towards the year-ahead business outlook." 3. The Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas' latest manufacturing survey came in at 12.7, slightly below the 12.8 that was expected but well better than the 11.4 for the prior survey. BI's Rob Wile noted, however, that the Fed's comments reflected a much more uncertain future. "Skilled employee turnover is getting out of control," one manufacturer said. "There are too many employers chasing too few skilled workers." 4. It was a big day for corporate mergers, as Dollar Tree struck a deal to acquire Family Dollar, while Zillow reached a deal to acquire rival Trulia. Dollar Tree agreed to acquire Family Dollar for $74.50 per share, a 23% premium over Friday's closing price for Family Dollar. Shares of Family Dollar closed up more than 24%. The deal also marks a big win for Carl Icahn, who in June took a stake in the discount retailer and urged it to seek a sale. Later in the afternoon, Icahn issued a statement that said he is still hopeful another bid for Family Dollar will emerge.  5. Zillow agreed to acquire Trulia in an all-stock deal worth about $3.5 billion at current prices. The two online real estate rivals made their merger announcement after a report from Bloomberg last week said that Zillow was seeking to acquire Trulia. Following the deal Trulia shares surged 15%.  6. Shares of chicken chain El Pollo Loco gained another 43% after gaining 50% in their public debut on Friday. BI's Hayley Peterson noted that some investors believe El Pollo Loco could be the next Chipotle, and so far, investors have acted that way.  7. A late afternoon report from Japan's Nikkei reported that Tesla has signed a deal with Panasonic to supply the electric carmaker with machinery to stock its first Gigafactory. Tesla shares popped following the news, but closed unchanged.  8. Some 25 companies are scheduled to make their public debuts this week, which, if this number holds, will mark the busiest week for IPOs since August 2000.  9. Gunmaker Smith &amp; Wesson agreed to pay $2 million to settle charges from the SEC that the company violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in efforts to bribe foreign officials to awarded the company weapons contracts. Smith &amp; Wesson did not admit or deny the SEC's findings.  Don't Miss: Wall Street's Brightest Minds Reveal The Most Important Charts In The World » FREE AppDownload
In what has been the largest such ruling of its kind, an international arbitration court in The Hague has ruled against Russia and awarded former majority shareholders of the Yukos oil company $50 billion for Moscow's seizure and sale of the corporation's assets.  But Loukas Mistelis, the director of the School of International Arbitration at Queen Mary University of London, told RFE/RL's Glenn Kates that it could be more than a decade before investors recover these assets.  RFE/RL: Moscow has said it will contest today's ruling in Dutch courts. What are its options?  Loukas Mistelis: There's no appeal mechanism. What there is is a challenge of the award. And the challenge of the award will be an annulment process by national courts that can only be done on procedural grounds. So [the award could be annulled in that national jurisdiction] if a national court were to find that the tribunal had manifestly exceeded its powers, or there was a significant procedural irregularity or a violation of due process, or the tribunal [was found to be in a country that] shouldn't have had jurisdiction. They're entirely procedural grounds.  It's not an appeal. An appeal process would effectively modify the decision. The challenge process is that of a process of extinguishing the award, but rarely successful.   (Editor's note: After the ruling Moscow claimed that the Dutch court does not have jurisdiction because Russia has signed but not ratified the European Union's Energy Charter, under which the decision was made.) RFE/RL: If the award is upheld and Russia does refuse to pay, what are the likely consequences and how can Yukos investors be expected to recover the award? Mistelis: What can happen is of course there are different things of different consequences. The refusal of the Russian Federation to pay would have an [impact] on their credit rating.  The Yukos investors will try to enforce wherever they can enforce. There is a precedent with a case called Franz Sedelmayer versus the Russian Federation. It took him about 10 to 15 years to try to enforce against Russian assets. And he obtained court decisions in Germany and in Sweden, effectively ordering the execution of the award.  RFE/RL: Will other countries work to seize Russian assets?  Mistelis: In the European Union there is precedent ... where the national courts of these countries will be prepared to enforce against commercial assets of the Russian Federation. So the question will be: What is a commercial asset? So, I'm not sure whether Aeroflot is a state-run company, but it's certainly a commercial company so one could technically enforce against Aeroflot.  (Editors' note: Aeroflot is 51 percent owned by the Russian state.)  A fleet in the country — could enforce against a commercial merchant fleet. They could enforce against other property — for example, a language school which is owned by the Russian Federation. For assets that will qualify as commercial property, most European jurisdictions will be prepared to enforce.  RFE/RL: How long would you expect this process to continue? Mistelis: I think it's going to be a long process. It's going to be quite a long process. The Franz Sedelmayer award took nearly 10 years to enforce so I will not be surprised if the Yukos shareholders will need to dedicate 10 or 12 years to recover a substantial part of the award but maybe not the whole award. FREE AppDownload
Tesla MotorsNikkei.com is reporting that Tesla has signed a deal with Panasonic to have the industrial giant supply the electric automaker with the machinery to stock its first Gigafactory. The deal is worth between $194 million and $291 million. Overall investment in the project could climb to $5 billion with Panasonic's share climbing to $1 billion, Nikkei says. A Tesla representative declined to comment on the report. Tesla is hoping to begin construction on its first Gigafactory this year. The company wants to double the world's supply of lithium-ion batteries by 2020. This is critical in multiple ways for Tesla. In particular, it could help the electric carmarker address some major supply constraints. "Tesla's growth in 2013 was held back by a lack of batteries," reported the WSJ's Mike Ramsay in April. "Tesla, with sales of just over 22,400 cars last year, is already the largest buyer of lithium-ion battery cells in the world. With plans to sell 500,000 vehicles, its own demand would be greater than the demand for every laptop, mobile phone and tablet sold in the world. Tesla was up more than 2% on Monday. Click here to read the full story on Nikkei.com » FREE AppDownload
Recent critiques of Israel's Iron Dome, particularly from MIT professor Theodore Postol, suggest that the missile interceptor system is less accurate than the country would like the rest of the world to think.  But there's at least one crucial indication that property damage in Israel is actually lower in this latest conflict than it was during the one in which Iron Dome debuted. According to reports from earlier in the latest conflict, the Israeli government recieved far fewer applications for compensation for hostilities-related damages than it did through a similar span during Israel's 2012 operation in Gaza.  According to the Israeli website News1, Israel has lost over $200 million in manufacturing capacity, with around 1,000 factories or farms losing perishable inventory or hamstrung by worker absenteeism and lost production during Operation Protective Edge.  Businesses throughout the south of Israel are reportedly suffering from decreased revenue, leading Israeli finance minister Yair Lapid to announce a series of compensation measures and loan guarantees he dubbed an "economic Iron Dome" for the region. But there are signs that the physical damage is somewhat less than in similar, past conflicts. The last two Gaza confrontations — in 2008 and 2012 — resulted in a combined 14,000 applications to the Israeli tax authority's compensation fund, according to News1. Yet according to the Jerusalem Post, within the first eight days of the latest Gaza confrontation, the tax authority recieved 600 applications, only a quarter of the total from Israel's eight-day-long 2012 operation. The decreased number of claims came during a period of the conflict when the rocket bombardment was at its highest, with between 120 and 150 projectiles fired over the border each day. The Iron Dome system offers a contrast with earlier conflicts in which the system wasn't in place. During the 2006 Lebanon War, rockets fired by the Lebanese Shi'ite militant group Hezbollah failed to hit major cities like Jerusalem or Tel Aviv — and still managed to cause over $1 billion in damage over three weeks that the taxation authority later compensated, according to News1. This was far more than what was paid out due to attacks on Israel during 2012's Operation Pillar of Defense, which included a higher frequency of rocket attacks than the Lebanon War, this time targeted at major cities like Tel Aviv and Jerusalem. But the eight-day 2012 conflict also featured Iron Dome's debut. And if the decrease in compensating claims during this conflict is any indication, the system has apparently improved in the intervening years. Of course, Iron Dome is far from perfect. It was tailor-made for the specific problem of basic, inaccurate mid-range rockets — a threat that few other countries or militaries actually face. At the moment, it has questionable applicability outside of Israel. Iron Dome would do little to counter the more sophisticated missiles that North Korea has aimed at Seol, for instance. And it's also unknown whether it's possible to overload the system. No militant group has tried this yet, and it's perhaps unlikely a last-ditch rocket blitz will happen in this latest flare-up, given Israel's success so far in destroying rockets and rocket launching sites. But Iron Dome could be of somewhat more limited use in the face of a simultaneous assault of dozens of projectiles. It was recently revealed that hackers — likely from China — compromised the systems of several companies working on Iron Dome in 2011 and 2012. Finally, there are rockets that fall inside of Iron Dome's range, like the short-range mortar that killed four Israelis earlier today.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Romeo RanocoA new study shows that companies with high levels of employee satisfaction tend to outperform the market. The study by Alex Edmans of Wharton Business School, Chendi Zhang of Warwick Business School, and PhD. student Lucius Li of Warwick Business School investigates the stock returns in countries with flexible labor markets of companies with very high employee satisfaction in different countries around the world. The working paper was posted recently at the website of the National Bureau for Economic Research. Professor Edmans had previously analyzed the returns on those companies in the United States that were in the annual "100 Best Companies To Work For" list compiled every year by the Great Place to Work Institute and published in Fortune. They found that these companies had higher stock returns than the market as a whole. Edmans and his colleagues focus on stock returns after the lists have been posted as a way to compensate for the possibility of reverse causality, where high performing companies cause happier employees. By looking at stock returns over the year after the publication of the list, the hope is to capture any long term effects of employee satisfaction. The current study expands on this approach by looking at other countries. Great Place to Work publishes equivalent Best Companies lists for a number of countries, and Edmans and his fellow researchers found 14 countries in which at least ten publicly traded companies appeared on the Best Companies list at least once between 1998 and 2013.  Among those countries, eleven, including the U.S., all saw positive abnormal risk-adjusted returns, that is additional returns above the market, for hypothetical portfolios made up of those publicly traded companies appearing on a Best Companies list. Because of small sample sizes in most of the countries (since only a few publicly traded companies showed up on the Best Companies lists), it's hard to be sure that this is an actual relationship, and not just statistical noise. Still, in those countries with large enough sample sizes to make more definitive conclusions, the Best Companies outperformed the markets: Chile, Sweden, the U.S., and Japan all had statistically significant abnormal risk-adjusted returns by firms on their respective Best Companies lists. While the researchers saw positive abnormal risk-adjusted returns in most of the countries, the actual magnitude of those returns varied quite a bit. They went on to propose a possible explanation for that diversity: countries with more flexible labor markets, in which it's easier for companies to hire and fire employees, are likely to see more of a relationship between employee satisfaction and value. If hiring is easy and there is a good amount of competition for labor, higher levels of employee satisfaction can be a powerful recruitment tool. Similarly, high value employees who have options to leave are more likely to stay if they are at a job where they are happy. Finally, the researchers point out in the working paper that "workers exert effort to avoid being fired from a satisfying job, and thus employee satisfaction has greater motivational impact when the likelihood of firing is stronger." Conversely, less flexible, more highly regulated labor markets in which there are greater barriers to hiring and firing should see less of a relationship between satisfaction and performance, owing to the damping down of the above factors. To test this, Edmans and his colleagues ran a version of their statistical model that also included measures of labor market flexibility in each country, based mostly on government regulations on hiring and firing. In this version of the model, they found that the labor market flexibility explained a lot of the variation in the different countries' abnormal return rates for Best Companies, supporting the above hypothesis. For more detail, check out the original paper at NBER.  FREE AppDownload
PETER BARRERAS/APWall Street has gone to some extreme lengths to get rich. In the hyper-competitive environment, everyone needs to be smart, fast, and ruthless. Ask any trader, and they might have their own ideas about how to get an edge on everyone else beyond just hard work. We're talking about stuff that borders on the superstitious. From group habits to strange idiosyncrasies, Wall Streeters have opted for some unorthodox methods to try to improve their trading.  Here are some of the most bizarre things people have done, all in the name of the trade. FREE AppDownload
WHAT CAN I DO TO HELP SAVE THE TAJ? I grew up on the streets of Queens.  I learned to fight bullies and that was great training because I later built my fortune fighting the establishment – mostly CEOs and Boards that I felt were taking advantage of the shareholders. Most importantly, our periodic posts will discuss what can be done to change our current, dysfunctional system of corporate governance.   While there are many good CEOs and boards there are far too many ineffectual ones that are strangling shareholders and the economy. July 28, 2014 by Carl Icahn  While we continue to believe there are a handful of potential buyers who could realize greater synergies through a combination with Family Dollar and are hopeful that one or more of them will surface as a result of today’s announcement, we are extremely pleased with Dollar Tree’s intention to acquire Family Dollar in a transaction that values the company at $74.50 per share. This is a big win for all shareholders of Family Dollar and yet another validation of the activist investment philosophy in general. An investor that had bought Family Dollar shares on June 6, 2014, the date our investment in the company was first made public, and held those shares through today (assuming the $74.50 deal price), would have paid $60.53 per share and realized a total return of 23.7% (as compared to a total return of only 1.5% for the S&amp;P 500 Index over that same period). Over the period since we began purchasing the stock, the common shareholders of Family Dollar have enjoyed an aggregate gain in market value of almost $1.9 billion, an increase of over 28.5%. For more information on this and other topics, follow me on Twitter at: @Carl_C_Icahn https://twitter.com/Carl_C_Icahn Contact: Susan Gordon (212) 702-4309
The BLS has just released a neat though slightly unsettling animation showing how the U.S. transformed from a manufacturing-based economy to one relying on health and social services spending for growth.  Here's 1990 to 2007. For a brief period retail dominated:  And here's 2007 onward:  Given America's aging demographics, we're probably going to be seeing a lot of orange for a while.
AP Photo/Wayne ParryEconomists estimate real GDP jumped 3.1% in Q2 after plunging 2.9% in Q1. They believe that the economic freeze caused by the unusually harsh winter will be reversed in a spring economic thaw. They see Q2 growth as a prelude to "3%-plus growth in the second half of the year," writes economist Gary Shilling. In a special report titled 'No Spring Thaw', Shilling warns "the herd is likely to be disappointed." Here's why: The one wild card could be inventory investment according to Shilling. "But barring a big jump in inventories, second quarter real GDP growth was probably a lot closer to 1% than 3%. It could even be a negative number." "A low second quarter real GDP number will kill the conviction that the first quarter drop was only an anomaly and it will spawn agonizing reappraisals for the rest of the year. It could put the Fed on hold at least into 2016 and be great for Treasury bonds. But for stocks, look out below!" This is a message Shilling communicated to Business Insider readers when he offered his "Most Important Chart In The World." See below. We get Q2 GDP at 8:30 a.m. ET on Wednesday. Business Insider FREE AppDownload
AFPGunmaker Smith &amp; Wesson has agreed to pay $2 million to settle with the Securities and Exchange Commission over allegations the company violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The SEC said employees and representatives of the company, "authorized and made improper payments to foreign officials while trying to win contracts to supply firearm products to military and law enforcement overseas." The SEC said it found that Smith &amp; Wesson employees made improper payments to secure a weapons contract in Pakistan, and also made similar but failed attempts in Indonesia, Turkey, Nepal, and Bangladesh.  Smith &amp; Wesson consented to the SEC's order without admitting or denying the findings. The company must also report to the SEC on its FCPA compliance for the next two years. In afternoon trade, shares of Smith &amp; Wesson were up about 0.4%.  FREE AppDownload
Coldwell Banker UnitedA prominent leader in the Enron scandal of 2001, John Wing, is selling his enormous mansion in Texas for $14 million. Wing was a West Point graduate and the former chairman of Enron Europe.  His mansion in The Woodlands, Texas includes six bedrooms, nine full baths, three half baths, and an attached garage for four cars. There's also a two-story guest house, large pool, hot tubs, and various other amenities all around the beautiful property. Golf-lovers would adore this house – it's located right on a golf course with it's own golf house included. The game room also has a golf simulator built in. The house is a total of 17,000 square feet indoors and 3,000 square feet of outdoor space. It's surrounded by a stone wall and gate to keep unwanted visitors out.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, Nov. 5, 2010.U.S. President Barack Obama spent a few seconds talking about stocks during an interview last week with CNBC's Steve Liesman. “My estimation is you've got a lot of savvy investors out there," he said. "You got people who recognize that what goes up can come down as well. I'll leave it up to them to make determinations about whether valuations and stock prices are too high. I'm more concerned about the day-to-day fundamentals. And if we get those fundamentals right, then I'm pretty confident that we can do very well in the next decade.” So, that's not much. But it's not nothing. Presidents don't usually talk about stocks. In a new note to clients, Goldman Sachs' David Kostin remembers another time Obama talked about stocks. From the note: Some investors may remember Obama’s previous equity valuation comment from March 3, 2009 when the S&amp;P 500 traded at 696: ”On the other hand, what you're now seeing is profit and earnings ratios are starting to get to the point where buying stocks is a potentially good deal if you've got a long-term perspective on it.” Since his observation, the S&amp;P 500 has soared by 185% and this week reached a new all-time high of 1988. March 3 was six days before the S&amp;P 500 hit an intraday low of 666. That was a pretty extraordinary call. Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Argentine Presidency/Handout via ReutersArgentina's President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner at the Casa Rosada presidential palace in Buenos Aires July 12, 2014. There have been moments in the decade-long legal battle between Argentina and a small group of hedge fund creditors known as NML Capital when one could only step back and think, The people running Argentina have got to be out of their minds. One analyst note, however, suggests that Argentina may have been playing this thing the right way the whole time. The Republic's leaders have until Wednesday to either pay NML more than $1.3 billion worth of debt; get a stay of payment to all bondholders holding this same debt (allowing the country more time to negotiate with NML); or face default. For years the country has argued it should not have to pay NML 100 cents on the dollar for debt dating to its 2001 default, when over 90% of the same bondholders took a haircut. The U.S. Supreme Court finally shut the door on that argument in June. Despite several meetings with a special master of the court over the past few weeks, Argentina has been refusing to negotiate with NML until a stay of payment has been granted. Now it's really down to the wire. So Abadi &amp; Co. Global Markets published a note outlining all the scenarios. It includes the table below. Abadi & Co. Global Markets Now let's walk thought the scenarios. Keep in mind that Argentina has said that it wants to pay this debt in 2015 because of something called the RUFO (Rights Upon Future Offers) clause. Basically the clause says if Argentina voluntarily negotiates better terms with some creditors before 2015, all creditors are entitled to those same improved terms. Argentina has been saying that negotiating with NML triggers RUFO and opens it up to $15 billion worth of claims from other creditors holding the same bonds. So with that ... Both parties lose if Argentina goes into default. Argentina's domestic economy will suffer as will its relationship with the rest of the world. For NML, its claim will be undermined and the country will be even more justified in arguing that it can't pay. NML wins if it gets paid in cash or bonds for obvious reasons, though it may not get absolutely full satisfaction of its claim if it gets paid in bonds. Both parties win if Argentina is granted a stay and the Republic then stands by its word and negotiates with NML. NML gets paid in 2015, Argentina avoids default and doesn't have to deal with a bunch of RUFO claims. But there's some stickiness there. First off, you have to trust that Argentina really means what it says and that it wants to negotiate to avoid triggering RUFO. Could be that Jan. 1, 2015, will come and go and Argentina will sill refuse to obey the court and pay NML. Based on its previous behavior, such a move wouldn't be surprising. That's why the judge, Thomas Griesa, has already refused to place a stay on payment once this month. The other thing you have to keep in mind is that Argentina has defaulted before and survived. Plus, in this case, the government isn't completely broke like it was in 2001. It could potentially keep the country running until 2015 when it could pay the holdouts without triggering RUFO. So to Argentina this is the choice it's handing hedge fund managers — we, as a nation, will be paying you in 2015. We can do it in pain and under duress, or we can do it in compliance with the Court. But it's 2015 or bust. Now, this whole scenario is thrown for a loop if you don't buy that Argentina is waiting for RUFO to expire. Some people don't believe that argument. They think that since RUFO is only triggered if Argentina is voluntarily negotiating, being forced to negotiate by the court (i.e., what's happening now) does not trigger the clause anyway, so this is all a charade. GrahamFisher analyst and debt specialist Josh Rosner is one of the people who have argued this. Not only does he think the country could avoid RUFO now if it wanted to, but he also thinks that if the country paid NML — thereby entering the international financial community having resolved its major debt disputes — it could easily raise the necessary money to pay RUFO claims even if the clause was triggered. From Rosner's note: "Argentina has ignored the reality that even if that $15 billion number was correct and the creditors unwilling to negotiate a payment formula that was acceptable to both parties, the government would still be able to manage the increased debt burden as a percent of GDP. Moreover, late last year, at least one Wall Street firm offered to raise the full $15 billion that the government claims it owes. If the government chose to raise capital as a means of resolving this impasse, it would normalize its relations with the international capital markets, reduce its cost of funds going forward and immediately begin to attract the foreign investment necessary to develop key industries, including its energy sector and the broader economy." So maybe NML doesn't want the stay because it isn't buying this whole RUFO argument, the same way Rosner isn't, and isn't willing to give Argentina time to slip out of this one. Or maybe NML just hasn't realized that Argentina is willing to sit in extreme discomfort until 2015. The latter may sound crazy at first glance, but, when you think about it, it's kind of crazy like a fox. FREE AppDownload
There's been a lot of excitement surrounding the young, high-growth, highly-speculative biotech and internet stocks. Just last week, we witnessed Puma Biotechnology surge 300% in an instant on news of a breast cancer drug breakthrough. Gilead Sciences stunned investors when it revealed it had sold a whopping $3.5 billion worth of its hepatitis-C "wonder drug" in one quarter. And just today, online realtor site Zillow announced it would buy out competitor Trulia for $3.5 billion. But with stock prices surging everywhere, some skeptics are warning we're marching into another biotech and dotcom bubble. Even Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen has warned that valuation metrics in these sectors "appear substantially stretched." However, RBC Capital Markets' Jonathan Golub takes issue with such sweeping statements. In fact, Golub thinks they may actually be worth buying. "In our view, the biotech and internet industries appear attractive for a variety of reasons," wrote Golub on Friday. Among his reasons, "valuations attractive relative to growth prospects" and "the current environment bears little resemblance to the tech bubble." Both reasons relate to investors expectations for the future. And in both cases, Golub considers the price-earnings (P/E) ratio, which reflects the premiums investors pay for future earnings. "Multiples for biotech, internet, and even the broader market are much more reasonable today," he said pointing to Exhibit 2. Are biotech and internet stocks expensive today? That's hard to say. But they're certainly nowhere near the crazy levels of the bubble era of just 15 years ago. RBC Capital Markets FREE AppDownload
SkiftVirgin America Founding CEO Fred ReidEditor's note: Virgin America filed for an IPO this morning. Thanks to our friends at Skift for letting us run the following interview with former Virgin America CEO Fred Reid. Fred Reid knows a thing or two about the airline business and passenger experience, and believes that “Virgin America has proven that technology plus style plus design plus ease of use plus people, people, people, people can launch an airline.”  As the founding CEO of Virgin America, a post he left in late 2007, Reid says he banned the use of words such as “passenger” and “employee” in favor of “guest” and “teammate,” and you’ll see from the Skift interview below that he did so for substantive reasons that go to the core success or failure of an airline, and not just for public relations spin. A business strategist who currently sits on the boards of Thayer Ventures and travel startup GetGoing, Reid has served as CEO of Virgin America, president of Delta Air Lines and Lufthansa, and also did stints at American Airlines and Pan Am. Skift caught up Reid and spoke with him about his experience pitching Virgin America to investors, why he advised flight attendants from a rival airline to keep doing what they were doing, and the future of the airline passenger experience, among other topics.  Skift: You read all the time these days that airlines have to focus on cost-containment and rising fuel costs. How can they possibly make the passenger experience a more important element of their strategies? Fred Reid: Right now airlines are in an absolutely unbelievable golden era, especially the U.S. carriers. It started a year or two ago and should run another year or two unless something really crazy happens. The long-term balance sheet health of the airlines has always been problematic, and I would say that cost-containment and cost pressures are not necessarily the other side of the coin of passenger experience. Unless you are flying planes where the seats are torn up or you haven’t cleaned the planes in 40 days. By the way, at Virgin America “passenger” is a prohibited word. It is never used. It is “guest.” At Virgin America the words “employee” and “labor” never appear anywhere. It is “teammate.” Passenger experience and employee experience — I use the more common term even though I prohibited it at Virgin America — they are hand and glove. Any airline that wants to have a good passenger experience better damn well be providing a great employee experience. Otherwise it will never happen. Most airlines forget that. Skift: One might interpret what you are saying as being that an improved passenger experience is just a matter of “teammates” being nicer to their “guests.” Reid: It is a matter of employees caring about their employer. They must know that they want to take care of their guests for selfish reasons. I used to talk to thousands of employees about this for decades. Don’t do it for me. Do it for yourself because if you are good, they will come back. And if they come back we’ll be more prosperous. History shows that airlines that are reasonably prosperous do more for their employees than airlines that are not. It’s also a matter of recovering. Every airline is going to have a mishap — FAA delays, weather delays, mechanical delays, flight cancellations. It is all about how you react to abnormalities. You haven’t been on planet earth over the last seven years if you haven’t received a minor setback and the airline did not communicate very well with you. And you are sitting there angry — not because the flight is late — let’s say that you know there is a thunderstorm. But because the people who are trying to keep you warm, safe and happy while you are waiting don’t give a crap about you. And it shows. Skift: I can recall waiting at a gate some time ago and the gate agent seemingly gleefully went through a list of all the things we can’t do while boarding or on the flight. It felt like fifth grade. Reid: Let me tell you a real story. There’s a flight delay and people are getting angrier and angrier. This lady at the counter gets on the microphone and says, “Hey, everybody. I am so-and-so. I live in Flushing, Queens, about an hour from this airport. I have two small children. I can barely afford baby-sitting. I’m going to go way into overtime on baby-sitting tonight. And let me just tell you something. I am not going to go home until after you are safely tucked in the plane, and the plane is safely in the air. I am going to be here longer than you are. I am not asking for your sympathy or your pity. I just want you all to know that I am doing everything in the world I can to get you on that plane, and I’m going to be here later than you. And, by the way, I know you are going to be inconvenienced by this delay, but so am I. So let’s just consider ourselves on the same team here.” And the people went crazy. They stood up, they applauded. They tried to give her cash tips, but she wouldn’t accept them. That wasn’t in her training. We didn’t tell her to do that. It’s about being nice and how you recover from a situation when stuff goes sideways. I raised money for Virgin America in 2004 and it didn’t fly until 2007. And I flew American Airlines back and forth because we didn’t have any planes in the air. At the end of the flight I would go to the galley, where the flight attendants would retreat because they didn’t want to have anything to do with the passengers. And they were reading People magazine and chewing gum, and I would open the curtain and say, ‘Hi, I’m Fred. I used to work for American Airlines, and I’m starting a new airline, and I want to thank you all, and I want you to just keep doing everything you are doing. Just like you are doing it now.’ And they thought that was a compliment. I never explained why I was saying that. Skift: So besides airlines communicating better with passengers, and employees being nicer to passengers, what do airlines have to do concretely to be more passenger-centric? Is it more seats with extra legroom or less emphasis on fees? What other areas need to be addressed? Reid: Next to Virgin America, Southwest, and JetBlue have great brand equity. They are wonderful. I’ve always said JetBlue, Virgin America and Southwest are all in one gang, they are brothers. But the best airline of the legacy world today is Delta by far, for a couple of reasons. They are taking the trouble to put televisions in every seat, which we [Virgin America] did years ago, and JetBlue did years ago. And Delta is getting into technology more, like Wi-Fi. The actual seat pitch isn’t that different over 20 or 30 years. It’s just Americans are much fatter. Delta is offering a lot of choice. There is a lot of customization. By the way, fees are here to stay. And the reason those fees are there is because airfares have dropped 1% to 2% every year for 40 years. Computing power, telephone costs and airfares are the grand bargains of the last 50 years. Delta offers a lot of choice, as do other airlines. You can buy an exit row seat. The long-haul airlines are going for a fourth class, which is economy premium. It costs a little more than economy and a lot less than business class, but it is demonstrably better. You are not going to get 37 inches of seat pitch in every row of economy. Forget it. It is not going to happen because that airline would go bankrupt. But you can offer Wi-Fi, and what I call ease of use. In 2007 Virgin America put ordering your food on the screen in the sky. For example, if you are watching a movie or a football game, you pull up the menu, you just tap a beef sandwich, two beers, a pack of potato chips, a chocolate chip cookie, and a bottle of water. Then you slide your credit card and you hit enter, and it goes wirelessly to a screen in the kitchen. Notice I called it a “kitchen” and I don’t say “galley.” I also imposed normal language at Virgin America. It is not a “lavatory, it’s a bathroom.” And the order shows up on the screen, and the teammate puts your order together and brings it to you. There’s a beverage cart at the beginning of the flight, but for food they bring it to you as you order it, and it usually takes a minute or two. Companies like Allegiant and Spirit are in your face, but their fares are so low that people still fly them. These are some of the things besides being nice, respectful, creative, and a little bit humorous during delay situations. Skift: Skift recently did a poll with Amadeus and we asked passengers about the most important things to them about online booking in the future, and it was surprising to me that one of the least important things to respondents was “personalization.” A lot of airlines are making a big deal about personalization. Is personalization the next horizon for airlines and the passenger experience or will their personalization drive fall flat? Reid: I think it is the next horizon and my personal view is that so few airlines do personalization that the reason you got personalization as a low result is that people don’t know what personalization is. Again, I point to Delta as being really good at personalization. Lufthansa is going there very fast. There are a few others. But personalization does matter. It’s just that people don’t know what it looks like yet. Skift: You talked about airline consolidation earlier. Do you think there is still room for new entrant low-cost carriers in the U.S.? You’ve seen that PEOPLExpress just started a small operation with Vision Airlines. Reid: To answer your question, yes, there are new models coming out. Subscription airlines like an all-you-can-eat buffet for a monthly fee. Surf Air is an interesting model. I don’t know if it’s going to work. It’s innovative. They had a rough start and there is a team in there turning it around. Yes, there is room. Look at Airbnb. Who would have thought? Look at Uber. Who would have thought? Look at Facebook. Who would have thought? It is not a rich environment for airline startups. I predict there will be companies some day that offer scheduled private jet service between the top 20 city pairs that have no nonstop service. With the retrenchment into hubs there are thousands of city pairs with no nonstop service. So why not put a private jet leaving every day at 9am and coming back at 5pm or vice versa? There’s room. I don’t think there is going to be a gigantic gorilla that is going to replace American Airlines anytime soon, but I do think innovation and startups are possible. It takes a lot of creativity, and a lot of nerve and a lot of patience. Even when I was pitching Virgin America to investors they were laughing us out of the room, saying you’ve got to be kidding. We said it’s not going to be a good airline; it’s going to be the best airline in America. They would text their secretaries and say, please get me out of this meeting. Virgin America has proven that technology plus style plus design plus ease of use plus people, people, people, people can launch an airline. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA Russian trader speaks on the phones during a morning session at the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX) October 5, 1998.MOSCOW (Reuters) - Shares in Russia's Rosneft fell more than the broad MICEX index on Monday after an international court ordered Moscow to pay $51 billion for expropriating the assets of the now-defunct oil producer Yukos, most of which were acquired by Rosneft in auctions. At 10.15 a.m. ET, the dollar-denominated RTS index was down 3.0 percent at 1,208 points, after trading about 2.5-2.7 percent down on the day earlier in the session. The rouble, which had been down 0.7 percent against the dollar for most of the session, extended its losses to trade 1.2 lower at 35.55, its weakest since the first days of May.  "This decision will definitely not increase the attractiveness of the Russian stock market," said Yuri Selyandin, senior portfolio manager at the investment firm GHP Group in Moscow. "There are risks, as Rosneft is a state-controlled company. While for now Western partners have not declared a termination of participation in joint projects, if the situation develops negatively, this cannot be ruled out." Rosneft, Russia's top oil producer, is not a defendant in the case and said it did not expect any claims to be made against it in connection with the court ruling. But as Rosneft is on a list of assets the state wants to privatize, the ruling complicates matters, Selyandin said. "Considering the onslaught of negative news, it will be harder to find buyers for the company's shares." Denis Poryvai, an analyst at Raiffeisen bank in Moscow, said the market was generally more worried about possibility of new sanctions against Moscow over Ukraine. "Against the background of the sanctions that the EU is mulling against Russia this week, (the court decision) is secondary news for the market," Poryvai said. The European Union outlined an agreement on Friday to impose a new round of economic sanctions to punish Russia for failing to rein in pro-Russian rebels in eastern Ukraine.        (Reporting by Zlata Garasyuta, Vladimir Soldatkin, Polina Devitt, Megan Davies, Lidia Kelly and Kira Zavyalova,; Writing by Lidia Kelly; Editing by Kevin Liffey) FREE AppDownload
The Dallas Federal Reserve said its latest manufacturing survey ticked 12.7. Consensus expectation was for a reading of 12.8, up from 11.4 prior.  The new orders and capacity utilization indexes essentially doubled. Input price growth was unchanged. Hiring edged down slightly. The comments from the Fed's contacts reflect a much more uncertain future. "Skilled employee turnover is getting out of control," one manufacturer said. "There are too many employers chasing too few skilled workers." Another warned they were revising their forecasts downward for the second half of the year. "While we expect growth in the second half of the year over last year, we no longer believe we will have double-digit growth." But other sectors are seeing robust growth, especially those connected to drilling. "Oil and gas are driving Texas, not the normal everyday business," one respondent said.  The production index improved to 19.1 — here's what it's looked like recently: Dallas Fed FREE AppDownload
People who attend Comic Con events in cities around the country dress as their favorite television, film, comic, video game costumes, and more. It's not just students dressing up and going to the Con.  We asked costumed attendees at New York's Comic Con last year what they did for a living. NYCC was filled with martial arts teachers, artists, accountants, and one guy who couldn't tell us what he did. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis and Kamelia Angelova. Originally published in October 2013. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Concierge Auctions Legendary sports bettor William "Billy" Walters is auctioning his gorgeous Rancho Santa Fe, California estate for $20 million with no reserve. Walters and his wife purchased "El Milagro" three years ago. They spent more than $7 million on renovations, but have decided to sell the home. The auction for "El Milagro" will take place on August 15. Concierge Auctions will be hosting the event. Walters is known for being the "world's biggest sports bettor." One prominent sports bettor described Walters to us as the "godfather of Las Vegas sports betting." Walters grew up poor in Kentucky. He's worth hundreds of millions of dollars. He owns several homes, golf courses, car dealerships and a private jet, according to "60 Minutes."  It was recently reported that Walters is being investigated in a possible insider-trading scheme involving billionaire investor Carl Icahn, according to The Wall Street Journal and Reuters. The men haven't been accused of any wrongdoing. It's not even clear if a case will ever be made against them. In the meantime, let's take a tour of Walter's "El Milagro" estate. It's definitely a dream home.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Siegfried ModolaStocks rose, but ultimately went nowhere on the first day of a busy week that will give us a ton of information about the U.S. economy. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. In the U.S., pending home sales in June fell 1.1%, an unexpected decrease as economists were expecting sales to rise 0.5%. The pace of sales, however, remains above average according to the National Association of Realtors. "Pending home sales remain below their year-ago levels, but after the upward moves during the three months through May, the y/y declines have become smaller," noted Barclays' Michael Gapen. "This report suggests the rebound in existing home sales following previous weather-related softness is complete, implying less momentum to sales in the third quarter." 2. Markit's "flash" services data for July was unchanged from the prior month at 61, which also beat expectation for a 59.9 reading. Of the report, Markit's economist Tim Moore said, "While a cyclical upswing appears underway across the service sector, the latest survey provides some indication that a smoother ride is not yet fully  entrenched. Service providers saw new business gains slip to a three-month low, while payroll growth moderated since June amid a drop in confidence towards the year-ahead business outlook." 3. The Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas' latest manufacturing survey came in at 12.7, slightly below the 12.8 that was expected but well better than the 11.4 for the prior survey. BI's Rob Wile noted, however, that the Fed's comments reflected a much more uncertain future. "Skilled employee turnover is getting out of control," one manufacturer said. "There are too many employers chasing too few skilled workers." 4. It was a big day for corporate mergers, as Dollar Tree struck a deal to acquire Family Dollar, while Zillow reached a deal to acquire rival Trulia. Dollar Tree agreed to acquire Family Dollar for $74.50 per share, a 23% premium over Friday's closing price for Family Dollar. Shares of Family Dollar closed up more than 24%. The deal also marks a big win for Carl Icahn, who in June took a stake in the discount retailer and urged it to seek a sale. Later in the afternoon, Icahn issued a statement that said he is still hopeful another bid for Family Dollar will emerge.  5. Zillow agreed to acquire Trulia in an all-stock deal worth about $3.5 billion at current prices. The two online real estate rivals made their merger announcement after a report from Bloomberg last week said that Zillow was seeking to acquire Trulia. Following the deal Trulia shares surged 15%.  6. Shares of chicken chain El Pollo Loco gained another 43% after gaining 50% in their public debut on Friday. BI's Hayley Peterson noted that some investors believe El Pollo Loco could be the next Chipotle, and so far, investors have acted that way.  7. A late afternoon report from Japan's Nikkei reported that Tesla has signed a deal with Panasonic to supply the electric carmaker with machinery to stock its first Gigafactory. Tesla shares popped following the news, but closed unchanged.  8. Some 25 companies are scheduled to make their public debuts this week, which, if this number holds, will mark the busiest week for IPOs since August 2000.  9. Gunmaker Smith &amp; Wesson agreed to pay $2 million to settle charges from the SEC that the company violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in efforts to bribe foreign officials to awarded the company weapons contracts. Smith &amp; Wesson did not admit or deny the SEC's findings.  Don't Miss: Wall Street's Brightest Minds Reveal The Most Important Charts In The World » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Aly SongA tourist jumps inside an upside-down house at Fengjing Ancient Town, Jinshan District, south of Shanghai, May 1, 2014.Pending home sales activity fell 1.1% in June, missing expectations for a 0.5% increase. However, the pace of sales remains above average, notes the National Association of Realtors. "Activity is notably higher than earlier this year as prices have moderated and inventory levels have improved,” said NAR's Lawrence Yun. “However, supply shortages still exist in parts of the country, wages are flat, and tight credit conditions are deterring a higher number of potential buyers from fully taking advantage of lower interest rates.” The pending home sales index fell 2.9% in the northeast, increased 1.1% in the midwest, declined 2.4% in the South, and ticked up 0.2% in the West. "Pending home sales remain below their year-ago levels, but after the upward moves during the three months through May, the y/y declines have become smaller," noted Barclays' Michael Gapen. "This report suggests the rebound in existing home sales following previous weather-related softness is complete, implying less momentum to sales in the third quarter." FREE AppDownload
Bank of AmericaChinese industrial profits surged 17.9% year-over-year in June, compared with an 8.9% rise in May.  Of course, one should note that this came on the back of a lower base last year, when industrial profits were up 5% in June 2013.  This however shows that China's mini-stimulus has helped stimulate the economy. In Q2 profits were up 12.5% YoY, from 10.1% in Q1. For the first six months of the year, total profits were up 11.4% YoY at 2.86 trillion yuan. The good news is that private businesses are still leading profit growth. Year-to-date they saw profits up 13.5% YoY in June, while state owned enterprises (SOEs) saw Ytd profits up 5.6%.  "Downstream industries generally saw an improvement in profit growth at a faster pace than in May," writes Sylvia Sheng at Bank of America. "In particular, chemical materials, computer and telecommunications, general and special equipment saw a significant increase in profit growth in June." Coal mining however continues to see profits slump. In June, coal mining profits were down 44% YoY, compared with a 55% contraction the previous month driven largely by the slump in coal prices.  The Shanghai Composite surged 2.4% on Monday. Bank of America FREE AppDownload
Markit said its "flash" reading of services data for July was unchanged from a previous reading of 61.  Expectations were for a reading of 59.9. At 60.9, the output sub-index stayed at record highs. But new business growth eased for the first time in four months. Hiring and input price growth slowed. Markit economist Tim Moore's comments reflect the slightly mixed data: ...latest PMI figures provide an early signal that robust growth momentum has been sustained into the third quarter, setting the U.S. economy firmly on course to recover some of the ground lost earlier  in the year.  While a cyclical upswing appears underway across the service sector, the latest survey provides some indication that a smoother ride is not yet fully  entrenched. Service providers saw new business gains slip to a three-month low, while payroll growth moderated since June amid a drop in confidence towards the year-ahead business outlook. Here's what it's looked like recently: Markit FREE AppDownload

APNEW YORK (AP) — Virgin America's next destination is Wall Street. The California-based airline filed on Monday for an initial public offering of shares. Virgin America Inc., which operates out of Los Angeles and San Francisco, flies to 22 airports in the United States and Mexico and has a fleet of 53 planes. It is known for offering a variety of perks on its jets, including live TV, movies, leather seats and purple mood lighting. The company, which was founded in 2004, licenses the Virgin brand name from the Virgin Group, founded by businessman Sir Richard Branson. The Virgin Group's parent company, VX Holdings, has a 22.1 percent stake in Virgin America, the company said it in its filing. Virgin America posted its first annual profit last year, earning $10.1 million. It had revenue of $1.42 billion in 2013, up 6.9 percent from $1.33 billion the year before.For the purpose of the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company said it could raise as much as $115 million, but that number is likely to change. The company, which has its headquarters in Burlingame, California, did not say when it expects the IPO to happen, how many shares it plans to offer, how much each share will cost or which exchange they will trade on. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Editor's note: On Monday, Zillow agreed to purchase Trulia for $3.5 billion in stock. This recent column nailed the significance of the deal. If Zillow and Trulia join forces, could they take over the industry? The real-estate selling industry will need to concede, either formally or informally. Informally, we have already given up. We are not a union and there is no real leadership among realtors. We are independent contractors spread all over the map, literally and figuratively, so trying to get us to rally for the cause will be met with indifference. Many of us already think Zillow could be a big improvement for the business. Let them spend the big money of advertising. We’ll contribute our share in exchange for specialized leads — consumers drawn to our own listings or those looking for a local expert in our target areas. How will it evolve? The Next Phase 1. Realtor.com-Move Inc. makes a wimpy attempt to compete by spending half of the advertising money being spent by Zillow-Trulia to attack their inaccuracies (campaign currently underway). If you want a chuckle, here’s an example:  2. Corporate real-estate companies join forces with Zillow (also underway). 3. Local MLS companies do nothing. Zillow and Trulia will continue to dominate the headlines for the next few months, and Realtor.com will be forgotten by consumers. The local MLS systems don’t have to die — they just need to be irrelevant or a duplicate. Our local Sandicor MLS is faster and more accurate than the listings on Zillow, but does the consumer really NEED listings updated every 10 to 15 minutes? Realtors might, but not the consumers — they are on auto-notifications and will get the new listings soon enough (the frenzy is over, reducing the need for speed). Can we all coexist? Yes, but Zillow has shown a killer instinct and has loads of VC money behind it. I think they will pursue all angles — and here’s the one that will divide and conquer the realtor community. The Kill Shot Previous attempts by Realtor.com and Redfin to produce an agent-rating or -ranking site was met with vigorous opposition from realtors. Why? Because most realtors don’t want their sales history out in the open. But the successful and powerful agents stand to benefit greatly — the same ones who can and will pay Zillow the big money for advertising. It is a natural fit for Zillow to buddy up to the top producers and get them to help promote their new agent-ranking site. The cabal will be shattered. The local associations of realtors and the MLS companies who have feasted on having realtors paying dues regardless of production will suffer — and should die off completely if 20% of the realtors are doing 80% of the business. They can’t survive an 80% reduction in dues. When consumers see that their agent-friend down the street hasn’t sold a house in six months – they will hesitate. The Zillow advertising will encourage you to select one of their top producers instead (the ones paying for advertising). It should clear out the realtor population within a year or two, and turn upside down the local associations, MLS companies, and the top-heavy big corporations who own real estate franchises. Realtors won’t really need a brand — Zillow will be the brand. With Zillow-Trulia getting all the eyeballs, and realtors on the receiving end of those leads, Z-T would be smart to cater to the top producers. The momentum would shift rapidly as success stories appear on Zillow ads too. I’ve been paying about $500 a month to each of the three portals. Realtor.com: no calls or leads. Trulia.com: unqualified leads. Zillow.com: Listings get high traffic early, and I get calls looking for an agent in the area. It’s the kind of results that realtors want, and I’m already convinced that I can reach the consumers and sell homes using Zillow only. The future is here, but I’m not sure it will get cheaper. Yesterday, a Zillow rep called to offer me some exposure in another local ZIP code that was about the same as I already have. I pay $550 a month now, and the new but similar package offered $850 a month. Zillow might keep the cost of commissions right where they are. This article originally appeared at BubbleInfo.com.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarJavier Pargament (left), deputy attorney general for Argentina, arrives for debt negotiation talks with court-appointed mediator Daniel Pollack in New York on July 24.NEW YORK/BUENOS AIRES — Argentina failed to reach a breakthrough with the U.S. court-appointed mediator in its battle with holdout creditors on Friday in talks that lasted just an hour, suggesting a settlement to avoid a default next week remains elusive. The Argentine delegation headed home to seek instruction from the government after the talks in New York, mediator Daniel Pollack said, while the country's economy ministry underscored it would continue the dialogue with him over the next few days. Earlier this week, U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa ordered Argentina and holdout creditors who have rejected its debt restructurings to meet continuously with Pollack to try to reach a deal and avoid the country's second default in 12 years. If they fail to reach a deal and holdouts do not ask for a suspension of Griesa's ruling to pay them back in full on their defaulted bonds, the judge will prevent Argentina from making a July 30 deadline for a payment on its exchanged bonds. "No resolution of the impasse between the parties has been reached. Consistent with Judge Griesa’s direction of earlier this week in open Court, I anticipate that there will be further communications with the parties prior to the Default date (July 30)," Pollack said. News that the meeting was over so quickly sent Argentina's bonds reeling. Over-the-counter Discount bonds fell 5.6 percent by 3 p.m. ET, while Par bonds slid 5 percent. Pollack said the holdout hedge funds, who bought Argentine notes on the cheap after the country's 2002 $100 billion default and spurned the terms of its 2005 and 2010 restructuring deals, were not present at the meeting. However he briefed them by telephone and they reiterated their "availability and willingness to meet with [him],  and, indeed, with representatives of the Republic, at any time." The government portrays the funds as "vultures" picking over the carcass of its default that sent millions of Argentines into poverty. It has refused to talk directly with them. "The process of dialogue initiated with the mediator will continue in the next few days," the economy ministry said. Griesa ordered in 2012 that Argentina pay the holdouts $1.33 billion plus accrued interest — a ruling Latin America's No. 3 economy says it cannot comply with. One of the lead holdouts, NML Capital Ltd., an affiliate of billionaire Paul Singer's Elliott Management Corp., said Argentina's government had made clear "that it will be choosing default next week." Another default would pile more pain on an economy grappling with one of the highest rates of inflation in the world, an ailing currency and dwindling foreign reserves after a long banishment from global capital markets. Economy Minister Axel Kicillof told finance officials from across South America that Argentina would negotiate but that any talks must be held under fair conditions. He said Griesa's order was "unprecedented and impossible to fulfill." Argentina has previously said it needs more time to reach a deal, in part because it worries that it risks running afoul of the so-called RUFO provision in the restructurings, which bars it from voluntarily offering better terms to investors than those it gave in the restructurings. More than 90 percent of investors agreed to accept less than one-third the original value of their bonds in those swaps. Argentina argues it would open itself up to challenges from creditors amounting to anywhere from $120 billion to $400 billion if it broke the RUFO. The clause expires on Dec. 31. With just five days until the July 30 deadline, the odds of a default have sharply increased. Earlier this year, Argentina unexpectedly struck a deal with Spanish oil major Repsol to compensate it for the nationalization of energy company YPF. It also reached an agreement with the Paris Club of creditor nations.  (Additional Reporting by Sarah Marsh and Richard Lough in Buenos Aires) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsMIAMI (Reuters) - As construction cranes crowd the coastline and developers strive to lure wealthy international buyers with brand name towers and lavish amenities, there are signs Miami’s latest condo boom has begun to slow and a possible oversupply could temper record prices. Since mid-2011, some 175 towers with more than 27,000 units have been proposed in Miami, says real estate analyst Peter Zalewski of CondoVultures. Florida led the nation for foreign buyers in the quarter ending in March, attracting 23 percent of $92.2 billion of nationwide sales, according to the National Association of Realtors. In the face of economic uncertainty and potentially higher taxes in Europe, Asia and Latin America, wealthy individuals are drawn to Miami's year-round sunshine and prices that are still low when compared with other global capitals. In downtown Miami, 90 percent of sales were international, primarily to investors, according to Integra Realty Resources and the city’s downtown promotion agency. However, the investor glut, slowing condo sales and plans for thousands of new units have combined to raise analysts' concerns. “Because there are so many renters, foreign owners and new towers going up, rents are likely to fall, and that could prompt some (investors) to take their money off the table,” Zalewski said. “This effect could be the beginning potentially of a sell-off.” Existing condo sales fell 3.8 percent to 1,443 in June, compared with the previous year, and were down 3.1 percent compared with May, according to the Miami Association of Realtors. In the latest boom, developers' focus was on building for wealthy international buyers. Unlike the cycle prior to the 2008 recession that saw some 22,000 units built in Miami, developers this time have required large deposits to finance construction. Some have asked for as much as 50 percent of a unit’s total coast, compared with 3 percent before 2008. Buyers have flocked from Latin America, Europe and Canada, paying cash for sprawling units with designer flair. “High-end real estate is the new global currency,” said Jonathan Miller, president and CEO of New York City real estate and appraisal consulting firm Miller Samuel. Jorge Perez, chairman of the Related Group, which had to renegotiate more than $2 billion in unpaid debts in January 2009, agreed. "People from Brazil, Argentina, Italy, France really love to be able to spend a week, two weeks, three weeks a year in Miami," he said. Today, Related has more than a dozen condo projects in South Florida. They include the $300 million SLS Brickell, an outpost of the posh Los Angeles hotel brand, complete with nightclubs and restaurants helmed by chefs of international renown. Although the project won’t be completed until 2016, its 450 units were sold by the end of last year. Dezer Development, which owns a million square feet of office space in New York City and built a trio of Trump towers in northern Miami, last week announced a 60-story oceanfront Armani tower. Designed by Argentinian architect Cesar Pelli, who also designed Tokyo’s Mandarin Oriental, it will be outfitted by the Italian fashion and design house. Dezer also has under construction a 60-story Porsche-branded tower that will have 132 apartments with a private elevator for delivering sports cars to owners’ units. “My least expensive apartment is $5.5 million,” said developer Gil Dezer, who said 22 billionaires have put down deposits on apartments in the jet-black tower. “I’m going to have a collection of the wealthiest people in Miami - in the world.”   (Editing by David Adams and Gunna Dickson) FREE AppDownload
Kyndell Harkness/Star Tribune photo illustration Real estate listings site Zillow has agreed to purchase Trulia for $3.5 billion in stock, the companies announced in a joint statement. It's a 25% premium to Trulia's Friday close. Each Trulia shareholder will get .444 Class-A Zillow shares. Zillow shares are halted. Trulia is up 16%. Bloomberg had reported Thursday that Zillow was seeking $2 billion. This weekend San Diego realtor and blogger Jim Klinge discussed how this merger could thin out the ranks of America's real estate agent population within two years: The local associations of realtors and the MLS companies who have feasted on having realtors paying dues regardless of production will suffer – and should die off completely if 20% of the realtors are doing 80% of the business.  They can’t survive an 80% reduction in dues. When consumers see that their agent-friend down the street hasn’t sold a house in six months – they will hesitate.  The Zillow advertising will encourage you to select one of their top producers instead (the ones paying for advertising). Here's the full merger announcement: SEATTLE and SAN FRANCISCO, July 28, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Zillow, Inc. (NASDAQ:Z) today announced that it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Trulia, Inc. (TRLA) for $3.5 billion in a stock-for-stock transaction. The Boards of Directors of both companies have approved the transaction, which is expected to close in 2015. The combined company will maintain both the Zillow and Trulia consumer brands, offering buyers, sellers, homeowners and renters access to vital information about homes and real estate for free, and providing advertising and software solutions that help real estate professionals grow their business.  At closing, Trulia CEO Pete Flint will remain as CEO of Trulia reporting to Zillow CEO, Spencer Rascoff, and will join the Board of Directors of the combined company. In addition, at closing, a second member of Trulia's Board of Directors will join the board of the combined company. Further operational and organizational details will be announced at closing. "Consumers love using Zillow and Trulia to find vital information about homes and connect with the best local real estate professionals," Rascoff said. "Both companies have been enormously successful in creating compelling consumer brands and deep industry partnerships, but it's still early days in the world of real estate advertising on mobile and Web. This is a tremendous opportunity to combine our resources and achieve even more impressive innovation that will benefit consumers and the real estate industry." "Trulia and Zillow have a shared mission and vision of empowering consumers while helping real estate agents, brokerages and franchisors benefit from technological innovation," said Flint. "By working together, we will be able to create even more value for home buyers, sellers, and renters, as well as create a robust marketing platform that will help our industry partners connect with potential clients and grow their businesses even more efficiently. Our two companies share complementary employee cultures with innovative, consumer-first philosophies and a deep commitment to create the best products and services for our industry partners." Both Zillow and Trulia are primarily media companies, generating the majority of revenue through advertising sales to real estate professionals. Despite continued growth as public companies, significant opportunities of scale remain as the majority of advertising dollars in the real estate sector have yet to migrate online or to mobile. For example, the two companies' combined revenue currently represents less than 4 percent of the estimated $12 billion[i] real estate professionals spend on marketing their services to consumers each year. Zillow and Trulia are two rapidly growing real estate sites on mobile and the Web, enabling advertisers to reach a large and expanding consumer base.  In June, Zillow reported a record 83 million unique users across mobile and Web[ii]. For the same month, Trulia reported a record 54 million monthly unique users across its sites and mobile apps[iii]. The two brands have limited consumer overlap – approximately half of Trulia.com's monthly visitors do not visit Zillow.com, and approximately two-thirds of Zillow.com's monthly visitors across all devices do not use Trulia.com[iv]. Maintaining the two distinct consumer brands will allow the combined company to continue to offer differentiated products and user experiences, attract more users and maximize the distribution of free content across multiple platforms, apps and channels. A summary of expected benefits of the deal, include: Transaction Details As part of the agreement, Trulia shareholders will receive 0.444 shares of Class A Common Stock of Zillow, Inc.[v] for each share of Trulia, and will own approximately 33% of the combined company at closing.  Current Zillow holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock will receive one comparable share of the combined company at closing, and will represent approximately 67% of the combined company. The transaction assumes Trulia's convertible notes will be assumed by the combined company at closing. The value of the deal represents a premium of 25% to Trulia's closing price on July 25, 2014.  The agreement is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including the expiration of U.S. antitrust waiting periods and shareholder approval of both companies. Zillow co-founders Rich Barton and Lloyd Frink, who control a majority of the shareholder voting power of Zillow, have agreed to vote in favor of the transaction. In addition, Trulia directors holding 7.4% of Trulia stock have entered into voting agreements with Zillow to vote in favor of the transaction. Representation Goldman, Sachs &amp; Co. acted as the exclusive financial advisor, and Shearman &amp; Sterling LLP and Perkins Coie LLP acted as legal counsel to Zillow. J.P. Morgan Securities LLC acted as a financial advisor, and Goodwin Procter LLP and Wilson Sonsini Goodrich &amp; Rosati acted as legal counsel to Trulia. Qatalyst Partners LP also acted as a financial advisor to Trulia.  Conference Call to Discuss Acquisition at 9 a.m. EDT / 6 a.m. PDT Zillow CEO Spencer Rascoff will host a conference call today with Trulia CEO Pete Flint at 9:00 a.m. EDT / 6:00 a.m. PDT.  The live webcast of the conference call will be available on the investor relations section of Zillow, Inc.'s website at http://investors.zillow.com/, or on the investor relations section of Trulia, Inc's website at http://ir.trulia.com/. For those without access to the Internet, the call may be accessed toll-free via phone at 877-643-7152 with conference ID#80954780. Callers outside the United States may dial 443-863-7921 with conference ID#80954780. Following completion of the call, a recorded replay of the webcast and a copy of the prepared remarks will be available on the investor relations section of Zillow, Inc.'s and Trulia.com's websites for one year. Company Conference Calls for Quarterly Earnings The companies will host separate conference calls to discuss each company's second quarter results. The calls will be held on the following dates: Forward-Looking Statements This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that involve risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, statements regarding Zillow's proposed acquisition of Trulia and the expected benefits of the transaction; operational and organizational details of the combined company; the way in which the transaction will impact consumers, real estate professionals, and industry partners; the ability of the combined company to innovate; our ability to realize opportunities of scale; the migration of advertising dollars in the real estate sector to online and mobile; the growth rate of Zillow and Trulia; and our ability to deliver greater return on investment to our advertisers. Statements containing words such as "may," "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project," "will," "projections," "estimate," or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to significant risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that may contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the risk that expected cost savings or other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the risk that the businesses may not be combined successfully or in a timely and cost-efficient manner; the possibility that the transaction will not close, including, but not limited to, due to the failure to obtain shareholder approval or the failure to obtain governmental approval; and the risk that business disruption relating to the merger may be greater than expected. The foregoing list of risks and uncertainties is illustrative, but is not exhaustive. Additional factors that could cause results to differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements can be found under the caption "Risk Factors" in Zillow's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, Trulia's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2014, and in Zillow's and Trulia's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as may be required by law, neither Zillow nor Trulia intend, nor undertake any duty, to update this information to reflect future events or circumstances. Additional Information and Where to Find It In connection with the proposed transaction, Zillow and Trulia will file a joint proxy statement/prospectus with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the new holding company will file a Registration Statement on Form S-4 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  INVESTORS AND SECURITYHOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS (INCLUDING ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS THERETO) REGARDING THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION.  Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the registration statement and joint proxy statement/prospectus (when they become available) and other documents filed by Zillow and Trulia at the Securities and Exchange Commission's web site at www.sec.gov.  Copies of the registration statement and joint proxy statement/prospectus (when they become available) and the filings that will be incorporated by reference therein may also be obtained, without charge, from Zillow's website, www.zillow.com, under the heading "Investors" in the "About" tab or by contacting Zillow Investor Relations at (206) 470-7137.  These documents may also be obtained, without charge, from Trulia's website,www.trulia.com, under the tab "Investor Relations" or by contacting Trulia Investor Relations at (415) 400-7238. Participants in Solicitation The respective directors and executive officers of Zillow and Trulia and other persons may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. Information regarding Zillow's directors and executive officers is available in its proxy statement filed with the SEC by Zillow on April 17, 2014, and information regarding Trulia's directors and executive officers is available in its proxy statement filed with the SEC by Trulia on April 22, 2014. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC (when they become available).  These documents can be obtained free of charge from the sources indicated above. About Zillow, Inc.Zillow, Inc. (NASDAQ:Z) operates the leading real estate and home-related information marketplaces on mobile and the Web, with a complementary portfolio of brands and products that help people find vital information about homes, and connect with the best local professionals. Zillow's brands serve the full lifecycle of owning and living in a home: buying, selling, renting, financing, remodeling and more. In addition, Zillow offers a suite of tools and services to help local real estate, mortgage, rental and home improvement professionals manage and market their businesses. Welcoming 83 million unique users in June 2014, the Zillow, Inc. portfolio includes Zillow.com®, Zillow Mobile, Zillow Mortgage Marketplace, Zillow Rentals, Zillow Digs®, Postlets®, Diverse Solutions®, Agentfolio®, Mortech®, HotPads™, StreetEasy® and Retsly™. The company is headquartered in Seattle. Zillow.com, Zillow, Postlets, Mortech, Diverse Solutions, StreetEasy, Agentfolio and Digs are registered trademarks of Zillow, Inc. HotPads and Retsly are trademarks of Zillow, Inc. About Trulia, Inc.Trulia (TRLA) gives home buyers, sellers, renters and real estate professionals all the tools and valuable information they need to be successful in the home search process. Through its innovative mobile and web products, Trulia provides engaged home buyers and sellers essential information about the house, the neighborhood and the process while connecting them with the right agents. For agents, Trulia, together with its MarketLeader subsidiary, provides an end-to-end technology platform that enables them to find and serve clients, create lasting relationships and build their business. Founded in 2005, Trulia is headquartered in San Francisco with offices in New York, Denver and Seattle. Trulia and the Trulia marker logo are registered trademarks of Trulia, Inc. (ZFIN) [i] Source: Borrell Associates Real Estate Advertising 2013 Outlook, reflecting combined advertising spent by real estate agents, home builders, and rental property managers. [ii] Zillow measures unique users with Google Analytics. [iii] Source: Omniture, Google Analytics, June 2014 [iv] Source: comScore Multiplatform Cross-Visiting, June 2014 [v] Upon closing, shares of Zillow, Inc. and Trulia, Inc. common stock will be exchanged for common stock of a newly formed holding company. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersRotariu uses the first bitcoin ATM in downtown Bucharest.BUCHAREST (Reuters) - In a well-lit office with red window frames in downtown Bucharest, Romania's first bitcoin ATM attracts many who until it opened in May had to buy or sell the digital currency face-to-face or through wire transfers. The interest in bitcoin in Romania stands out in a region where national currencies are widely seen as poor substitutes for the euro. Tech-savvy and still deeply distrustful of officialdom 25 years after the end of communism, many Romanians are unfazed by warnings about the cryptocurrency. In the western town of Oradea, 370 miles (595 km) away from the capital, the first bitcoin exchange in the country has drawn more than 2,000 clients in the seven months since it opened, with transactions totaling 5.12 million lei ($1.57 million). But Romania ranks as the European Union's second-poorest state and among the weakest in collecting taxes and fighting fraud, making it poorly equipped to manage the bitcoin. Bitcoin is still an infant in Europe relative to the United States, where hundreds of start-ups backed by some Wall Street traders and venture capitalists have propelled consumer and media interest. Activity in virtual currencies around Europe is concentrated in London, Amsterdam and Berlin. Romanian entrepreneurs envision a future where the bitcoin is as common as grocery shopping. But they say it needs a legal framework to gain credibility. "It is an industry in its early stages," said George Rotariu, who opened the ATM in Bucharest in collaboration with Vancouver-based Bitcoiniacs and plans to expand to more Romanian cities. "You need a legislative framework to supply services or have a business in this field," he said. "We groped around in the legislation and interpreted some policies," said Horea Vuscan, a local politician who owns the Oradea bitcoin operator BTCXchange. "We are now in talks with officials because I don't know where we fit in, a bourse, bank, money transfer firm." Bitcoin is stored entirely on computers, not backed by any government or central bank. It lets owners hold, trade and move money from place to place almost as cheaply as sending email. Its use has raised concerns for governments around the world, especially after Tokyo-based Mt Gox, once the world's leading bitcoin exchange, filed for bankruptcy after saying some 850,000 bitcoins had gone missing. A report by Bank of America last year found bitcoin showed promise as a low-cost way to do e-commerce and as an alternative to traditional money transfer services, but could also be used to evade high taxes, capital controls and confiscation.   In July, the European Banking Authority, the EU's banking watchdog, urged national policymakers to discourage credit and payment institutions from buying, holding, or selling virtual currencies pending a regulatory framework. "Using bitcoin in Romania is not regulated and carries very large risks," said the Romanian Financial Supervision Authority (ASF). "The risk of fraud is also not to be ruled out." It said the industry "would need to have a visible economic significance in Romania, which it does not", before regulation is considered, adding it would enforce any EU-approved rules. Some EU states, including Finland, the United Kingdom, Germany or Poland have found ways to tax bitcoin transactions. But Romania collects just under 60 percent of its regular tax goal. That amounts to roughly 33 percent of economic output, well below the bloc's 46 percent average. "There is some preoccupation with bitcoin," one finance ministry official said. "But a legal framework is some time away and only after that will we analyze the need for a fiscal one."   BITCOIN VOLATILITY The number of Romanian service providers accepting bitcoins - which are divisible to eight decimal places - has risen slowly to a handful of coffeeshops, gyms, restaurants and beauty salons, according to service tracker coinmap.org. "I want to bring bitcoin to street level, I want everyone to have a phone app where they keep their coins and use it everywhere, in coffee shops, restaurants, grocery shops, just like a regular wallet," BTCXchange owner Vuscan said.     But before it can gain greater traction, bitcoin needs to address its volatility; it has swung from 1,170 lei ($370) to 3,406 lei ($1,100) this year, according to Oradea's BTCXchange. Vuscan's exchange works only for Romanian leu deals, but he plans to open it to euro and dollar transactions, hoping to join larger European bitcoin exchanges such as Slovenia's Bitstamp. BTCXchange is registered as a standard company. Vuscan enforced some safeguards - users are required to have a bank account and there are self-imposed policies against money laundering. But there are no legal or regulatory safeguards. Bitcoin's rise in Romania is partially due to its status as one of Europe's active technology hubs. The country has attracted investors including Oracle, IBM and Intel. But while Romania boasts pockets of super-fast internet networks, only 58 percent of households have internet access, below the EU average. A 2012 Verizon report also said Romania was the world's second-biggest hacking center after China. Vuscan says his exchange is safe and he will reimburse clients if their bitcoins get stolen. "I can hardly wait for them to try," he said when asked about hacker attacks.       ($1 = 3.2626 Romanian lei)   (Editing by Eric Auchard and Ruth Pitchford) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarYahoo! Cofounder Jerry Yang (right) and then-Nasdaq Vice President of Sales Brian Wilson at the Nasdaq Market Site in New York City on March 24, 2000.This week is set to be the busiest week for initial public offerings since August 2000, reports The Financial Times, citing data from Dealogic. Of course, these IPOs are expected and could always be delayed, but as things currently stand, 25 companies are poised to make their public debut this week, notably Synchrony Financial, the credit card unit of General Electric. In its report, the FT notes that in the current environment of rising equity prices and low volatility, companies that have been weighing a public offering are eager to come to market while equities are in favor with investors. Last Friday, Goldman Sachs downgraded stocks for the next three months amid a risk that bond yields could rise, possibly suggesting that this ripe window for IPOs could soon be closing. At least a little bit. This table from Renaissance Capital shows the full list of companies expected to make their debut this week. Renaissance Capital FREE AppDownload
Every year companies spend millions of dollars designing and in many cases re-designing their logos. Color plays a huge part in logo design--but what do those colors mean, and what do they say about your company? Here's a neat infographic from FinancesOnline.com that shows the attributes associated with various colors. But it doesn't stop there, also showing the influence of certain logos. Did you know 67% of 2-3 year-old children can correctly match logos to products? And then it describes how much some logos cost. Did you know the BBC spent $1.8 million on its logo redesign, while Microsoft spent $0? And the original Twitter bird logo was purchased for $15 (reportedly the original artist received $6.) Check it out!Ruby Media Corporation FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderProfit margins are still getting wider. "With earnings growth (6.7%) rising at a faster rate than revenue growth (3.1%) in Q2 and in future quarters, companies have continued to discuss cost-cutting initiatives to maintain earnings growth rates and profit margins," said FactSet's John Butters on Friday. This comes at a time when profit margins are already at historic highs. Ever since the financial crisis, sales growth has been weak.  However, corporations have been able to deliver robust earnings growth by fattening profit margins. Much of this has been done by laying off workers and squeezing more productivity out of those on the payroll. Stock market bears have warned that these margins are doomed to revert, leading to a correction in profits and stock prices. For now, all signs point to continued margin growth. "[T]he majority of earnings growth we have observed so far this quarter has been a function of margins, as companies continue to operate with as few expenses as possible," wrote analysts at JP Morgan Asset management. Here's Butters' margin chart:FactSetButters' note include these anecdotes from this season's earnings conference calls. “The first step to building the right organization for our ambitions is to realign our workforce. With this in mind, we will begin to reduce the size of our overall workforce by up to 18,000 jobs in the next year.” – Microsoft (Jul. 15) “Alcoa continues to drive strong performance across all businesses, delivering $302 million in second quarter productivity gains across all segments and $556 million in year-over-year productivity gains in the first half of 2014 against an $850 million annual target. Productivity gains have been driven by process improvements and procurement savings across all businesses.” –Alcoa (Jul. 8) Among the early reporters, companies in food-oriented industries in particular have highlighted cost cutting measures. For more information on food cost inflation, please see our latest FactSet Economic Insight report at the following link: http://www.factset.com/insight/2014/7/econ-insight-food-inflation “Cost savings from the company's CCI program and the impact of higher-margin industrial products improved gross profit margin, which rose to 39.9% from 39.3% in the year-ago period.” –McCormick &amp; Co. (Jun. 26) “Our Consumer Foods supply chain cost reduction programs continue to yield good results, and delivered cost savings of approximately $50 million for the quarter.” –ConAgra Foods (Jun. 26) “In addition, supply chain cost-savings from our ongoing Holistic Margin Management (HMM) program are expected to exceed $400 million in 2015. We anticipate these savings will offset input cost inflation, which we estimate at 3 percent for the new year.” –General Mills (Jun. 25) “We remain focused on cost discipline to offset the negative effects of our gross profit dollar growth. We will be accelerating our optimization efforts, taking additional steps to lower our expenses company- wide.” –Walgreen (Jun. 24) “We've continued to achieve a more cost-effective platform. Transformative changes that we've talked about the past in Darden's operations have significantly reduced costs by over $150 million annually in selected operating areas around support including supply chain, facilities management, water and energy usage.” –Darden Restaurants (Jun. 20) FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThe UK remains one of the few advanced economies that is advancing at a solid pace. During Q2, real GDP rose 3.1% y/y, the best since Q4-2007. The same can’t be said for the Eurozone. The region’s July flash PMIs look solid. The composite output index, which was 54.0 this month, has been hovering around that level since February. It has been looking good since last summer, yet the “hard” data, such as industrial production and retail sales, have been quite soft. (Click to add Markit PMIs to MyPage.) Weighing on the Eurozone is that bank loans continue to fall in the region. They declined by €243 billion at an annual rate over the three-month period through June. While the ECB has been providing easy monetary policy, bank regulators (including the ones at the ECB) continue to subject the banks to stress tests that discourage risky lending. Even Germany, the Eurozone’s strongest economy, is showing the negative effects of tough lending standards, particularly on its large trading partners in the region. The strong euro is another headwind. The uncertainty caused by the Ukrainian crisis, with the potential for shortages and higher prices of natural gas this coming winter, is also weighing on the Eurozone. No wonder that Germany’s Ifo business confidence index fell from a recent peak of 111.3 during February to 108.0 in July. Both its present and expectations components fell sharply this month.Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Mixed Signals. (1) Bond yields at historic lows, as credit spreads start widening. (2) LargeCaps up, while SmallCaps down. (3) Q2 GDP estimates weaken, as earnings improve. (4) PMIs in Eurozone and China overstating economic growth. (5) Easy monetary policy is coming and going. (6) US labor market improving, yet there’s still slack. (7) ECB is easy on monetary policy, but tough on banks. (8) Strongest economy in Eurozone is weakening. (9) China’s excess capacity is producing more. (10) Japan losing its growth and inflation mojo. (11) “Lucy” (+). (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
What makes Janet Yellen and a number of other FOMC members so dovish with respect to monetary policy and in particular the trajectory of rate normalization? A Credit Suisse report sites 3 key factors, which Yellen calls  “unusual  headwinds": 1. Tighter fiscal policy. The combination of lower government spending and tax increases has created a drag on economic growth (see chart). This drag is now diminishing, but given the tepid recovery Yellen still views it as a headwind. Sober Look 2. Relatively tight credit in the mortgage market. Janet Yellen: - " ... it is difficult for any homeowner who doesn't have pristine credit these days to get a mortgage. I think that is one of the factors that is causing the housing recovery to be slow. It’s not the only one, but I would agree with that assessment." A recent study by Goldman compared current lending conditions in the mortgage market with the 2000 - 2002 period (supposedly "pre-bubble" period). The results indeed seem to point to tighter lending standards at this time (see chart). 3. Low household wage growth expectations. While US wages have been growing at around 2% per year, expectations for growth remain depressed. Yellen (see House testimony video below): - " ... households have unusually depressed expectations about their own future income gains. And I think weighs on their feelings about their own household finances and is holding back consumer spending." Credit Suisse via Sober Look FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid Art Cashin.Stock markets are at record highs, volatility is at historic lows, and the economic data continues to improve. But, this certainly isn't a time to be complacent. Veteran trader Art Cashin, UBS Financial Services' director of NYSE floor operations, spoke with King World News. King asked Cashin what worried him now. Here's his response: [Geopolitics] still remains at the top. I think the ISIS group in Iraq can present a very clear, present, and almost instantaneous danger. Second, the connectivity and possible contagion of the financial systems. Europe in particular looks a little strange to me. They don’t have the same kind of central government bond system that we have. Certain benefits and protections that the Fed might still be able to find here will be denied there. And the mystery that is the Chinese banking system — that would be my third worry.  So from a financial standpoint, Europe and China. And in geopolitics, primarily what’s going on with ISIS.  The suicide bombers that are in Baghdad today may not stay in that part of the world. These people are very expansionary as far as terror is concerned.  ISIS has already threatened to infiltrate Saudi Arabia with some insurgents. That could bring real concerns. Even if they didn’t make great headway they would still be disruptive to the oil market. I’m worried about these guys taking over whole chunks of the Middle East and possibly trying to depose the Saudi Royal Family. There are some greater dangers than just pipelines (being blown up). So we are living in a very sensitive and tender world and you must stay wary, alert, and very, very nimble at all times. To summarize: Art Cashin is worried about geopolitics, contagion in the financial systems, and the mystery of the Chinese banking system. These are the types of things that could lead to oil price spikes, crunching credit markets, and plunging exports. Read more at KingWorldNews.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSSHANGHAI (Reuters) - A leading U.S. meat supplier said on Monday that a Chinese unit at the center of a food safety scandal had issues that were "absolutely inconsistent" with the group's high standards. "This is my company and events like these have a personal toll ... they simply don't represent the values I stand for or those of my company," Sheldon Lavin, the millionaire chairman, CEO and owner of Illinois-based OSI Group LLC told a news conference in Shanghai. OSI said it was suspending operations at Shanghai Husi Food and would review all its China plants in a bid to limit further damage after losing two major customers. KFC and Pizza Hut parent Yum Brands Inc last week severed its ties with OSI, while the Japan and Hong Kong units of McDonald's Corp said they were ending their relationship with the U.S. meat processor's Chinese unit following allegations it mixed expired meat with fresh produce. David McDonald, OSI's president and chief operating officer, said the group was making senior management changes in China, and will set up a quality control center in Shanghai to better supervise its business. It will also bring in global experts to survey the China operations and improve auditing, including constant visual surveillance and extensive employee interviews. In addition, it plans to spend 10 million yuan ($1.62 million) on a food safety education program in Shanghai. OSI, which ranks among the top few dozen U.S. private companies with annual revenue of close to $6 billion, said its China operations had a certain amount of autonomy as the group wanted a decentralized business model that allowed decisions to be made locally, although global standards were not meant to be broken. McDonald said the China operations would come under the direct control of headquarters. Shanghai Husi Food was accused earlier this month by a TV documentary of mixing expired meat with fresh produce and forging production dates. Regulators in Shanghai said Husi had forged the dates on smoked beef patties and then sold them after they expired. Police have detained five people as part of their investigation. There have been no reports of any consumers falling sick. "To date, we've found issues that are absolutely inconsistent with our internal requirements for the highest standards, processes and policies," McDonald told a packed news conference at a Shanghai hotel, adding all nine OSI food processing plants in China would be reviewed. China is McDonald's third biggest market by outlets and Yum's largest and is a big growth opportunity for foreign fast-food chains. But a series of damaging food safety scandals in recent years risks denting those prospects as many Chinese look to foreign restaurants for better quality. McDonald's, which has more than 2,000 outlets in mainland China, took more meat dishes off its menus on Monday as it sought to fill the supply gap after OSI withdrew all Shanghai Husi products from the market at the weekend. At least three McDonald's outlets in Shanghai and Beijing, visited by Reuters reporters on Monday, had stopped selling all or most of their meat products. Outlets in cities such as Tianjin and Wuhan were also hit, according to microblog postings. A spokeswoman at McDonald's in China said its beef, chicken and pork products were affected at outlets across the country, though the level of impact varied. In an emailed statement, McDonald's said it had withdrawn all products from the Husi group in China since Friday. "As a result, we are now only offering a limited menu in our restaurants around the country." The company said some of its China restaurants would resume offering a full menu in early August, while others may take a little longer. "I wanted to order chicken products today," said Tan Qiang, 23, at a McDonald's in central Shanghai. "But they only had one type of combo and nothing else. I was disappointed not being able to eat what I want." (Additional reporting by Paul Carsten in BEIJING; Donny Kwok, James Zhang and Nikki Sun in HONG KONG; Editing by Anne Marie Roantree and Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Michael McDonoughTung Ping Chau Island, Hong Kong.This week, we'll get the U.S. jobs report, July auto sales stats, and the first official estimate of Q2 U.S. GDP growth. GDP reports are usually not too interesting as they are backward-looking stats, most of which are revealed through other monthly reports. Nevertheless, everyone is interested to see what number the U.S. managed to crank out after an unexpected 2.9% rate of plunge in Q1. Meanwhile, we'll also get a ton of manufacturing reports from around the world and from within the U.S. Also, the Fed's Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meets on Tuesday and Wednesday to mull over monetary policy. Also, Pfizer, American Express, Exxon Mobil, Colgate-Palmolive, Time Warner Cable, and Valeant Pharma are among the companies announcing Q2 financial results this week. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary Goldman downgraded stocks on Friday. "We downgrade to neutral over three months as a sell-off in bonds could lead to a temporary sell-off in equities," wrote Goldman Sachs' portfolio strategy team led by Anders Nielsen. "This makes the near-term risk/reward less attractive despite our strong conviction that equities are the best positioned asset class over 12 months, where we remain overweight." "Growth has improved substantially," they wrote. "Most of the acceleration we had expected is now behind us, but we expect growth to be sustained at current or slightly higher levels, with the U.S. growing at around 3% through 2017. We think the likelihood of a rise in government bond yields has increased and see this as a key aspect of the near-term macro outlook." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Leonhard FoegerSinger Ildebrando D'Arcangelo (center) as Don Giovanni performs on stage during a dress rehearsal of Mozart's opera "Don Giovanni" in Salzburg, Austria, on Thursday. Good morning and welcome to a monster week for economic data, where we'll learn both the latest GDP reading, and celebrate Jobs Day Friday. Here's what you need to know. 1. Dollar Tree is buying Family Dollar for $74.50 per share, a 22.8% premium. Family Dollar is up 20% premarket. Carl Icahn was recently Family Dollar's largest stakeholder and stands to make up to $131 million. 2. The Hague has ruled Russia must pay a group of shareholders in defunct oil giant Yukos $50 billion. The ruling could have implications for current Russian oil giant Rosneft, which ended up with many Yukos assets, although the firm quickly put out a statement saying it would not be affected. But Tim Osborne, the head of the shareholder group that sued for the assets, said he couldn't be 100% sure Rosneft's Western holdings would be "safe." 3. Meanwhile, Angela Merkel said she was ready to back a halt on current arms sales to Russia and would take part in an EU Council session if one was convened. She had already been hoping to have the EU sign off on a sanctions by the end of this week, according to Businessweek, saying she was prepared to take a hit on German technology exports as an expected reprisal. German intelligence also says cracks have begun performing in Vladimir Putin's powerbase, with hardliners and oligarchs now vying to assert their vision for his administration.  4. As a result of all this, Russia's MICEX index is down 1.5% and is set to see its worst performing month since March. We learned Friday the country barely escaped a technical recession.  5. Virgin America has filed for a proposed IPO. Bloomberg had earlier reported CEO Richard Branson was seeking $509 million in financing to take some of its branded companies public.  6. The mega-week for econ data kicks off at 9:45 a.m. with the "flash" reading for services PMI. Consensus is for a reading of 60 against a prior reading of 61.2. Then at 10 we get pending home sales, which are expected to have climbed 0.3% from 6.1%. Finally at 10:30 we get the Dallas Fed's manufacturing survey. Expectations are for a reading of 12, up from 11.4 prior. 7)  Herbalife, Tyson Foods, and Denny's all report quarterly earnings on Monday. 8. U.S. futures were a touch lower. European stocks saw mixed gains. Stocks in Asia were mostly higher. The dollar was just shy of its strongest level in eight months against the euro, according to Bloomberg, as the FOMC convenes Tuesday.  9. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew is warning that tax inversions are increasing at "breakneck speed" and eroding the U.S. tax base. In an op-ed in The Washington Post that went online Sunday night, Lew pleads with Congress to pass legislation proposed by President Barack Obama. 10. McDonald's France is on its way to its best year ever. Sales have climbed 4.8% since January, and CEO Jean-Pierre Petit says they should be able to maintain their current rate through the end of the year, according to Le Figaro. McDonald's saw close to $6 billion in French revenue last year. Petit has been CEO for 10 years, during which time he's made "McDo" the second-most profitable regional branch in the world.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Chip EastCarl Icahn. Yup.Dollar Tree just announced that it would be buying rival Family Dollar for $74.50 per share, which represents a 22.8% premium over Friday's closing price of $60.66. Among the big winners of this deal: Carl Icahn. In June, Icahn disclosed a 9.39% stake in Family Dollar.  That's 10,691,011 shares. Family Dollar is at $73.00 in pre-market trading, which is up $12.34 from Friday's close. $12.34 x 10,691,011 = $131,927,075. As of March 31, 2014, Nelson Peltz's Trian Fund Management held 8.36 million shares and John Paulson's Paulson &amp; Co. held 6.47 million shares. This is according to according to SEC 13-F filings. The combined company will operated 13,000 deep discount stores across North America. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Amir Cohen The SCF Altai tanker has anchored near Israel's Ashkelon port June 20, 2014.HOUSTON (Reuters) - A tanker carrying crude oil from Iraqi Kurdistan was cleared by the U.S. Coast Guard to unload its cargo at sea off Texas on Sunday as a State Department official signaled Washington would not intervene to block delivery of the controversial crude. Coast Guard officials went aboard the tanker United Kalavrvta on Sunday and verified the ship and crew's ability to safely offload the oil, a Coast Guard spokesman said. The ship set sail from the Turkish port of Ceyhan in June with a load of crude oil supplied by a new pipeline from the Kurdish oilfields. Trading sources in Texas, New York, London and Geneva have been unable to identify the buyer of the United Kalavrvta's cargo. The oil could go to any one of the many refineries located along the U.S. Gulf Coast. The ship carries approximately 1 million barrels of crude, which would fetch more than $100 million at international prices. Sale of Kurdish crude oil to a U.S. refinery would infuriate Baghdad, which sees such deals as smuggling, raising questions about Washington's commitment to preventing oil sales from the autonomous region. The U.S. government has expressed fears that independent oil sales from Kurdistan could contribute to the breakup of Iraq as the government in Baghdad struggles to contain the ultra-hardline Islamic State, a group of Sunni Islamist insurgents who have captured vast areas of the country. But it also has grown frustrated with Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's handling of the crisis. The tanker anchored on Saturday night in an area off the port of Galeveston, Texas, where ships too large to transit the Houston Ship Channel offload oil to smaller tankers for delivery to the U.S. mainland. Throughout Saturday and Sunday, the Coast Guard was in communication with the U.S. National Security Council, and departments of State and Homeland Security, said Petty Officer Andy Kendrick. To deliver the crude the tanker only had to show it could do so in compliance with Coast Guard regulations, Kendrick said. "We didn't have any extra stuff to impose on them," he said. Crude offloading could begin as soon as the ship arranges a contract with a company that performs lightering, as the process is called, he said. Lightering, depending the size of the cargo, can take several hours and even days. Attempts to contact the ship's owner and the vessel itself were unsuccessful. A State Department official, speaking on condition of anonymity on Sunday because of the sensitivity of the issue, said officials were well aware the ship's location and cargo. "This is a private commercial matter," the official said. "Our policy has not changed. Iraq's energy resources belong to all of the Iraqi people. As in many cases involving legal disputes, the United States informs the parties of the dispute and recommends they make their own decision with advice of counsel." Washington has pressured companies and governments not to buy crude from the Kurdish Regional Government(KRG), but it has stopped short of banning purchases by U.S. firms. The KRG has renewed its push for an independent state amid the latest violence roiling Iraq. Its relationship with Baghdad has deteriorated over what it sees as Maliki's role in stoking the crisis and the long-running dispute over oil sales. Baghdad has threatened to sue anyone that buys Kurdish oil. (Additional reporting by David Brunnstrom in Washington, David Sheppard in London, editing by David Evans and Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
AFP/Cristina QuiclerJenifer Garcia, 22 years old, and Esteban Romero, 23, hold their kids as they stand in an apartment in the occupied building Jaramillo Corrala in Sanlucar de Barrameda, near Cadiz, on Sunday.Unable to pay her mortgage, Manoli Herrera turned over her flat to the bank and moved into one of six abandoned buildings occupied by other jobless families in Sanlucar de Barrameda, a seaside town on Spain's southern coast. "I did not want my two children to experience the violence of an eviction. They have already gone through so much," she said as her children played in the courtyard of the occupied building. Twenty struggling families, many with children, moved into the building on June 30. Several days later another 60 families moved into five nearby buildings. The six new buildings belong to a real estate developer that went bankrupt and disappeared. A message written on a white bedsheet that hangs from the courtyard of one of the occupied reads: "Everyone has the right to a home. Fighting for a home." The occupied buildings have been dubbed "The Courtyards of Dignity." The name was inspired by the high-profile occupation of another building in May 2012 by about 20 families aided by anti-poverty activists in Seville, about 100 kilometres away, that was called "Utopia Courtyard." The authorities evicted those families from that building in April. Herrera, 39, said she lost her job in 2009 when the company she worked for went bankrupt. With her husband also out of work, the couple eventually stopped paying their mortgage. The bank told the couple, after missing three monthly mortgage payments, that they had two options: turn over the home to the lender, or be evicted and be liable for the 86,000 euros ($116,000) they still owed. They are part of a surge in the number of indebted Spanish families that have lost their homes since a decade-long property bubble burst in 2008, throwing millions of people out of work. While evictions have soared, the collapse of the property bubble has left an estimated 700,000 empty new homes scattered across Spain — which are often the target of squatters. "The 'courtyards' are a reflection of the social situation. They highlight the problem of the housing emergency that exists which the authorities try to hide," said Francisco Cuevas of the CNT union who regularly brings food for the residents of "The Courtyards of Dignity." Sanlucar de Barrameda, a town of whitewashed houses that is now home to around 65,000 people, boasts nearby beaches that are a popular tourist draw. But few holidaymakers are aware of the occupation of the buildings in the city and the residents struggling to make ends meet. Families in the six buildings rely on food donations and share whatever they have. "United we are stronger. What we want are solutions for everyone. Not in drips and drabs," said Juan Jose Munoz, a spokesman for the squats. Before moving into the occupied buildings, Jenifer Garcia Vidal, 22, and her husband, Esteban, and two children, aged 4 and 5, lived with her parents. "We were nine people in two rooms; it was unbearable," she said as he held her daughter in her arms. AFP/Cristina QuiclerThe occupation of the buildings is a thorn in the side of local authorities. "We can never support kicking down a door" to illegally enter an empty building, said the town's Socialist mayor, Victor Mora. The left-wing regional government of Andalucia, where the town is located, in April 2013 passed a decree that allowed it to expropriate properties from which people are about to be evicted for up to three years to allow them to continue to live there. But the measure was blocked by the conservative national government of Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy. Last week, the government of Andalucia announced it had reached a deal with a bank to turn 20 empty flats in the lender's hands into social housing. But "this is a drop of water in the ocean," Munoz said.  Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Google EarthDeep discounter Dollar Tree will acquire competitor Family Dollar for $74.50 per share. Family Dollar closed on Friday at $60.66. At that time, the company had a market cap of $6.9 billion. Dollar Tree is offering Family Dollar shareholders $59.60 in cash and $14.90 worth of stock for each share. “This is a transformational opportunity,” Dollar Tree CEO Bob Sasser said. “With the acquisition of Family Dollar Stores, Dollar Tree will become a leading discount retailer in North America, with over 13,000 stores in 48 states and five Canadian Provinces, sales of over $18 billion, and more than 145,000 associates on our team." This deal is going to be a big win for activist investor Carl Icahn, who disclosed a 9.4% stake in Family Dollar a month ago. "[I]t is imperative that Family Dollar be put up for sale immediately," Icahn said in a June 19 letter. There you have it. Dollar Tree worked with JP Morgan and Family Dollar worked with Morgan Stanley to make the deal happen. Here's the announcement: Dollar Tree, Inc. (DLTR), the nation's leading operator of discount variety stores selling everything for $1 or less, and Family Dollar Stores, Inc. (FDO), a leading national discount retailer offering name brands and quality, private brand merchandise, today announced that they have entered into a definitive merger agreement under which Dollar Tree will acquire Family Dollar in a cash and stock transaction. The value of the consideration is $74.50 per share, a 22.8% premium over Family Dollar’s closing price as of July 25, 2014. The transaction, which has been unanimously approved by the Boards of Directors of both companies, is expected to close by early 2015, at which time the Family Dollar shareholders will receive $59.60 in cash and $14.90 equivalent in Dollar Tree shares, subject to the collar described below. At closing, Family Dollar shareholders will own no less than 12.7% and no more than 15.1% of the outstanding common stock of Dollar Tree. Howard R. Levine and Trian Fund Management, L.P. and funds managed by it, which collectively own approximately 16% of the outstanding stock of Family Dollar, have entered into voting agreements in support of the merger. “This is a transformational opportunity,” stated Bob Sasser, Dollar Tree’s Chief Executive Officer. “With the acquisition of Family Dollar Stores, Dollar Tree will become a leading discount retailer in North America, with over 13,000 stores in 48 states and five Canadian Provinces, sales of over $18 billion, and more than 145,000 associates on our team. We will continue to operate under the Dollar Tree, Deals, and Dollar Tree Canada brands, and when this transaction is complete, we will operate under the Family Dollar brand as well. Throughout our history, we have strived continuously to evolve and improve our business. This acquisition, which enhances our footprint and diversifies our company, will enable us to build on that progression, and importantly, positions Dollar Tree for accelerated growth. By offering both fixed-price and multi-price point formats and an even broader, more compelling merchandise assortment, we will be able to provide even greater value and choice to a wider array of customers. Dollar Tree has a long record of consistent, profitable growth, strong financial performance, prudent capital management, and outstanding total shareholder returns. The acquisition of Family Dollar is consistent with our vision to be the leader in value retailing.” Sasser added, “This acquisition will extend our reach to lower-income customers and strengthen and diversify our store footprint. We plan to leverage best practices across both organizations to deliver significant synergies, while we accelerate and augment Family Dollar’s recently introduced strategic initiatives. Combined, our growth potential is enhanced with improved opportunities to increase the productivity of the stores and to open more stores across multiple banners.” “I have long admired the Family Dollar brand and its key position in the minds of the consumer,” said Sasser. “We are excited about the prospects for the combined company and the many opportunities that it will create for our associates, vendors, business partners, and shareholders. Howard Levine, CEO of Family Dollar, will remain with the company and report directly to me. Upon closing, Howard will become a member of the Dollar Tree Board of Directors. We are excited to welcome the Family Dollar team to Dollar Tree, and we look forward to working together to deliver increased value to the consumer and to our shareholders.” Howard R. Levine, Chairman and CEO of Family Dollar, commented: “For more than 54 years, Family Dollar has provided value and convenience to customers. Dollar Tree also has a rich history of providing great value to customers, and together, as one company, we can provide more customers with even greater value and convenience. Today’s announcement represents the successful culmination of a comprehensive strategic review process that our Board of Directors, working with its financial and legal advisors, began this past winter. While this assessment of alternatives included consideration of a number of potential partners, we are pleased to conclude this process with the announcement of this compelling transaction with Dollar Tree, which our Board has unanimously determined to be in the best interests of our shareholders. This combination will enable Family Dollar to accelerate efforts to improve the business and will benefit our dedicated Team Members who will now be part of a larger, more diverse organization. I am excited about our future with Dollar Tree, and I look forward to working with the Dollar Tree team to complete the combination as quickly as possible to realize the compelling benefits for all our stakeholders.” Compelling Strategic Rationale Transaction Details Under the terms of the transaction, Family Dollar shareholders will receive $74.50 for each share they own, comprised of $59.60 in cash and $14.90 in Dollar Tree stock. The stock portion will be subject to a collar such that Family Dollar shareholders will receive 0.2484 Dollar Tree shares if the average Dollar Tree trading price during a specified period preceding closing is equal to or greater than $59.98 and 0.3036 Dollar Tree shares if this average trading price is less than or equal to $49.08. If the average trading price of Dollar Tree stock during this period is between $49.08 and $59.98, Family Dollar shareholders will receive a number of shares between 0.2484 and 0.3036 equal to $14.90 in value. The transaction values Family Dollar at an enterprise value of approximately $9.2 billion, and it represents an enterprise value to last twelve months May 31, 2014 EBITDA multiple of 11.3x. Dollar Tree intends to finance the acquisition through a combination of existing cash on hand, bank debt and bonds. Following the transaction, Dollar Tree expects to continue to have a solid balance sheet supported by strong free cash flow of the combined business. In connection with the transaction, Dollar Tree has received a financing commitment from JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. with the bank debt syndication and bond offering expected to occur prior to closing. The transaction is subject to Family Dollar stockholder approval, expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and other customary closing conditions. J.P. Morgan Securities LLC acted as exclusive financial advisor to the board of directors of Dollar Tree, and J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. committed to provide bridge financing for the transaction. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen &amp; Katz and Williams Mullen acted as legal counsel to Dollar Tree in connection with the transaction. Morgan Stanley &amp; Co. LLC acted as exclusive financial advisor to the board of directors of Family Dollar in connection with the transaction. Cleary Gottlieb Steen &amp; Hamilton LLP acted as legal counsel to Family Dollar in connection with the transaction. Conference Call A conference call is scheduled today at 8:30 a.m. ET (5:30 a.m. PT). The telephone number for the call is 866-454-4210. A recorded version of the call will be available until midnight, Wednesday, August 27, 2014, and may be accessed by dialing 888-203-1112. The passcode is 7066122. A webcast of the call is accessible through Dollar Tree’s website, www.dollartreeinfo.com/investors/news/events and will remain online until Wednesday, August 27. A slide presentation may be accessed at www.dollartreeinfo.com/investors/news/events and will be available to be downloaded from the website shortly prior to the conference call. About Dollar Tree, Inc. Dollar Tree, Inc., a Fortune 500 Company, operated 5,080 stores in 48 states and five Canadian Provinces as of May 3, 2014, with total retail selling square footage of 44.0 million. To learn more about the Company, visit www.DollarTree.com. About Family Dollar Stores, Inc. Family Dollar Stores, Inc., a Fortune 500 Company, offers a mix of name brands and quality, private brand merchandise appeals to shoppers in more than 8,200 stores in rural and urban settings across 46 states. For more information, please visit www.FamilyDollar.com.   FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsLONDON (Reuters) - Reckitt Benckiser plans to spin off its heroin-addiction treatment in the next 12 months as sales slide under pressure from rival copycat versions of the drug. Sales of Suboxone have slumped and Reckitt has two new pharmaceutical projects that could diversify revenue and boost the unit's market valuation. The British company put Suboxone under strategic review in October and in April said it was leaning towards spinning off the business rather than a private sale. Analysts had given a range of valuations for the business due to uncertainty over the longer-term impact of competition from generic versions of Suboxone. Deutsche Bank values it at 2.9 billion pounds ($4.92 billion) including debt. Prior estimates from other analysts have ranged from 2 billion to 5.5 billion pounds. "A trade buyer looks to have remained elusive, with a stockmarket listing the natural, if potentially more fraught, alternative," said Hargreaves Lansdown analyst Keith Bowman. Reckitt did not entirely rule out an outright sale if a buyer emerges. It has not decided whether to keep a stake in Suboxone if it opts for a spin-off. Reckitt, which also makes Durex condoms, Finish detergent and Nurofen painkiller, reported a 4 percent rise in first-half sales on a constant-currency basis, excluding Suboxone, whose sales fell 8 percent. The growth was in line with many analysts' expectations. Reckitt stood by a 2014 target for revenue growth of 4-5 percent this year. It said it expected more profit margin growth, which implies an increase on a prior target for the margin to be flat to marginally higher. Recent efforts to reduce costs have targeted the company's advertising budget, among other areas. Reckitt shares were up 2.6 percent at 0821 GMT. Bernstein analysts have said that Suboxone - which is sold as a film that dissolves in the mouth - has 79 percent of the large U.S. market, down from about 85 percent since generics went on sale in March last year. ($1 = 0.5890 British Pounds)   (Reporting by Martinne Geller in London; editing by Tom Pfeiffer) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David Ryder(Reuters) - Corporate America can learn a lot from a chicken burrito. As many companies struggle to boost prices without alienating consumers, they may want to study Mexican-food chain Chipotle, which has managed to do both. Companies including Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc &lt;CMG.N&gt;, Apple Inc &lt;AAPL.O&gt; and PepsiCo &lt;PEP.N&gt; have shown they're able to take advantage of quality, trendiness, and, in the case of Pepsi's snack foods, market dominance, to maintain high prices or even raise them faster than the inflation rate, now at about 2.1 percent in the U.S. Chipotle raised chicken-dish prices by 5 percent this year after leaving them untouched since 2011, and sales went up 29 percent last quarter. The Denver-based Mexican food specialist "has done a great job cultivating a brand that commands pricing power," especially among millennials, who are mainly people in their 20s, said Morningstar analyst R.J. Hottovy. "They've developed a very loyal following." As the U.S. economy remains sluggish - full-year growth may now struggle to reach 2 percent – other companies such as mass market automaker Hyundai Motor Co &lt;005380.KS&gt; have felt the squeeze, with earnings under pressure from deep discounting in the U.S. Hershey Co &lt;HSY.N&gt; is raising candy bar and other product prices by an average of eight percent because of higher cocoa and dairy costs, even as it acknowledges the move will hurt its short-term sales. M&amp;M maker Mars is following suit with a 7 percent increase. Chipotle is prospering even as it raises prices on burritos that are already expensive – about twice as much as those sold by Taco Bell &lt;YUM.N&gt;. Besides its naturally-raised meats and organic ingredients such as beans and avocados, the company occupies the center of fast-casual dining - the booming "sweet spot of the restaurant industry," according to Hottovy - in which customers order at a counter but eat quality products inside a hip space. And Chipotle is still growing. The chain runs about 1,700 restaurants in the U.S., and analyst Stephen Anderson at Miller Tabak estimates that it could grow to 3,100, expanding in less populated areas beyond its urban strongholds. Chipotle hadn't raised menu prices for three years, but the higher cost of ingredients compelled it to roll out up to a 6.5 percent average increase in the second quarter. To be sure, the hike did not go unnoticed: some customers said goodbye to steak burritos because their price jumped on average 4 percentage points more than Chipotle's chicken-based dishes, the company said. Other fast food chains haven't fared as well. Dunkin' Brands Group Inc &lt;DNKN.O&gt; cut its outlook for the year on Thursday, while quarterly profit fell more than expected at McDonald's Corp &lt;MCD.N&gt;. The world's largest hamburger seller and other fast food chains have become "hooked" on discounting, Anderson said. While they built their reputations by delivering quick bites, new menu additions have often slowed their service, frustrating customers. "What [McDonald's needs] to do is further simplify the menu. It is too operationally complex, and I think that leaves a lot of potential for errors," Anderson said. In the last year, McDonald's converted its dollar menu to a "$1-plus" selection in its roughly 14,000 U.S. restaurants, but Anderson says increased competition both from convenience stores and the likes of Chipotle hurt its sales. Still, the tepid economy has mostly made consumers reluctant to spend on food, analysts say. In the absence of robust market growth, only the best and trendiest stand out, sometimes thanks to a more affluent customer cohort. Chipotle patrons tend to earn more than McDonald's customers, said Dan Greenhaus, the chief strategist at BTIG, making them "more tolerant" of higher prices.  DIVERSE PRICE COMMANDERS Another pricing powerhouse, Apple, has studiously cultivated its high-end aura for years, and its iPhones and iPads continue to command a higher price tag on average than its rivals. In 2013, the company briefly turned to discounting to fend off competition by Samsung Electronics Co &lt;005930.KS&gt;, but analysts say Apple has so far stuck to its knitting in 2014 – save for recent price cuts on its MacBook Air and iPod Touch. "Do they have a price premium [compared to the] competition? Absolutely," said Cross Research co-founder and analyst Shannon Cross. While she explained that Apple has refrained from hiking prices except when major currency movements occur, she said, "In the consumer electronics world, keeping pricing flat is impressive." Apple has now exceeded Wall Street gross-margin projections for three straight quarters – topping forecasts for around 37 percent with near-40 percent gross margins in the June quarter, as reported Tuesday - which contributed to its fastest earnings-per-share growth in seven quarters. PepsiCo recently succeeded in raising prices, too. Second-quarter sales rose 5 percent in its snack business and 2 percent for beverages, both buoyed by price increases. New product launches and inflation in regions such as Latin America caused the hikes, the company said. "For the balance of the year we feel comfortable that we can sustain pricing," PepsiCo chairman and CEO Indra Nooyi said Wednesday in a conference call. At Coca-Cola Co &lt;KO.N&gt;, on the other hand, juice drink sales slowed after it raised prices to account for higher ingredient costs, the company said. Coke has no presence in the snack business, a fragmented market that PepsiCo dominates, according to Owen Fitzpatrick, head of U.S. equities at Deutsche Bank Asset and Wealth Management. "Snack foods are growing in terms of consumption, but when you look at carbonated soft drinks, people are moving away from them," Fitzpatrick said. Pepsi's snack strides suggest another source of pricing power: market dominance. Airline consolidation and fewer flights have also allowed for a steady increase in prices in that industry, according to Fitzpatrick. Yet competition is the reality that most face. While U.S. companies are hiring - the government said unemployment had reached a six-year low in June - many consumers still lack the confidence to spend unless a business truly gives them value. "If the [business] concept is old and tired, people just stop going to them," Anderson said.   (Additional reporting by Edwin Chan in San Francisco and Anjali Athavaley in New York. Editing by John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Axel SchmidtFreed Russian former oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky (center). Khodorkovsky was pardoned in 2013 by Russian President Vladimir Putin after 10 years in jail. MOSCOW/LONDON/AMSTERDAM (Reuters) - The Hague's arbitration court ruled on Monday that Russia must pay a group of shareholders in oil giant Yukos $51.6 billion for expropriating its assets, a big hit for a country teetering on the brink of recession. The arbitration panel in the Netherlands said it had awarded shareholders in the GML group just under half of their $114 billion claim, going some way to covering the money they lost when the Kremlin seized Yukos, once controlled by Mikhail Khodorkovsky. "The award is a slam dunk. It is for $50 billion, and that cannot be disputed," said Tim Osborne, director of GML. "It's now a question of enforcing it." But Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Moscow would most likely appeal the decision, so shareholders, who have battled through the courts for a decade, might have longer to wait. "The Russian side, those agencies which represent Russia in this process, will no doubt use all available legal possibilities to defend its position," he said when news of the award leaked ahead of the official announcement. Lawyers, however, said there were only limited grounds on which to appeal. The panel of judges, which has been reviewing the case since 2005, concluded that officials under President Vladimir Putin had manipulated the legal system to bankrupt Yukos. "Yukos was the object of a series of politically motivated attacks by the Russian authorities that eventually led to its destruction," the court said. "The primary objective of the Russian Federation was not to collect taxes but rather to bankrupt Yukos and appropriate its valuable assets."  The ruling hits Russia at a time when it faces international sanctions about its role in Ukraine and anger over the downing of a Malaysian airliner over eastern Ukraine, where Moscow-backed rebels are fighting a separatist campaign. The country is also grappling with slowing economic growth. "This decision affects the assessment of the long-term financial stability of Russia and could become the basis for arguments for revising Russia's ratings by international rating agencies," said Credit Suisse economist Aleksei Pogorelov. The $50 billion represents about 2.5 pct of Russia's total GDP worth, or 57 pct of Russia's Reserve Fund, which is earmarked to cover budget holes. The ruling hit Russian stocks. The RTS index &lt;.IRTS&gt; of Russian shares was down 2.8 percent by 0615 ET. Separately, The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) in Strasbourg is expected on Thursday to announce a separate decision on Yukos's multi-billion-dollar claim against Russia, ruling on 'just satisfaction' or compensation, a Yukos spokeswoman said. Yukos's application in the ECHR, which is on behalf of all Yukos shareholders, argued that Yukos was unlawfully deprived of its possessions by the imposition of bogus taxes and a sham auction of its main asset. GML may now face a battle to claim the money from Russia. "The question is whether Russia will pay that award, which I very much doubt," said Jan Kleinheisterkamp, an Associate Professor of Law at the London School of Economics. "This means that ultimately the shareholders will start to chase Russian assets abroad, which is a very tedious and usually not very fruitful business." Antonios Tzanakopoulos, a law professor at Oxford University, said if assets were to be seized, they would have to be purely commercial in nature to be expropriatable, meaning it would not be possible to get an order that an embassy building or a docked Russian warship should be handed over. Russia must pay the compensation to subsidiaries of Gibraltar-based Group Menatep, a company through which Khodorkovsky, once Russia's richest man, controlled Yukos. Group Menatep now exists as holding company GML, and Khodorkovsky is no longer a shareholder in GML or Yukos. "We didn’t go into this for a pyrrhic victory to make a point .. We still believe that we will ultimately collect on this award," said Osborne.  Any funds claimed will be shared among the shareholders. The biggest ultimate beneficial owner is Russian-born Leonid Nevzlin, a business partner who had fled to Israel to avoid prosecution. He has a stake of around 70 percent.  Khodorkovsky ceded his controlling interest in Menatep, which owned 60 to 70 percent of Yukos, to Nevzlin, after he was jailed. Khodorkovsky, who is not a party to the legal action, was arrested at gunpoint in 2003 and convicted of theft and tax evasion in 2005. "It is fantastic that the company shareholders are being given a chance to recover their damages," Khodorkovsky said in a statement, adding he would not seek to benefit financially from the outcome. Khodorkovsky's company, once worth $40 billion, was broken up and nationalized, with most assets handed to Rosneft &lt;ROSN.MM&gt;, a company run by Igor Sechin, an ally of President Vladimir Putin. Putin pardoned Khodorkovsky in December after he had spent 10 years in jail. He now lives in Switzerland. "I am very pleased the international tribunal in the Hague decided that Russia violated international laws and illegally nationalized Yukos," said Nevzlin. The other four ultimate beneficial owners, each of whom owns an equal stake, are Platon Lebedev, Mikhail Brudno, Vladimir Dubov and Vasilly Shaknovski. Rosneft, which is not a defendant in the case, said it expected no claims to be made against the company and that the ruling would not have a negative impact on its "commercial activity and assets". Rosneft bought the bulk of Yukos assets through auctions after the company was declared bankrupt. Its shares were down 2.5 percent at 0615 ET. (Reporting by Tom Miles in Geneva, Vladimir Soldatkin, Megan Davies, Oksana Kobzeva, Lidia Kelly and Alessandra Prentice in Moscow, Tova Cohen in Tel Aviv, Thomas Escritt and Anthony Deutsche in Amsterdam, Editing by Elizabeth Piper and Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Stefano RellandiniTug boats tow the Costa Concordia ship as they arrive outside Genoa's port, in northern Italy, where the ship will be broken up for scrap, July 27, 2014. Welcome back from the weekend! Here's what people will be taking about on Monday.  1. Israel maintains that its forces were not responsible for 16 Palestinians who were killed last Thursday when a United Nations school in Gaza came under fire. An Israeli military spokesman "acknowledged that an errant mortar round fired by Israeli troops had exploded in the school’s courtyard that afternoon," The New York Times reports, "but said the yard had been empty at the time." 2. Cease-fire talks have stalled as fighting between Israel and Hamas enters its fourth week. A poll by an Israeli television news station found that 87% of respondents wanted "Israel to continue the operation until Hamas was toppled," Reuters reports. A separate poll from "The Jerusalem Post" found that more than 85% of Israel's majority Jews are against calling a truce.  3. Boko Haram, the militant group that abducted 200 Nigerian schoolgirls in April, has kidnapped the wife of Cameroon's vice prime minister. Three others were also killed in the attack on Kolofata, a northern town in Cameroon.  4. Argentina is heading for a default on Wednesday unless it can make a $539 million interest payment to bondholders. This would mark the country's second default in 13 years, The Wall Street Journal reports.  5. International efforts to investigate the crash site in eastern Ukraine where a Malaysian airliner was shot down have been hampered as fighting between Ukrainian troops and pro-Russian rebels near the region reaches new levels. Australian and Dutch police will try to gain access on Monday, Reuters says.  6. One American doctor died from Ebola on Sunday and another is very ill. Both contracted the deadly virus while working to combat one of the largest ever outbreaks in West Africa.  7. China criticized the U.S. on Monday for applying new tariffs on Chinese solar products following allegations that panels and cells were being sold too cheaply to the American consumer. The unconfirmed move places anti-dumping duties as high as 165.05% on solar products from China.  8. The wrecked Costa Concordia will be broken up into scrap after returning on Sunday to the Italian Port of Genoa, the same port where the the cruise ship launched nine years ago. It took officials nearly two years to refloat and remove the liner after it smashed into rocks off the coast of Giglio 9. McDonald's restaurants in China are facing a Big Mac and Chicken McNugget shortage after the company said it would suspend sales of all processed foods from its Shanghai supplier, which was shut down over allegations of improper meat handling. Employees at one Beijing location could only offer pies, hash browns, fries, drinks, and ice cream, CNN Money reports.  10. One person was killed and at least seven other injured when lightning struck Venice beach in Los Angeles. “It went down my whole side of my right body, and my calves sort of locked up, and I fell over,” a beach-goer told the The Washington Post.  “I looked up and everybody else was, you know, falling over. A finally... Oregon police say an unsupervised 3-year-old boy climbed into a Jeep, knocking it out of gear and into the side of a house down the street, the Associated Press reports. After the accident, police found the boy back at his home watching cartoons.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPedestrians cross a road in front of an electronic board showing stock prices in Tokyo TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian stocks shrugged off a drop in Wall Street and hovered near three-year highs on Monday, with China taking the lead after data showed a robust jump in profits earned by industrial firms in the world's second-largest economy. The dollar traded near six-months peaks against a basket of major currencies as the euro continued to sag. Profits earned by Chinese industrial firms rose 17.9 percent in June to 588.08 billion yuan ($94.98 billion) from a year earlier, up sharply from an 8.9 percent rise in May, the National Bureau of Statistics said. Recent data have reinforced market expectations that the Chinese economy is powering through its recent soft patch as the government uses targeted stimulus measures to support growth. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was up 0.2 percent, close to a three-year high of 509.23 scaled on Friday. China's CSI300 jumped 2.3 percent and the Hang Seng climbed 0.8 percent. Tokyo's Nikkei, which hit a six-month closing high Friday, was up 0.5 percent. Funds from Middle Eastern and Asian investors were trickling in again as the Muslim fasting month ends, helping to shore up regional stocks, said Soichiro Monji, chief strategist at Daiwa SB Investments in Tokyo. "Geopolitical concerns remain as the conflict in the Ukraine does not look like it will end soon, but there is some relief spreading that the impact will be contained," he said. The focus turned to whether this week's run of U.S. data would be strong enough to keep fuelling risk appetite. Upcoming U.S. indicators include the Case-Shiller price index on Tuesday, second-quarter GDP due on Wednesday and non-farm payrolls on Friday. Factory activity surveys for major Asian economies will also be released on Friday. The euro traded little changed at $1.3432, within close reach of $1.3421 plumbed on Friday, its lowest since November 2013. The euro took another hit on Friday when Germany's Ifo business climate index painted a gloomy picture of the economy. It had already been under pressure from a range of factors including expectations of further easing by the European Central Bank and diverging interest rates seen favouring the U.S. over Europe. "We should brace for the euro breaking below key support at 1.34, given diverging U.S. and European monetary policies. Dollar buying pressure is building as shown by the strength of the dollar index, which this week's data, if upbeat, could enhance further," said Junichi Ishikawa, market strategist at IG Securities in Tokyo. The two-day Federal Reserve policy review ending on Wednesday was also in focus but expectations were for Chair Janet Yellen to deliver the usual dovish message. The dollar index, a gauge of its strength against a basket of key currencies, stood little changed at 81.026 after striking a near six-month high of 81.804 on Friday. The dollar fetched 101.81 yen, having lost a bit of momentum in the wake of a rise in U.S. Treasury yields after climbing to a two-week high of 101.94 on Friday. While the attention of equity and currency markets has shifted towards major corporate earnings and macroeconomic trends, geopolitical issues remained a key factor in commodities such as oil. Brent crude shed 0.4 percent to $107.96 a barrel but still retained a chunk of its gains from Friday, when it climbed more than $1 as fighting in Ukraine and deteriorating relations between Russia and the United States ignited new fears of supply disruptions. [O/R] (Editing by Eric Meijer &amp; Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
