Remember gold? We used to talk a lot about it around these parts, but we've pretty much stopped following it ever since the whole goldbug, Fed-hater thing got so thoroughly discredited. Anyway, it's not looking so hot. In fact, it kind of looks like death. Here's a chart going back a number of years. FRED As you can see, it's close to hitting four-year lows as the US economy recovers and the dollar strengthens. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA worker rides a bicycle in a container area at a port in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's exports declined in August as shipments to the United States contracted, adding to concerns the economy may see only a shallow recovery in the third quarter after a deep slump in April-June. Exports fell 1.3 percent in August from a year ago, less than the median estimate for a 2.6 percent annual decline. That followed a 3.9 percent annual gain in the previous month after having fallen in June and May. The patchy performance has dashed hopes that external demand can offset a consumer spending slump caused by an April sales tax hike to 8 percent from 5 percent. The government and the Bank of Japan may also come under pressure to find new ways to prop up the economy. Underperforming exports have been one of the weak links in the Japanese economy, which is struggling to cope with the April tax hike. Confidence at Japanese manufacturers dipped in September, a Reuters poll showed, because executives fear the impact of the April sales tax hike. In the latest month, exports were hit by a decline in shipments to the United States - down 4.4 percent on-year, from a 2.1 percent rise in July. Imports fell an annual 1.5 percent in August, more than the median forecast for a 1.2 percent annual decline, as energy imports declined. As a result, the trade deficit stood at 948.5 billion yen, less than the median estimate of 1.0289 trillion yen. Japan's trade balance was in deficit for the 26th month in a row, an indication that its status as an export powerhouse has faded as companies shift production offshore. Japan's economy shrank an annualized 7.1 percent in the second quarter hit by the tax hike, the biggest contraction since the 2009 global financial crisis. BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda has repeatedly said the nation is on track to meet the central bank's 2 percent inflation goal, but the deep economic contraction has raised questions about the outlook for growth. A shallower rebound in the third quarter could further heighten speculation for additional BOJ stimulus, analysts say. Exports have failed to pick up despite the yen's decline to a six-year low, partly as many Japanese firms have shifted their production sites overseas which tempers the benefit of a softer currency.   (Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The global economy faces a growing risk from big financial market bets that could quickly unravel if investors get spooked by geopolitical tensions or a shift in U.S. interest rate policy, the International Monetary Fund said on Wednesday. The IMF, an institution based in Washington that is the world's premier watchdog for financial and economic stability, said in a report it still expects economic growth will pick up in the second half of 2014 after a rough start to the year. But it also warned that financial market indicators suggested investor bets funded with borrowed money looked "excessive" and that markets could quickly deflate if there were surprises in U.S. monetary policy or the conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East. As the IMF put it in its technical language, "New downside risks associated with geopolitical tensions and increasing risk taking are arising." The IMF prepared its report for the Group of 20 meeting of finance ministers and central bankers in Australia this weekend, and just before the U.S. Federal Reserve's regular meeting on Wednesday. The U.S. central bank renewed its pledge to keep interest rates near zero for a "considerable time" and repeated concerns over slack in the labor market. But some Fed officials have stated publicly that the central bank should be ready to move rates up sooner and faster than financial markets expect given the spate of mostly good news on the U.S. economy.   (Reporting by Jason Lange; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsEditor's Note: This post originally appeared on Institutional Investor's website on Sept. 11, 2014. I have to admit I was not able to get anything done on Tuesday when Apple released its new iPhone, Apple Pay and Apple Watch — absolutely nothing. Like millions of others, I was glued to my iPad watching Tim Cook do a two-hour Apple infomercial. (And unlike any other infomercial, I watched it twice.) The interest must have been greater than even Apple expected, as its website simply could not handle the traffic and kept crashing. A lot of viewers must have been sleep-deprived Chinese; it was 1:00 am in China, and Cook’s keynote was simultaneously dubbed in Mandarin. Apple’s emphasis on China makes a lot of sense, of course: The country is Apple’s biggest growth driver, with 4G just being rolled out there. The release of the new iPhones was important for Apple in the short run — it desperately needed to introduce larger phones to battle Android handsets. Both the 4.7- and 5.5-inch phones looked terrific. However, the fact that Apple introduced two sizes may have an interesting consequence: Consumers will need to hold the actual phones to figure out which one fits them best. Online orders will likely be lower than usual, while traffic to Apple Stores will explode over the next several weekends (by the way, that will benefit other mall retailers). However, what is now known as the Apple Watch is really important for the company in the long run. Apple’s competitive advantage lies in its ecosystem, as its software allows you to easily connect and communicate with other Apple users. But this competitive advantage — Apple’s moat — has gotten narrower and shallower as non-Apple apps that work across all platforms have gotten better and better. For instance, Facetime is successfully threatened by Skype, Viber and many other communications apps. Also, iTunes became less and less relevant as music streaming services such as Pandora and Spotify emerged. Escaping from the Apple ecosystem is easier today than it was a year or a few years ago. A strong brand, familiarity and ease of use are still advantages that clearly set Apple apart from its competitors, but the company has a weaker hold on you than if it made products that made switching painfully difficult. Apple is very much aware of this fact, which is why it is introducing seamless integration of iDevices and Mac computers through its new iOS 8, which is being released next week, and OS X Yosemite, coming later this year. Soon, when you are working on your MacBook Air and get a call on your iPhone, a caller ID will flash on your computer screen, giving you a choice of answering the call on either device. Or if you start composing an email on your iPhone, you will be able to continue writing it on your iPad or MacBook. The Apple Watch is important not just because it will provide another meaningful source of revenue but because, like the interlinking of devices created by Apple’s new operating systems, it too will widen the company’s moat. The Watch will keep existing iPhone and iPad users in the Apple ecosystemwhile stealing new customers from Android. (Also, since Apple now has large-screen phones, the last excuse to stay with Android is gone.) When Tim Cook presented the Apple Watch, at first I was disappointed. I had envisioned a futuristic bandlike bracelet. However, I realized that with its new watch Apple was able to achieve something that only Apple could do — it created an individualized fashion accessory. Think about it: If Apple had designed a sleek, bandlike watch and it was a commercial success, everyone around you would be wearing the same bracelet, maybe with a few variations in color. But we are humans, not drones, and we need to express our individualism, which is exactly what Apple’s new watch will let us do. Apple came out with three watch collections: Watch, Watch Sport and Watch Edition. All told, we counted 18 bands and six cases, that is, 108 combinations. However, that is nothing compared to what will come: Apple just gave birth to a new Apple Watch accessory industry that will be making case covers and bracelets for the new watch. What is also amazing is that since the high-end collection comes in an 18-karat gold case, I would not be surprised to see jewelry and even watch brands (think Tiffany, Gucci, or Cartier) start making fancy Apple Watch accessories for their affluent customers. It goes without saying that such companies wouldn’t be caught dead making accessories for Moto 360 or LG watches. That is the value of Apple’s brand. The Apple Watch also comes in two sizes, small (38mm) and large (42mm), and so the media have hailed it as a watch for both men and women — and they are right, except that excludes an important demographic: children. Do we really need another gadget? I vividly remember how everyone thought we didn’t need iPads, since we already had laptops and iPhones. (By the way, remember how much everybody hated the name?) But the iPad had its purpose — we just didn’t know what it was yet, and now we can’t imagine our lives without it. (How do you watch a movie on Netflix when you are in the bathroom?) Don’t let the name Apple Watch fool you; timekeeping is the least important function of this product. The iPhone is a gadget with which you check email, browse the internet, play games, check the weather, it’s your GPS — and somewhere near the end of the list, oh yeah, it makes phone calls. Just because the Apple Watch sits on your wrist and tells time doesn’t make it a watch. It is a device that will let you do a lot of things you’ve done in the past through your iPhone, except now it will be a little more convenient to do them. In addition, the new vitals sensors will also turn it into an exercise accessory. I am personally looking forward to its working with a cycling app like Strava to show me my speed when I bike. Somewhere at the end of a very long laundry list of useful tasks it will do (we just don’t know all of them yet) the Apple Watch will show me the time as well, so at least now I won’t need to look for my phone to tell me the time. The first version of the Apple Watch will likely be far from perfect, but that was the case with the first versions of the iPhone or MacBook Air and they were both very successful products. Charging the watch every night is not ideal, but the battery life of the first iPhone was not great either. Somehow we forgave Apple this imperfection because the positives far outweighed the negatives (and maybe because we forgive Apple more than other companies). My Blackberry phone in 2006 had a standby time of several days, if not weeks, but other than making calls and handling email, it couldn’t do anything else. The Apple Watch today is superior to smart watches offered by other companies, which are for the most part extended displays for Android phones. Yes, Apple’s product does rely on the iPhone for GPS and 4G radio, but the Apple Watch is a minicomputer that can store data and run apps independent of the iPhone. Apple’s competitive advantage has also been enhanced by the introduction of Apple Pay. Maybe by sheer luck, this is the perfect time to introduce such a product. Retailers are being attacked by hackers and are looking for a more secure way to handle credit card transactions. In 2015 responsibility for fraudulent payments will shift onto retailers and issuing banks if they don’t upgrade their credit card terminals to EMV (Europay, Mastercard, Visa), which will come equipped with the NFC (near field communication) sensor that Apple Pay requires. Also, Apple had a year to perfect the Touch ID sensor and work out its security kinks. We are slowly transitioning to a cashless society. I don’t carry a wallet anymore, because my iPhone case houses two credit cards, my driver’s license and a few business cards. The health card and IDs that I used to carry with me are stored in my iPhone as photos. Apple Pay should take us a step closer to the cashless goal. I doubt Google will sit still, and Google Pay will probably come around, but it seems Apple has a solid lead here, too. Once you start storing all your credit card information in iTunes, switching from Apple to Android will become even more inconvenient — Apple’s moat just got wider. As I look back at Apple’s keynote event and product introductions this week, my takeaway is that the company just became a little more valuable. In all honesty, I don’t know if the first-generation Apple Watch will be a great success or a modest success, but it will likely be a success. After all, it looks to be far superior to anything else out there. As an investor, I feel better about Apple today than I did last week. My favorite moment from the Apple presentation had nothing to do with Apple. I was watching for the second time in the evening with my nine-month-old daughter, Mia Sarah. I had to watch it again, you see, because Apple’s website kept crashing when I viewed it live. Mia Sarah was sitting on my knees and intensely observing the proceedings; and every time the audience applauded — which happened every few minutes — she smiled, giggled and applauded too. I liked her doing it so much that we watched the whole presentation together (even the parts I had watched before). FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsMany investors with little appetite for risk think cash is the safest asset class. After all, if you have no investments, you have no investment risk. That’s true enough, but it’s reassuring only if you ignore inflation and taxes.  And of course, most individuals do pay taxes and everyone experiences inflation. Take inflation and taxes into account, and investors holding nothing but cash are virtually certain to be poorer in real terms three years from now. An all-bond portfolio is a somewhat better proposition, but it, too, could well lose purchasing power in the market environment we anticipate. Unfortunately, no portfolio is completely safe after taxes and inflation. Fortunately, there is a much better way to control risk than keeping all your money in cash or bonds: diversifying through a modest addition of stock to the mix.  By our calculation, even the most risk-averse investors should hold at least 20% of their portfolios in stocks—assuming that they don’t have large bills to pay in the very near term. The Display shows how we came to this conclusion. Using our Wealth Forecasting System, we projected annualized three-year returns for portfolios with a range of asset allocations. In typical markets, after inflation and taxes, we forecast that an all-cash portfolio (on the extreme left) will lose 1.8% a year. In great markets, it will lose 0.6%, and in hostile markets, the losses will mount to 3.3% a year. For all these forecasts, we’ve assumed a US investor in the highest federal tax bracket. Alliance BernsteinDirectly to the right of the all-cash portfolio, you can see that we expect an all-bond portfolio to deliver 0.2% a year in typical markets, 2.5% in great markets and (2.6)% in hostile markets. In comparison to the all-cash and all-bond choices, we predict that an all-stock portfolio (on the extreme right) will deliver a lot more in typical and great markets, but also lose more in hostile markets, yielding returns of (6.5)% annualized. This may seem very mild compared to memories of 2008, but in fact, annualized returns for the three years from 2007 to 2009 were not a great deal worse: (7.2)%. Our analysis indicates that the probability of another loss this large is less than 10%. Between the all-bond and the all-stock portfolios, we’ve estimated the range of returns you are likely to experience across the full spectrum of diversified portfolios. For a taxable investor whose primary goal is minimizing the risk of real losses, the 20/80 asset mix offers better returns than the all-cash or all-bond portfolio in positive market environments and smaller losses when market returns are negative. To the right of the 20/80 portfolio, the more stock exposure you add, the better you do when markets are typical or better, but the worse you do when market returns are poor. Fear (and greed) can prompt investors to make irrational choices. Cash feels safe, but a closer look shows otherwise. Risk-averse investors who can overcome their emotional bias against owning any stock can improve their returns and reduce their real downside risk. The AllianceBernstein Wealth Forecasting System uses a Monte Carlo model that simulates 10,000 plausible paths of return for each asset class and inflation rate and produces a probability distribution of outcomes. The model does not draw randomly from a set of historical returns to produce estimates for the future. Instead, the forecasts (1) are based on the building blocks of asset returns, such as inflation, yields, yield spreads, stock earnings and price multiples; (2) incorporate the linkages that exist among the returns of various asset classes; (3) take into account current market conditions at the beginning of the analysis; and (4) factor in a reasonable degree of randomness and unpredictability. This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesWarren Buffett's eating habits are the stuff of legend.  Buffett is a huge fan of Dairy Queen — owned by Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway — and reportedly ordered Dairy Queen and a Coke while dining at the Four Seasons in April.  Buffett, who turned 84 on August 30, also loves Cherry Coke.  And according to a Bloomberg report on Wednesday, one of the most powerful men in banking has noticed.  "Warren eats a full meal," Wells Fargo CEO John Stumpf said. "When the food comes, Warren grabs a salt shaker in his left hand and one in his right, and it's a snowstorm." Bloomberg's Dakin Campbell and Noah Buhayar report Stumpf said that in his first meal with Buffett, the Berkshire Hathaway chairman had a T-bone steak (medium rare), a side (!) of chicken parm, mashed potatoes, and a Cherry Coke.  Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway is Wells Fargo's largest shareholder — and Wells Fargo is Berkshire's largest holding — owning just over 463 million shares, or about 8.8% of the bank. Berkshire Hathaway's second-largest holding is Coca-Cola. What's the saying again? (via Bloomberg) FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock.comIt takes time and effort to grow a beautiful beard.Movember is coming, guys…and with it, your next chance to not only support a worthy charity but also explore the rich world of expressive facial hair. (For the uninitiated: Grow a beard, try out a mustache, and in either case, raise money for organizations battling prostate cancer, testicular cancer, and mental illness.) If you’re already onboard the bearded train, though, you may be wondering how to upgrade your grooming. I quizzed Eric Bandholz, founder of grooming label Beardbrand and owner of a beard that would have Nick Offerman gaping in disbelief, on the do’s and don’ts of Instagram-worthy facial hair. For those of you with your beard basics down pat, read on. What’s the biggest grooming mistake men make when they decide to try out a beard? Trimming or shaving too early. It’s easy to make mistakes and scrap the entire beard. It’s best to let it grow out for about one or two months before touching it. If you must trim, then only trim up what is out of place. So you should only be trimming off about 10 to 40 hairs around the cheeks and neckline. What tools, at minimum, does a guy need to properly look after his beard?  A good comb or boar’s-hair brush will help keep things in line. We recommend using scissors over beard trimmers, as you have more control. Not all combs and brushes are created equal. I’d look for a hand-cut acetate comb versus an extruded molded comb. These combs won’t have the micro fissures that cause snags and damage your beard. Same goes with a plastic bristle brush versus a boar’s bristle brush. Do you have a beard icon, and if so, who? Oh man, there are so many fantastic beards out there that it’s hard to narrow it down. I think that Carlos Costa and Ben Dahlhaus are two icons with completely different looks. Carlos has the deep dark black beard, sharp haircut, and tattoos, while Ben has a lighter colored beard, but long hair, and no tats. Beard oil is the most fantastic product you can use for a beard. It really softens up the beard, adds a little shine, and smells delightful. It’s like heaven for your beard. It’s going to work for beards from about two weeks in length to two years in length. How is it best applied? A little one-ounce bottle will last about three months if you use it everyday. To apply it, simply put 3 to 8 drops in your hands and spread the oil. Then start working the oil into your beard, first onto the skin beneath the beard, then towards the beard hairs. I apply beard oil daily while my skin is still warm from the shower. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's Blog Here we go again. As the Q3 earnings season approaches at the start of October, industry analysts are scrambling to lower their forecasts. They seem to do so just prior to every earnings season. It happens because companies guide analysts to lower their numbers to avoid reporting negative surprises. For some reason, analysts willingly accommodate their wishes. Their collective downward revisions rarely depress stock prices because investors have come to expect that the analysts once again are setting the stage for more positive earnings surprises. Besides, while they are lowering their numbers for the coming quarterly earnings season, they rarely do so for the following quarter until a few weeks before its earnings season begins, and so on and so forth. Since the start of Q3 during the first week of July through last week, the consensus forecast for the quarter has dropped by 4.1% to $29.12, which is below Q2’s $30.10. The latest estimate is up 5.4% from last year’s result for the same quarter. However, we can probably count on upside surprises to bust Q3’s growth. That’s what happened during Q2 when the pre-season forecast of 6.0% y/y turned out to be actually 9.9%. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA model presents a creation from Jimmy Choo during its London Collections: Men show in LondonBy Astrid Wendlandt PARIS (Reuters) - Luxury shoe brand Jimmy Choo will seek to woo investors with a share market flotation prospectus promising industry-beating annual sales growth of more than 10 percent on the back of aggressive expansion plans in Asia and elsewhere, a source close to the deal told Reuters. The upmarket shoe maker, known for its stilettos worn by Hollywood and Asian stars alike, will decide in the coming days whether it goes ahead with the initial public offering (IPO), depending on market conditions. If launched at the end of this month and depending on the precise timing, it is aiming for a listing at the end of October or early in November, the source said. The IPO, which could value Jimmy Choo at more than 700 million pounds ($1.14 billion), will be the first in the luxury sector since Moncler's successful flotation in Milan last year and would add a third luxury name to London's market after Burberry  listed in 2002 and Mulberry  in 1996. But this time around the environment has become more challenging, with flagging demand from the Chinese and the Russians and conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East. Cartier owner Richemont  on Wednesday posted slowing sales growth, particularly in Asia, its biggest market. The luxury goods industry has been suffering a slowdown since the second half of 2012, with annual sales growth of the industry's main listed stocks dropping to an estimated 5-6 percent this year, from around 10 percent in 2012. Jimmy Choo will argue that its future growth rates will likely remain above those of the industry as its compound annual growth rate (CAGR) for the past five years has been 10-12 percent, the source said. The company's average annual sales growth has hovered around 15 percent in the past three years alone, the source added. "Jimmy Choo has reached critical mass, so going public will help it retain and attract talent," the source said. The brand, which has around 130 directly operated stores, is planning to continue to open about 10-15 stores a year as it has in previous years, mainly in Asia where it has a relatively small presence. The British brand will aim to convince investors that Jimmy Choo offers an opportunity to get exposure to the high-end shoe market, one of the fastest growing sub-categories of the luxury goods industry. Consultancy Bain estimated the CAGR of high end shoes to be around 10 percent between 2008-2013, compared with the overall luxury industry average of 5 percent.  Jimmy Choo is expecting to make earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of around 50 million pounds this year, on sales of 300 million pounds, the source said. Assuming EBITDA next year will reach 60 million pounds, it would imply a valuation of a little over 12 times next year's underlying earnings, which puts Jimmy Choo on a small premium to the industry average of 10-11 times as well as to close peer Salvatore Ferragamo  whose shares trade on a multiple of 11.5 . According to industry sources, Jimmy Choo's operating margins are roughly in line with those of Ferragamo's, or around 17 percent.  LOVE FROM THE STAR After having long been associated with celebrities such as Sarah Jessica Parker, who famously supported the brand in the Sex and the City TV series, Jimmy Choo's sales received a boost earlier this year in Asia from having been mentioned in the Korean TV show "My love from the star." The British brand was founded in the 1990s by Jimmy Choo, a Malaysian bespoke shoe maker in London's East End, who developed the business with Tamara Mellon. Jimmy Choo's niece Sandra Choi stayed on as creative director but Mellon left after the company was acquired in 2011 for more than 500 million pounds by the Joh.A.Benckiser (JAB) family office. JAB, with more than $30 billion worth of assets under management from coffee to fashion brand and New-York listed cosmetics group Coty , makes investments for the Reimanns, the German billionaire family still associated with soaps and detergent maker Reckitt Benckiser . The Jimmy Choo brand's IPO would involve the sale of a 25 percent stake by the owner, raising just under 200 million pounds, depending on the terms, the source said. The proceeds represent small change for JAB which is not planning to use the proceeds to invest in Jimmy Choo as the business is cash-generative and well funded, the source said. JAB this summer eliminated its Labelux luxury structure and parted ways with its chief executive, putting Peter Harf, one of the holding's three partners, in direct control over fashion operations which include Zagliani as well as Belstaff and Bally which are working to turn themselves round under new leadership. Around 75 percent of Jimmy Choo's business is shoes, of which half is made up of classic pumps for everyday wear, and the remaining 25 percent is from handbags and other small leather goods. The brand is run by seasoned luxury executive Pierre Denis, who worked for more than a decade for industry leader LVMH , managing the group's fashion brand John Galliano and before that acting as regional head for Christian Dior. Both Denis and designer Sandra Choi will retain small stakes in the company and the flotation will enable them to be rewarded in shares if they help improve the company's performance and share price. If the IPO goes ahead Bank of America Merrill Lynch will act as global coordinator and as joint-bookrunner with HSBC, industry and financial sources have said. Bank of America Merrill Lynch declined to comment and Jimmy Choo and JAB also declined to comment.  (Editing by Greg Mahlich) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paul Hackett"Yes" campaign balloons in Scotland.With about 24 hours to go before polls close in Scotland, the final YouGov poll measuring sentiment ahead of the referendum found the "No" campaign with a 52-48 lead over the "Yes" campaign. YouGov's final poll came just less than a week after YouGov found the "No" campaign regaining some momentum, regaining a 52-48 lead over the "Yes" campaign. Two more opinion polls released Tuesday found the same results. In all three polls, the "Yes" campaign has clearly gathered steam over the past month — but it's unclear if the momentum is enough to get it over the hump.  A mid-September YouGov poll showed the "Yes" vote taking the lead in Scotland, causing the British pound to collapse that weekend and early last week. The poll released last weekend found 51% of respondents choosing to vote "Yes" for independence, while 49% said they would vote "No." But last week brought a 6-point swing for the "No" campaign, the first time it had gained ground in the survey since early August. Here's a chart from YouGov showing the swings: YouGov A vote for independence could cause massive ramifications throughout Europe, and it would lead to a host of immediate questions for Scotland: Would it be able to still use the British pound, which fell to its lowest level in 10 months on news of the polls? Would it be able to stay a member of NATO? And would it be able to gain re-entry into the EU? A "Yes" vote would also likely embolden other secessionist movements throughout Europe — what geopolitical expert Ian Bremmer, the president of Eurasia Group, called the "contagion" effect.  Despite the overall tightening polls over the last month, most analysts still expect Scots to vote "No" on the referendum. This post was updated at 5:07 p.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
Kimberly White/Getty ImagesAn oil refinery in Paraguana, Venezuela.Fixed-income investors often divide emerging markets into commodity exporters and commodity importers. We think this overlooks an important reality: commodity wealth is not the sole — or even the most important — driver of EM performance. It’s certainly true that a decade of increases in energy, metal and agriculture prices have swelled national incomes in commodity-rich countries in Latin America, Europe, Africa and Central Asia. Display 1 shows what some of those countries’ real gross domestic incomes would have been without the terms-of-trade shock caused by the commodity boom (the dark green bar) and what it was when accounting for it (the light green bar). The AllianceBernstein Blog As expected, commodity-rich countries such as Venezuela and Russia saw a boost in their terms of trade — the relative difference between import and export prices — and, consequently, their real income. Turkey, South Korea and other commodity-dependent countries, on the other hand, took a hit. Yet our research shows that being a commodity producer didn’t guarantee improved credit fundamentals or stronger growth during that time. In fact, some of the commodity “winners” are actually worse off today. Many commodity importers, on the other hand, weathered the storm and saw their economies strengthen. Why didn’t the last decade’s unprecedented commodity boom have a uniform impact across emerging markets? The reason is simple: Only a handful of commodity-rich countries took advantage of the windfall and the fiscal flexibility it provided to push reforms that would improve their growth potential and diversify their economies away from excessive dependence on commodities. Instead, many boosted spending on social programs, public sector wage hikes and other initiatives designed to gain political favor. When commodity prices stabilized, they were left with gaping fiscal holes and little political room to cut expenditures. In short, some of the commodity “winners” ended up on the losing end. Venezuela may be the best example. The energy price increases helped boost gross domestic income in the country by a whopping 240% over the past decade. But the government squandered most of the windfall, leaving the country just as vulnerable now as it was in 2003. The story was similar in Ukraine, a large metals producer, where the potential positive impact of the commodity boom was neutralized by capital flight and increased spending by the governing elite. Ukraine may be an extreme example, but it’s worth pointing out that broad indices of government effectiveness and accountability declined over the past decade across all regions. In fact, the strength of institutions deteriorated more in commodity exporters than commodity importers. Put another way: Too many commodity exporters behaved as if the commodity windfall were permanent. This can be seen in EM public finances. While government balances have improved across emerging markets over the last decade, they deteriorated, on average, among primary commodity exporters (Display 2). The AllianceBernstein Blog On the other hand, commodity boom “losers” — or net importers of commodities — behaved in a more disciplined manner on the whole. For example, the run-up in commodity prices forced Turkey — a net commodity importer — to make policy adjustments to cushion the blow of higher food and energy costs. Today, the country runs a more responsible fiscal policy than it did in 2003. Among the resource-rich countries, only Kazakhstan, Mexico, Colombia and Indonesia demonstrated an ability to improve fundamentals over the last decade of commodity price gains. In our view, strength in EM economies ultimately boils down to smart policy choices. We found that countries that embraced prudent macroeconomic management and pushed through unpopular reforms saw the quickest rise in real incomes and the biggest improvements in credit quality, irrespective of commodity wealth. That’s important for investors to know, because it’s the countries that were most proactive on the reform front who are best positioned to grow and prosper — especially if commodity prices remain stagnant or decline in the next decade. Our findings also underscore just how important it is to be selective when investing in EM fixed income. Emerging markets are not a homogeneous asset class, and commodities, while an element in overall performance, are certainly not the main drivers of economic success. This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
In its ongoing efforts to improve the clarity and transparency of monetary policy, the Federal Reserve has ramped up how much it reveals to the world. In recent years, the Fed tweaked its communications policy so that we now regularly get a Summary of Economic Projections, which includes Fed members' forecasts for interest rates. Periodically, the Fed follows up the release of its Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) statement with a press conference, which includes a Q&amp;A session. Unfortunately, it's hard to say that traders, investors, and even Fed-experts have a better sense of what the Fed is actually thinking. Maybe they're actually saying too much. Deutsche Bank economist Torsten Slok circulated this chart of the number of words in each FOMC statement. Today's FOMC statement broke the all-time record. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
Benjamin Zhang/Business InsiderA 2014 Bentley Flying Spur on the mean streets of New York City. The Maserati was also nervous about its surroundings. I thought I understood driving in New York City. I thought I understood stress. But then I drove a 2014 Bentley Flying Spur in Manhattan and my ideas about stress were changed forever. The Flying Spur is a 17-foot-long, 5,500-pound, $250,000 engineering marvel that's a unique pleasure on the roads outside New York City. I enjoyed every mile and minute of our all-too-brief weekend together.  But then I drove to Gotham to meet friends for dinner and everything changed. I'm no novice when it comes to driving in New York. I've navigated the city in exotic sports cars and utilitarian SUVs. City driving is never stress-free, but I've learned to manage.  Bentleys, however, operate on a different plan of risk analysis. Every time a cab dove into a gap near my car, I feared for the Bentley's $4,400 Kingfisher Blue paint job. My terror would be temporarily drowned out by the $7,500 Naim premium audio system. But then another cab would come diving into another gap!   I felt like I was running with the bulls in Pamplona while holding a priceless Ming vase.  Benjamin Zhang/Business Flying SpurBentleys not welcome.If that sounds like an exaggeration, just try parking a Ming vase — I mean, a Bentley — anywhere in Manhattan. There are rules against it, and those rules are clearly posted to discourage such behavior. I met up with friends at their apartment on the Upper East Side before going to dinner in SoHo, a few miles south. I figured the parking garage of a luxury building in the generally posh neighborhood would gladly accept the car. Wrong. Nobody on the Upper East Side wanted to take the Bentley, probably because of insurance risks. Being unable to park the Flying Spur was worrisome. But then we started to run out of gas (10 miles per gallon will do that to a car). With little fuel to spare, I headed south toward Business Insider's offices, where I knew I could find parking and, more important, gasoline. As I inched along Park Avenue, the stress from the 4.4-mile trip became ulcer-inducing. More cabs entered the fray. I could feel my blood pressure rising as I gripped the $2,200 steering wheel more tightly. Benjamin Zhang/Business InsiderThe $2,235 steering wheel — before 10 mpg depleted my fuel reserves.I finally found a small gas station, which should have relieved some of the pressure. But remember when I said the Bentley was 17 feet long? A Honda Civic beat me to the spot closest to the station's entrance. Five feet of Flying Spur jutted out into the street. My passenger hopped out to divert traffic from an unimaginably expensive bumper and presumably priceless taillight. By this point a crowd had gathered, both out of a curiosity and because I had blocked the sidewalk. As countless cellphone photos were taken, I managed to maneuver the Bentley in front of another pump. I was afraid that filling the tank would be like refueling an Abrams tank, but I was finished, mercifully, in 10 minutes. During the fill-up, the Bentley's big twin-turbocharged W12 engine radiated so much heat that the station attendant ask if I needed a mechanic.  It all worked out OK in the end, but the next time I see a Bentley in the city, I'll understand what the driver is going through. I'll feel their pain. Benjamin Zhang/Business InsiderNothing compact about this car.Fortunately, I also got the chance to assess the Bentley on the calm roads of Northern New Jersey and the soothing byways of Upstate New York.  The 616-horsepower Flying Spur is stylish, powerful, and athletic, everything a Bentley should be. Even better, the super-sedan's raw horsepower is wrapped in civility. This is a car that coddles passengers with almost otherworldly luxury.  The car is massive. However, thanks to its aluminum construction, it feels surprising light on its feet, whether navigating country roads — far from marauding cabs — or cruising in the left lane of a highway. There's no lack of pep, either. When you stomp on the gas pedal, that W12 comes life (and, yes, you read that right — with 12 cylinders the Flying Spur proves that there's no replacement for displacement).  Zero to 60 whizzes by in just 4.3 seconds, on the way to a top speed of 200 mph (I obviously didn't come remotely close to testing that limit). This is surprising supercar speed in a four-door that some might liken to a road-going mega-yacht. But acceleration in the Flying Spur isn't the gut punch it is in many supercars. Bentley simply wouldn't subject occupants to such vulgarities. Instead, the power come on in a steady, confident surge — a continuous tidal wave of thrust.  Benjamin Zhang/ Business Insider Get me outta here!All in all, I marvel at what Bentley's engineers have been able to accomplish with the Flying Spur. Sure, it was a difficult to drive in Manhattan. But then again, that's not where it's supposed to shine. The Flying Spur is a high-speed cruiser. It's a throwback to the days before the private jet, or commercial air travel in general, when the well-heeled used big-engined chauffeured sedans to cover long distances in style.  In that role, the Flying Spur is a world-beater. And the next time I want to drive to my ancestral castle in the distant New Jersey countryside, the Bentley will be my ride of choice. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsVespasian Dupondius, coins of Scotland.In what can be described only as a surprising evolution of public opinion, the odds that Scotland will vote for independence from the United Kingdom on Thursday are starting to look serious. In a recent YouGov poll, pro-independence (“Yes”) voters outnumbered voters who prefer to keep the 307-year-old union intact, 51 percent to 49 percent. Other polls still show the “No” camp in the lead, but only by an average of 4 percentage points. Factor in the margin of error, and the vote looks too close to call. If the “ayes” have it, the referendum would be the beginning of a very complicated period for a newly independent Scottish state. Starting with the likelihood of destabilizing capital outflows. The question of what currency to use would undoubtedly be the new nation’s most pressing problem. Two possibilities already seem out of the question. The first, which would be the simplest for Scotland, would be to continue using the pound and remain subject to the Bank of England’s monetary policy. But British officials have categorically ruled out such a currency union. The country could also adopt the euro, but the independence movement has pooh-poohed the idea. That leaves three choices. First, Scotland could use the pound without the Bank of England backstop, as Panama does with the dollar and Monaco with the euro. Second, it could create a new currency and peg it to the British pound. Or third, it could create a new currency and allow it to float. There are major problems with all three solutions, according to Neville Hill, Credit Suisse’s Co-Head of Global Strategy &amp; Fixed Income. Consider the first choice. Countries that adopt another currency without central bank support require stable, highly capitalized banking systems to make up for the fact that they can’t create liquidity. Scotland’s banks hardly fit that description — the largest of them, the Royal Bank of Scotland, nearly collapsed in the financial crisis, and the British government still owns 81 percent of it. And the second: If Scotland adopted a peg, any central bank it created would struggle to both keep the currency stable and serve as a convincing backstop to Scottish banks, whose balance sheets would be worth an enormous 1,200 percent of GDP. Finally, a free float would most likely see huge capital outflows from Scotland to England. No matter what currency arrangement Scotland might choose, Hill says, “unmixing a currency union is like taking milk out of coffee.” Already, Lloyd’s and the Royal Bank of Scotland, the two largest Scottish banks, have said they will relocate to England if the referendum passes, which would devastate the local economy. Seven percent of Scots work in the financial sector and affiliated service industries, which in turn comprise 13 percent of GDP. But Scotland’s largest banks don’t rely as heavily on the Scottish people as the Scots do on them. For example, between 80 and 90 percent of the mortgages Scottish banks make go to non-Scottish households. Given the absence of a lender of last resort credible enough to stand up a financial sector the size of Scotland’s, banks would almost certainly face higher funding costs in the wake of a split, and would therefore be at a disadvantage relative to their British peers. The situation would resemble that of peripheral banks during the worst part of the European debt crisis, when it looked as though one or more peripheral countries would leave the euro. Depositors fled, funding costs skyrocketed, and sovereign bond yields went through the roof, largely out of concern about the stability of the financial system. The British pound has dropped some 3 percent against the dollar in the wake of the new polls. Michael O’Sullivan, Credit Suisse’s Chief Investment Officer for the UK, Eastern Europe, Middle East, and Africa in the Private Banking and Wealth Management Division, says he expects volatility to continue until the referendum, at which point it either subsides (in the event of a “no” vote) or gets worse (in the event of a “yes”). Even if Scottish voters choose to stay in the union, “breaking up may become a recurring theme,” says O’Sullivan, similar to that of Quebec. Supporters may feel encouraged to try again in a few years, or the struggle for independence could color the debate on the UK’s membership of the EU, and possibly prompt an early vote on EU membership. Whether Scots vote yes or no this week, the secession genie is out of the bottle. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Man Alive!FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Financial Advisers Need To Remind Millennials That Bonds Aren't Just For Old People (BlackRock Blog) For some reason, millennials are only interested in the riskiest investments. Sure, the idea of "higher risk, higher reward" is more suitable for you investors how have the time to wait out the volatility of riskier investments. It's true that stocks tend to have higher returns than bonds, but they also offer incredibly unstable returns. In the past 21 years, "bonds have returned between 3% and 4% in a month only three times, and they have never returned more than 4%," writes BlackRock's Matthew Tucker. "Stocks by contrast have returned more than 3% 79 different times, including more than 10% in a single month.  The flipside is that bonds have never returned less than -3% in a month, while stocks have returned less than 3% on 41 different occasions, including four different months where they lost more than 10%." The bottom line is that millennials need to add bonds to their portfolio in order to diversify. When stocks are doing really well, you'll "give up some of that big upside," but you will also "create some cushion to help reduce the impact when stocks are struggling." Retirement Gets More Complicated If Parents Co-Sign Student Loans (Investment News) More adults are co-signing student loans on behalf of their children, and it's really going to hurt them in retirement. Although only 3% of households led by those aged 65 and older have student loan debt, the "dollar amount of student load debt by borrowers over age 65 is growing rapidly." In 2005, the number was at $2.8 billion and by 2013 it shot up to $18.2 billion. Parents "have to retire this debt before they get into retirement,” Larry Rosenthal, president of Rosenthal Wealth Management Group said. “[They’re] up to their neck in spending issues with this debt, and that’s going to move into retirement with them. They won’t be able to retire unless we assassinate the debt.” The best option for parents with student loans, and in particular, for those who borrowed PLUS loans when interest rates were higher, should refinance those loans through a Federal Direction Reconsolidation Loan. That'll help bring down interest rates so that retirement will be more manageable. There Are Lots Of Different Options For New Investors (Morningstar) New investors should start out with company retirement plans: your 401(k), 403(b), or 457 plans. These plans are good to look into because sometimes employers will match your contribution. Plus, the money automatically comes out of your paycheck, which really helps with "behavioral issues that investors can run into." For those who aren't satisfied with the basic 401(k)'s there are other options. "One of the big ideas--and this has been kind of a breakthrough for investors over the past several years--is that a lot of platforms, a lot of brokerage firms and fund companies, are offering exchange-traded funds without a commission. So, you can buy with a very low initial investment and just gradually add to your position over time as you have the money. So, this is a very investor-friendly breakthrough," says Morningstar's Christine Benz. She adds those investors interested in this option should look for a "good broad-market index". And finally, investors who are in need of short-term money should avoid stocks because they may need the money at a time when stocks dip. Instead, Benz recommends that they "sock that money away in some sort of cash account." Advisers Need To Tell Singles About All Their Retirement Options (Financial Planning) There's lots of information on retirement for married couples. However, 30% of men, and 52% of women over the age of 60 are single (not to mention the fact that 70% of women over the age of 75 are not married) — and they're going to need financial help, too. For unmarried clients, it's fairly simple. Advisers should tell them to wait as long as possible before claiming benefits. If they can wait until age 70, benefits will be 76% higher than if they claimed them at age 62. "Divorced clients who were married for at least 10 years are eligible for a spousal benefit," according to Financial Planning. That means that they can take whichever is higher: their own benefit or 50% of their spouse's benefit. Or they can even do a combination of the two: divorced clients are eligible to start claiming their spousal benefit at age 66, and then can switch and collect their own at age 70 (which has grown bigger by that time). Widows and widowers can collect survivor benefits, and also collect 100% of their spouse's benefits if they wait until full retirement age (or collect their own, if it's higher). The Florida Unit Of Banco Espirito Santo Is Being Investigated By US Regulatory Agencies (The Wall Street Journal) US regulatory agencies are now investigating the Florida unit of Banco Espirito Santo as "the latest front in a sprawling, multinational effort to untangle the finances behind the collapsed Portuguese business empire," according to the WSJ's Margot Patrick. Portugal's central bank governor stated that Espirito Santo's activity was "fraudulent." The bank is suspected of using financing vehicles in Luxembourg, the British Virgin Islands, and others in order to issue debt, "which was then sold to the bank's customers," Patrick reports. Customers weren't aware of what they were purchasing, nor the risks associated with said purchases, and regulatory rules were broken. The Florida branch is pretty small comparatively. (On June 30 it reported $751 million in assets, and net profit for the first half of the year was $943,000.) However, the bank was still a major player for Espirito Santo. In 1975 this branch was opened in order "to slowly rebuild its business — a process that culminated with the [Espirito Santo family] buying the Portuguese bank back from the government in 1991." FREE AppDownload
Corcoran Group Real EstateWho ever thought $98 million could be a deal? Last December, an insanely beautiful mansion on New York's Upper East Side was listed for $114 million. After languishing on the market for nine months, it has been discounted to the low, low price of $98 million, according to Curbed. Now the third most expensive home in NYC, the six-level property has 20,000 square feet of living space. That's in addition to 2,500 square feet of outdoor space, which includes a roof deck with sweeping views of Central Park and the city. The 69th Street home was built in 1884, and bought by investor Vincent Viola and his wife Teresa, the president of Maida Vale Designs,for $20 million in 2005. They gut-renovated the townhouse to create the extravagant residence it is today, according to The New York Times. After trying to flip it for a whopping $114,077,000, they've lowered the price to an even $98 million. And if the amenities are any indication, it's totally worth it. According to Corcoran Group, which is selling the home, the mansion has a saltwater pool with spa, panic room, heated stairs and floors in the parlor, plus a brick pizza oven in the kitchen. There's even an onyx elevator. You have to see this house to believe it. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary CameronUS Secretary of the Treasury Jack Lew and Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen.The US dollar rallied and stocks finished little changed on Wednesday after the Federal Reserve made its latest monetary policy announcement. The Fed took another $10 billion off its QE program and kept interest rates pegged near 0, while also saying it still sees there being "considerable time" between the end of QE and the first interest rate hike. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. The biggest story on Wednesday was the Federal Reserve's latest monetary policy announcement. The Fed took another $10 billion off its QE program and kept interest rates pegged at 0%-0.25%. The Fed also kept two key pieces of language in its policy statement. The Fed said that, "The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends." The Fed also said it still sees "significant underutilization" of labor market resources. 2. In her press conference following the policy announcement, Yellen was pressed numerous times on what, exactly, "considerable time," means. Yellen was reluctant to answer this, stressing that the Fed's first move on interest rates will remain data dependent and is not on a preset or calendar-based course. Yellen also said that she expects the labor force participation rate to continue to fall, but emphasized that this was her personal view.  3. The Fed also released its latest Summary of Economic Projections, which included the FOMC's updated GDP, inflation, and interest rates. This included the Fed's latest dot plot, which shows FOMC expectations for interest rates. Following this release, Peter Tchir at Brean Capital said that the dots showed interest rate expectations for the end of next year increased slightly from the June projections. Real GDP expectations were also modestly lower than in June's release.  4. During Yellen's press conference, both the Dow and S&amp;P 500 hit new all-time highs, but came off these levels into the close. The dollar also strengthened after the FOMC statement and Yellen's press conference, with the dollar making a new high against the Japanese yen, trading at higher than the ¥108 level. The dollar was volatile after the Fed's announcement and during Yellen's press conference, but strengthened against all major currencies into the close of US trade.  5. Earlier on Wednesday, inflation data from the consumer price index showed prices fell 0.2% in August. Expectations were for prices to remain flat, and this report marks the first decline in prices since April 2013. In its release, the BLS said, "While the shelter index increased and the indexes for new vehicles and for alcoholic beverages also rose, these advances were offset by declines in several indexes, including airline fares, recreation, household furnishings and operations, apparel, and used cars and trucks." On a year-over-year basis, CPI grew 1.7%, less than the 1.9% that was expected.  6. Falling prices is certainly not what central banks want to see, but Business Insider's Joe Weisenthal did offer another way to look at the decrease in prices: Americans just got a raise.  7. The vote on Scotland's Independence Referendum is set for Thursday, and polls Tuesday showed "No" votes leading "Yes" votes by a margin of 52-48. Two polls released on Wednesday, however, showed this margin favoring "No" by a margin of just 51-49. We'll have full coverage of the Scottish vote on Thursday.  Don't Miss: CNBC Anchor Calls Out Fed-Hater Bill Fleckenstein In Startling Shouting Match » FREE AppDownload
LINK NantucketHedge fund manager Reade Griffith just picked up this $20 million beachfront house in Nantucket, according to island residents. The 7 bedroom, 11 bathroom house features a home movie theater, super high ceilings, and an amazing garden. There's also a guest house. Business Insider reached out to realtor Gary Winn of Maury People Sotheby's International Realty for confirmation, but Winn said he could not disclose the buyer. If you buy something this huge, you probably enjoy some privacy after all. FREE AppDownload
APAt age 68, with a net worth of $3.5 billion and living in New York, Donald Trump fits the profile of a typical billionaire. What does the typical billionaire look like?  In their latest billionaire census, Wealth-X and UBS attempt to answer that question. According to the report, the average billionaire is 63 years old and has a net worth of $3.1 billion. Ninety-three percent of the world’s billionaires are over 45 years old. Wealth-X and USB Billionaire Census ReportThe average billionaire keeps his wealth in a combination of private and public holdings, typically concentrated in their ownership of privately held businesses. On average, 19% of their net worth is in cash, and 5% can be found in real estate and luxury assets such as yachts and cars. Male billionaires vastly outnumber female billionaires, by a ratio of seven to one. On average, they are married and predominantly self-made.  Wealth-X and USB Billionaire Census ReportFemale billionaires are less likely to be married, and roughly 2/3 inherited their wealth. The remainder are either partly or wholly self-made.  Wealth-X expects female billionaires to experience major growth in their mean net worth in the coming years. Wealth-X and USB Billionaire Census ReportOn average, billionaires are more likely to be found in Europe, but the United States has the largest population of billionaires when it comes to individual countries. New York is the biggest billionaire city, followed by Moscow, Hong Kong, London, and Beijing. Wealth-X and USB Billionaire Census ReportYou can see more billionaire insights by downloading the Wealth-X report here. FREE AppDownload
Bam. The dollar is on a damn tear. Here is a chart of the dollar surging against the Yen after that Fed announcement. Obviously, people believe that rate hikes are coming sooner than previously thought. FinViz This is a continuation of a recent trend, as the dollar has been on a tear for months, crushing naysayers who thought the dollar was finished and doomed. Here's a longer-term chart of the dollar against a basket of other currencies. On fire. FRED FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Lucas JacksonThe Dow Jones Industrial Average touched an all-time high of 17,221, an 89 point gain for the day. At 2,010, the S&amp;P 500 was just a point from its all-time intraday high, but it was also above its record high closing price of 2,007. Markets have pulled back a hair, but they remain firmly in the green. The Fed's FOMC statement release at 2:00 p.m. ET was followed by some volatility in the markets. The Dow was down by around 40 points for the day. Notably, the Fed kept the phrase "considerable time" to describe the period between the end of its tapering of quantitative easing and the beginning of interest rate hikes. Some economists warned the Fed would drop this phrase, a sign that rate hikes could come sooner. Fed watchers note that the so-called "dot plot" looks more hawkish than it did in June. The "dot plot" is the diagram the illustrates the distribution of FOMC members' forecasts for the Fed's benchmark interest rate. In other words, the dots suggest higher rates sooner than later. Here's Brean Capital's Peter Tchir with the roundup: Dots - 1.27% average for end of next year (up from 1.2% in June). More hawkish. Also hard to get to 1.25% starting in June. I had nice templates set up, but Fed went in 1/8's this time instead of 1/4's. Markets weren't doing much ahead of the announcement. The Dow was up 20 points and the S&amp;P was up 2 points. Here's a look at the current dot plot. Federal Reserve More to come... FREE AppDownload
LinkedIn Brian Lederman.A New York City bartender posted an "open letter" on her Facebook page calling out a Wall Street asset manager for allegedly grabbing her bum. Laura Ramadei, who is also an actress and tends bar at Lucky Strike in SoHo, wrote that Brian Lederman put his hand on her butt and said that he would like to take her "to go." "You came into the restaurant where I work and ordered a Stoli on the rocks," she wrote on her Facebook page. "When I asked you and your companion if you'd be eating, or needing anything else from me, you put your hand — ever so gently — ON MY ASS and asked if you could take me 'to go.'" She then named Lederman and his place of employment, and later told the New York Post that he had placed three fingers on her left butt cheek. So far, Ramadei's open letter has been shared more than 4,000 times on Facebook. The New York Post reached Lederman by telephone. He denied touching her butt. LinkedInLaura Ramadei."I've grabbed plenty of girls' asses in my life. But I’ve never grabbed hers," Lederman told The Post. He did admit to making the "to go" comment. "I clearly remember making a joke when the girl said, ‘'What would you like?' I kiddingly said, 'I would like you to go with nothing on it.'" Lederman was "furious" and told The Post that he would make sure that Ramadei never gets another job in New York City. Lederman is a managing director at Swiss Performance Management &amp; Truehand AG, an asset manager, according to his LinkedIn. We were unable to get in touch with Lederman by phone. Here's Ramadei's full letter [via The Gothamist]:  An open thank you note to the stranger who put his hand on my ass and asked if he could take me "to go":  Dear Brian,  You came into the restaurant where I work and ordered a Stoli on the rocks. When I asked you and your companion if you'd be eating, or needing anything else from me, you put your hand - ever so gently - ON MY ASS and asked if you could take me "to go". When I immediately stepped away and said "Sorry, what?" you probably gathered that I was and am not receptive of such advances from customers. We were in a family-friendly restaurant, around 6:30pm, and I was wearing a loose-fitting, long sleeve shirt, jeans, and no makeup...so I'm not sure where the confusion arose as to what kind of service you were being provided. You left soon after, leaving a signed credit card slip and a two dollar tip (see picture included!). Your name is Brian Lederman. I found you, instantly, via a quick Google search online. I looked at your face on Linked In, the World's Largest Professional Network. You work at Swiss Performance Management and Truehand AG, in Investment Management. Of course you do. I work as a bartender, and have for more than five years now. I graduated NYU with honors, and have at some point held down every conceivable part time type job including but not limited to food service, administration, and even temp work at firms such as yours. So far, bartending allows me the most flexibility to pursue my artistic career, while comfortably covering my basic living expenses, including my outrageously high student loan payments. I have a good job that I'm grateful for. The environment is low key, I have incredibly supportive coworkers and managers, and - in general - the clientele is nice. But I still hate being a bartender. Over the years my knowledge and skill set have expanded, but I seem to be getting worse at tolerating the "service" part. I deal with incredible amounts of entitlement, condescension, and drunk nonsense. And at a bar, it is impossible to ignore the fact that misogyny is alive and well. I can't tell you how many times people have treated me horribly and I've memorized or photographed the names from their credit cards, fantasizing about internet revenge. But every time I've been tempted in the past (even after verbal attacks, physical affronts, or sexual harassment) I've stopped myself and let it go. So congratulations, Brian! You've done it! You broke this tired ass camel's back. And though this is obviously a public shaming, I truly don't mean this as an attack. Maybe - just maybe - via the intimately connected internet world, my post will reach you, and you'll learn something about how hurtful and upsetting a small comment or gesture might be. Or at the very least, maybe a Facebook passerby will read this and more deeply consider how they treat women, how they treat servers, and/or how they treat other people in general. And thank you. Without your inspiration I wouldn't be quitting my job today, and endeavoring a better chapter of my life. Love, Laurap.s. Everyone else - please be kind to your server. If your drink took a while, it might just be because your bartender was rage crying about misogyny in the bathroom. Also because if you're not nice to her, she just might memorize the name from your credit card, find you online, hunt you down, and pee in your bed while you're sleeping. p.p.s. I'm looking for work to sustain me until all of my acting dreams come true! Something that requires only 30ish flexible hours a week and that covers NYC rent and NYU student loan payments. Open to all ideas and input. p.p.p.s. Thanks for reading. Facebook FREE AppDownload
The vote that will decide Scotland's independence from the United Kingdom is all but a day away. Here are the reasons that the UK should worry. It's Scotland vs the UK, and it's by the numbers.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Research by Alex Kuzoian and Sara Silverstein.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook   
Mike Nudelman  This column was originally published on Sept. 10. One week later, Warren wrote a response.   Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Massachusetts) is quickly becoming a progressive leader, but when she took a run at former Republican Majority Leader Eric Cantor for going to work for a Wall Street firm, she was wrong. I agree with a lot of what Warren says. In my time in Congress, I used to describe myself as a member of the fighting wing of the Democratic Party. Today, that would probably be called the Warren wing.  And honestly, I can’t think of any time I agreed with Eric Cantor. On paper, he and I have some things in common: we were elected the same year; we are both Jewish, and we both had, uh, blind spots that shortened our congressional careers. However, Cantor's unbridled ambition led to his active support in empowering the most nihilist elements of his party and, ultimately, the creation of the most dysfunctional Congress in American history. By the time he realized being the perpetual thorn in Speaker John Boehner’s side was bad for his party and horrible for the nation, it was too late to save himself from the monsters he had created.   Still, despite my admiration for Warren and disagreements with Cantor, I think her attack on his new gig with the investment bank Moelis was off base. In her interview with Katie Couric of Yahoo! News, Warren said Cantor's move was exemplary of a "revolving door" between D.C. and the finance world. She also suggested it was evidence of a disturbing phenomenon where "people in government are looking for that next job." But is Cantor really sprinting through an unseemly “revolving door?” Well, it is a door and a lucrative one at that. But revolving? If he wants to return to politics, maybe his Wall Street connections will help him raise money for a future campaign, but fund raising has never been a problem for him. Also, going to an investment bank is probably one of the least helpful places to go because of fundraising rules that limit how much those in that industry can donate. And if the implication is that he is going to work in an industry he once regulated, well isn’t that true of literally every industry?  Warren went on to claim former politicians who go to Wall Street "head straight out into the industry, not because they bring great expertise and insight, but because they're selling access back in to their former colleagues who are still writing policy, who are still making laws."     Well, who wants to buy access to Members of Congress anyway? If Congress were a hotbed of lawmaking and problem solving, maybe you can argue that hiring one of their former leaders was a play at getting in that legislative pipeline. But today? Thanks to Eric Cantor, the House of Representatives is the absolute last place to turn if you wanted to accomplish something. And the law prohibits Cantor from contacting members or their staffs about legislation for a year.  There are lots of real reasons to be cynical about the state of politics nowadays, but Warren overshoots by making Cantor’s move seem more troublesome that it really is. She's also wrong to question Cantor's expertise.  In fact, Cantor does bring a ton of knowledge and insight to the table. The TV dial, lecture circuit and bookstore shelves are filled with people who are paid to try to demystify Congress and explain why things are – or more often are not – happening. It’s hard to think of a person who has more of a sense of those rhythms than a former majority leader of the House of Representatives. You don’t get that job without having a pretty deep knowledge of virtually every congressional district in the nation and understanding what animates their representatives. That alone makes Cantor more valuable than almost any of the so called “analysts” out there.  Is it really true that he has no expertise? I’m not so sure. I rarely agree with the guy, but being wrong a lot doesn’t mean he isn’t an expert on issues. As the primary traffic cop on the House floor, looking for traps in legislation – or setting them for the Democrats – is a major part of the job. Even with legions of very talented staff, members of leadership have to become pretty fluent in virtually every issue that crosses the floor. There is a lot about Eric Cantor not to like for progressive Democrats like Elizabeth Warren and me. His positions on policy and his role as obstructionist in chief are reasons enough for us to be happy he lost. But to gild the lily of cynicism with an overblown critique of his post public life seems petty. FREE AppDownload
UStreamFederal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen.Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen is speaking after the Fed released its latest monetary policy statement. As Yellen speaks, the dollar is sliding, as it did immediately after the release of the Fed's statement. Yellen said that the labor market continues to make "gradual progress" towards the Fed's objectives, but it still hasn't recovered.  Yellen said that third quarter GDP appears to be expanding at a moderate pace.  Yellen said inflation has "firmed some" since earlier in the year, and said the FOMC sees a decreased likelihood that inflation will continue to run below 2%, the Fed's stated inflation goal. Yellen said the central tendency of unemployment rate projections in the Fed's latest Summary of Economic Projections is slightly lower than it was in June. Real GDP projections run "somewhat above" the estimates for normal longer-run growth.  Yellen reiterated that the Fed expects to end its QE program at its next meeting, and will continue its policy of reinvesting proceeds from maturing securities.  Keeping "considerable time" in the Fed's statement is based on the FOMC's assessment of the labor market, inflation, and readings on financial developments. Yellen said the FOMC sees economic conditions, for some time, warranting keeping short-term interest rates below what the FOMC views as normal over the long run.  Yellen said the FOMC now expects to establish a target range, rather than a single point, for interest rates when it begins raising rates, and added that the dots are the midpoint of the expected target range for FOMC members. Yellen emphasized that the FOMC's view of the path of future interest rates are contingent on the economic outlook. If the economy improves quicker than expected, a faster than expected increase in rates would follow; if the economy improves at a pace slower than the Fed expects, then rates would increase slower than the FOMC may currently expect.  In discussing some of the Fed's plans for exiting QE and raising rates, it says that it will use the overnight reverse repo facility only as needed, eventually phasing it out. Yellen said that the Fed also intends to reduce its holdings gradually as it sees appropriate. Yellen said the Fed doesn't see the Fed selling agency mortgage-backed securities as part of the process of normalizing its balance sheet. Yellen said the FOMC does not intend, over the long run, to hold any more securities than necessary to effectively executive its policy goals, and any remaining holdings will likely be Treasury securities.  The first question Yellen fielded was on its forward guidance the use of "considerable time." Yellen said the FOMC decided that this characterization of how long will elapse between the end of QE and its first interest rate hike remained appropriate. Yellen said that overall, there is relatively little change in the FOMC's economic outlook between the June meeting and the latest meeting. Yellen emphasized that there is no "mechanical interpretation" of what the phrase "considerable time" means, and said that when it raises rates will remain data dependent. Yellen's answer, overall, gave few clues as to what "considerable time" really means, and it sounds like it could almost mean anything. Yellen said the changes in economic projections were "modest" but added that it does show that what the Fed does depends on how the data unfolds.  Yellen said that the limited increases in wages that have been across the labor market are a measure of slack, and part of why the Fed says in it statements that it still sees "significant underutilization" of labor market resources.  Yellen said that the Fed doesn't see identifying who is which dot would be useful at this time. Yellen also reiterated that the Summary of Economic Projections are merely what FOMC members see as the most likely scenario, and don't take into account the full range of possibilities, both positive and negative. And because there is a range of possibility in the Fed's projections, Yellen pushed back against the idea that there is a big difference between the FOMC and the market's expectations for future interest rates. With regard to when the Fed would stop reinvesting assets on its balance sheet, Yellen she wants to make sure that interest rate normalization is "successfully underway."  Yellen said that it could take until the end of the decade for the Fed's balance sheet to get to levels consistent with normal monetary policy.  On the labor force participation rate, Yellen said that there is a "meaningful cyclical shortfall" in labor force participation. Yellen emphasized that this is her personal view and not the view of the FOMC. Yellen said that over time, we should expect to see labor force participation declining.  Regarding the dissent on the Fed's policy announcement from Charles Plosser and Richard Fisher, Yellen said this isn't a surprising or abnormal level of dissent on the FOMC.  With respect to inflation expectations in Europe, Yellen said that low inflation and the falling expectations are among the risks to the global economy.  On forward guidance, Yellen said the FOMC is "constantly discussing" it and said the FOMC wants to maintain the flexibility to respond to unfolding developments. Yellen said the FOMC wants to emphasize "data dependence" of its policy but does not want to be locked into a calendar-based forward guidance outlook. Yellen said that there is no "mechanical" interpretation of the Fed's forward guidance.  Yellen's press conference follows the latest monetary policy decision from the Fed, which saw the Fed keep interest rates unchanged and take another $10 billion off its quantitative easing program.  Yellen said the Fed isn't behind the curve in failing to return the federal funds rate in the face of a growing economy, but that headwinds including an "abnormally tight" mortgage market, the economy needs low interest rates to return to normal growth in 2016.  On Scotland, Yellen opted not to weigh in.  The Fed also released its latest Summary of Economic Projections, which included the Fed's latest dot plot. The latest plot was a little more hawkish than in June, as the average for the end of next year increased to 1.27% from 1.2%.  The Fed also kept the phrase "considerable time" when describing how long it expects to keep interest rates near zero after the conclusion of its QE program. Additionally, the Fed released details on how it plans to exit its QE program.  FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock.comWhen you were a child, fall meant new school gear to start the season off fresh. It's a little different for adults — no Trapper Keepers or freshly sharpened pencils — but freshness is still absolutely required. To help you get set for the season, Business Insider put together a list of items that will put you in the right mind (and body) to start anew. We want you to look, feel, and think sharp, so this isn't just about the clothes, people. It's about the gentleman. FREE AppDownload
Here's the new Fed dot plot. Fed On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve announced its latest monetary policy decision at 2:00. Additionally, the Fed released latest Summary of Economic Projections, which included GDP and inflation projections from FOMC members, as well as the famous dot plot. The dot plot is a chart that shows where FOMC members think the Fed's benchmark interest rate will be at the end of upcoming years and over the long term. Following the latest dots, Peter Tchir at Brean Capital said in an email: "Dots - 1.27% average for end of next year (up from 1.2% in June). More hawkish. Also hard to get to 1.25% starting in June... 2016 2.68% up from 2.53% - much higher... 2017 is "new" and is 3.54%... Longer run is 3.79% up from 3.78% - terminal rate settling in. This should cause bear flattening near term, but then long bond and ultimately 10 year should be bought. Equities should be ok with this and the language, though the press conference seems to have more downside risk, then we have to think about Scotland and Alibaba — probably more bond and equity weakness... From our work, the middle of the Fed is relatively happy to go along with the most vocal crew - and that is increasingly becoming the hawks. Will take time to sink in, but in spite of leaving the language, the hawkish sentiment is slowly winning, and most importantly, not yet priced in." The dots aren't used a policy tool but do give insight into what FOMC members think about the future of interest rates, and is the best insight we have into the long-term thinking of the Fed's members. Recently, economists at the San Francisco Fed highlighted the discrepancy between where the Fed sees rates in the future, and what the market currently expects.  Here's are the dots from June. Fed In addition to new dots, the Fed also released new GDP and inflation projections. This table from the Fed shows the Fed's updated expectations compared to the prior period, with GDP projections for each of the next three years lowered somewhat. Fed FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstU.S. Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen holds a news conference following two-day Federal Open Market Committee meeting at the Federal Reserve in Washington June 18, 2014."Considerable time" remains and the Fed's latest dot plot looks hawkish. The Federal Reserve just announced it latest monetary policy decision, and as expected the Fed kept interest rates unchanged and reduced its QE program by $10 billion. The Fed also kept the term "considerable time" when describing how long will elapse between the end of its QE program and the Fed's first rate hike. The Fed also released details on how it expects to exit its QE program.  "During its recent meetings, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) discussed ways to normalize the stance of monetary policy and the Federal Reserve's securities holdings," the Fed said. "The discussions were part of prudent planning and do not imply that normalization will necessarily begin soon. The Committee continues to judge that many of the normalization principles that it adopted in June 2011 remain applicable. However, in light of the changes in the System Open Market Account (SOMA) portfolio since 2011 and enhancements in the tools the Committee will have available to implement policy during normalization, the Committee has concluded that some aspects of the eventual normalization process will likely differ from those specified earlier. The Committee also has agreed that it is appropriate at this time to provide additional information regarding its normalization plans." The Fed also released its latest Summary of Economic Projections, which includes the latest dot plot, which shows expectations for rates over the long run are higher than they were in June. The market is seeing these dots as a hawkish signal from the Fed.  In its statement the Fed said, "The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored." The Fed also said that labor market resources continue to show "significant underutilization." "On balance, labor market conditions improved somewhat further; however, the unemployment rate is little changed and a range of labor market indicators suggests that there remains significant underutilization of labor resources." The Fed also said it expects economic conditions to dictate interest rates remain below levels the FOMC views as normal in the longer run. The announcement will be followed by a press conference with Fed Chair Janet Yellen, which is set to begin at 2:30 pm ET. Here's the full statement from the Fed: Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in July suggests that economic activity is expanding at a moderate pace. On balance, labor market conditions improved somewhat further; however, the unemployment rate is little changed and a range of labor market indicators suggests that there remains significant underutilization of labor resources. Household spending appears to be rising moderately and business fixed investment is advancing, while the recovery in the housing sector remains slow. Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth, although the extent of restraint is diminishing. Inflation has been running below the Committee's longer-run objective. Longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace, with labor market indicators and inflation moving toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the risks to the outlook for economic activity and the labor market as nearly balanced and judges that the likelihood of inflation running persistently below 2 percent has diminished somewhat since early this year. The Committee currently judges that there is sufficient underlying strength in the broader economy to support ongoing improvement in labor market conditions. In light of the cumulative progress toward maximum employment and the improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions since the inception of the current asset purchase program, the Committee decided to make a further measured reduction in the pace of its asset purchases. Beginning in October, the Committee will add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $5 billion per month rather than $10 billion per month, and will add to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $10 billion per month rather than $15 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. The Committee's sizable and still-increasing holdings of longer-term securities should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative, which in turn should promote a stronger economic recovery and help to ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months and will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. If incoming information broadly supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will end its current program of asset purchases at its next meeting. However, asset purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on the Committee's outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy remains appropriate. In determining how long to maintain the current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will assess progress--both realized and expected--toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. The Committee currently anticipates that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run. Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Lael Brainard; Stanley Fischer; Narayana Kocherlakota; Loretta J. Mester; Jerome H. Powell; and Daniel K. Tarullo. Voting against the action were Richard W. Fisher and Charles I. Plosser. President Fisher believed that the continued strengthening of the real economy, improved outlook for labor utilization and for general price stability, and continued signs of financial market excess, will likely warrant an earlier reduction in monetary accommodation than is suggested by the Committee's stated forward guidance. President Plosser objected to the guidance indicating that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for "a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends," because such language is time dependent and does not reflect the considerable economic progress that has been made toward the Committee's goals. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersDuPont logo is pictured on research center in Meyrin near GenevaBy Swetha Gopinath and Kanika Sikka (Reuters) - Activist investor Nelson Peltz's Trian Fund Management LP urged DuPont to break itself up, saying that efforts already underway at the industrial conglomerate to shed some of its businesses were not enough to fix what it called the company's "underperformance." Shares of DuPont - a sprawling 212-year-old company that makes food enzymes, nylon and detergents, among thousands of other products - rose 4.3 percent in early trading on Wednesday, after Trian went public with its proposal to separate DuPont's high-growth businesses from the more cyclical ones. Peltz, whose Trian Fund holds a $1.6 billion stake in DuPont, wants the company to separate its agriculture, nutrition and health, and industrial biosciences divisions from units that generate strong cash flows but are more volatile. DuPont, which is focusing on agriculture, energy and specialty materials, is already working on plans to spin off its performance chemical business, which makes materials such as Teflon and represents nearly 20 percent of its revenue. The company has previously announced a $5 billion share repurchase program as well as an initiative to cut costs by $1 billion. In a statement on Wednesday, DuPont noted that it has delivered a 220 percent return to shareholders since 2008, outpacing the 144 percent return for the Standard &amp; Poor’s 500-stock index during that same time. "DuPont welcomes open communications with shareholders and values input toward our common goal of enhancing shareholder value... We have had a constructive dialogue with Trian," DuPont said. Trian Fund's proposals were unlikely to be adopted by DuPont's current management, said Suntrust Robinson Humphrey analyst James Sheehan. "I think it will take a long time for the two sides to agree on the right corporate strategy, and Trian could be involved in an extended proxy battle." Trian Fund, which first disclosed its stake last year and had been in discussion with DuPont since then, said in a Sept. 16 letter to the company's board that it would begin meeting other shareholders. "We can no longer be silent as DuPont continues to struggle to execute what we are convinced is a flawed business plan, especially as we have a solution that we believe could double the value of DuPont's shares over the next three years," Trian Fund wrote in the letter released on Wednesday. DuPont shares are trading at nearly 15 times its 12-month  forward earnings, lagging those of seed maker Monsanto Co, which is trading at 19 times. The stock trades at a premium to chemicals maker BASF Se, whose shares are trading at about 12 times earnings. Trian's stake in DuPont would translate into 24.3 million shares based on the stock's Tuesday close, making it the sixth- largest shareholder, according to Thomson Reuters data. In October last year, DuPont announced plans to spin off its performance chemicals business into a separately traded public company. The unit makes titanium dioxide, a popular pigment found in products ranging from car paint to sunscreen, as well as refrigerants, and has suffered from industry volatility that has widely affected DuPont's profit and stock price for years. The timing of Trian's proposals was "awkward" as DuPont's pesticides business has been pressured by low crop prices, said UBS analyst John Roberts. DuPont has forecast a loss for the business in the current quarter. Rival Dow Chemical Co is also facing pressure from activist investor Daniel Loeb to separate its commodity raw materials businesses from agriculture and other specialty chemicals. Peltz said his proposal for DuPont would eliminate $2 billion to $4 billion in annual costs. The billionaire investor has been the force behind some large splits in the food industry. He played a role in the breakup of Kraft into Kraft Foods Group Inc and Mondelez International Inc. DuPont's shares were up $2.91 at $68.74 in morning trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  (Additional reporting by Soyoung Kim and Supriya Kurane in Bangalore; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila and Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
Greg Girard/Phantom ShanghaiAfter living for decades in various parts of Asia, Canadian photographer Greg Girard moved to Shanghai, China, at the turn of the 21st century. It was a fortuitous time to move to the city. Shangahi had just begun to change rapidly, as a bustling economy, directive from the central government, and economic reforms spurred major development for the first time in 40 years. The city’s ornate and seedy buildings began giving way to skyscrapers, residential towers, and squeaky clean development, as residents were forced out of dilapidated homes. Determined to capture the city before it disappeared, Girard began photographing the city’s old neighborhoods. Over the course of eight years, Girard captured the ghosts of Shanghai — the century-old buildings that were demolished and those that remain. In recent years, more of an effort has been made to preserve Shanghai’s architectural heritage, though the damage has already been done. Girard shared a number of photos from his project with us here, but you can see the rest in his book, "Phantom Shanghai," or on his website. FREE AppDownload
@OliveGardenStarboard Value, the hedge fund that last week published a 294-slide presentation outlining waste and failures at Darden's Olive Garden restaurant chain, has nominated a full slate of 12 directors to sit on Darden's board. These nominees will stand for election at Darden's annual meeting, set for Oct. 10.  But Darden isn't so sure these are the best nominees to lead the company. In a statement, Darden said: The composition of our Board, including both its independence and diversity of talent and experience, is critical to Darden's future success. Given the people facing nature of Darden's business, we also believe continuity of knowledge and relationships is important to the engagement, retention, and motivation of Darden's management team and to the success of the operating strategies that we are implementing. Currently, Darden has agreed to add four Starboard nominees to its board, in addition to eight company nominees, which include four new independent nominees. In a statement on Wednesday, Darden outlined a number of its concerns regarding Starboard's nominees and what the company sees as a lack of important qualifications from some board nominees including: Additionally, Darden thinks Starboard's directors might be stretched a little bit thin or have a few too many overlapping conflicts. In its announcement, Darden published two slides: one outlining Starboard's tangled web of board nominees, and another questioning the decision-making of some nominees. Darden Darden
While the fashion world is already looking ahead to Spring 2015, we're here to prepare you for Fall 2014. The majority of fall menswear collections that were shown at New York Fashion Week last spring had muted color palettes and resurrected past trends, from puffy jackets to fair isle prints. Sweatpants even made their way onto the runway. Here are eight trends to watch out for this season. Courtesy of Balenciaga, Michael Kors, and Alexander WangPuffy, quilted coats will be back in style this fall and winter. Top designers like Alexander Wang, Balenciaga, and Calvin Klein sent iterations of the down-filled jacket down the runway. Try to choose a style that is as streamlined as possible so you don’t look like a marshmallow (or time traveler from the early aughts), and pair it with slim-fitting jeans and sneakers.  Because it’s a sporty look, avoid wearing this style of jacket with suits or fancier attire. Courtesy of Rag & Bone, Belstaff, and Michael BastianAnother popular outerwear trend for this season will be shearling-lined coats that look like the classic bombardier jackets pilots wore during WWII.  While we saw a lot of these on the runway, no other designer was quite as into the shearling look as Belstaff, a brand from designer Martin Cooper that is popular in the motorcycle competition world.  The look is rugged and manly, but also best relegated to your weekend wear or worn on a chilly weekend getaway. Courtesy of Band of Outsiders, McQ Alexander McQueen, and Michael BastianFlannel isn’t only for outdoorsy men — it also works in the city when you pair it with leather like the designers at Marc by Marc Jacobs, Band of Outsiders, McQ Alexander McQueen, and No. 21 all did. It’s a versatile material that looks good whether it’s on shirts, outerwear, or cold-weather accessories. The more flannel the better this fall. Courtesy of Brioni, Gieves & Hawkes, and BallyHandbags are not just for the ladies. The runways were chock full of large duffel bags — approximately carry-on sized — being held by models for Bally, Bottega Veneta, Brioni, Burberry, and Gieves &amp; Hawkes. Whether you’re going to the gym or on a business trip, these bags are smart accessories. Pick one that’s neither too small nor too big, and opt for a leather version instead of canvas since it will last longer and be more versatile. Courtesy of Antonio Marras, J.Crew, and No. 21Knits are obviously going to make a comeback this fall, but the patterned knits and fair isle prints that we saw on the runway were an exciting departure from bland, boring sweaters. Pair yours with a blazer or collared shirt underneath to make it look less like something your aunt bought you for Christmas. Layering is your friend — especially since the temperatures will be dropping soon, too. If you're at a loss for where to start, J.Crew has some good options. Courtesy of Band of Outsiders, Agi & Sam, and Todd SnyderAside from a few pops of color, the Fall/Winter 2014 runways looked very muted and neutral. But the pairing that fashion houses seemed to love more than any other was the classic white and black combo. Agi &amp; Sam, Todd Snyder, Casely-Hayford, and Comme des Garçons all featured black and white outfits prominently in their collections. It’s an easy combination that any man can pull off, but if it feels too crisp for you, add a grey item or jeans to break up the look. Courtesy of Bally, Tod's, and OrleyThis retro-classic has been gaining ground for a couple of years now in men’s fashion circles, and this year was no exception thanks to brands like AMI, Bally, DKNY, Ralph Lauren, and Topman Design. Though most men are scared that a turtleneck will make them appear too feminine, it’s all about the way you wear it. Pair a tailored, light-weight turtleneck with a blazer or bomber jacket to switch up your style, or layer a thick-knit turtleneck with a blazer (you can also wear it all on its own).  Courtesy of Todd Snyder, J.Crew, and BespokenFor better or worse, sweatpants will be popular all season long if the runways at J.Crew, Sibling, Todd Snyder, and Band of Outsiders are any indication.  If you do want to take part in this trend, keep your look sporty but polished with nice sneakers or boots, a fitted-shirt, and top the look with either a casual blazer or jacket. FREE AppDownload
Azad Lashkari/ReutersA worker adjusts a valve of an oil pipe at Taq Taq oil field in Arbil, in Iraq's Kurdistan region, August 16, 2014.At least 3 million barrels of Iraqi Kurdish oil are on ships heading to Asia, with trade sources naming China as a possible destination as the autonomous region expands efforts to establish independent oil sales in defiance of Baghdad. Two sources with knowledge of the matter said Iraqi Kurdistan was in talks to potentially supply China with 4 million barrels of oil. Reuters was unable to identify the Chinese parties involved in the talks, which the sources declined to name, and it was not clear if the cargoes currently on the water were part of the discussions. A deal could place Beijing on a collision course with Baghdad, one of its major crude oil suppliers, which has tried to block the Kurdish sales that it says are illegal. The Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) argues they are allowed under the Iraqi constitution. "The Kurds are in the process of negotiations with the Chinese," said one of the sources, who asked not to be identified due to the sensitivity of the matter. "China is buying up multiple origins of oil. So, there is not an issue from that side," the source added. "It will come down to price." Since May, Iraqi Kurdistan has shipped over 11 million barrels of crude from the Turkish port of Ceyhan. The Kurdish sales have been shrouded in mystery, and the KRG has declined to say who is helping it arrange the deals. Trading sources said they may have to discount the oil to attract buyers in a well-supplied market. ReutersMap showing the oil infrastructure in Iraq, with locations of oilfields captured by the Islamic State.  According to a Reuters analysis of tanker tracking data, at least three Kurdish cargoes of 1 million barrels each have sailed from Ceyhan towards Asia in the past month, including one that was transferred to a supertanker near the Strait of Singapore on Monday. Prior to the latest shipments only one 1 million barrel cargo had gone to Asia, but the KRG may be seeking a new major buyer after an attempt to sell crude into the United States this summer became embroiled in a legal tangle. China's giant state-backed energy firms, including China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) and PetroChina, together work on over a fifth of the Baghdad-run oil projects. But Beijing also has stakes in Iraqi Kurdistan's oil production through Sinopec's 2009 acquisition of Addax Petroleum. Establishing a buyer as large as China could provide reassurance to other countries and companies who would like to buy oil from the Kurds but fear the ramifications of crossing Baghdad, which has repeatedly threatened legal action. Senior officials at CNPC and Sinopec declined to comment. A spokesman from the KRG's Ministry of Natural Resources declined to comment when asked about the talks. "KRG crude, priced at a significant discount, is finding its way across the world to many destinations despite the reluctance of big trading houses due to backlash from (Iraqi state oil marketer) SOMO," said another source involved with the talks, who also declined to be identified. "As one of the world's biggest crude buyers, China is no exception. I believe that a deal is imminent for Chinese refineries to purchase KRG crude." Azad Lashkari/ReutersA flame rises from a chimney at Taq Taq oil field in Arbil, in Iraq's Kurdistan region, August 16, 2014.The Ultimate Freedom suezmax tanker, carrying 1 million barrels of Kurdish oil from Ceyhan, this week carried out a ship-to-ship transfer of its cargo to the Northern Star, a Very Large Crude Carrier that can hold 2 million barrels of oil. The vessels were just outside the Singapore Strait in Malaysian waters. An official at the Malaysian Port of Tanjung Pelepas (PTP) and the ship's captain confirmed a transfer between the two vessels took place. The Singapore-based head of shipping at Nathalin Offshore Company Ltd, which manages the Northern Star, denied its ship was involved in a ship-to-ship transfer. Two more Kurdish tankers, the United Dynamic and United Emblem, have sailed through the Suez Canal in the past week and are listed as heading to Asia 'for orders'. After a stuttering start, Iraqi Kurdistan's oil sales now appear to be gaining momentum. More tankers have loaded at Ceyhan this week, while a number of deliveries in the eastern Mediterranean appear to have been made since the start of this month. The KRG's oil sales efforts increasingly resemble a cat-and-mouse game with Baghdad, with tankers loaded with crude frequently turning off satellite tracking before reappearing empty several days later. In some instances ships have sailed towards certain ports before sharply changing direction. A number of cargoes have gone to Israel, sources have said. MOL Group, which has assets in Iraqi Kurdistan, has also bought at least one cargo for its Croatian refinery, industry sources say. "Baghdad has been very clear and has taken action to block other KRG sales," said Richard Mallinson, a geopolitical analyst at London-based consultancy Energy Aspects. "But China is a major buyer of (southern Iraqi) Basrah crude, so how willing and able will Baghdad be to respond in the same way?"   (Additional reporting by Anuradha Raghu in Kuala Lumpur and Keith Wallis and Florence Tan in Singapore, Judy Hua in Beijing,; Editing by Michael Urquhart)   FREE AppDownload
John D. & Catherine T. MacArthur FoundationMathematician and MacArthur Fellow Yitang ZhangThe 2014 MacArthur "Genius" Fellows class has been announced, and among the 21 thinkers is mathematician Yitang Zhang. In spring 2013, Zhang made an amazing breakthrough in a classic problem that has eluded mathematicians for centuries. The prime numbers — numbers that are divisible only by themselves and one — have always been a major subject of study in mathematics. One particular aspect of the primes that has fascinated mathematicians throughout the centuries is their distribution — where primes fall on the number line. We know that the prime numbers overall get rarer as numbers get larger, but do primes sometimes cluster together, or do the gaps between consecutive prime numbers get larger and larger? The twin primes conjecture asserts that there are infinitely many pairs of twin primes — prime numbers that have only one number between them, like 11 and 13, or 17 and 19. This is a simple statement, but mathematicians do not know whether or not it's actually true. Most mathematicians have a sense that the twin primes conjecture should be true — the positioning of the prime numbers appear to be more or less random, even though on average the gaps between primes get larger, and if one has an infinitely long list of random odd numbers, we should have an infinite collection of twin pairs in our list. If at some point, prime numbers are always more than two numbers away from each other, then something is wrong with this intuition about numbers, and it would mean we understand the primes far less than we had thought. In May 2013, Zhang made a huge step towards proving the conjecture. While we still don't know if there are an infinite number of pairs of primes whose difference is 2, he showed that there are infinitely many pairs of consecutive primes whose difference is less than the somewhat awkwardly large (but helpful in Zhang's proof) bound of 70,000,000. While 70,000,000 is a pretty large and weak bound, Zhang's discovery was the first time anyone had found any such number. Before this result, it was still considered possible that as we consider larger and larger numbers, the distance between consecutive primes would also get larger and larger. Zhang showed that, in fact, as we keep looking at ever more enormous primes, we will find pairs of consecutive primes that are relatively "near" each other. Building on Zhang's work, a number of mathematicians collaborated to reduce that huge bound, and that collaboration resulted in showing that there are infinitely many pairs of primes whose difference is no more than 246.  While much work still needs to be done to prove the twin primes conjecture, Zhang's discovery and the work that followed are a huge step forward. Erica Klarreich at Quanta magazine has a wonderful write up on Zhang's work and the later developments. FREE AppDownload
Wealth X and UBS Billionaire Census Report 2014The above map shows the number of billionaires by region, along with the total wealth they hold.Wealth-X and UBS are out with their latest Billionaire Census, and this year’s results provide eye-opening insights into the lives of the world’s elite. There are now 2,325 billionaires in the world, who control a total wealth of $7.291 trillion, or 4% of global GDP. Roughly 19% of that wealth is held in cash, 5% in assets like art collections, yachts or property, and the rest is in banking and investments. Europe beats North America for sheer number of billionaires, with 775 in Europe versus 609 in North America. But the two regions were neck and neck for total wealth: Europe's billionaires had $2.375 trillion, whereas North America's held $2.371 trillion. Asia had the third biggest population of billionaires with a total of $1.41 trillion in wealth, followed by the Middle East, Latin America and the Caribbean, Africa, and lastly the Pacific. Wealth X and UBS Billionaire Census Report 2014When it came to individual countries, the United States continued to have the largest population of billionaires, followed by China, the United Kingdom, Germany, and Russia.  In fact, the US population of billionaires exceeded the populations in China, the UK, Germany, and Russia combined. But it’s worth noting that with current projections, China will overtake the US for most billionaires by 2027. You can see more billionaire insights by downloading the Wealth-X report here.
Fisher InvestmentsThis post is sponsored by Fisher Investments.  Here is some free financial advice that is extremely valuable: If the investment you’re looking to buy carries a stiff penalty to sell, avoid it. Variable annuities, for example — it’s one of many reasons they are poor investment options for the vast majority of investors. In variable annuities, this exit penalty — the price of financial freedom, if you will — has a name: the surrender charge. Surrender charges are high fees assessed for leaving the contract soon after you buy it. “Soon” to an insurer typically means about seven years, with the fees starting out highest in year one and falling slowly through year seven. Exhibit 1 illustrates a common surrender schedule. Fisher Investments In dollar terms, exiting a $500,000 annuity would cost you $35,000 in year one. And this is not a high-end, cherry-picked number. Fisher Investments has analyzed thousands of annuities over time, and they’ve seen initial year surrender charges as high as 20%. But you don’t have to take Fisher’s word for it. CNN cites the same 20%. According to the Texas Department of Insurance (the state’s insurance regulator), surrender charges “commonly range from 5 to 25 percent of the amount withdrawn.” It would be easy to keep on going. Perhaps that strikes you as no big deal, considering it applies only if you cash in the contract during this period. But the issue is actually much more fundamental than that when you consider the range of reasons this fee might apply. One reason why variable annuities might carry such high exit charges? Insurers know many people will want to exit. The designed end to a variable annuity is annuitization — turning the contract’s accumulated value into a stream of payments the owner can’t outlive. Yet studies have shown around 95% of variable annuity owners never do this. Why? They cash out earlier. So the high charge is there to discourage you from leaving. After all, if the annuity’s new car smell quickly fades and you realize you bought a lemon, are you really willing to part with a significant slice of your savings? Consider the example again: For a $500,000 portfolio, this realization carries a $35,000 sticker price, or roughly equivalent to a 2014 Audi A4 or an Acura TSX — costs we’re sure you’d enjoy more than paying a fee to an annuity company. Another motivation for these high exit penalties is the insurer has costs to recoup, a major one being the compensation paid to the agent or broker who sold you the annuity. Typically, these commissions are far higher than equity or mutual fund commissions. ABC News cites a common range of 5%-8%, not dissimilar from typical surrender penalties in the first few years. Over time, the fees embedded in the annuity are designed to recoup these costs plus some — after all, annuity firms generally aren’t not-for-profits. The surrender is more or less structured to give you incentive to either own the contract long enough for the insurer to recoup their costs— or make you outright pay up if you don’t. All this should raise two fundamental questions in any current or potential annuity owner’s mind: These fees attempt to restrict your financial freedom, and they are only one of many problems with annuities overall. Fisher Investments considers it a part of its mission to help investors better understand these complicated products and why they often work against investors. If you have a $500,000 portfolio and own an annuity, you have a lot at stake. Make sure you understand the details by downloading Annuity Insights: Nine Questions Every Annuity Investor Should Ask by Forbes columnist Ken Fisher’s firm. This guide is designed to help you better understand these investments. Act now. Click Here to Download. Find out more about Sponsor Posts. FREE AppDownload
CNBC It was kind of a strange segment. Futures Now host Jackie DeAngelis came out swinging, asking Fleckenstein right at the top if he was willing to admit that he had misunderstood monetary policy. Sounding taken aback, Fleckenstein answered: "I don't misunderstand monetary policy. I closed my short fund in 2009 because I knew the Fed would print money."  "If you want to pursue idiots like the Fed, and their crazy policies, and you think you can get out in time, go for it," Fleckenstein said.  Fleckenstein said he "never dreamed" the Fed would print as much money as it had and that probably nobody — including former Fed chair Ben Bernanke — thought the Fed would, either.  "I knew [the Fed] would print money," Fleckenstein said. "I knew it would be hard to be short [in 2009]. I never expected they would end up printing $3 trillion and that the markets would triple as a consequence, but I knew better than to fight them. That doesn't mean that this will end well." DeAngelis later said: "The problem I have with what you're saying and what others have been recommending, is that if people had listened to you guys over the last few months, they've really missed out on a big piece of the market gain." Fleckenstein, sounding almost exasperated, responded: "So what?! So in the last two months the markets have gone up by a rounding error, so what?" CNBC DeAngelis followed with, "I don't say 'so what' to taking money off the table," to which Fleckenstein said, "That's fine, you're not managing money."  The whole thing is a little weird, and the last minute or so is mostly Fleckenstein and another guest yelling over each other.  Overall, Fleckenstein's assertion that the Fed's money-printing policies won't end well for the markets echoes statements he made back in August. Last month, Fleckenstein told King World News, "Bonds are a joke, yes, and stocks are a joke, and which one is going to crack first and which one is going to lead to more trouble, I can't tell you, other than both are going to be big problems somewhere down the road." And over the last couple of years, Fleckenstein has been consistently critical of the Fed's easy money policies. As a money manager, however, he didn't "fight the Fed," as the saying goes, until last year, when he re-opened his short hedge fund after closing it down to go exclusively long in 2009. But looking at the investing landscape more broadly, it's an interesting time for investors or strategists many consider "permabears."  Recently, we've seen folks like Gina Martin Adams and Bob Janjuah turn less bearish after maintaining some of the most steadfastly bearish stances on Wall Street for years. And listening to Fleckenstein talk, you can almost hear the frustration in his voice. The belief that the monetary experiment currently being undertaken by the world's largest central banks will end in ruin has become a more marginalized, if not downright lonely, position in the face of bond and stock markets that have rallied.  And while a media outfit like CNBC is trying to create compelling segments for viewers, the most honest assessment of Fleckenstein's appearance Tuesday is that it seemed as if he was getting trolled.  On Twitter, one our favorites Jesse Livermore at Philosophical Economics noted the segment and said:   Top alert: when financial journalists w/ 0 skin in the game lay into reputable fund managers for "missing the rally": http://t.co/I2h5oreWAf  Since when @CNBC so aggressive w bear guests? http://t.co/I2h5oreWAf Scott Wapner blast Faber to his face, now Jackie DeAng. to Fleckenstein  Earlier this week we highlighted comments made earlier this summer by Laszlo Birinyi, who said the current bull market was in the exuberance phase but that there was still a blow-off top to come. Birinyi said that in addition to things like the local barista asking for your stock picks, the real blow-off top in bull markets comes when the stock market is front-page news and the media portrays a market that can't go down or that only a real loon would believe can go lower.  And while no one thing ever really calls a market top or a bottom, it certainly seems as if there has been a shift in sentiment, and it is certainly worth nothing when bears start becoming bulls and how lonely the remaining bears are.  Watch the whole video from CNBC below, and you can read CNBC's write-up of Fleckenstein's interview here.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rebecca NadenBritain's Queen Elizabeth waded slightly into the debate over Scottish independence last weekend.Over the past week, the polls leading up to the Scottish referendum on Thursday have held remarkably steady. Each of the past four polls has the "no" vote at 52%, while "yes" for independence has hovered at 48%.  The "yes" vote has gained considerable momentum over the past month, but at least for the moment, it appears that it has halted. And if things continue to turn and the "no" vote ends up winning by a considerable amount, one electoral prognosticator thinks there might be a simple explanation: The queen. Queen Elizabeth waded into the discussion about the possible breakup of the United Kingdom last weekend, making a passing comment that Scots should think "very carefully about the future" before they case their vote. Observers took it as a clear sign of where she stood in the debate. REUTERS/Cathal McNaughtonA "No" campaign placard and Union flag are seen outside a cottage on the Isle of North Uist, in the Outer Hebrides of Scotland September 15, 2014.Sam Wang, a professor at Princeton University who maintains an electoral forecast mainly geared at US campaigns, thinks if the "no" campaign shifts the momentum and comes out with a big win on Thursday, it could be evidence the queen's words played a big part. She is one voice who is consistently popular in the polls. "Of all these people who are involved," Wang told Business Insider, "the one person who's popular is the queen. She's stayed above it all." If the results hold steady and "no" only wins by a narrow margin, then it won't be clear if the queen played a part. But "if it’s wider margin, then maybe she did," Wang said. Wang estimates the referendum will be "extremely close," but "no" is still clearly favored. Those favoring independence have about a one-in-four chance of pulling the upset, Wang said. In an interview with Business Insider, Wang mused about the difference between the subject he has followed closely this year — the midterm elections — vs. the Scottish referendum. "I mean, holy s—!" he said. "Here we are, gassing on about the Alaska Senate race. ... What happens in the Senate is only for two years. What happens in Scotland is forever." FREE AppDownload
Via Wikimedia CommonsThe University of Pennsylvania has produced 25 undergraduate alumni billionaires, the most of any school in the world.More billionaires went to the University of Pennsylvania for their undergraduate degrees than any other college in the world, according to a new report from Wealth-X. 25 current billionaires received their bachelor's degrees at Penn, the most of any school on Wealth-X's list. The only other colleges to produce similar numbers were Harvard University — with 22 undergrad alum billionaires — and Yale University — with 20. American universities dominated the undergraduate alumni billionaires list, representing all but four spots in the top 20, including the first eight positions. Here are the 20 universities with the most billionaire undergraduate alumni and how many alumni they have, via Wealth-X: 1. University of Pennsylvania — 25 2. Harvard University — 22 3. Yale University — 20 4. University of Southern California — 16 5. Cornell University — 14 5. Princeton University — 14 5. Stanford University — 14 8. University of California, Berkeley — 12 8. University of Mumbai (India) — 12 10. London School of Economics (United Kingdom) — 11 10. Lomonosov Moscow State University (Russia) — 11 12. Dartmouth College — 10 12. University of Michigan — 10 12. University of Texas — 10 15. Duke University — 9 15. New York University — 9 17. Brown University — 8 17. Columbia University — 8 19. Massachusetts Institute of Technology — 7 20. Eth Zurich (Switzerland) — 6 Last year's Wealth-X billionaire census looked at universities with the most billionaire alumni of both undergraduate and graduate programs. Harvard topped that list, with 52 billionaire alumni. Penn came in second, with 28. FREE AppDownload
If an ill person touches a doorknob at work, how long does the virus take to spread around the office? Within four hours, scientists found it in an alarming number of places. This video originally appeared on Slate Video. Watch More: slate.com/video Dallas Jensen is a regular video contributor to Slate. Follow Slate: On YouTube
Marvel ComicsHe's threatening 12% unemployment.If you weren't already convinced about what a nightmare deflation would be for the Eurozone, credit ratings agency Fitch has a grim report out, showing the sort of issues the struggling bloc could be hit by. "A classic debt deflation feedback loop could ensue," according to the authors. Among economists, that's better known as the "doom loop." A total lack of growth and inflation could put huge pressure on national budgets, and cripple the ability of governments to assist struggling banks, with credit ratings slashed all round. Deflation could hit government finances for two reasons. Firstly, the interest government pays when it issues bonds depends on inflation. For example, if the French government issued a 10-year bond in 2007, an investor expecting 2% inflation might want a 2.5% yield. Nobody likes losing money. If inflation then dropped to -1%, the investor would be getting a much better deal on his bond, relative to other options. But the French government would not be happy — it would be paying a much higher real rate of interest to make that bondholder whole. Secondly, if prices in shops fall, revenues from sources like sales taxes will suffer too.  Fitch is stressing the massive risks from deflation in the Eurozone: the scenario doesn’t even require dramatic numbers. In the projection, inflation drops to -1% in 2015 and 2016, and rises to 0% afterwards. This is what it might do to government debt:  FitchHow Italian and Dutch debts would surge without inflation in the Eurozone The picture is not pretty. The "doom loop," coined by the Bank of England in 2009, means any government help for banks would raise their debt, making the countries themselves less stable. Fitch says that if banks deteriorate and finance ministries have to pick up the bill, they risk being downgraded themselves.  Fitch reckons unemployment would rise to about 12% and stay there. That’s more than twice the rate Japan recorded when inflation went into reverse there.  Investors wouldn’t like it either. The rating agency says the weak nominal GDP growth “would be bad for equity, property and other non-fixed income asset prices". Japan’s aging population invested heavily in bonds during the country’s deflationary decade.  ECB, BIS, Fitch Eurozone bank lending is already falling, and could worsen European banks themselves would be increasingly stressed, withdrawing from international lending at hitting economies in the rest of the world too.  The researchers are pretty negative about the European Central Bank coming to the rescue. Fitch says "its actions to date cannot be regarded as pre-emptive", and that a "misreading of the economic outlook" could mean European countries are left to deal with such crises on their own.  The authors say the deflation outcome isn't their most likely, but the risks for the embattled currency union are still on the downside.  FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVRick RiederOn Wednesday, the Fed is set to announce its latest monetary policy decision, and everyone is looking for two words: "considerable time." Specifically, they'll monitor whether or not the Fed decides to drop that phrase. In recent statements, the Fed has said, "The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends." And ahead of Wednesday's meeting, some expect the Fed to drop this phrase, others expect the Fed to keep this phrase. But BlackRock's Rick Rieder doesn't think these are the most important two words in the Fed's policy statement. "I think the most important phrase is actually not 'considerable time,'' Rider said at a media briefing on Wednesday. "It's actually at the end of the statement where it says, 'even after employment and inflation are near mandate consistent levels, economic conditions may for some time warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below the level the Committee views as normal in the long run.'" "I can't tell you how important that is," Rieder said.  Rieder views the Fed statement as containing three important pieces for the markets and the economy: the timing, the pace, and the destination of interest rates. Whether the Fed raises rates in March or June, from a broad macro perspective, isn't that significant, Rieder says, but knowing where the Fed is going and how quickly it gets there is much more important. Rieder sees the Fed moving at a deliberate pace to a  lower historic destination. So basically, Rieder sees the Fed keeping rates "lower for longer" after it begins raising interest rates. And while the Fed says that its Summary of Economic Projections, which includes the dot plot showing where FOMC members see interest rates at the end of future years, isn't a necessarily forecast, it's the best window we have into the thinking of Fed members.  And so while the Fed's statement is essential, we also need to be focused on the dot plots, and if the Fed gives any color on where interest rates are going longer-term, not just when they start first rising.  Here's the latest dot plot, which shows the median FOMC projection for 2015 interest rates at around 1%, and 2016 year-end rates near 2.25%. Fed It isn't when the Fed starts moving, but where it's going that is most important for markets.   FREE AppDownload
Andreas Rentz/Getty ImagesOliver Samwer, Konstantin Sixt and Marc Samwer attend the Chairmen & Speaker Dinner during the DLD Conference 2012 at the Jewish Community Centre on January 22, 2012 in Munich, Germany.Oliver Samwer and his brothers Marc and Alexander are on the brink of becoming Germany's newest billionaires with the flotations of Rocket Internet and the European online fashion site Zalando it helped launch in 2008. The sons of a lawyer who encouraged them to read Germany's Handelsblatt finance daily, they want to make Rocket the world's biggest e-commerce platform outside the United States and China by conquering markets that Amazon or Alibaba have yet to dominate. Deciding as teenagers to go into business together, they will now profit from the estimated 5 billion euros ($6.5 billion) flotation of Rocket, in which their Global Founders Fund has a 52.3 percent stake. Zalando, in which they own a 17 percent share, could be worth about 4.5 billion and separate flotations of other Rocket start-ups might follow next year. "Marc, the oldest, is like the foreign minister of the family, who speaks very well. Alex, the youngest, is the intellectual with a fine sense of strategy and the long-term," said Joel Kaczmarek, the author of a new German biography of the Samwers titled "The Godfathers of the Internet". "Oliver is something in between, the typical middle child with sharp elbows who had to do the most to prove himself... Winning is everything for him." Dubbed "the most aggressive man in the Internet" by German monthly Manager Magazin, Samwer criss-crosses the globe to drum up investment and visit the dozens of start-ups his firm Rocket Internet has set up from Rio to Jakarta in the last few years. The flotations - set to be Germany's biggest technology listings since the bursting of the dot.com bubble a decade ago - are riding in the wake of this week's expected listing of Alibaba, potentially the world's biggest ever. Set up in 2007 in Berlin, Rocket has already launched Amazon-like websites for general goods in Africa, Southeast Asia and Latin America as well as five fashion sites in emerging markets and numerous online marketplaces for everything from real estate to taxis, food delivery and home services. WikipediaMarc Samwer speaks at a TechCrunch Disrupt Europe in Berlin in 2013.Pilloried for copying businesses pioneered in Silicon Valley, Oliver Samwer says Rocket is taking Internet innovation to the next level by applying German values of hard work and organization. "As these industries mature, like any industry, innovation doesn’t stop, it just moves down the chain into execution, operations and delivery," Samwer told staff in a memo last week after announcing Rocket's listing plan. Rocket's most successful venture to date is Zalando, which Oliver Samwer helped launch in 2008 with two fellow graduates of Germany's elite WHU Otto Beisheim School of Management. It has since grown to become Europe's biggest online fashion site with annual sales on track to exceed 2 billion euros in 2014. Oliver, the 42-year-old middle Samwer brother, is the chief executive of Rocket Internet and the sibling most in the public eye, while Marc, 44, focuses on the Global Founders Fund that manages the trio's fortune. Alexander, 39, is the brother with closest links to Zalando, where he is a member of the supervisory board. While the Samwers are still the second-biggest shareholders in Zalando, the firm is no longer part of the Rocket empire. The brothers' early ventures have already made them multi-millionaires - they sold German online auction site Alando to eBay Inc in 1999, their Jamba mobile phone ring tone firm to Verisign in 2004 and their European daily deal site Citideal to the U.S. original - Groupon - in 2010. The success of Zalando, which now dwarfs the Amazon-owned Zappos fashion site it copied, has encouraged the Samwers to hold onto the companies they found for longer rather than seeking a quick exit. www.zalando.co.ukScreen shot of Zalando homepage. "We are long-term players," Oliver Samwer said on a conference call last week as he announced Rocket Internet's plan to raise 750 million euros in fresh capital as current investors pledged not to sell their shares for a year. The three excelled at school and university: Marc studied law in Cologne then business at Stanford, Alexander took a degree in politics and economics at Oxford University and then an MBA from Harvard, while Oliver attended Germany's WHU and its U.S. partner, the Kellogg Graduate School of Management. During his studies, Oliver co-wrote a paper entitled "America's Most Successful Startups. Lessons for Entrepreneurs" and started putting what he had learnt into practice on his return to Germany by launching e-Bay clone Alando in 1999. Oliver has called Rocket Internet "McKinsey on steroids", and most venture founders are drawn from top business schools, investment banks and consultancies like McKinsey. "I will die to win and I expect the same from you," he wrote in an email to a team working on an online furniture start-up that was leaked in 2011 to the TechCrunch website. "The time for the blitzkrieg must be chosen wisely, so each country tells me with blood when it is time." Samwer quickly apologized for that language - blitzkrieg refers to the Nazi military strategy of a "lightning war" - but he remains unafraid to ruffle feathers by speaking bluntly. The father of three told senior retail executives at a conference in June that they were out of touch with smartphone-savvy youngsters and risked being left behind as e-commerce renders stores obsolete, particularly in emerging markets. "What you fear will come much faster. Go out very paranoid," he said. "Every time I come home, what do you think happens? My wife shows me this or that fashion site... she doesn't say let's go shopping on Saturdays anymore. Her shopping happens all the time. I go home tonight and we have (to?) buy online again." WikimediaOliver Samwer at the NOAH Conference in London.One former executive for a Rocket Internet start-up who declined to be named said working for Samwer had been a great learning experience but not a very enjoyable one. "They hire two CEOs for every company and they make them compete ...It becomes a place where people backstab," the person said. "There is none of that fun entrepreneurial spirit you have in real entrepreneurial companies." Rocket Internet spokesman Andreas Winiarski said the company hired multiple founders for ventures so they can share responsibility and said they usually acted in a cooperative way. "Rocket is a young, fresh, motivated team. Oliver demands a lot of his people and he can be tough when things don't go as expected but nobody has made as many millionaires as he has in recent years," Winiarski said. He has raised billions of euros from high-profile investors - most recently German service provider United Internet AG and Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company. Other investors include billionaire American industrialist Leonard Blavatnik, JP Morgan Asset Management and retailers such as Britain's Tesco and Germany's Tengelmann and Rewe. "Oliver has tremendous energy and is very straightforward," said Vigo Carlund, a board member for Kinnevik, the Swedish investment firm which is the biggest investor in Zalando and has a large stake in Rocket Internet too. (1 US dollar = 0.7729 euro) (Additional reporting by Mia Shanley in Stockholm; editing by Anna Willard)   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFederal Express delivery truck is seen in San Diego, CaliforniaBy Nick Carey CHICAGO (Reuters) - Package delivery company FedEx Corp should enjoy a record holiday peak season thanks to the continued rise of  online consumer sales in the United States, company officials said on Wednesday. Executive vice president Michael Glenn said on a conference call with analysts after FedEx reported better-than-expected quarterly results that the company would add more than 50,000 seasonal workers to handle the anticipated spike in shipping. Alongside its main rival United Parcel Service Inc, FedEx is considered a bellwether of U.S. economic activity. FedEx has been in an "active dialogue with our retail and E-tail customers all year to understand their peak shipping needs and plan our operations accordingly," Glenn said. UPS announced this week that it would hire up to 95,000 seasonal workers for peak season, nearly double the 55,000 it hired last year. A surge in online shopping and severe weather  last Christmas caught UPS off guard, resulting in delays that angered customers. Beyond the holiday season, FedEx expects the U.S. economy to grow at a rate of 3.1 percent in 2015. The company said the global economy should also grow at a rate of 3.1 percent next year. Constraints across America's supply chain system as the economy grows have enabled shipping and transport companies to raise prices for customers. That pricing power is expected to continue for the foreseeable future. Late Tuesday FedEx announced an across-the-board 4.9 percent rate increase effective early January 2015. FedEx reported a better-than-expected 24 percent jump in quarterly profit Wednesday as it benefited from higher shipment volumes. The company's net income rose to $606 million, or $2.l0 per share, in the first quarter ended Aug. 31, from $489 million, or $1.53 per share, a year earlier. Revenue increased 6 percent to $11.7 billion. Analysts had expected earnings of $1.96 per share on revenue of $11.48 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. "Coupled with solid general rate increases announced last night...FedEx appears well positioned in the competitive landscape to outperform through the peak season," Citigroup analyst Christian Wetherbee wrote in a note for clients. FedEx Ground average daily volume grew 6 percent in the quarter, primarily driven by growth in e-commerce, the company said. The company also reaffirmed its 2015 earnings forecast of $8.50-$9.00 per share. Analysts are expecting earnings of $8.84 per share. In early trading FedEx's shares were up 3.4 percent at $159.96. Shares of larger rival UPS were up 0.9 percent.  (Additional reporting by Sweta Singh in Bangalore,; Editing by Savio D'Souza and Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
The Fed is coming out with its latest monetary policy statement today at 2 PM. Then at 2:30 PM, Janet Yellen will give a press conference to discuss the Fed's moves. Parsing Fed statements is always a tricky exercise, but if you want to play at home, there are basically two things to watch today. And anyone can do them. The first is to check out the official statement for the two word phrase: "Considerable time." This was the key paragraph from the latest Fed statement, in July. Note the highlighted line: To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy remains appropriate. In determining how long to maintain the current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will assess progress--both realized and expected--toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. What the Fed is saying is that after QE is wound down, ultra-low rates will stick around for a "considerable time" which some Fed watchers assume to mean a period of about 6 months. There's some speculation that the Fed could drop or alter the phrase, which would be a hint that maybe interest rates are coming sooner than expected. So immediately when the statement comes out, check to see if that's there. The second thing to check out is the dot plots. Every few meetings, the Fed governors are all asked to enter in their forecasts of where they see short-term interest rates going in the future. The public isn't told which FOMC governor is associated with which dot, but overall the give a hint at how the Fed sees the future unfolding. Fed So anyway, keep this chart handy, and then when the new one comes out today, you can see if more FOMC governors are hiking their estimates of where interest rates will be at the end of next year and 2016. If you watch for "considerable period" and check out the dots, you'll know the direction the Fed is heading. FREE AppDownload
Luc Gnago/ReutersA U.N. convoy of soldiers passes a screen displaying a message on Ebola on a street in Abidjan August 14, 2014.The World Bank released a statement Wednesday warning that the economic impact of the Ebola outbreak in West Africa was "already serious" and could be "catastrophic" if the international community does not take serious action soon. This Ebola outbreak is unprecendented in scope, and worsening with alarming speed. There have been 2,453 deaths counted so far, and 4,963 confirmed, probable, and suspected cases — almost half of which have been diagnosed in the past 21 days. "The primary cost of this tragic outbreak is in human lives and suffering," said World Bank Group president Jim Yong Kim, but the economic repercussions cannot be ignored. "Today’s report underscores the huge potential costs of the epidemic if we don’t ramp up our efforts to stop it now." The World Bank analysis includes the following estimates of the economic impacts if the outbreak is quickly contained ("Low Ebola") or if it continues to spin out of control ("High Ebola"): World Bank "Its economic impact could grow eight-fold, dealing a potentially catastrophic blow to the already fragile states," the statement said, referring to Guinea, Sierra Leone, and Liberia, the three nations hardest-hit by Ebola. "If swift national and international responses succeed in containing the epidemic" and the fear swirling around it, however, there is still time to limit those economic effects. The analysis is not just about future worst-case scenarios. The three countries are already reeling from the impacts of the outbreak. Food prices and inflation are rising "in response to shortages, panic buying, and speculation," the World Bank notes. "Exchange rate volatility has increased... fueled by uncertainty and some capital flight." The key factor behind these trends is not mortality or lost productivity, per se, but "aversion behavior," which the World Bank calls "a fear factor resulting from peoples' concerns about contagion." This is what motivates workers to stay home, businesses to shut their doors, and governments to close down airports and seaports. In the SARS epidemic of 2002-2004 and the H1N1 epidemic of 2009, the analysis notes, such "behavioral effects... [were] responsible for as much as 80 – 90 percent of the total economic impact." While the costs of containment and mitigation may be high — as much as "several billions of dollars," the World Bank says — such strategies "would be cost-effective if they successfully avert the worse scenario." The World Bank report calls for international mobilization on four fronts: The World Bank has pledged $230 million toward the effort, with $117 million mobilized so far. On Tuesday, the World Health Organization estimated that $1 billion was needed to stop the outbreak. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsCredit rating agency Moody's is keeping its Aaa rating on the US, and the agency says its outlook remains stable. "Numerous credit strengths keep the US government's credit rating positioned at top-tiered Aaa, despite deterioration in its debt position since the financial crisis," Moody's said. But they warn that the government needs to do something about entitlements. "Adjustments to major social programs such as social security and health care spending may eventually become necessary to avoid pressure on US creditworthiness," said Steven Hess of Moody's.  Moody's also warned about public debt levels: Although debt levels in relation to GDP are likely to remain close to flat, they are also relatively high. After doubling from 35.1% of GDP in 2007 to 72.0% in 2013, the ratio of federal government debt to GDP is projected to peak at the end of 2014 at 74.4% and to stabilize at just below that level for the remainder of the decade. "These high levels give the US government less flexibility to respond should it face another financial shock." Head to Moody's for the whole statement. FREE AppDownload
Reuters Wall Street is turning its back on Macau after months of gaming stock sell offs and the lowest revenue of any summer since 2012. But it's happening slowly and painfully — with analysts shaving off a percentage point here and there as bad news just gets worse. That shouldn't be the case, David Bain of Sterne Agee argued in a recent note in which he took his gross gaming revenue [GGR] estimate to 0%. Most analysts are still sitting around at 3%. "We believe our new estimates eliminate a trend representative of “Chinese Water Torture” - constant minor downward estimate revisions on the heels of mostly known GGR disruptive issues," Bain wrote. In other words, all Macau's devils are already here. This weekend, horrid economic data out of China served as another all-around reminder of what Macau was (and would continue to be) lacking for some time — enough gamers to play the games. High roller play has suffered the most, disrupted by a $1.3 billion heist that sucked cash out of the financing system Macau uses to fund VIP play.  Even more disruptive has been Chinese President Xi's corruption campaign. After going to Macau and checking things out, Bain believes that the campaign isn't just impacting high roller play. Mass market players are feeling it too, and things are about to get even more strict. "A new anti-money laundering (“AML”) framework may be adopted in Macau within the next 30 days," Bain wrote in a note. "While the framework has a few new components, one Government contact believes the real risk for some will be a new “spirit of enforcement” which will come in tandem with the new framework, especially as it relates to know your customer (“KYC”) rules." In other words, the government might start to care about who spends money in Macau and where they got their money from. New territory. Mass market play will also be disrupted by a general economic slow down. Much has been made of the fact that, after seeing economic indicators hit their lowest levels since the 2008 financial crisis, The People's Bank of China is reportedly injecting 500 billion yuan ($81.35 billion) of liquidity into the country's 5 top banks using something called the "Standing Lending Facility". Some may see this as a sign that the government is willing to back track from its stated commitment to tighten monetary policy and do what it normally does when it smells a whiff of crisis coming on — enact some stimulus. Markets have reacted slightly positively to the news too. But that isn't the case here. On Tuesday the government's publication, Xinhua News Agency, accused those calling for fresh stimulus to support the economy of "failing to clearly see the Chinese economy's new normal." Unlike a straight up interest rate cut, SLF funds are temporary and costly to banks. They have to provide collateral. This isn't a free ride here.  Plus, the government uses SLF for a lot of things — right before holidays (China's National Day is coming up), and at quarter-ends — whenever the country could use some extra cash flying around. Consider this a targeted easing measure. China uses them all the time, as you can see from the table below. No one's getting rescued here. PBOC   FREE AppDownload
Skye Gould/Business InsiderWhile Netflix and Hulu offer similar services on a very broad level, one has become a major disruptive force for the entertainment industry while the other has become a bit player. Both offer over-the-top digital streaming of television shows and movies and both create original content, but what was once a battle of two equals has seen Netflix pull far ahead of its rival. The two companies do not do exactly the same thing but are clearly competing in the same space. Hulu sells advertising to support offering some free content on its website while also selling premium subscriptions through its Hulu Plus service. Netflix is solely a subscription play with all of its revenue coming from the monthly dues paid by subscribers to its streaming service and, to a lesser extent, its DVD subscription service.  Though their business models are slightly different both companies are clearly going after the same eyeballs and competing for the same subscribers and Netflix has been winning the battle by a wide margin. How are both companies doing? Hulu is jointly owned by Twenty-First Century Fox, the Walt Disney Co. and Comcast's  NBCUniversal. Because the company is not publicly traded it does not have to release financial data on the same schedule Netflix does, but the company has periodically shared some results on its blog. CEO Mike Hopkins wrote in a blog post in December 2013 that the company would reach $1 billion in sales for 2013, up from $695 million in 2012. "When you think about the fact that Hulu first launched out of beta in 2008, it's quite an impressive feat to scale the business from zero to $1 billion over the course of just six years," Hopkins wrote. While that may be true, it's not nearly as impressive as what Netflix has accomplished in the seven years since it launched its streaming service.  Netflix had $1.67 billion in revenue in 2009 and has grown steadily since then, reaching $4.37 billion in 2013. The company also has a huge lead in paid subscribers. In a blog post in April Hulu claimed 6 million paid subscribers. Netflix, in its most recent financial results press release, which covers the second quarter of 2014, claimed 35.09 million domestic paying subscribers and 12.91 million internationally. That difference is important because while Hulu does take in revenue from ad sales, 6 million subscribers at the company's subscription price of $7.99 a month equals just over $575 million a year -- more than half of total revenue. With Netflix so far ahead in subscribers, it's hard to see how Hulu can bridge the revenue gap between the two companies. Hey big spender  Netflix has built up a huge subscriber base and part of how it has done that is by spending big on content. The company has never detailed exactly how much it spends on content nor does it break down spending between licensing existing shows and creating originals. In April of 2013, however, the company released a document which pegged its annual content spend at $2 billion, TechCrunch reported. Some have pegged the number even higher as FierceWireless estimates its 2014 content budget could be as high as $4 billion, though that number seems high given overall revenue. In an October 2013 earnings call Netflix Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos said about 10% of the overall content budget went to originals, Variety reported. If the $2 billion to $4 billion total content-spend estimates are correct, that would mean the company has $1.8 billion-$3.6 billion to spend on licensing deals and $200 million-$400 million for original shows including House of Cards, Orange is the New Black, Hemlock Grove, and its untitled talk show project with Chelsea Handler that is slated to launch in early 2016. Hulu does not disclose how much it spends on acquiring or creating content, but it's much less than Netflix invests, though it is increasing. Hopkins did not provide numbers, but he shared some details in an April blog post. "It's not enough for us to simply invest in acquiring and producing great shows...we want to make sure viewers know where to find them – only on Hulu and Hulu Plus. To that end, over the next year, we will more than triple our content marketing spend to grow awareness for, and interest in, Hulu Originals."   Netflix has already won Hulu simply doesn't have the budget to compete with Netflix on original content or in making licensing deals. It's also hard to imagine that even if it produced a hit original that it could bridge a gap of around 42 million subscribers. In this fight, Netflix is Coke and Hulu is, at best, Royal Crown Cola (or, at worst, store-brand cola). Both companies still have room to be successful as Hulu's ownership assures it access to some programming that people will want to see. Netflix, however, has moved up in weight class and its rival is the concept of subscribing to cable overall. If Netflix can cause more people to cut the cord and drop cable, that could actually benefit Hulu. Netflix may be the No. 1 streaming content service, but if people drop cable -- which NPD pegs will cost $123 per month on average by next year -- it's possible that adding a $7.99-a-month Hulu Plus subscription on top of an $8.99 Netflix one will become common.    Your cable company is scared, but you can get rich You know cable's going away. But do you know how to profit? There's $2.2 trillion out there to be had. Currently, cable grabs a big piece of it. That won't last. And when cable falters, three companies are poised to benefit. Click here for their names. Hint: They're not Netflix, Google, and Apple.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLogo of Sistema JSFC is seen on its headquarters building in MoscowBy Alexander Winning MOSCOW (Reuters) - Shares in sprawling Russian holding company Sistema plummeted over 30 percent on Wednesday after its billionaire chairman was placed under house arrest, wiping more than $2 billion in value off the company. Russian investigators accused Sistema's Vladimir Yevtushenkov of money laundering late on Tuesday in connection with his company's acquisition of up-and-coming oil producer Bashneft. The charges against Yevtushenkov, one of Russia's richest men, raised fears of a return to the bad old days of asset grabs by the Russian state and drew comparisons to the fate of former oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky who was jailed for a decade. It comes at a time when investor confidence in Russia has  been damaged by Western financial sanctions imposed over the conflict in Ukraine. Sistema, which also controls Russia's biggest mobile phone operator MTS, says it considers the accusations against its chairman baseless. By 1040 GMT (6.40 a.m. EDT), Sistema's Moscow-listed shares were down 32 percent, slashing the company's market capitalization by some 100 billion rubles ($2.6 billion). In London Sistema's global depositary receipts fell 34 percent. The incident dampened the wider mood for Russian shares somewhat. The rouble-denominated MICEX index was about 2 percent lower than Tuesday's close, with big companies Gazprom and Rosneft off about 1 percent and Sberbank flat.  RISK ESCALATES "Such a dramatic turn of events comes as a surprise regardless of the market knowing there was an open investigation into the privatization of Bashkir Oil and Energy Group," Sberbank CIB investment bank wrote in a note, referring to the oil company that later became Bashneft. "The risk of a change in the shareholder structure of Bashneft escalates, a risk that now spreads to Sistema's other assets," the bank wrote. Among Sistema's main assets, Bashneft shares slid 22 percent, while MTS was down 7 percent. Dollar bonds issued by Sistema and MTS also plunged. The Moscow Exchange responded to the panic selling of Sistema assets by temporarily restricting trading in shares of the holding company and Bashneft. "Clearly all this comes at a particularly inopportune time for Russian markets, given concern over developments in Ukraine, the imposition of Western sanctions, and also the weak underlying growth story in Russia," said Timothy Ash, chief emerging markets analyst for Standard Bank in London. Russia's rouble currency stabilized after sharp falls over the previous week thanks to a new overnight dollar-rouble swap facility launched by the Russian central bank. The rouble had been hitting record lows against the dollar, reflecting Russian banks' growing thirst for the U.S. currency at a time when Western sanctions have restricted dollar financing from abroad. "The decision was very timely as dollar shortage on the domestic FX market deepened in recent days," said Oleg Kouzmin, economist for Russia and CIS at Renaissance Capital bank. On Wednesday, the rouble was only slightly weaker against both the dollar and the euro after moving sharply higher in late trading on Tuesday when the new facility was announced. At 1045 GMT (6.45 a.m. EDT), the rouble was 0.06 percent weaker against the dollar at 38.35 and lost 0.12 percent to trade at 49.69 versus the euro.  (Additional reporting by Polina Devitt; Editing by Peter Graff) FREE AppDownload
Jeanna Smialek at Bloomberg tweeted this photo of some cupcakes they have at the office in honor of today's Fed meeting. Jeanna Smialek Do those patterns look familiar to you? They should, if you're paying attention to monetary policy. These are the so-called dot plots. Every few Fed meetings, the various FOMC members are asked to make a forecast about the future path of short-term interest rates. Then the guesses are all put collectively on a chart that looks like this: Federal Reserve So you can see, that almost everyone expected rock-bottom rates at the end of 2014. By 2015 the picture is more mixed, as almost every FOMC member is predicting at least some kind of rate hike by the end of the year. And one of them even thinks that interest rates will be at 3% by the end of 2015. You don't know which FOMC member is associated with each dot, but taken collectively, they offer a signal of how they think things will advance going forward. Today we get new dot plots, and everyone will be watching. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ahmed JadallahVisitors tour the Cityscape real estate exhibition in Dubai.Property prices around the world continue to rise. However, the once hot US and Asian markets have cooled while markets in the Middle East and Europe have picked up. The Global Property Guide has compiled and analyzed the property price performance of the world's big economies. We've put together a list of the top 12 markets based on year-over-year, inflation-adjusted price performance as of Q2.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toussaint KluitersHomebuilder confidence is high in America. The NAHB housing market index jumped to 59 in September from 55 in August. This was stronger than the 56 expected by economists. It was also the highest reading since November 2005. "Since early summer, builders in many markets across the nation have been reporting that buyer interest and traffic have picked up, which is a positive sign that the housing market is moving in the right direction," the NAHB's Kevin Kelly said. The index of future sales increased two points to 67. "History suggests that the index of future single-family sales is a reasonable gauge of start activity six months ahead," Barclays' Michael Gapen said. "We view this report as consistent with our outlook that improved sentiment should support start activity in the coming quarters." “While a firming job market is helping to unleash pent-up demand for new homes and contributing to a gradual, upward trend in builder confidence, we are still not seeing much activity from first-time home buyers,” NAHB Chief Economist David Crowe noted. “Other factors impeding the pace of the housing recovery include persistently tight credit conditions for consumers and rising costs for materials, lots and labor.” FREE AppDownload
Data Driven ConsultingGlobal net import/export of oil as of 2009. Obama administration officials are concerned about the legality of a ban on oil exports and have begun discussing how to deal with potential challenges from nations that want to buy US crude, two sources said. Officials in the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative and the National Security Council have each held internal talks about potential free-trade challenges from South Korea and NATO allies, two sources familiar with the matter said. The internal discussions, which are still at a preliminary stage, are the clearest sign yet that the Obama administration is weighing options for easing the contentious export ban, a move that could dramatically alter global oil trading flows and boost revenues for US producers currently limited to selling their crude domestically. EU's top trade official, Mexico's state-owned oil company and South Korea's president have all pressed Washington to relax the ban, enacted by Congress after the 1970s Arab oil embargo. There does not appear to be an imminent challenge to the ban, however, experts and officials said. Washington long ago justified the ban on national security concerns and the need to protect against a domestic oil shortage. "Not a single one of those exceptions is likely to be able to be successfully defended if somebody challenged it," said Alan Dunn, a lawyer at Stewart and Stewart who represented Washington at the talks that created the World Trade Organization (WTO). "That puts the White House in a position where it has to figure out what it's going to do." Oil exports also could offer a foreign policy opportunity, allowing the United States to aid NATO allies, for example, as a geopolitical check against energy-rich Russia, one of the sources said. A USTR spokesman said no formal talks had taken place on the issue. An NSC spokesman referred questions to the Commerce Department, which administers the export ban. The Commerce Department declined comment. Sources declined to elaborate about the early-stage talks. The Obama administration could eventually relax the ban, whether through free trade talks or by directly approving oil swaps, in which US light crude exports would be exchanged for imports of heavy crude oil, the preferred crude for US refiners. REUTERS/Todd KorolAn oil pump jack pumps oil in a field near Calgary, Alberta, in Canada. For decades the oil ban was not an issue because the United States imported most of its crude. But thanks to the US shale boom, oil output is growing by one million barrels a year, and a glut is threatening to lower prices for domestic crude as soon as this fall. The United States allows oil exports to Canada as long as the crude is consumed or refined there. And Pemex, Mexico's state oil company, expects to soon import US crude via a swap or a direct import agreement. US oil producers have so far failed to persuade Congress to fully overturn the ban, amid fears it could drive up gasoline prices and encourage more fracking, which environmentalists say would have dangerous consequences. But with Asia thirsty for oil to satisfy fuel and petrochemical demand, and Europe anxious to diversify supplies away from Russia, other countries are urging the United States to practice what it has preached for decades: free trade. The fairness issue particularly came into focus after the United States earlier this year won two WTO cases against China, which it accused of hoarding raw materials and rare earth metals. "Oil-importing countries are watching to see if the U.S. will apply the same standards of open trade in commodities that are not in short supply to its own economy, while it demands these standards from others," the Brookings Institution said in a report released last week on implications of lifting the ban. The report said allowing some countries to get US oil while otherwise banning exports could be challenged as inconsistent with the global trade law, Brookings said. A report by the U.S. Congressional Research Service in August concluded that under international trade rules, US restrictions on fossil fuels could be difficult to reconcile with the 1994 General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. REUTERS/Rick WilkingA crude oil train moves past the loading rack at the Eighty-Eight Oil LLC's transloading facility in Ft. Laramie. While the sources didn't elaborate about where the administration talks were headed, the discussions could include using exports as a way to bolster relations with allies who supported sanctions on Iran over its disputed nuclear program. Other producers have stepped up, but the sanctions halved the OPEC-member's oil exports. Neil Brown, a former senior adviser for the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said relaxing the ban could help the U.S. relationship with Europe. To stand by a ban would be hypocritical, said Brown, now a principal of KKR Global Institute. Pressure to relax the ban is building steadily. Karel De Gucht, the EU's commissioner for trade, said last week that oil and gas needed to be freed up now if a wider free trade pact, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP), is to be completed. And South Korea's President Park Geun-hye asked a delegation of Republican U.S. lawmakers last month to push Congress to send the country more of an ultra light form of oil called condensates. Mona Sutphen, former deputy chief of staff for President Barack Obama and now a partner at Macro Advisory Partners LLP, said at an event at Columbia University’s Center on Global Energy Policy this month that a big disruption in global oil production, such as one resulting from conflict in the Middle East, could spur a huge discussion about exports. Failing that, change could happen at the later stages of long-standing trade talks with Atlantic and Pacific partners, she said. "That's really the political path that I see," she said. (Reporting by Timothy Gardner and Valerie Volcovici; Additional reporting by Roberta Rampton; editing by Ros Krasny, Karey Van Hall and Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of Europe's biggest insurer Allianz SE is pictured at the Allianz Arena soccer stadium in MunichFRANKFURT (Reuters) - German insurer Allianz on Wednesday unveiled a revamp of its property casualty business in the United States, which has struggled to bring underwriting losses under control. Allianz said in a statement its Fireman’s Fund commercial property and casualty business would be integrated into the specialty insurance business Allianz Global Corporate &amp; Specialty (AGCS), which will give the combined business more than $3 billion in revenues. "Various options are being considered to also build scale for the personal lines business of Fireman’s Fund," Allianz said of the remaining Fireman's Fund business area that concentrates on high net worth customers.   (Reporting by Jonathan Gould; editing by Thomas Atkins) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Essam Al-SudanA member from the oil police force stands guard at Zubair oilfield in Basra, southeast of Baghdad June 18, 2014. The Islamic State has taken over several oil-producing areas in Iraq and Syria, raising fears that the group could leverage its hydrocarbon wealth to the point of economic self-sufficiency. A Washington Post article today complicates that picture: ISIS is indeed producing between 25,000 and 40,000 barrels of oil a day, less than East Timor and Cameroon but about as much as Poland, Germany, or New Zealand. However, its oil is of poor quality, and ISIS is likely having trouble transporting it. According to the report by Steven Mufson, ISIS is only capable of moving its oil by truck, suggesting that the group hasn't mastered the use of northern Iraq's oil pipeline system. And the smugglers who move the oil into Turkey and points west are only willing to pay around $40 per barrel of oil — $10-$15 less than Kurdish oil sells for in Turkish ports and $55 lower than the global price. Some experts have estimated that ISIS brings in up to $3 million in revenue each day. But Ben Lando of Iraq Oil Report told the Post that ISIS's daily revenue might actually be as low as $250,000 a day. REUTERS GRAPHICS And this is before the downstream recipients of illicit ISIS oil have been identified and sanctioned — once companies are threatened with legal consequences for even unknowingly using oil from ISIS-held areas, smuggling premiums will increase, and ISIS's bottom line will take a hit. Above all, the oil isn't that potent anyway. As Mufson writes, the Islamic State's Iraqi fields "are so small and the crude of such poor quality that international companies did not bid to develop them when the Iraqi government offered them a few years ago." Even if oil isn't as much of an economic driver as feared, ISIS's possession of some of the northern fields could ramify in ways beyond the group's bottom line. As former US counter-terror official Juan Zarate explained to Business Insider, ISIS is deeply embedded in the local economy in ways that reach far beyond oil, and that make the group less vulnerable to outside attempts at pressuring it. And just as importantly, ISIS, which nearly seized a refinery outside of Baghdad in June, is interrupting the one industry that makes Iraq viable not just as an economy, but as a political unit as well. As a single, unified country, Iraq has the fifth-largest proven oil reserves in the world. In 2010, in a time when Iraq's oil industry hadn't fully recovered from the chaos that followed the 2003 US-led invasion of the country, Iraq still ran a trade surplus based solely on its oil exports: United States Agency for International Development And the country's oil economy only stood to grow. In 2012, the International Energy Agency predicted a nearly 500% increase in Iraqi oil revenue by 2020, and concluded that revenue would double during that period even in a worst-case scenario: United States Agency for International Development ISIS's oil profits might not be as astronomical as feared — but its ability to disrupt Iraq's leading industry denies the country of much of its economic potential while degrading vital infrastructure. In August, production dipped even in Iraq's relatively-tranquil south; production targets are being revised downward and exports have lagged in a country that's fragile enough to begin with.  For all of its problems, Iraq at least had a major industry to build around at the beginning of this decade, and revenues that could potentially pave over the country's sectarian differences and provide the economic and financial basis for a functioning, federated political system. Now, even that fleeting source of optimism is in danger. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michelle McLoughlinRobert ShillerWellesley College economist Karl Case wrote a lovely, albeit lengthy, poem about the housing bubble to his long-time research partner and Nobel Prize winner, Robert Shiller. The poem was presented at a conference honoring Shiller at Yale University. In the past, Shiller and Case worked together to create the S&amp;P/Case-Shiller Home Price Indexes, which track the changes in US home prices. Using these indexes, Shiller was able to predict that home prices would collapse. The poem was originally reprinted in the Wall Street Journal. We have reprinted the poem here with Professor Case's permission. Reflection on the Housing Market: Seven Years After the FallBy Karl E. Case For the last dozen years we have shed many tears Living through a recession The world was broke and it was not a joke When we talked of another depression Fifteen million without a job Foreclosures and banks that fail 401k’s became 201k’s And everything’s up for sale How could it be? What didn’t we see That led to all of this trouble? There is little doubt that the proximal cause Was a bursting housing bubble But other than that who can we blame? And what do they lament? Millions of people contributed to This hundred year event   For me it began in ’76 With a house on Cleveland Road At 54 thousand, I thought it a lot, For a small three-bedroom abode But 10 years later that very same house Would sell for five times the price I was glad that I bought … I remember the thought “This may not be fair but it’s nice”   In Boston alone, that boom created 100 billion in wealth We spent more, saved less, and I have to confess It was good for our mental health We had to know that it couldn’t go on Someday prices would fall We knew there were risks – to ourselves and our fiscs If those prices were ever to stall   It all began in 2001 911 … the dot.com bubble The Fed had to act because of the fact A recession would mean big trouble So the Fed Funds Rate, sitting just below eight Was cut to under two And you had to know with rates so low That a refi boom would ensue   The volume of mortgages written back then Stunned imaginations In a single quarter in 2003 A trillion in originations! But something happened late that year That caused long rates to rise And that was the end of the refi boom It came as quite a surprise   With refi’s gone so were big fees But banks still had money to lend And the search for buyers to fill the gap Seemingly had no end The Fed kept pumping through 2005 To keep short rates very low With no sight of inflation across the nation The target was simply to grow   Of course the key for all to see Was a robust housing market Buyers could borrow lots of cash And a house was a good place to park it A summer home … a new big house No one seemed to care Homes were made of bricks and land The value would always be there   It didn’t matter what rate you paid Or what you made in a year For a while liquidity led to stupidity “Just sign and see the cashier” High LTV’s and Option ARMs Negative Am’s and more 2-28’s with teaser rates And ridiculous Fico scores   Competition was the force That made the music play As long as prices didn’t fall Everything was OK People could always sell their homes For more than they had paid That kept foreclosures and defaults low And lots of money was made   Fannie and Fred were always ahead Then Countrywide got in the fray Then Lehman and Merrill and Goldman Sachs Couldn’t be kept away You can guess that MBS Helped make the trading brisk Investors, thought that the paper they bought Was traunched with well measured risk   To that add leverage and default swaps And then house prices fell The intercept shift was very swift And that was the closing bell The very first city to see the drop Was Boston in 2006 Then one by one they began to slip Leaving us in a fix   We tried the tax credit which seemed to work For a few months the markets came back But when it expired the markets got mired Resuming their downward track The inventory of unsold homes Still continued to grow And we’re hardly building any new homes With starts at a 50-year low   A number of problems remained as risks As we wait for markets to turn: The number of loans that still need to be marked Is making stomachs churn Twelve million who want to work Don’t have jobs today And slow is the pipeline of loans in default Since no one wants to pay   In the longer run a lot depends On the rate of household formation That depends in part of course On the rate of immigration It also matters what kids do Like living with Mom and Dad Or doubling up till they get a job To pay for their very own pad   For a while there was talk of a double dip The recovery was in a stall Consumers were down and beginning to frown Jobs hadn’t come back at all The Euro was falling, the banks were appalling As we wallowed in bad sovereign debt Europeans were asking aloud Really … how bad can it get?   The guys at the Fed have repeatedly said That their mandate includes employment But with rates at zero no one’s a hero No weapons are left for deployment QE1 was lots of fun Then along came QE2 We did the “twist” and we took on more risk Not knowing just what they would do   So now we come to the end of this ode Without much to say for certain I hate to say, that’s where we are Not beginning nor final curtain The truth of the matter at the end of the day Is that markets will make you humble Just when you think that it’s time for a drink They will turn and fortunes will crumble   That free markets work to provide what we want Is a notion that’s not in dispute The problem is that once in a while Markets overshoot And when they do in a market so large A lot of people feel pain In the blink of an eye many gave back What it took 10 years to gain   Among those who are getting the blame A few deserve to be flayed But a forecast can only be judged against What we knew at the time it was made Sometimes the future is like the past And sometimes it is not But when it comes to what we know The past is all we’ve got   Of course there is greed and there is a need For moral hazard and rules And for figuring out the effectiveness Of the new financial tools Politicians, of course, are starting to shout That they want more retribution It’s better, I think, if they used their time Helping to find a solution.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson Good news, America! We just got fresh data on inflation. And in a surprise to economists, prices actually fell 0.2% in August. The decline was driven largely by falling energy prices, which you can see in this table in the box that's highlighted. BLS What this means is that your dollar went a lot further in August than it did in the month before — you could afford to buy more stuff. And indeed at the same time that the inflation data came out, we also got the latest info on real wage growth. It turns out real wage growth (that is, wages adjusted for prices) spiked 0.4% in August. Congrats on your raise, America! Don't spend it in one place. BLS FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe General Mills logo is seen on a box of cereal in Evanston(Reuters) - General Mills Inc reported lower-than-expected quarterly profit and revenue as the maker of Cheerios cereal and Betty Crocker cake mixes lost further ground to cheaper store-branded foods amid rising demand for alternative breakfast options. The company's shares fell as much as 5 percent to $50.50 before the bell on Wednesday. General Mills said sales at its U.S. retail business, which sells brands such as Green Giant canned and frozen vegetables and Progresso soup, fell 5 percent in the first quarter ended Aug. 24. The division, which accounts for more than half of the company's total revenue, has been hit by intense competition from private label brands and new breakfast options such as frozen egg sandwiches and yogurt. General Mills has been cutting costs and increasing its share of the fast-growing natural foods market to revive sales, which have declined for four straight quarters. The company last week said it would buy organic food producer Annie's Inc for about $820 million. The food retailer also struck a deal with McDonald's Corp to have its Yoplait yogurts offered with Happy Meals in thousands of outlets. General Mills said on Wednesday it expects to save about $100 million in costs by fiscal 2017 as it continues to review its North American operations and cuts costs. The company's net income fell to $345.2 million, or 55 cents per share, in the first quarter ended Aug. 24, from $459.3 million, or 70 cents per share, a year earlier. Sales fell 2.4 percent to $4.27 billion. Excluding items, the company earned 61 cents per share. Analysts on average had expected the company to earn 69 cents per share on revenue of $4.38 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. The Minneapolis, Minnesota-based company's shares closed at $53.18 on Tuesday.   (Reporting by Ramkumar Iyer in Bangalore; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeWashington (Reuters) - The U.S. current account deficit unexpectedly narrowed in the second quarter, supported by a partial reversal of a large equity disinvestment that had occurred in the previous quarter. The Commerce Department said on Wednesday the current account gap, which measures the flow of goods, services and investments into and out of the country, fell to $98.51 billion from a revised $102.11 billion shortfall in the first quarter. That was the smallest gap since the fourth quarter of 2013. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the deficit widening to $114.0 billion from a previously reported $111.2 billion shortfall in the first three months of the year. A large equity disinvestment resulted in an outflow of $121.71 billion in the first quarter, which the government at that time described as an "atypical" occurrence. There was a partial reversal in the second quarter, with foreign direct investment inflows increasing $72.01 billion. The current account deficit represents 2.3 percent of gross domestic product, down from 2.4 percent in the first quarter. The current account deficit has been gradually shrinking, hitting a 14-year low in the fourth quarter of 2013, helped in part by declining petroleum imports as the nation reduces its dependency on foreign oil. In the second quarter, goods exports increased 2.3 percent to $408.81 billion. Imports, however, rose 2.8 percent to $597.97 billion. The surplus on primary income increased to $53.1 billion in the second quarter from $52.4 billion in the first quarter.   (Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mario ArmasConsumer prices are cold. The consumer price index fell by 0.2%, which compares to the 0.0% expected by economists. This is the first decline since April 2013. Excluding food and energy, core CPI went nowhere, the first unchanged reading since October 2010. Economists were expecting a 0.2% increase. "While the shelter index increased and the indexes for new vehicles and for alcoholic beverages also rose, these advances were offset by declines in several indexes, including airline fares, recreation, household furnishings and operations, apparel, and used cars and trucks," noted the BLS. On a year-over-year basis, both CPI and core-CPI climbed by just 1.7%, which was below the 1.9% expected. All of this gives the Federal Reserve flexibility to keep monetary policy easy and interest rates low for a long time. Here's a breakdown of the various categories. BLS FREE AppDownload
REUTERSJonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are talking about right now: Good Morning, and Happy Weds!   US futures are holding onto yesterday’s China induced gains, but we continue to see growth concerns with Russell lagging again early.   Focus clearly on FOMC today (2pm headlines / 2:30 presser).   EU is outperforming as inflation comes in light, with the DAX adding 50bp in decent volume.   FTSE is clinging to a small gain, and UK’s Sterling is slightly higher despite tomorrow’s Scotland vote being “too close to call” (take Polls with a grain of salt next 24 hours).    Countinue to watch for Ukraine stress, as Russia’s MICEX off 2% as another oligarch was accused of money laundering and placed under house arrest.   Over in Asia, Main recipient banks of Chinese stimulus led the rally overseas – HK up 1% and Shanghai 50bp – but reaction was muted as the Stimulus is seen as light and temporary.  The US 10YY is slightly lower, while Germany Sells Two-Year Notes at Record-Low Yield of Minus 0.07%.  Our “Policy sensitive” 2YY is nearing yesterday’s peaks (It barely moved yesterday, telling me the rally was more China than Hilsenrath opining in WSJ) - The A$ is retreating from the surge yesterday, weighing on some commodities and growth – Copper is off 50bp.   Into DOE data today, WTI is unchanged, taking a breather from this week’s short-covering surge (OPEC, Libya, China all factors).    Keep an eye on Wheat and Corn – they have been seeing short-covering rallies into the afternoon hours this week.     Some names to focus on:  YHOO as BABA reaching a fevered pitch, with chatter the book is 20x over with little price sensitivity / M&amp;A headlines impacting RAX (off 18%), DD (Trian), AUXL (Poison Pill), Adidas (Activist investors looking at taking stake) / Macau names continue to tumble / Energy Squeezing higher / Earnings:  Waiting on FDX (10% Transports) and LEN (10% ITB) pre-open.    Scheduled Catalysts ahead of us today include CPI, Current Account Balance at 8, NAHB Housing Market Index at 10, DOE data for Crude at 10:30 – NO POMO at 11 – at 2pm we get the FOMC Rate Decision, and 2:30 the Yellen Presser.   Congrats to our local teams here – Orioles and Nationals both clinched their divisions last night FREE AppDownload
Mario Tama/Getty ImagesThere are two notable themes in the global economy and markets right now. One, investment returns are very low. Historically low interest rates have made bond investments unattractive, and the already huge rally in the stock market has everyone expecting future returns to be unusually low. Two, the American homebuyer is more likely to buy or rent an apartment than buy a single-family home. There are numerous reasons for this, including tight lending standards, high household debt levels, and a general unwillingness to commit to such a huge expenditure. This has led to a boom in multifamily housing construction. These two themes set that stage for what we just read in homebuilder Lennar's earnings announcement Wednesday. Here's Lennar CEO Stuart Miller: Complementing our core homebuilding business, Lennar Multifamily recorded its first two sales of apartment properties in the third quarter. Both sales produced greater than our targeted 25% return on invested capital, and demonstrated that our multifamily segment is maturing and beginning to contribute to the bottom line. Our geographically diversified $5 billion pipeline of multifamily product will become a more predictable source of quarterly earnings starting in late 2015 and 2016. Twenty-five percent is a whopper. It's certainly worth noting that the S&amp;P 500 is up 17% in the past twelve months. However, most market strategist agree that the stock and bond markets are likely to return low to mid-single digit returns. Meanwhile, the multi-family housing market faces relatively tight supply conditions. Of course, not anyone can go out and just invest in a massive real estate development like an apartment. Obviously, the logistics aren't as simple as opening an online brokerage account and buying a couple of shares. And surely there's a mountain of paperwork, and the costs are probably high and complex. Furthermore, who's to say this isn't the peak of another bubble and that Miller's "predictable" earnings suddenly turn "unpredictable"? Still. Twenty-five percent. Wow. Lennar shares were up 4.5% in pre-market trading. FREE AppDownload
Inside a Foxconn factoryApple's manufacturing partner Foxconn is struggling to make enough iPhone 6 units to meet demand, Lorraine Luk at the Wall Street Journal reports. "We have been churning out 140,000 iPhone 6 Plus and 400,000 iPhone 6 every day, the highest daily output ever, but the volume is still not enough to meet the preorders," a source familiar with the situation told Luk.  The iPhone 6 has a 4.7-inch display, and the 6 Plus has a 5.5-inch display. Apple's suppliers are having a harder time making the 5.5-inch display, which is why Foxconn is making fewer 5.5-inch phones. Foxconn has 100 production lines cranking out iPhones "around the clock" in Zhengzhou, China, says Luk. There are over 200,000 people "dedicated to just making new iPhones and key components such as metal casings." Foxconn is hiring more people to make the phones.  This is fairly standard for Apple. In the beginning, there's a crazy burst of demand and it's hard for its partners to keep up. Over time demand and supply balance out.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures were little changed on Wednesday ahead of a key statement by the Federal Reserve which is expected to provide clues on the next monetary policy move by the U.S. central bank. * The S&amp;P posted its best performance in a month Tuesday and the Dow industrials set a record intraday high amid wavering expectations regarding the Fed's stance. * The Fed is expected to offer fresh indications on how soon it plans to begin lifting interest rates as it prepares for a shift in stance after years of easy monetary policy. * U.S.-traded shares of Sony Corp fell 10.6 percent in premarket trading after it estimated a bigger loss and said it would not pay a dividend this fiscal year for the first time since it listed in 1958. * Shares of Rackspace Hosting slumped 20.5 percent a day after the cloud management services provider said it would not sell itself. Futures snapshot at 7:35 a.m. EDT: * S&amp;P 500 e-minis were up 0.5 points, or 0.03 percent, with 83,057 contracts changing hands. * Nasdaq 100 e-minis were down 2.75 points, or 0.07 percent, in volume of 3,276 contracts. * Dow e-minis were up 9 points, or 0.05 percent, with 3,898 contracts changing hands.  (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos; Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
Stringer/ReutersA FedEx plane takes off from the Mojave Airport in California.FedEx announced fiscal Q1 earnings jumped 37% year-over-year to $2.10 per share, which was better than the $1.96 expected. "Share repurchases benefited earnings in the quarter by $0.15 per diluted share," said management. Across corporate America, companies have been buying back stock, which has the effect of boosting earnings per share. This is not the net earnings of the company. FedEx net earnings climbed a more modest, albeit healthy, 24% to $606 million. It's certainly worth mentioning that revenue climbed 6% to $11.7 billion, which was better than the $11.47 billion expected by analysts. "U.S. domestic package volume grew 5%, as 8% growth in overnight and deferred box volume was partially offset by lower envelope volume," management added. "FedEx International Priority volume grew 1%, while FedEx International Economy volume increased 3%. International export revenue per package increased 3% due to fuel surcharges, higher rates and weight per package." As a global provider of package delivery, FedEx is considered a reliable bellwether of economic activity. Shares are up 2% in pre-market trading. FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Odd AndersenVladimir Yevtushenkov, president of the Russian holding company Sistema, in London on Feb. 5, 2005.The detention of billionaire Vladimir Yevtushenkov on money-laundering charges sent shock waves through Russia's business and political circles on Wednesday and prompted comparisons with past crackdowns on powerful oligarchs. The Investigative Committee, which reports directly to President Vladimir Putin, announced late Tuesday that Yevtushenkov had been placed under house arrest and was being investigated for misappropriation or embezzlement linked to an oil deal. The move is reminiscent of the prosecution of Mikhail Khodorkovsky, then head of the oil company Yukos, who spent a decade in jail up to 2013 on what he says were politically motivated charges. The probe into 65-year-old Yevtushenkov, who is Russia's 15th-richest man with a fortune of $9 billion (7 billion euros) according to Forbes magazine, centers on how Yevtushenkov's company, AFK Sistema, acquired the oil company Bashneft. The respected business daily Vedomosti reported earlier this year that state oil giant Rosneft was keen to get its hands on Bashneft.  In interviews published on Wednesday, Khodorkovsky pointed the finger at Rosneft chief Igor Sechin and said the arrest showed Putin was losing his grip on domestic politics. Tatyana Makeyeva/Getty Images"I see in this a total loss of control by the president, who simply does not see what is going on under his own nose," Khodorkovsky told Vedomosti. "If he did see, I doubt that he would so misjudge the situation and give such an order," said Khodorkovsky, who served two prison terms for tax evasion and fraud and was stripped of his oil company Yukos. "I still hope that our president will at some point tear himself away from his new conquests and will see what is happening in the country," he added, apparently referring to Russia's annexation of Crimea in March and the confrontation with the West over Ukraine. He said he believed Yevtushenkov's case centered on "purely commercial interest" in the oil industry, not a political conflict. Rosneft has denied any role in the investigation. Khodorkovsky was suddenly released from prison late last year and now lives with his family in Switzerland in self-imposed exile. He has accused Sechin, one of Putin's most loyal lieutenants, of orchestrating his downfall. After being pushed into bankruptcy, Yukos was carved up and sold off in opaque auctions to state companies, with Rosneft buying up the best assets. The arrest of Yevtushenkov, who sits on the board of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, sparked fears in the country's business and political circles.  "We have a really bad feeling about this... this all makes us think of a second Yukos case,"  an aide to a senior Russian official was quoted as saying. Yevtushenkov has been placed under arrest until Nov. 16 in his country residence in the elite village of Zhukovka outside Moscow, Kommersant said. He is only allowed to contact lawyers, investigators, and prison officers and is wearing an electronic bracelet, the newspaper added. AFK Sistema is a vast holding that also has major interests in the country's biggest mobile telephone company MTS, travel firm Intourist and a range of other assets. The Investigative Committee said it had launched the probe because it had "sufficient grounds to believe that AFK Sistema board chairman Vladimir Yevtushenkov is involved in the legalization (money-laundering) of property acquired by criminal means." AFK Sistema responded that the accusation against Yevtushenkov was "without foundation."  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersHomes are seen under construction in the southwest area of PortlandNEW YORK (Reuters) - Applications for U.S. home mortgages rose last week as both purchase and refinancing applications jumped, an industry group said on Wednesday. The Mortgage Bankers Association said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity, which includes both refinancing and home purchase demand, rose 7.9 percent in the week ended Sept. 12. The MBA's seasonally adjusted index of refinancing applications climbed 10.3 percent, while the gauge of loan requests for home purchases, a leading indicator of home sales, rose 4.8 percent. Fixed 30-year mortgage rates averaged 4.36 percent in the week, the highest level since June. They rose 9 basis points from 4.27 percent the week before. "Application volume rebounded coming out of the Labor Day holiday, even as rates increased to their highest level in the last few months," said Mike Fratantoni, MBA's chief economist. The survey covers over 75 percent of U.S. retail residential mortgage applications, according to MBA. (Editing by Diane Craft) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsChange could be coming to how the Federal Reserve communicates its outlook for monetary policy. On Wednesday, the Fed will conclude its Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting. Fed Chair Janet Yellen will also hold a press conference discussing the latest monetary policy decision. A huge change in the Fed's forward guidance — or how the Fed describes the future path of monetary policy — could be coming.  Back in late August, Lew Alexander at Nomura wrote that the Fed is likely to drop the phrase "considerable time" when discussing how long after the conclusion of asset purchases the Fed will look to raise interest rates. The Fed has signaled that it is on pace to end QE in October, thus starting the countdown to the Fed's first interest rate increase. In recent monetary policy statements, the Fed has said that, "it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends." "At a minimum, we expect the FOMC to add language that stresses the 'data dependence' of future interest rate decisions," Alexander wrote. "We expect the FOMC to continue to state that the adjustment of interest rates, when it comes, will be 'balanced' and that it expects interest rates to converge to normal levels more slowly than employment and inflation. But in light of sustained improvement in labor market performance, and the inherent complexities in assessing their state, we expect the FOMC to drop its assessment that 'lift-off' is still a 'considerable time' away." And in the weeks since Alexander first floated this idea, analysts comments and media reports have also focused on the likelihood of the Fed dropping this phrase.  On September 5, The Wall Street Journal's Jon Hilsenrath reported that many inside the Fed were, "uncomfortable with the vague commitment implied in the guidance" for keeping interest rates low.  In a note to clients last week, Dana Saporta at Credit Suisse said the Fed dropping its use of "considerable time" seems "ripe for change," either at Wednesday's meeting or soon thereafter. Saporta also said the Fed could drop the labor market characterization that says there remains "significant" underutilization of labor resources. And as those around Wall Street look for the Fed to change its language, others have taken stock of recent commentary from FOMC members, and specifically when they expect the Fed to begin raising rates. David Mericle and Michael Cahill at Goldman Sachs wrote in a note to clients tthat, "Overall, we have seen a greater clustering of FOMC participants' views around mid-2015 in recent months, with a couple of more dovish members indicating a possible shift forward. Similarly, private sector forecasts for the first hike became more centered on mid-2015 from August to September."  Between Yellen's press conference, the latest dot plot, and of course the Fed's monetary policy announcement, there will be a lot to digest on Wednesday, but certainly don't forget to bring your close-reading hat.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarFRANKFURT (Reuters) - Car sales in Europe rose 1.8 percent in August with volume makers Volkswagen &lt;vowg_p.de&gt;, Ford &lt;f.n&gt; and Opel &lt;gm.n&gt; benefiting from improved demand in Spain, Portugal and Ireland, while premium makers lost ground due to a drop in sales in Germany. New passenger car registrations in the European Union (EU) and the countries of the European Free Trade Area (EFTA) rose to 701,118 vehicles in August, from 688,464 in the year-earlier period, data from the Association of European Carmakers (ACEA) showed. A recovery in demand in Spain, Portugal and Greece, countries formerly plagued by austerity, helped lift momentum in favour of mass market brands, with sales of VW branded cars up 14 percent, Ford up 15.2 percent and Opel registrations rising 7.5 percent. By contrast, August registrations of BMW cars fell 2.0 percent, Mercedes-Benz car sales fell 3.9 percent and Audi &lt;nsug.de&gt; registrations fell 7.6 percent. Car sales fell 0.4 percent in Germany, Europe's largest car market which is a traditional stronghold for the German luxury makers. Europe's car industry is gradually emerging from a six-year slump, with sales bottoming out last year as austerity-hit consumers cut back on expensive purchases. Aside from the slump in sales in Germany, the slip in registrations among premium auto makers may also be down to a shift in sales tactics. "We have to find the right balance between volume and pricing," BMW Chief Executive Norbert Reithofer told analysts in August. "If you reduce your volume, you can even have a better profit." A 26 percent jump in car sales in Portugal and a 13.7 percent jump in Spain helped to offset a 2.6 percent drop in France and a 0.2 percent fall in registrations in Italy, the latest figures from industry body ACEA showed. ACEA also released sales figures for July. Passenger car registrations in the EU and EFTA countries rose 5.6 percent on the year, to 1,081,686 vehicles.   (Reporting by Edward Taylor; Editing by Kirsti Knolle) FREE AppDownload
 JASPERIMAGE / Shutterstock.com  Hello! These are the big issues that'll be making waves on Wednesday.  Two New Polls Have The Scottish Independence Referendum Almost Neck And Neck. Both the polls by ICM and Opinium have the No campaign very narrowly ahead, with 52% to 48% for the Yes campaign. But both polls show a significant number of people still undecided, and everything is left to play for in Thursday’s vote. UK Labor Market Still Powering Ahead. Unemployment figures beat analyst expectations, and the rate dropped to 6.2%. British businesses hired 774,000 people on net in the year to July. Despite the labor market strength, Bank of England minutes Wednesday morning showed no rush to raise interest rates, with only two of the nine monetary policymakers pushing for a hike. Eurozone Inflation Is A Bit Higher Than We Thought. Inflation in the eurozone came in at 0.4% for August, slightly up from the 0.3% recorded in the flash estimate. Turns out services price pressure was a little higher than Eurostat thought. So instead of being the lowest inflation reading since 2009, August’s print was just the joint-lowest inflation reading since 2009.  Sony Is Not Having A Good 2014. The electronics colossus is forecasting annual losses more than four times higher than previously anticipated. It now expects to be in the red by about $2.14 billion in the current fiscal year. The Japanese giant previously thought losses would run to about $466.3 million. Microsoft Hiked Its Dividend 11% And Appointed 2 New Board Members. The massive computer firm raised its per share quarterly dividend to $0.31. Teri List-Stoll, Kraft CFO, and Visa CEO Charles Scharf will both join the board in October. European Markets Make Small Gains. France’s CAC 40 and Germany’s DAX index opened up by 0.6% and 0.5% respectively. The FTSE 100 was a little quieter, up by about 0.1%. Despite a strong employment report the Scottish referendum is likely to weigh on UK equities. In Asia, the Hang Seng index closed up 1% and the Nikkei closed down 0.14%.  All Eyes Are On The Fed’s Language After FOMC Meeting. The latest meeting of Federal Reserve policymakers concludes today, with a press conference at 2:30 p.m. ET. Investors are paying a lot of attention to whether the rate-setters continue to say they will wait for a “considerable time” between ending the tapering of QE and raising interest rates. Check out everything that’s happened since Yellen last gave a big press conference from Business Insider’s Myles Udland.  China’s Secretive Central Bank Is Conducting A Big Stimulus. The People’s Bank of China is reportedly injecting 500 billion yuan ($81.35 billion) into the country’s banking system in a move design to jump-start the country’s slowing economy. The bank is infamous for its lack of transparency, so no official announcement has been made. An Air France Strike Is In Its 3rd Day, Grounding 60% Of Its Flights. The French government is not happy, and Prime Minister Manuel Valls says it is affecting the image of the country.  There Are Now More Billionaires In Europe Than In North America. According to Lauren Davidson at the Telegraph, there are now 775 dollar billionaires in Europe, against 609 in the US. Asia is seeing the fastest growth, up 18.7%.  FREE AppDownload
Don't waste time typing the same formulas over and over again. Creating custom functions in Excel is easy to do.  Produced by Sara Silverstein Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Thomson ReutersNational flags of Switzerland fly over the entrance of the headquarters of Swiss bank Credit Suisse in Zurich(Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve has asked Credit Suisse Group AG &lt;csgn.vx&gt; to immediately address problems relating to the bank's underwriting and sale of leveraged loans, or high-interest-rate loans used by private-equity firms to finance deals, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing a source familiar with the matter. Officials at the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency are using private communications with banks to rein in relaxed underwriting and debt-laden deals and plan to take action on a firm-by-firm basis if required, WSJ reported. (http://on.wsj.com/1m9jAbC) In a letter to Credit Suisse, known as a Matters Requiring Immediate Attention, found problems with the bank's adherence to guidance issued last year, warning banks to avoid deals that included too much debt or too few protections for the lenders in case of a default, the report said citing the person familiar with the matter. Credit Suisse and the Federal Reserve could not immediately be reached outside regular business hours. Reuters reported in January that U.S. prosecutors had initiated an examination of Credit Suisse documents, including internal emails to establish whether a bank committee charged with overseeing the quality of home loans ignored red flags to the detriment of mortgage investors.   (Reporting By Shivam Srivastava in Bangalore; Editing by Gopakumar Warrier) FREE AppDownload
Christophe Ena/APFrance's new Economy Minister Emmanuel Macron delivers a speech during a transition of power ceremony at the Economy Ministry in Paris on Aug. 27.Crisis-hit France is "sick," the country's new economy minister said on Wednesday, urging immediate reforms to tackle sky-high unemployment and an economy that has failed to grow in six months. "France is sick. It's not well. We have to describe the situation as it is," Emmanuel Macron told French radio. "There has been a fever for several years in this country which is called mass unemployment ... there is no choice but to reform the economy," stressed Macron, a 36-year-old former Rothschild banker, who was a surprise choice for economy minister. France, the eurozone's second-largest economy, is suffering from a record high unemployment rate — over 10 percent — and has registered no economic growth in the past two quarters. Paris is also battling to reduce its ballooning public deficit, which is expected to be 4.4 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) this year, dropping only marginally to 4.3 percent in 2015. It has gone back on a promise to the European Union to get the deficit below the maximum of 3 percent of GDP by next year, pushing it back to 2017 and setting France on a collision course with Brussels and austerity-minded Germany. Added to its economic woes, the country is weighed down by a political crisis that has seen President Francois Hollande plumb record lows in opinion polls and a shock cabinet reshuffle in August to purge dissenters. The government's unpopularity "is due to a lack of results," Macron said. "We didn't go far enough in our first two years, we didn't reform and we are paying, if I may say, for a lost decade," added the minister. In a rare victory for the government, Prime Minister Manuel Valls scraped through a parliamentary confidence vote on Tuesday by 269 votes to 244. However, about 30 MPs from the ruling Socialist Party abstained in the vote, a rebellious left-wing rump that could cause problems for the government in future parliamentary votes. In a 46-minute speech in the lower house of parliament, Valls also called for an end to talking down France. "I've had enough of this permanent criticism of France and its ability to exert influence in the world," he told deputies. The French government's response to the economic crisis is the so-called Responsibility Pact, a package of 40 billion euros ($52 billion) in tax breaks for business, financed with 50 billion euros in public spending cuts. But the plan has been the target of left-wing ire for being too business-friendly and too austere at a time of economic crisis. But Valls on Tuesday pledged he would not be swayed from this path despite sniping within his own party. "There will be no U-turn, no change in direction, no zig-zagging," he vowed. The fresh-faced Macron has already come under fire from the left-wing elements of the Socialist Party, especially given his banker background. He did not win any friends on the left when he called into question France's 35-hour week, a cherished policy of the Socialists, in an interview he had given before taking office but published on his first day as minister. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
IMDB / Paramount PicturesThe big question about investor anxiety over Scotland's independence referendum is not whether it's warranted, but why it took so long to materialize and why it's still so marginal. Even now, with opinion polls showing a near-equal split in Thursday's vote for and against Scotland's secession from the United Kingdom, market moves have been modest at most — especially when you strip out influences such as domestic interest rate speculation and the wider global economic pulse. Against the prospect of a potentially messy breakup of the world's sixth-largest economy, the relative calm is eye-opening, whether due to detached calculations about the outcome and risks, or a worrying nonchalance and perhaps even puzzlement. For all the banner headlines of market fright surrounding the issue — mostly trumpeted by unionists — sterling's value against a trade-weighted basket of world currencies is still a full 2 percent higher in 2014 so far, even after its recent retreat from midsummer peaks. British blue chips remain in the black for the year, clocking an annual performance little different to Germany's equivalent DAX and outperforming the Milan bourse over the past six weeks. Scottish-domiciled stocks have indeed underperformed over the past year, but only by a sliver of 2 percent and even that's narrowed rather than widened of late. The yield that investors require to hold British government bonds has actually fallen, insulated by London's guarantee to honor all outstanding gilts regardless of the vote. Ten-year bond yields have lost half a percentage point this year — despite constant speculation that a rise in the Bank of England's benchmark interest rate is coming closer. Any signs of angst and a dash to hedging are confined largely to the currency options market, where one-week implied sterling volatility against the dollar jumped to its highest in four years as polls shifted toward a "yes" vote. Yet at an annualized 17 percent, traders say this still only suggests a likely sterling gyration of about 4 cents from the current $1.62 over the week ahead. What's more, volatility implied out to three months only prices for a move in sterling/dollar of half the year's 12 cent peak-to-trough move so far. All this apparent calm presents a somewhat surreal backdrop to dire warnings from some global investment banks on the potential shock of a Scottish secession and the cost to both Scotland and the rump United Kingdom. Many warn about sterling's fate given London's opposition to nationalists' plans for a currency union. Other fears range through deposit flight from Scottish banks relocating south of border; a balance of payments drag between Scotland and its southern neighbor; and a threat of rising borrowing costs and swingeing austerity for the early years of a new Scotland. Forecasts vary wildly, given that no one knows exactly how the subsequent year of negotiations would split oil revenues and debt repayment commitments between the separated nations. Some fear sterling would plunge if Scotland took the lion's share of North Sea revenues, leaving the rest of the United Kingdom with a grossly bloated current account deficit. Deutsche Bank's chief economist David Folkerts-Landau only last Friday told clients Scotland's exit would be a mistake akin to missteps that triggered the Great Depression. "We think financial markets, particularly the longer-dated FX options market, are significantly underpricing the risk of a 'yes' vote — and all the costs and uncertainty that would entail," economist and co-author of the Deutsche report Oliver Harvey told Reuters. Goldman Sachs economist Kevin Daly reckons a surprise "Yes" vote could have "severely negative" consequences for both a newly independent Scotland and remnant United Kingdom. And longstanding bearish strategist Albert Edwards of Societe Generale warned of a serious sterling crisis and a possible unraveling of the United Kingdom and European Union akin to the collapse of the former Soviet Union in 1991. Warning of everything from a rising payments gap to the increased likelihood of leaving the EU, Edwards said: "If investors are selling sterling in anticipation of a Yes vote, the economic reality of a rump UK will see sterling quite rightly plunge into the abyss." If these commentators are correct, why hasn't the asset selling been heavier and swifter already? The 10-to-15-point gap in the polls for most of the year would have put secession as an outside chance but hardly a tail risk — never mind two polls in two weeks showing a lead for separatists. Some investors insist they watch bookmaker odds as much if not more than noisier opinion polls. And despite the late surge in the "yes" vote in polling, bookies' odds continue to show a 70 to 80 percent chance of the union remaining after Thursday. Gambling company Betfair said on Tuesday it was so confident the status quo would prevail that it was already paying out more than 100,000 pounds ($162,000) to some customers who backed a "No" vote. Asset managers emphasize that the event is just one of many political risks that have been effectively ignored this year as the flood of cheap money from major central banks drowns out almost all other influences. And the cost of hedging or changing a portfolio on every major political risk is simply too costly to be viable, they say — not least because the great majority never materialize. There is also the possibility that investors simply feel Scottish independence is manageable without dramatic or systemic upheaval — even if there are costs, uncertainties, and difficulties ahead for both new countries that emerge. In that view, the detail of negotiations is everything and the minor shifts in allocations that we've seen are probably adequate for now. "There may be a little complacency, but global investors compare this to similar more dramatic and systemic risks in recent years such as a euro breakup or U.S. default," said Valentijn van Nieuwenhuijzen, head of multi-asset investing at ING Investment Management. "This is just not on that level."   (Graphic by Vincent Flasseur; Editing by Ruth Pitchford) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA huge euro logo is pictured past next to headquarters of ECB in FrankfurtBy Eva Taylor FRANKFURT (Reuters) - The results of Europe's most comprehensive ever review of its banks' health will be announced on Sunday, Oct. 26, sources told Reuters. The sources all spoke on the condition of anonymity as the date has not yet been publicly disclosed. An announcement is expected soon. The tests will reveal whether around 130 of Europe's largest banks need to raise more capital for losses they have already incurred and future crises. The tests are designed to finally banish fears about the health of Europe's banks, whose valuation has lagged behind US peers since the region's debt crisis struck.    http://link.reuters.com/buf36v The results must be published before the European Central Bank becomes the euro zone's banking supervisor on Nov. 4. Banks will be given their results about 48 hours before publication, to enable them to review the figures and prepare any response. Picking a Sunday publication date reduces the risk of sensitive information leaking while major markets are still trading, since the information can be given to banks after markets close on Friday evening. "We haven't confirmed any dates around the publication of the results," said a spokesman for the European Central Bank, which is carrying out tests on the euro zone banks. "All we can say still is second half of October." The European Banking Authority (EBA), which is co-ordinating tests across 28 EU countries, said there was "no approved date yet". The ECB results will include granular detail on the finances of about 130 euro zone banks and the capital actions they must take. They will also form part of the EBA's EU-wide results, which give less detailed information about the finances and capital needs of 124 banking groups across the EU. Both sets of results will be released simultaneously.  (Reporting By Eva Taylor; Editing by Steve Slater and Toby Chopra) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMarwan Lahoud, Chief Strategy and Marketing Officer of Airbus Group, attends an interview in ParisPARIS (Reuters) - Airbus Group  strategy chief Marwan Lahoud ruled himself out as the next chief executive of French engine maker Safran  on Wednesday, dampening recurring media speculation that he could leave Europe's largest aerospace group. Lahoud, 48, the architect behind the group's recent changes in governance limiting the influence of governments, is often seen as a potential high-flyer outside the group he helped to found and has repeatedly been linked in the press with Safran. But he sought to put a halt to the speculation through a statement from the group's chief spokesman on Twitter. "Good news for Airbus Group: Marwan Lahoud stays with us. He is no candidate for Safran CEO," Rainer Ohler, Airbus Group's head of corporate communications, said on his Twitter account.  (Reporting by Tim Hepher; Editing by James Regan) FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Leo RamirezThe woman was seeking more than $81,000 in psychological damages, plus medical costs of $250Shanghai (AFP) - A Chinese woman who sued a man for "violating her right to virginity" after he wooed her with false promises has been awarded nearly $5,000 by a court, reports said Wednesday. The two were dating but after the woman, surnamed Chen, found out her boyfriend was already married she sued him for swindling her out of her virginity, accusing him of pretending to be single and pledging to make her his wife, Shanghai media said. A spokesman for the Pudong New Area People's Court confirmed the case and the judgement, but said the man had appealed the ruling. The two met online in 2009 but only began dating in 2013, later travelling to Singapore where they consummated the relationship, online media platform The Paper said. After the man, surnamed Li, suddenly broke off contact, Chen burst into his home and found him with his wife. Chen sued, accusing him of violating her rights to virginity and health and demanding more than $81,000 in psychological damages, plus medical costs of $250. The court found the original demand "excessive" but said in its ruling that the "right to virginity" should be protected by law as it was a "moral right" related to "sexual freedom, sexual safety and sexual purity". "Violating the right to virginity might lead to harm to a person's body, health, freedom and reputation... it ought to be compensated," the court said, though it did not explain how it reached the precise figure. The defendant did not appear in court, but through a lawyer he denied having sex with the woman.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman rides past the headquarters of the People's Bank of China in Beijing SHANGHAI (Reuters) - China's central bank is injecting a combined 500 billion yuan ($81.35 billion) of liquidity into the country's top banks, according to media reports, a sign that authorities are stepping up efforts to shore up a faltering economy. Global shares and commodity prices rose on the reported move, although local money market rates climbed on the day, reflecting continued tightness in liquidity. [MKTS/GLOB] The Wall Street Journal, citing an unnamed Chinese bank executive, said the People's Bank of China (PBOC) is pumping in 100 billion yuan each into China's top five banks via standard lending facility in the form of 3-month loans. When contacted by Reuters, a PBOC spokesman said: “We will make an announcement if we have any news.” The central bank may be worried that an expected tightening in liquidity ahead of the quarter-end as well as a series of upcoming initial public offerings could trigger a sharp rise in short-term rates, as was seen in June last year, when they surged to around 30 percent and roiled global markets, traders said. Analysts say the amount is equivalent to a 50-basis-point cut to banks' reserve requirement ratio – the level of cash commercial lenders must carry on deposit with the PBOC. However, an RRR cut would have a longer-lasting and larger impact across the economy. "We think the latest SLF is mainly aimed at providing liquidity to pre-empt potential liquidity shortages in the banking system in the coming weeks," Jian Chang, China economist at Barclays Capital in Hong Kong, said in a research note. Still, a liquidity injection of this scale does have the effect of easing overall credit conditions and helps to stabilise a shaky economy after a weak start to the year. Some analysts believe the reported move shows the PBOC's continued willingness to use targeted steps, rather than large-scale stimulus or interest rate cuts, to support growth. "This (SLF) is consistent with our view that targeted easing measures will be used in view of the deceleration in economic activities as reflected by recent data," Credit Agricole said in a research note. Bloomberg, which quoted an unnamed government official, said the move follows deep concern over the economic slowdown. The reports come after a series of soft data underlined the headwinds confronting the economy, which suffered its weakest growth rate in 18 months in the first quarter. A sharp slowdown in the housing market, which accounts for more than 15 percent of China's annual economic output, has also become an increasing drag on the broader economy. Data out at the start of the week showed China factory output grew at the weakest pace in nearly six years in August, raising fears that the economy may be at risk of a sharp slowdown unless Beijing implements fresh stimulus measures. China's leaders have repeatedly said they would use a period of anticipated slower growth to carry out structural shifts, including efforts to wean the economy off dependence on external demand and investment spending. Still, the drumbeat of weak data has heightened speculation that Beijing would be forced to do more to keep the economy on an even keel. Concerns of a deeper downturn in the world's second-largest economy have buffeted global markets in recent months, and other major central banks such as the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan are expected to ease further to support their economies. The U.S. Federal Reserve, however, is expected to start raising rates at some point next year as growth there gathers momentum. The benchmark seven-day bond repurchase agreement &lt;cn7drp=cfxs&gt; opened at 3.25 percent but the weighted average rate crept back up to 3.38 percent by late session, compared with 3.33 percent the previous day. Stocks ended firmer, with both the CEI300 index of top Chinese companies &lt;.CSI300&gt; and the Shanghai Composite Index &lt;.SSEC&gt; rising 0.5 percent. The PBOC launched Standing Lending Facility in 2013 to supplement other monetary policy tools such as open market operations. SLFs are mainly used to provide one- to three-month loans to directly to commercial banks to smooth out volatility in rates and its impact on the economy is seen limited compared with cuts in banks' required reserve ratios (RRR) nor interest rate. "Authorities appear reluctant to use national-wide measures such as a headline cut in the RRR or the deposit rate as these may not be the most effective ways to support growth," Credit Agricole said. Analysts also note that Beijing is wary of offering big-bang stimulus - as it did following the 2009 global financial crisis - due to worries of exacerbating China's debt problem and knocking the economy hard. In response to slower growth, Beijing this year has rolled out a number of policy support measures targeting specific sectors, such as agriculture and small- medium-sized enterprises. Money markets rates have remained fairly steady but traders have predicted they will rise in the next few weeks due to seasonal demand as well as the slew of upcoming IPOs. Eleven Chinese companies are launching IPOs in coming weeks, which is expected to temporarily suck up 1 trillion yuan from the market, according to traders' estimations. That would only lead to pent up cash demand at quarter-end when banks are required to set aside cash to meet regulatory requirements, such as a 75-percent loan-to-deposit ratio. An acute Chinese liquidity squeeze roiled global markets in June 2013, when China's short-term money rates shot up as high as 30 percent, driven by quarter-end cash calls as well as the central bank's inaction.  (Additional reporting by Kevin Yao in BEIJING; Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Blair GableBank of England governor Mark Carney.British employers have been on a tear recently. Figures out Wednesday morning show that businesses hired more than 750,000 people in the last year. In the 12 months to July, the number of employed people in the UK increased by 774,000 from 29.8 million this time last year. The rate is up to 73%, from 71.6%, and unemployment is down from 7.7% to 6.2% These employment levels are pretty astounding. According to the Office for National Statistics, the employment rate hasn’t climbed above 73.1% in at least 43 years. Another 0.2 percentage point boost would put the share of people working at the highest level in generations.   Office for National Statistics774,000 more people were working in July than in the same month last year. But it's not all good news. Earnings including bonuses only rose 0.6% in the same 12-month period. Though that's out of the negative territory it has been in previous months, it's still way below inflation.  The dismal recent wage growth is one of the last things holding back policymakers from hiking interest rates: The Bank of England announced another 7-2 split on the monetary policy committee. Resident hawks Martin Weale and Ian McCafferty seem to have voted for a 0.25 point hike again, but haven't carried any other members with them.  Most analysts seem happy enough with holding interest rates for now, with unemployment at 1.5%, but some aren't as happy. “Further delay in the first rate hike could lead to a situation of faster and larger interest rate increases later which would be more disruptive for markets,” JP Morgan Asset Management global market strategist Kerry Craig said in a note. “Remember that the Bank of England sets monetary policy not for what inflation is now, but what it will be in two years time.” FREE AppDownload
The names of 21 MacArthur Fellows were revealed early Wednesday. These talented individuals will receieve a gift of $625,000, paid out over five years, to be spent anyway he or she chooses. The so-called "genius awards" from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation have been handed out to around two dozen Americans from all different fields every year since 1981. The money is intended to give recipients the freedom to pursue new ideas or move forward with their current work. "The fellowship is designed to provide recipients with the flexibility to pursue their own artistic, intellectual, and professional activities in the absence of specific obligations or reporting requirements," the foundation website states. Individuals cannot apply for the awards. The fellows are chosen by an anonymous panel of experts, who inform the winners through a phone call just a couple days before the official announcement.  This year, the fellows range in age from 32 to 71. They include a documentary filmmaker, two mathematicians, a cartoonist, and a criminal lawyer, among others. You can find more information about the 2014 MacArthur Fellows class here. Here's the full list of winners: FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paul Hackett Hello! Here's what people will be chatting about on Wednesday.  1. It's the final day before Scottish residents head to the polls to vote on whether Scotland should be an independent country. You can catch up on all our Scottish independence referendum coverage here.  2. A new poll from The Telegraph suggests that women voters could be key to securing a victory for the No campaign (pro-union) in the Scottish independence referendum.   3. President Obama's top military adviser, Joint Chiefs of Staff chair Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, hinted on Tuesday that he would not be opposed to putting U.S. ground troops in Iraq to fight Islamic State militants – comments that run counter to the message from the president.  4. Everyone loves Apple's new iPhone 6.  5. President Obama plans to send 3,000 American troops to help combat the Ebola outbreak in West Africa. "We can’t dawdle on this one," the president said in a news conference Tuesday. 6. Meanwhile, the World Health Organization said it would cost close to $1 billion to get the Ebola outbreak  under control.  7. Sony says it expects to lose $2.14 billion for the year ending in March 2015, which is more than four times the previous forecast annual loss.  9. NASA awarded multibillion-dollar contracts to Boeing and SpaceX to develop spacecraft to carry astronauts to and from space.  9. An American man has been detained by South Korean border guards following a supposed attempt to swim to North Korea to meet Kim Jong Un, according to the Associated Press.  10. Hong Kong tycoon Stephen Hung ordered a record 30 Rolls-Royce Phantoms at a cost of $20 million to shuttle around guests staying at his Macau casino.  And finally... The MacArthur Foundation has named its 2014 Fellows. Twenty-one individuals will each receive $625,000 to spend however they want.  FREE AppDownload
