Total student debt now stands at more than $1 trillion, and the College Board reports that the true cost of going to college has more than tripled during the last 40 years from $2,710 in 1973 to $8,893 in 2013. However, it turns out that one thing is even more expensive than going to college -- and that is actually not attending college.  While the costs are growing at an unprecedented rate, there are three things that can be done to help lower the cost of college.The Pew Center notes that, for those individuals in the Millennials generation -- ages 25 to 32 -- a person with a bachelor's degree or more earns a median salary of $45,500, which is 50% higher than the $30,000 seen by someone with a two-year degree or some college. Yet , for the Silents generation -- individuals born between 1925 and 1942 -- that gap stood at just 15%. This means that, for the younger generations, obtaining a college degree is even more critical. Even with that in mind, being mindful of the costs is critical. Below are three ways that you can make college as affordable as possible. 1. Evaluate the true benefits and cost of each college Deciding which college to attend is an exciting time in the lives of many prospective students and parents. But, all too often, there is little consideration of the combination of both the benefits and costs. At last count, a private, nonprofit college was almost three-and-a-half times more expensive than a public school on average ($30,094 versus $8,893), which would mean the total cost of four years would be almost $85,000 higher. Even if a private school offered a scholarship that cut tuition prices in half, the cost is still $25,000 more. Also, the listed price may not always be the true net price -- which includes a college's financial aid and other factors -- which varies from college to college. Be sure to use net price calculators for colleges to determine the true cost.  There are true unquantifiable benefits to attending one school versus another -- whether they be private or public -- and the financial decision should not be the only one guiding the choice of a college. However, it should certainly be included on the checklist for both students considering college, and those already enrolled. 2. Earn credits at other schoolsNo matter what college a student attends, it's almost certain that there will be a less-expensive place to earn credits. High school students should take advantage of the AP classes that their schools offer. For a fee of $89 and a bit of studying, a student could potentially earn the same amount of credits for a college class at 10% off the price. Of course, once a student has enrolled in a college, it's critical to explore whether credits for certain classes can be earned elsewhere. Local community colleges, state schools over the summer, online offerings, or any number of other options can all offer ways to earn cheaper credits. The opportunity to do this, though, will vary from school to school. Ultimately, this can reduce the cost of college; but it could also mean enough credits are earned to graduate early. This not only reduces the total tuition expenses, but it creates the opportunity to start earning an income as many as six months sooner. 3. Explore all aid optionsOne other critical step in the affordability process is ensuring that all financial aid options are explored. Completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), and the necessary applications for gift aid, brings the opportunity to secure aid in the form of grants and waivers that do not have to be repaid. There are also scholarships from the school and organizations outside of it. Once those options have been explored, look to student loans -- bearing in mind that loans do not reduce the cost of college, but instead have to be paid back with interest -- both from the Federal Government (often with the lowest interest rates), or private lenders. Also consider work-study programs, or other forms of self-help aid, as some employers will help shoulder the cost of college for individuals who work part-time. When all is said and done, there is, of course, the reality that colleges offer many life benefits, and the rewards often greatly outweigh the costs. These three things, however, can help make the ultimate return even greater as well as help ease the financial strain. One of the dirty secrets that few finance professionals will openly admit is the fact that dividend stocks as a group handily outperform their non-dividend paying brethren. The reasons for this are too numerous to list here, but you can rest assured that it’s true. However, knowing this is only half the battle. The other half is identifying which dividend stocks in particular are the best. With this in mind, our top analysts put together a free list of nine high-yielding stocks that should be in every income investor’s portfolio. To learn the identity of these stocks instantly and for free, all you have to do is click here now. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Morris MacMatzenBrain-computer interfaces will soon be a thing.The World Economic Forum, famous for its annual Davos convention in Switzerland, has put out a new report identifying the top technological trends for the coming year. "Technology has become perhaps the greatest agent of change in the modern world," writes WEF's Noubar Afeyan. "While never without risk, positive technological breakthroughs promise innovative solutions to the most pressing global challenges of our time, from resource scarcity to global environmental change." "By highlighting the most important technological breakthroughs, the Council aims to raise awareness of their potential and contribute to closing gaps in investment, regulation and public understanding," he writes. From wearable electronics to brain-computer interfaces, here are the big technologies to look out for this year. FREE AppDownload
Warren Buffett in 1985 Warren Buffett's annual letter to shareholders comes out soon, and it's guaranteed to be a must-read. But Buffett's entire archive of letters make for great reading. So what ones should you read? To get a handle on this, we talked to software developer and Warren Buffett aficionado Steve Ritter, who has read every letter and goes to Berkshire's annual meetings each year. He gave us his top 5 must-reads. Buffett's 1977 letter is the earliest one available in the Berkshire Hathaway online archive. Right away, Buffett tackles the notion that earnings performance is a good way to measure managerial performance: Except for special cases (for example, companies with unusual debt-equity ratios or those with important assets carried at unrealistic balance sheet values), we believe a more appropriate measure of managerial economic performance to be return on equity capital. In 1977 our operating earnings on beginning equity capital amounted to 19%, slightly better than last year and above both our own long-term average and that of American industry in aggregate. But, while our operating earnings per share were up 37% from the year before, our beginning capital was up 24%, making the gain in earnings per share considerably less impressive than it might appear at first glance. In his 1983 letter, Buffett wrote about the importance of "economic goodwill" in the companies he invested in: We own several businesses that possess economic Goodwill (which is properly includable in intrinsic business value) far larger than the accounting Goodwill that is carried on our balance sheet and reflected in book value... ...You can live a full and rewarding life without ever thinking about Goodwill and its amortization. But students of investment and management should understand the nuances of the subject. My own thinking has changed drastically from 35 years ago when I was taught to favor tangible assets and to shun businesses whose value depended largely upon economic Goodwill. This bias caused me to make many important business mistakes of omission, although relatively few of commission. The next year, in 1984, Berkshire highlighted its purchase of Nebraska Furniture Mart. Buffett was a huge fan of NFM's chairman, the 91-year-old Rose Blumkin, who he affectionately referred to as "Mrs. B." Here's an excerpt: I have been asked by a number of people just what secrets the Blumkins bring to their business. These are not very esoteric. All members of the family: (1) apply themselves with an enthusiasm and energy that would make Ben Franklin and Horatio Alger look like dropouts; (2) define with extraordinary realism their area of special competence and act decisively on all matters within it; (3) ignore even the most enticing propositions failing outside of that area of special competence; and, (4) unfailingly behave in a high-grade manner with everyone they deal with. (Mrs. B boils it down to “sell cheap and tell the truth”.) Our evaluation of the integrity of Mrs. B and her family was demonstrated when we purchased 90% of the business: NFM had never had an audit and we did not request one; we did not take an inventory nor verify the receivables; we did not check property titles. We gave Mrs. B a check for $55 million and she gave us her word. That made for an even exchange. That's trust. Buffett is a long-time investor in the insurance business. In his 2001 letter, he described the economics of the industry, writing, "Our main business – though we have others of great importance – is insurance. To understand Berkshire, therefore, it is necessary that you understand how to evaluate an insurance company." Buffett reflects on the World Trade Center attacks of September 11, 2001, and how the prospect of terrorism altered the insurance business: The events of September 11th made it clear that our implementation of rules 1 and 2 at General Re had been dangerously weak. In setting prices and also in evaluating aggregation risk, we had either overlooked or dismissed the possibility of large-scale terrorism losses. That was a relevant underwriting factor, and we ignored it. In pricing property coverages, for example, we had looked to the past and taken into account only costs we might expect to incur from windstorm, fire, explosion and earthquake. But what will be the largest insured property loss in history (after adding related business-interruption claims) originated from none of these forces. In short, all of us in the industry made a fundamental underwriting mistake by focusing on experience, rather than exposure, thereby assuming a huge terrorism risk for which we received no premium. Finally, there was 2008 – the year of the Lehman Brothers failure and the global financial crisis. Buffett's 2008 letter is pretty wide-ranging, given the lessons investors learned that year. In one section, Buffett touched on the dangers of derivatives, which played a big part in the crisis. Buffett, as a long-time investor in the insurance business, had plenty of experience with the instruments himself. He wrote: Indeed, recent events demonstrate that certain big-name CEOs (or former CEOs) at major financial institutions were simply incapable of managing a business with a huge, complex book of derivatives. Include Charlie and me in this hapless group: When Berkshire purchased General Re in 1998, we knew we could not get our minds around its book of 23,218 derivatives contracts, made with 884 counterparties (many of which we had never heard of). So we decided to close up shop. Though we were under no pressure and were operating in benign markets as we exited, it took us five years and more than $400 million in losses to largely complete the task. Upon leaving, our feelings about the business mirrored a line in a country song: “I liked you better before I got to know you so well.” Improved “transparency” – a favorite remedy of politicians, commentators and financial regulators for averting future train wrecks – won’t cure the problems that derivatives pose. I know of no reporting mechanism that would come close to describing and measuring the risks in a huge and complex portfolio of derivatives. Auditors can’t audit these contracts, and regulators can’t regulate them. When I read the pages of “disclosure” in 10-Ks of companies that are entangled with these instruments, all I end up knowing is that I don’t know what is going on in their portfolios (and then I reach for some aspirin). The excerpts above are, of course, only a very small sample of the type of writing that has made Buffett's letters a must-read for investors year-in and year-out. Click here to explore the full archive of letters on the Berkshire website &gt; FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipChinese official PMI fell to 50.2 in February, to an eight-month low. The reading was down from 50.5 the previous month, but was modestly better than expectations for 50.1. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. On March 2, we get HSBC PMI which is already in a contractionary phase. The flash reading out earlier this month, came in at 48.3. Economists have said that markets should interpret the data with some caution because of the impact of the Lunar New Year holiday. The HSBC reading has exposure to small and medium enterprises (SMEs) while the official figure has exposure to larger companies. Here's the full table which shows that almost all of the sub-indices in the manufacturing report fell in February, and many are in contractionary territory.: Business Insider/Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
Just before the bankruptcy of the Mt. Gox bitcoin digital-money (or virtual currency) exchange, Japanese finance minister Taro Aso predicted the inevitable failure. "No one recognizes them as a real currency," he told reporters. "I expected such a thing to collapse." I totally agree. For weeks I have been tweeting and broadcasting that bitcoin is not real money. It is not a reliable medium of exchange, nor is it a reliable store of value. It has no central bank regulation, network operations or even centralized issuance. And because of its wild price fluctuations, bitcoin can never be a reliable payment system. The virtual currency originally offered a way to make transactions across borders without third parties such as banks. But the collapse of Mt. Gox—with 850,000 bitcoins unaccounted for, totaling $425 million of losses, according to many reports—illustrates the grand failure of this digital experiment. He concludes by asserting that "the bitcoin community must embrace external regulation to ensure that credible vendors may participate in payment processing." (Read more: Bitcoin exchange Mt. Gox files for bankruptcy) Hundreds of bitcoin supporters have tweeted attacks at me for arguing that it is not real money. But historically, money must be a reliable medium of exchange and a reliable store of value. Bitcoin meets neither of these definitions. How can you transact using so-called digital money when prices fluctuate by hundreds of dollars in the space of an hour, or less? You might think you bought something for $500. But by the time the retailer processes payment, the so-called digital-currency price drops to $100. Both buyers and sellers lose big because bitcoin is not a reliable medium of exchange with a dependable store of value. It is backed by nothing but pure speculation. You can't even hedge it, because there's no interest rate. You can barely even get a price quote—not for the value of the product being bought or sold, but for the value of the monetary medium of exchange. Years ago, Arthur Laffer warned that many currencies around the world lacked "the moneyness of money." He was referring to third-world-type currencies. But bitcoin would qualify, as well. (Read more: Yellen on bitcoin and the Federal Reserve) Now, I'm not going to defend the value of the dollar, which has depreciated substantially over time. But this unfortunate depreciation has happened over long periods—not in 10-minute intervals. Of course, I'd love to see a gold- and commodity-backed dollar. And maybe future bitcoin reformers can restructure in such a way. But the dollar is accepted around the world by governments, banks, businesses and consumers because it is a reliable medium of exchange, even if its store of value has deteriorated. The dollar serves as a payment mechanism, has a central issuer and is regulated. When the bitcoin people created their digital money as a way of avoiding banks and regulators, they forgot, or maybe never learned, the classic day-to-day requirements of a currency. So fellas, please go back to the drawing board. I'm all for the digital revolution and trading assets online. But money is different. It must conform to certain long-held principles. That's why bitcoin is not real money now, and why without huge reforms it will never qualify as real money. —By CNBC's Larry Kudlow; Follow him on Twitter @larry_kudlow FREE AppDownload
Mary Cybulski/Paramount Pictures"When Marty and Leo commit to something, it doesn't mean it's getting done," says Jordan Belfort. "And then the problems start."For "The Wolf of Wall Street," the road to Oscar was a bumpy one, to say the least. In 2006, a fresh-out-of-prison Jordan Belfort chose Leonardo DiCaprio and Martin Scorsese to option his book rights in a $330,000 deal based at Warner Bros. Broke and indebted to his swindled victims — yet full of hope for the future — Belfort was sure his memoir being made into a movie would pull him out of financial ruin. But he never thought it would take seven years to see his life story come to life on the big screen. As Belfort soon learned, "when Marty and Leo commit to something, it doesn't mean it's getting done. And then the problems start," he explained to The Hollywood Reporter in a new interview.  Here's where things first started to go wrong in 2006: One, Marty is over at Paramount, which gives Paramount the right to co-finance. But Warners is like, "F--- you!" and they start butting heads. Marty was really concerned that the studio would make him tone it down. And then the writers strike hits and it falls apart: Marty and Leo go off and do Shutter Island, and I'm devastated. After the project stalled for a few years, Belfort says there were many "false starts" with new people attached. [After Warners renewed its initial option, in 2010] Leo's option expired a second time, and we had like five false starts. Ridley Scott commits, then Fox says, "We're going to make you do Prometheus." There were rumblings Warners wanted Ben Affleck to do it. And Megan Ellison offered to buy the whole thing — I had a celebratory dinner with her — then two days later it fell through. Ultimately, it was DiCaprio's passion for the role that saved the entire film. Leo just refused to let it die, and after the option expired, in 2011 Scott Lambert called a meeting with everybody — me, [DiCaprio's manager] Rick Yorn, Leo and Alexandra — at the Polo Lounge. And Leo goes, "We're going to get Marty." Then I start hearing about Red Granite. They buy it, they announce it in Cannes. They said, "Listen, we're going to make Marty an offer he can't refuse."  Throughout the filmmaking process, DiCaprio took Belfort under his wing — while Scorsese remained aloof. I spent hundreds of hours with Leo doing everything you could imagine, from hanging out socially to showing him what it's like to be on drugs. I took him through the stages [of taking Quaaludes] and I was rolling on the floor in his house as he was filming me. [But] I never met Marty till the end of the shoot. I did a cameo: I'm the MC that first introduces Leo. And despite being "the whipping boy of the world" after the film's release, Belfort says he understands Scorsese's vision for the film and why he chose to end it the way he did. It's laughable when people say [Scorsese is] glorifying my behavior, because the movie is so obviously an indictment. I could have easily been redeemed at the end of the film, because I am redeemed in real life, but [Scorsese] left all that out because he wanted to make a statement — and I respect that. Even though I'll be the whipping boy for the world. Since its Christmas Day release, "The Wolf Of Wall Street" has raked in $338 million at the global box office and is up for five awards at Sunday's Academy Awards. Check out Belfort talking "The Wolf Of Wall Street" success in his Hermosa Beach home:  To read Belfort's full interview with The Hollywood reporter, click here &gt; FREE AppDownload
APPresident Obama gave a short statement on the events in Ukraine on Friday, warning Russia that there would be "costs" if it continues to meddle in the country's affairs. “We are now deeply concerned by reports of military movements taken by the Russian Federation inside Ukraine,” Obama said. In recent days, unidentified armed men (believed by many to be Russian forces) have seized key areas in Ukraine's Crimea, leading the country to accuse Russia of an "armed invasion." "Any violation of Ukraine sovereignty and territorial integrity would be deeply destabilizing," Obama said in his speech. While Obama was sending a clear, public signal to Moscow with his comments, he also said his administration was in daily contact with Russian leaders. He made clear that Ukrainians should be allowed to decide their own course. "There will be costs for any intervention in Ukraine," he said, in a clear warning to Russia. Obama did not make clear what those "costs" would be, although direct military action is highly unlikely. Senior administration officials speaking to CNN have said the U.S. may possibly sit out the upcoming G-8 summit in Russia, while others have speculated the U.S. could bring Ukraine into the fold of NATO. Ian Bremmer, a geopolitical expert and president of the Eurasia Group, characterized it this way: Obama: "There will be costs for any military intervention in #Ukraine." To US credibility. Obama's speech from the White House comes after ousted Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych spoke to the press earlier today from the southern Russian port city of Rostov-on-Don, where he called for a reorganization of the government, new presidential elections, and a new constitution. As BI's Michael Kelley reported, he highlighted the truce signed on February 19, which would have kept him in power and was subsequently rejected by protesters. After a day of bloodshed, Yanukovych fled and parliament stripped him of his position. A new government was approved yesterday, but neither Yanukovych nor Russia recognize it. "I believe that the Ukrainian parliament is not legitimate," he said.  Despite the tough talk from the Obama administration, Ian Bremmer believes there is a "near-zero" chance of any direct military conflict between the U.S. and Russia. Instead, Bremmer told BI's Michael Kelley and Henry Blodget on Thursday, a portion of Ukraine might secede and align with Russia, while the rest of the country will remain intact (and aligned with Europe). There might be local violence and verbal skirmishes along the way, but no military action between the U.S. and Russia. If Russia decides to invade Ukraine, Bremmer says, the U.S. will likely condemn the behavior but do nothing. Here's the transcript of Obama's speech, via Circa: THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everybody. Over the last several days, the United States has been responding to events as they unfold in Ukraine.  Throughout this crisis, we have been very clear about one fundamental principle: The Ukrainian people deserve the opportunity to determine their own future.  Together with our European allies, we have urged an end to the violence and encouraged Ukrainians to pursue a course in which they stabilize their country, forge a broad-based government and move to elections this spring. I also spoke several days ago with President Putin, and my administration has been in daily communication with Russian officials, and we've made clear that they can be part of an international community’s effort to support the stability and success of a united Ukraine going forward, which is not only in the interest of The people of Ukraine and the international community, but also in Russia’s interest. However, we are now deeply concerned by reports of military movements taken by the Russian Federation inside of Ukraine.  Russia has a historic relationship with Ukraine, including cultural and economic ties, and a military facility in Crimea, but any violation of Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity would be deeply destabilizing, which is not in the interest of Ukraine, Russia, or Europe. It would represent a profound interference in matters that must be determined by the Ukrainian people.  It would be a clear violence of Russia’s commitment to respect the independence and sovereignty and borders of Ukraine, and of international laws.  And just days after the world came to Russia for the Olympic Games, it would invite the condemnation of nations around the world.  And indeed, the United States will stand with the international community in affirming that there will be costs for any military intervention in Ukraine. The events of the past several months remind us of how difficult democracy can be in a country with deep divisions.  But the Ukrainian people have also reminded us that human beings have a universal right to determine their own future.  Right now, the situation remains very fluid.  Vice President Biden just spoke with Prime Minister -- the Prime Minister of Ukraine to assure him that in this difficult moment the United States supports his government’s efforts and stands for the sovereignty, territorial integrity and democratic future of Ukraine.  I also commend the Ukrainian government’s restraint and its commitment to uphold its international obligations.  We will continue to coordinate closely with our European allies.  We will continue to communicate directly with the Russian government.  And we will continue to keep all of you in the press corps and the American people informed as events develop. Thanks very much. FREE AppDownload
Hedge fund activist Dan Loeb doesn't tweet often — only 13 times actually — but this week went after New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio over charter schools. Loeb directs the board of Success Academy Charter Schools in New York, and as Bloomberg reported this summer, he upped his pledge to $3 million from $2 million. De Blasio, for his part, aligns more with critics of charter schools who argue that they yank funds from public schools and don't have proper oversight. This week, de Blasio revoked plans to open three new charter schools that were supposed to get free space in public school buildings. Or as the New York Post put it, "De Blasio starts his war on charter schools." Loeb tweeted that link, adding, "Why is #MayorDeBlasio attacking the poor? Ruining lives? Taking hope?" And then there was this: @BilldeBlasio nice way to celebrate by kicking out primarily black kids from top performing Harlem Success Academy Schools #hypocrisy FREE AppDownload
National Weather ServiceThe storm total forecast in New York City for Sunday, March 2 through Tuesday, March 4.The brutal winter continues as another round of heavy snow is expected to hit the Northeast early next week, AccuWeather.com reports. A storm in the high plains will begin moving east on Saturday "with the potential for treacherous ice accumulations Sunday and Monday from Ohio to Washington, D.C., and as far south as Tennessee," according to NBC News. A wintry mix could make for a treacherous morning commute on Monday, weather experts warn. "In the worst case, commuters in New York will be traveling to their offices with snow falling at a rate of an inch an hour, meteorologist Gary Best told Bloomberg. Expected precipitation amounts, and whether this comes in the form of rain or snow, depends how the storm moves over the next couple of days. "The precipitation may begin as all rain Sunday morning, but quickly switch to a wintry mix by Sunday afternoon," the National Weather Service said. The weather service said 6 to 10 inches of snow is possible from Philadelphia to New Jersey along the I-95 corridor. FREE AppDownload
J. Crew/FacebookJapan's Fast Retailing is in talks to buy J. Crew, according to a report by the Wall Street Journal.  Fast Retailing, which is worth a stunning $36 billion, approached J. Crew this week, according to the report.  J. Crew is seeking as much as $5 billion in the deal, WSJ writes, citing sources close to the deal.  The companies are in early talks, and the negotiations might not advance, according to the report. The report also states that the company has enlisted Goldman Sachs for early IPO work.  In addition to Uniqlo, Fast Retailing owns brands like J Brand, Theory, and National Standard.  Uniqlo has said it wants to open more than 200 stores in every major U.S. city. The company is known for its affordable basics, and is already the dominant retailer in Asia.  J. Crew has more than 400 American stores. Private-equity firms TPG Capital and Leonard Green &amp; Partners currently own the retailer.    FREE AppDownload
House of Cards/NetflixFrank Underwood.There is a lot of confusion surrounding China and its role as a holder of U.S. government debt. An exchange at the beginning of episode 6 of the second season of House of Cards provides a perfect illustration of this. In the show, members of the presidential administration are discussing which tack to take with China, and the president suggests playing hardball. "If China doesn't show at the refunding auction, long-term interest rates will spike!" warns someone at the table — ostensibly the Treasury Secretary. "And in a week, yields on our 10-year notes will pierce the 7% threshold," chimes in Frank Underwood (the show's main character, portrayed by Kevin Spacey). "That could happen." You've probably heard this before in American political discourse. There's this idea that if China decides to stop buying U.S. government bonds, the U.S. Treasury will have a failed auction and bond yields will surge. There are two big problems with this: first, there is a system of primary dealers in place to make sure that failed auctions won't happen, and second, China's holdings of U.S. Treasuries are not some sort of "leverage" that the Chinese government holds over the U.S. government. On the contrary, China's Treasury holdings are a function of its foreign exchange reserve accumulation. As other countries buy Chinese goods with dollars — the primary currency of international trade — it puts upward pressure on the Chinese renminbi. China's central bank accumulates dollar reserves to counter this upward pressure, and it holds those dollar reserves in U.S. Treasuries in order to garner interest. China's foreign reserves continue to rise, so it is in no position to "dump U.S. debt," as politicians sometime like to claim it will. It is true that its central bank has begun to allocate away from Treasuries as a percentage of its reserve portfolio, but this is the sort of thing that must be done over time. So when you hear politicians engaging in fearmongering over China's holdings of U.S. government bonds, remember that it's complete nonsense. FREE AppDownload
Jeff J Mitchell/Getty ImagesStocks surged to new all-time highs following today's big economic data dump. But that rally faded a bit. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesFormer hedge fund portfolio manager Mathew Martoma exits a New York federal court after being charged in one of the biggest insider trading cases in history on November 26, 2012 in New York City.NEW YORK (Reuters) - Former SAC Capital Advisors LP portfolio manager Mathew Martoma asked a U.S. judge to throw out his insider trading conviction, saying federal prosecutors did not prove he committed a crime and that improper evidence and jury bias tainted the verdict. The request submitted late Thursday night in the U.S. District Court in Manhattan was expected. It followed Martoma's February 6 conviction on two counts of securities fraud and one count of conspiracy. "This court should enter a judgment of acquittal on all counts," Martoma, 39, told U.S. District Judge Paul Gardephe, who presided over the roughly month-long trial, in the filing. In the alternative, Martoma said he deserves a new trial. A spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan did not immediately respond on Friday to a request for comment. Martoma was accused of seeking and trading on confidential information about a clinical trial involving Ireland'sElan Corp and Wyeth, now part of Pfizer Inc, over an experimental drug to treat Alzheimer's disease. Prosecutors said his trades enabled SAC, a hedge fund run by billionaire Steven A. Cohen, to generate profit and avoid losses of $275 million from trades in Elan and Wyeth before the trial's results were announced in July 2008. Martoma had worked in SAC's CR Intrinsic Investors unit. Based on recent sentences in insider trading cases, he could face several years in prison when he is sentenced on June 10. Eight people who once worked for SAC have been convicted of or pleaded guilty to insider trading. SAC no longer manages outside money, and now oversees Cohen's $9 billion fortune. Cohen has not been criminally charged. INADEQUATE PROOF In his filing, Martoma argued that he had independent reasons to trade in Elan and Wyeth, including recommendations from SAC health care analysts that both stocks were overpriced, and that any tips he got were already public or immaterial. He also said testimony from the octogenarian former University of Michigan medical professor Sidney Gilman, who testified to giving Martoma the clinical trial results, was unreliable because of his patchy memory. Martoma also said the jury was biased because of widespread media attention during the trial to his 1999 expulsion from Harvard Law School for doctoring a transcript. The verdict against Martoma came after a different jury in Manhattan convicted another SAC portfolio manager,Michael Steinberg, over another insider trading scheme. SAC agreed last year to pay $1.8 billion and plead guilty to fraud stemming from employees' insider trading. Its sentencing in the criminal case is set for March 14. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is seeking to bar Cohen from the financial services industry for failing to supervise Martoma and Steinberg. The case is U.S. v. Martoma, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 12-cr-00973. (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Additional reporting by Emily Flitter; Editing by Stephen Powell) FREE AppDownload
Yuya Shino(Reuters) - Mt. Gox, once the world's largest bitcoin exchange, has been sued by a customer in what may be the first of many U.S. lawsuits seeking to recoup millions of dollars of losses linked to a hacking attack that led to the exchange's bankruptcy. In a complaint filed on Thursday in U.S. District Court in Chicago, plaintiff Gregory Greene said Mt. Gox and its chief executive, Mark Karpeles, were negligent and committed fraud for having failed to protect the Tokyo-based exchange from theft. Greene said bitcoin prices plummeted after Mt. Gox found the security breach, but said he and other investors in the virtual currency could not cut their losses because the exchange had halted trading. Mt. Gox took down its website on Tuesday. "Mt. Gox intentionally and knowingly failed to provide its users with the level of security protection for which they paid," said Greene, who estimated his bitcoin stake at $25,000. The lawsuit seeks class action status on behalf of Mt. Gox users, restitution, monetary damages and other remedies. It was not immediately clear which law firm would defend Mt. Gox against the lawsuit. Baker &amp; McKenzie, a Chicago-based firm that represents the exchange in Japan, did not immediately respond on Friday to requests for comment. At a news conference on Friday at the Tokyo District Court, Karpeles said he was "very sorry" and blamed Mt. Gox's collapse on a "weakness in our system," but predicted that the bitcoin market would continue to grow. Mt. Gox said it may have 750,000 of its customers' bitcoins and 100,000 of its own, equal to about 7 percent of bitcoins worldwide, for a total loss of about $480 million. The exchange reported having 127,000 creditors, liabilities of 6.5 billion yen ($64 million) and assets of 3.84 billion yen ($38 million). It is common for alleged frauds that generate significant losses or attention to result in a slew of U.S. lawsuits seeking class action status, even if the alleged wrongful activity occurs outside the country. "This is a case of serial mismanagement, if not outright fraud, by Karpeles and Mt. Gox," said Steven Woodrow, a partner at the Edelson law firm in Denver, who filed Greene's lawsuit. "Users of the exchange are collectively out millions while Mt. Gox holds onto their bitcoins. We intend to get to the bottom of this in an American court." The case is Greene v. MtGox Inc, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois, No. 14-01437. (Additional reporting by Yoshifumi Takemoto and Sophie Knight in Tokyo; Editing by Jonathan Oatis) FREE AppDownload
The S&amp;P 500 has just fallen into negative territory after spending most of the day up nicely. Meanwhile, U.S. Treasuries are quickly regaining much of the ground lost earlier this morning, when risk sentiment was more in vogue. Some of the jitters may be on account of reports that Russia has sent troops into Ukraine's Crimea region, but it appears that weakness was seeping into markets prior to those reports hitting the tape. The charts below show the price action in various markets. Across the top from left to right are the S&amp;P 500, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures, and December 2016 eurodollar futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Getty Images Entertainment/ Rob KimJordan Belfort wrote the first draft of "Wolf Of Wall Street" in prison as bunkmate Tommy Chong was also writing a book.As most now know, Jordan Belfort is the real-life swindler on which Martin Scorsese's "The Wolf Of Wall Street" is based. The Oscar-nominated film is based on the book that Belfort wrote after being released from prison in 2006. But in a new interview with The Hollywood Reporter, Belfort reveals that the only reason he sat down to write his memoir in the first place was because of his unlikely prison bunkmate, Tommy Chong of "Cheech and Chong." While Belfort served 22 months in prison in Taft, Calif., for fraud and money laundering, Chong was at the same time serving a nine-month sentence for selling drug paraphernalia. Belfort explains their unlikely meeting to THR: When I arrived at Taft, they lost my paperwork, so I spent five days in solitary. It was brutal, absolutely brutal. But it was minimum security, and after solitary it was like a boys' club -- and who's my bunkmate? Tommy Chong from Cheech &amp; Chong. I couldn't believe it. He was in the process of writing his book. We used to tell each other stories at night, and I had him rolling hysterically on the floor. The third night he goes, "You've got to write a book." So I started writing, and I knew it was bad. It was terrible. I was about to call it quits and then I went into the prison library and stumbled upon The Bonfire of the Vanities by Tom Wolfe, and I was like, "That's how I want to write!" Michael Buckner/Getty"We had a nice little hierarchy there, intelligent famous guys hanging out together,” Tommy Chong says of his time in prison with Jordan Belfort. Chong has said of his time with Belfort, “We had these beautiful vegetarian, healthy meals every night, and Jordan was part of the gang. We had a nice little hierarchy there, intelligent famous guys hanging out together,” adding that Belfort’s arrival “was like Elvis coming to jail." But despite plenty of writing time on his hands, Belfort struggled to express himself in the way that he wanted. When you're in jail, you have a lot of time to think about your mistakes. It was completely mellow. I played tennis three hours a day, and I'd write for maybe 12. I wrote about 130 pages, but I tore them up. I just didn't think they were good enough. It wasn't until after Belfort left prison, in 2006, that he really got serious about his writing process. I got out of jail and said, "Maybe I should try to write again." I had zeroed out financially. I was 43 years old. I knew this book agent, Joel Gotler, and he said, "Send me some pages and I'll call you next week." The next morning my phone rings and he says, "Who the f--- wrote these pages?!" ... I was a very slow writer, still am. I started writing and didn't leave the house. My only human contact was my children and my ex-wife. She wasn't vindictive at all [unlike her portrayal in the movie].   It took me about 11 months [to finish the book], seven days a week, 15 hours a day -- my whole life I've been an unbelievable insomniac, and I sleep maybe three or four hours a night. When I got a solid 125 pages, Random House snapped up the book for $500,000 upfront. Despite million-dollar movie deals being offered his way, Belfort eventually chose the cheaper $330,000 deal that would allow Martin Scorsese and Leonardo DiCaprio to tell his story. It would only take seven years to actually make the film. Since its Christmas Day release, "The Wolf Of Wall Street" has raked in $338 million at the global box office and is up for five awards at Sunday's Academy Awards. Check out Belfort talking "Wolf Of Wall Street" in his Hermosa Beach home in this THR exclusive video:  FREE AppDownload
Instagram/danderozBarclays moved to limit overworking its junior bankers in the U.S. Friday, echoing recent initiatives by Goldman Sachs, Bank of America and others to stem a sometimes brutal work culture for post-college analyst programs. "The demands of the job are high, but our best work is when we work intelligently as a team; not just because we work the hardest or the longest," Barclays said in an internal memo announcing new guidelines for junior bankers. The guidelines include: --Mandatory block leave for two non-consecutive weeks over a year. --Mandatory days off of at least 12 a quarter in addition to vacation and including weekends; no more than 12 consecutive days in the office. --No new projects assigned after noon Friday; exceptions require group head approval. Other guidelines included more mentoring and better allocation of staff time. "These new guidelines provide a common framework to unify the division and help us address the industry-wide questions and concerns raised around the practicalities of investment banking," the memo said.  The letter was signed by John Miller, head of Americas investment banking; Joe McGrath, co-head of global finance and risk solutions; and Paul Parker, chairman and head of global mergers and acquisitions. "It seems like management has their heart in the right place, but time will tell how these new measures impact the quality of life for junior bankers," said a current Barclays employee familiar with the investment banking program. "There is an entrepreneurial element to being a successful analyst or associate, so no level of structured 'protection' will keep everyone out of the office; investment banking continues to be a competitive industry despite the recent image challenges," the person added. "The challenge around these lifestyle initiatives for all banks going forward is how to make them an accepted part of the culture. Paradigm shift? We'll see." A Barclays spokesman declined to comment. FREE AppDownload
BrugalWhiskey is enjoying quite the renaissance among global drinkers these days, with U.S. distillers exporting $1 billion worth of the brown stuff for the first time ever last year. With that kind of success, other spirits want in on the action too. That includes rum, not something Americans tend to sip neat or even on the rocks. Brugal wants to change that with Papá Andrés, its new $1,200-a-bottle premium rum. Rum drinkers know Brugal well, especially those who have been to the Dominican Republic, where the brand has 80% of the market, and ordering "rum" at a bar will automatically get you a glass full of Brugal. But with Papá Andrés, Brugal is trying to infiltrate the premium spirits market, and they're only releasing 500 bottles this year. The Edrington Group, which has owned Brugal since 2008, knows how to introduce high-end spirits to consumers. Their Macallan products are big-time favorites among monied scotch drinkers. But Brugal? Isn't that for cocktails and cruise ships? It's hard to picture the titans of Wall Street knocking back a glass of Dominican rum neat. Business Insider sat down with two of Brugal's "Maestros Roneros" (master rum makers) to hear about the new product and give it a try. The Brugal family has actually been making Papá Andrés for generations — the distillery is 125 years old. Every year, the Maestros Roneros take some of the best liquid from Brugal's casks and add it to the special Papá Andrés casks, named for the company's founder. After years of this process, Brugal has made a crazy complex, high-end rum. "We don't know how old the liquid is," Maestro Ronero Gustavo Brugal told us, laughing. The family would only drink Papá Andrés on special occasions like family gatherings and weddings, and now it's available to the public, although with a highly limited release. We have to say, it was pretty terrific (it does cost a fortune, after all). Rich, fruity, with subtle notes of dry fruit and caramel. And about the smoothest rum you could possibly imagine. It has a "very clean, dry, pure profile," Gustavo Brugal said. But releasing only 500 bottles will hardly make a big market impact. In the coming years, they'll have to produce more. For Brugal, this isn't about their bottom line, it's about making rum a "premium" spirit in the U.S. like scotch is. And it's about making sure if the whiskey bubble does bust, rum will be there to pick up the pieces. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Steven ShiChina's internet-based money market funds have become increasingly popular in the past year.  In the absence of higher returns on their savings, households searching for better yields have sought out riskier investment vehicles like wealth management products (WMP). Internet companies have also stepped up to fill the void created by China's restrictive financial system.  Total assets under management (AUM) at money-market funds surged to 953 billion yuan at the end of January-2014, up 100.2% on the year. And all of this began with Alibaba affiliate, Alipay which offers Yu E Bao, as we have previously explained, with Baidu and Tencent jumping on the bandwagon more recently. Tencent has tied its financial product to its tremendously popular app WeChat. MMFs invest the majority of their funds in negotiable bank deposits. Some like Yu E Bao limit their investments to 29 banks that appear on a safe list. The rest is placed in low-risk liquid assets like interbank bonds. "We can treat internet-based MMFs as a successful case of collective bargaining when people pool their money together at MMFs which served as their negotiators for higher yields," Bank of America's Ting Lu. The interesting thing about the growth of these MMFs however is the impact it's having on China's financial sector. "The breakneck growth of China’s internet-based money market funds (MMFs) has brought a revolution to China’s commercial banking, interbank rates, bond yields, fund management and even the central bank’s monetary policymaking," writes Ting. The impact on commercial banks Earlier, banks created wealth management products to compete with one another. Now, banks are offering their own MMFs, they're upgrading their online financial services, and they've raised the cap on deposit rates. But to counter these online MMFs Chinese banks are also restricting the amount of money that their clients can transfer into internet financial services. Here's a look at how MMFs have grown: Bank of America Merrill LynchAnd here's a chart that shows how bank deposit growth has slowed:  Bank of AmericaThe impact on interbank rates Ting thinks the impact MMFs are having, is similar to what MMFs did to U.S. interest rate liberalization in the 70s, only the internet has fast-tracked the process in China. Yields on these MMFs are driven by "negotiable deposit rates and bond yields, which are in turn closely linked to the interbank rates," explains Ting. So, when we saw a spike in interest rates in December during a cash crunch, the average MMF yield climbed 87 basis points to 5.58% at the end of December, from 4.71% in end-November. Bank of America"With the PBoC proactively providing liquidity to meet money demand for the Lunar New Year (LNY) at end-January and improved liquidity situation after the LNY holiday, interbank rates and bond yields have eased notably." But this isn't a simple one-way relationship. Interbank rates have gone up on account of increasing competition between banks through the issuance of wealth management products and MMFs. From Ting:  "As demand deposits were siphoned from banks by MMFs and then returned to banks as negotiable deposits, costs of Chinese banks’ short-term funding were raised. So far the around RMB1.0tn MMFs is still a far cry from the RMB10.0tn bank WMPs which are still the major force in raising banks’ funding costs and interbank rates, but the rapid growth of MMFs since mid-2013 surely greatly sped up China’s interest rate liberalization process as MMFs are outsiders of the banking system. In this regard, MMFs are barbarians at the gate which has so far protected Chinese banks." While there are pros and cons to the growth of MMFs, it's expected to have a positive impact as China is anyway trying to let the market play a bigger role in the economy. And market driven interest rates are expected to allow for more efficient capital allocation. FREE AppDownload
How much are you paying for your pizza? Journalists at NPR did some very important research and released some great infographics averaging the price of a pie across 237 mostly urban U.S. neighborhoods. To start, NPR looked at the median price of all cheese pizzas based on data provided by Grubhub Seamless, and included neighborhoods in five cities: Chicago, Los Angeles, New York, Philadelphia and Washington, D.C. We took a look at New York City's numbers here. Not surprisingly, pizza costs more in Manhattan than any other city. Midtown Manhattan averages around $23 a pie. In parts of Philadelphia, you can purchase a pie for just $8.  Animal New York points out that nothing matters more when choosing a place to live than the proximity to a decent slice, so now you can use this data to figure out where you'll move to next.  Here are the prices of pizza in Manhattan neighborhoods. The size of the dot represents the amount of pizza places in that particular 'hood. NPR   Here's the same research for Manhattan's surrounding boroughs: NPR   To see where other cities' pizza falls in comparison, visit NPR's Planet Money blog here. These infographics were created by Quoctrung Bui at NPR's Planet Money, with permission to use. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsPeople line up to buy food at a supermarket in San Cristobal, about 410 miles (660 km) southwest of Caracas, Feb. 27, 2014. U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and Pope Francis called Wednesday for an end to violence in Venezuela that has killed at least 13 people and urged politicians to take the lead in calming the nation's worst unrest in a decade. One of the reasons Venezuelans have been protesting all over the country for weeks is because of mass shortages of food and other goods. In December, opposition leader Leopoldo Lopez compared the country's astonishing inflation rate to Zimbabwe's. Consumer prices have risen 56% since Nicolas Maduro took power in 2013. This line gives you a pretty stunning impression of what that's like — of how many Venezuelans have to get in line for hours to feed themselves and their families every day. The photo was taken in San Cristobal, the capital city of the Venezuelan mountainous western state of Táchira. It's one of the epicenters of the protests, in which at least 15 have died. And the demonstrations show no signs of abating, despite Lopez's arrest last week. On Wednesday, the government announced new measures to try to stem inflation by creating a secondary market in which state oil firm Petroleos de Venezuela SA, individuals and other companies can purchase dollars. President Nicolas Maduro is trying less-orthodox measures to quell protests as well. This week he announced an early start to the country's pre-Lenten Carnival festivities, meant to take place this weekend. "The oligarchy wants to take Carnival away from the people," said Maduro to a crowd of supporters on Wednesday. "Do you all agree with that? "No," they cried. "Do you want me to suspend Carnival this year," he asked. "No!" He went on to ask if they wanted him to take Carnival from kids and cultural groups. (Of course not.) "That is fascism," he continued. "To take from the people their cultural rights, their right to Carnival, is pure fascism!" Despite that compelling argument, it seems the protestors aren't heading off to the beach to party on Maduro's order. They're still in the streets. The protester in the center of the picture below, taken outside a metro station in Caracas, is holding a sign that reads, "We'll trade you Carnival for security and food." Pancartazo en la salida del Metro Sabana Grande, #Caracas pic.twitter.com/6tBUmX3ca3 (vía @ActivismoPJ) #28F FREE AppDownload
At least one industry insider is throwing cold water on rumors Wall Street is threatening to cut off donations to the GOP as a result of a sweeping tax reform proposal released this week by Rep. Dave Camp, the Republican chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. In a conversation with Business Insider Friday, they said the industry is "realistic" about the fact Camp's plan lacks the support to get a vote on the House floor. However, the insider, who wished to remain nameless, confirmed some firms reached out to lawmakers to complain about the proposal, which would raise taxes on financial institutions with more than $500 billion and close the "carried interest" loophole that allows hedge fund and private equity profits to be taxed at a lower rate. Mainly, the insider thinks Camp's "rhetoric" is a concern for the industry. "I don't know of any threats. I do think that people are upset with the rhetoric that Camp uses and using the tax code to single out a group of people," the insider said. "I think everyone understands this is a bill that's not going anywhere. ... We're not stupid. ... The industry's pretty realistic." Republican congressional leadership and some Democrats have distanced themselves from the plan, which camp developed with the former Montana Democratic Senator Max Baucus. The insider said they found it implausible Wall Street firms would threaten to cut off donations because of a plan that's doomed to fail. "I think Democrats aren't running to embrace it and leadership's running away from it, so be a realist about these things, people don't do these things," they said of potential threats. "There's no indication that Boehner or Cantor are supportive of this proposal." While Wall Street might not be losing too much sleep over the proposal, the insider said financial firms do want to counter Camp's assertion there's an "implicit subsidy" for the financial industry due to the perception banks are "too big to fail" and would be bailed out in the event of another crisis. In the new regulatory environment, they argued the idea of a subsidy is simply incorrect. "I think that the biggest issue is that, given the amount of capital and other requirements since Dodd-Frank, there's not a 'Too Big to Fail' subsidy and not the subsidy that Camp asserts," they said. Whatever concerns Wall Street may have about the proposal, the insider we spoke with insisted the idea lobbyists would not use their financial muscle to threaten an entire party over a plan with so little support and prospects.  "In my mind, those heavy-handed tactics never work," said the insider. "They backfire, they don't work." FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from E*TRADE)The stock market crash of 2008 has for many years caused an aversion to stocks among retail investors, but they may finally be coming back after a 188% run-up from the March 2009 lows. Daily average revenue trades (DARTs) at leading online brokerage E*TRADE have been trending up since bottoming out in mid-2012, but in January, this metric soared 26% from the previous month to 195,652, marking the biggest monthly gain in nearly three years. Now, E*TRADE DARTs — a common measure of the amount of commission-generating trades taking place per day on average over the course of a given month — are at the highest level since May 2010, suggesting trading activity has risen 61% since mid-2012. Tom Lee, chief U.S. equity strategist at JPMorgan, thinks this is a good sign. "Skeptics have argued to us that individual investors, who have pulled more than $345 billion from equities since 2007, are not likely to return to markets for years, maybe decades," says Lee in a weekly note to clients. "This re-engagement by individual investors, we believe, is a positive and is naturally supportive of improving valuations and liquidity for stocks." Of course, skeptics are likely to counter that such a surge in interest in the stock market at the retail level could be a contrarian indicator, suggesting the market's biggest gains are behind us at this point. However, that is unlikely to be taken as a controversial view, given the market's stellar performance in recent years. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Kai ScheiringMy littlest one turned four years-old last weekend, and my eight year-old is taking a Texas-Public-Schools-3rd-Grade-State-Mandated-Standardized-Test this week, so you can probably guess what’s on this ex-banker’s mind: Time is quickly running out for me to save money for their college tuition. The only thing scarier than those scary scary clown head trash cans at my littlest daughter’s birthday party is the prospect of saving enough money for her college tuition. For my eight year-old, I’ve got just 10 years to go before C-Day, so I thought I’d share my current ex-banker thoughts with others, in the hopes that we can experience this horrific fear together. Also, “saving for college” allows me to discuss my favorite topic (compound interest!) so that’s always a good enough reason by itself for a Bankers Anonymous post. I see three big questions about college savings, with the most interesting one being #2. Question #1: What college savings account or investment vehicle, if any, should I use? I’ll take these in order. Question #1: What savings account or investment vehicle, if any should I use? Open up a 529 College Savings account. Ok, that was easy. But, why a 529? Also, which one? The first “why” is because you may get an income tax advantage when you make a 529 account contribution, depending on the state you live in.  When I lived in New York and paid New York state income tax, I enjoyed an income tax break on my contributions.  Now that I live in Texas, I get no state income tax advantage from 529 account contributions. So that may, or may not, apply to you. The second ‘why’ is that any capital gains or investment income – which might be triggered when I sold stocks or earned interest on my investments – remain protected from taxation in that year, assuming I do not make withdrawals from my 529 account.  If I just held my college savings in a regular, taxable, brokerage account, I’d be required to pay taxes on capital gains or other income from my investments.  The result of this 529 account tax protection is that I can grow my money much faster than in a regular, taxable, brokerage account. Ok, so that sounds good, but which 529 account should you open?  Probably you should start by investigating your own state’s offering, precisely for that potential income tax break.  But if you live, as I do, in a state without an income tax, then you can consider other advantages, having to do with a) Contribution limits – Some states allow higher contributions than others b) Flexibility of investment choices – some states offer restricted types of investments c) Cost of available investment choices – some states offer higher-cost plans than others d) Convenience I opened a New York state account for my oldest daughter because we lived there, then.  My youngest was born in Texas, but I opened a New York state account for her as well, purely for convenience sake. I prefer tracking both girls’ college savings information on a single website. Question #2 – How much do I need to save, monthly, to have everything covered? The College Board (The fun group that brought you the SAT, the PSAT the AP tests, and more) has a couple of incredibly useful online calculators. First, they can help you figure out how much of college’s cost you, as a parent, will likely have pay. To try the calculator, go here. This calculator asks some specific questions about your family situation, plus your income and savings, and then tells you how much the financial aid department of a college will likely expect you to contribute for your child’s annual college expense. This number will be much higher than you want it to be. I don’t think of myself as wealthy, and generally we don’t have much left over at the end of the month.  Which is why the expected contribution number from a typical financial aid department left my face feeling a bit tingly. Is it getting warm in here, or is that just me? Next, the College Board has a great college savings calculator to tell you how far your current plan will go toward paying for college.  Before you go there, I’d like to warn you – the result is scarier than scary, scary, clowns. First, you input the current cost of college, an assumed rate of tuition inflation, how many years your child will attend, and how much you will likely have to pay, which you may have some idea about based on the first online College Board calculator above.  Next, you input how much you’ve already saved, what you expect your annual investment returns will be, how many more years you have before your child goes to college, and how much you plan to contribute monthly, between now and then. You input all of that, and then you have a heart attack immediately and die, because there’s Just. No. Way. I personally can’t feel the whole left side of my face right now. For example, let’s say I’ve managed to put aside $19,000 for my 4 year-old up until now. Looking good, Billy Ray. And let’s say I plan to put invest $200 per month until she turns 18, and I can earn a 7% return on my investments, via my 529 account. Feeling good, Lewis. Also, assume a private 4 year college costs $50,000 per year today, the college cost inflation rate is 5%, and I plan to pay 90% of that from savings. I have an estimated shortfall of $276,399. Randolph, this isn’t Monopoly money we’re playing with. Some of you clever readers may just be smirking because your little darling will likely either get a ton of scholarships or else attend a state college, no? Well, the bad reality is that state college isn’t that affordable these days either. The average 4-year in-state tuition cost, according to the College Board, will set you back $21,477 this year. If I have zero savings for my 4 year old, but I manage to invest $200 per month, starting now, and she attends an average cost in-state, I’m still $107,582 short 14 years from now. The answer to the question “how much should I be saving per month to be totally set for tuition” is provided by the College Board calculator, just under the shortfall number. I’m sorry about this, but as you know: Compound interest is powerful. After you recover from this shock, you’re ready to move on to question #3. Question #3 – How should you invest your child’s 529 Account? This one’s easy, and frequent Bankers Anonymous readers will not learn a single, damned, new thing from me here, because the answer is unchanged from previous, similar questions about how to invest for the long run. Hopefully you noticed, from playing around with the college board’s calculator, that you need a fairly high rate of return on your investments from now until college to even have a chance of closing the gap between your current savings and how much you’ll owe for your child’s college, every year, for four years. Now, since returns have to be high, you have precisely one choice for how to invest: 100% equities. Let me further clarify, in a way that will again make me sound like a broken record for careful readers: You need to invest your long-term savings for college in a highly diversified low-cost (probably indexed) mutual fund, invested in stocks only. Why 100% equities? Why not bonds or other safe investments?  Two reasons. The first reason is low returns.  For the vast majority of us, we can’t afford to invest in bonds over the medium to long run.  An intermediate-term bond fund will return somewhere between 0.5% and 2.5% right now, and that’s just not going to cut it. The second reason is that – on a probability-adjusted basis – you will get more from investing in equities. Here are the relevant facts to back up my assertion, as well as a cool graphic of these statements. If you have a 5-year investment horizon, you will be better off entirely in stocks, rather than bonds, 70% of the time. If you have a 10-year horizon – as I do – you will be better off entirely in stocks rather than bonds, 80% of the time. If you have a 15-year horizon – as I do with my youngest daughter – a 100% stocks portfolio outperforms a 100% bonds portfolio 90+% percent of the time. Is that guaranteed?  Of course not Probabilities are not the same as guarantees, so of course the bet you make on investing in 100% equities in your child’s 529 account could go wrong.  But making the other choice – including bonds in your portfolio – is a low probability bet.  By investing in bonds you are implicitly saying “Probabilities be damned! I don’t care about history! This time is different!” Look, I play poker with the neighborhood dads, so I know that low-probability bets sometimes work out.  But I also know it’s kind of stupid to make low-probability bets.  Trust me, because I’ve been losing $20 a week on a regular basis to these guys, testing this hypothesis, since I’m not a strong poker player. You can decide to weigh down your kid’s college savings account with bonds, and you may be under the illusion that this is ‘prudent’ because they’re bonds and “bonds = safe.”  But it’s not prudent, any more than it’s prudent to bet with jack seven off-suit. Low probability bet Would I advocate investing in 100% equities if my kid is going to college next year? Well, this gets trickier. Stocks still beat bonds in most years, so if you want to play to odds – and if you have some kind of cushion – you could reasonably keep the account in stocks. Most of time – on a probabilistic basis – this would be a winning choice. But I realize this seems a bit extreme, so with one year to go I’d probably take next years’ tuition (potentially only 1/4th of your position) and plunk it into a risk-free investment, like a money market fund, and leave the rest exposed to stocks. Remember, 3/4ths of your account has more than one year to remain invested.  Each additional year invested increases the probability that stocks beat bonds. Tick Tock Tick Tock For my wife and me, that loud ticking we hear is not the biological clock anymore, but rather the college financial clock. For anyone in our demographic who checked the College Board calculator, I’ll now sum up the only other good pieces of advice I can think of related to saving for college. Best of luck! This article originally appeared at Bankers Anonymous.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
The US the red line and accept for a brief moment around 1990, its Gini coefficient is the highest.  The blue line is an unweighted average of 12 OECD countries.   Germany, France, and now even Canada looks below this average, but income inequality has grown through the period.   Separately, we note that the Institute for Economic Research in Germany finds that Germany has the greatest wealth inequality in the euro area.  The top 1% of the population hold an average of 800,000 euros in financial assets or real estate. A full fifth of the German population has no private capital.  It also found, as one would expect, greater wealth in the west than east and men have more wealth than women.  One issue that discussions of wealth and income disparity raise is how much of it is the result of capitalism and some iron law.  Thomas Piketty in Capital in the Twenty First Century argues that because the rate of profit exceeds the rate of growth, inequality is inevitable.   It has reached levels, he argues, that is socially and politically destructive.  He argues that political action in the past helped temper and moderate those forces and can do so again.  While sympathetic to such arguments in general, I  think the fact that profits exceed growth itself is not a law, but reflects a power disparity.  How the social product is distributed between income claimants (business, workers, the state) is not a purely a function of economics, i.e., the confrontation in the market, which has the appearances of equality and freedom of choice.  Rather, it has just as much to do with power and politics.   Can capitalism exist with more egalitarian societies?  Looking at the Scandinavian countries, for example, the tentative answer needs to be yes.  Does this resolve the fundamental challenges of capitalism?  The tentative answer is probably no.  It is true that the kind of world painted by Charles Dickens does no exist any more, and Piketty is right that it was due to organized political action,.  However, the market has grown and commodification has been extended to include childhood, for example, and leisure time.   The ruining of the environment (regarding nature as commodity) and the vast waste generated, for example, is not a function of inequality of income or wealth.  Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
GrubHubMatt Maloney, GrubHub's CEO.GrubHub — which operates the Seamless restaurant delivery app — is profitable and still growing, its IPO filing shows. In 2013, the company booked $137 million in revenues, and $38 million in net income. GrubHub has been profitable for three straight years, and is currently growing at a rate of 66% a year. The company lists 28,000 restaurants as clients and 3.4 million "active diners" using its apps. There are 135,000 meal orders per day, or combined "Daily Average Grubs," as the company defines them. GrubHub has 680 employees and $86 million in cash on its balance sheet. Seamless merged with rival GrubHub in May of this year.  Matt Maloney, GrubHub's CEO, became the new company's chief executive officer. Jonathan Zabusky, Seamless' CEO, became its president. Since then Yelp also entered the food delivery business — so this is a category that is heating up. An IPO would swell Seamless' coffers for the fight against Yelp and other food delivery insurgents, like Eat 24. FREE AppDownload
btckeychainMt. Gox may have fallen, but it’s not all over yet for bitcoin. The digital currency had a good week in China, with the opening of the first bitcoin retail store, and a surge in trading volume at the Beijing-based Huobi.com, now the largest bitcoin trading platform in the world by volume. The Japan-based Mt. Gox once hosted 80 percent of the world’s bitcoin trades, but was obliged to file for bankruptcy on Friday, after losing nearly half a billion dollars’ worth of the virtual currency. Allegedly, 744,408 bitcoins, or 6 percent of all bitcoins in circulation, have been lost, Market Watch reported. This may be the biggest of a series of setbacks bitcoin has experienced in recent months, but thankfully, elsewhere in the world, the virtual currency is still doing OK. The fall of Mt. Gox provided a surprising impetus for Chinese bitcoin enthusiasts. On Monday when Mt. Gox was shut down, bitcoin value plunged more than 12 percent. On BitStamp, another exchange, the virtual currency was trading at $568.03 on Friday, compared to $1,132 in its peak in 2013. Beijing-based Huobi.com benefitted from the price slash, with 110,992 bitcoins changing hands in the past 24 hours alone, and about 1.38 bitcoins traded in the past seven days, which accounts for 54 percent of total trade volume during that period in the world Another beneficiary of the Mt. Gox fall is ANXBTC Exchange, who opened a bitcoin retail store in Hong Kong on Friday. For the first time, buyers can simply walk into the store, pay cash and send bitcoins to their virtual wallets, instead of buying with credit cards on online exchanges, said Ken Lo, CEO of ANXBTC. Lo also forecasted a bright future for the virtual currency in the Chinese markets at the opening ceremony of the store. “Many people here think the bitcoin is undervalued, and rush to buy the currency,” Hugh Madden, CTO of ANXBTC, told MarketWatch, “This is partly why we set up the first bitcoin retail store in the city.” Bitcoin has not been faring well in China for some months. At the end of a seemingly sensational year in China, bitcoin value began tumbling in the Chinese markets when China first banned financial institutions from trading in bitcoin in December, then restricted BTC China, then the world’s biggest exchange by trading volume, from accepting deposits in yuan. In Janauary, e-commerce giant Alibaba banned bitcoins from its online shopping sites. FREE AppDownload
Half a billion dollars worth of bitcoins are gone from Mt. Gox, which, prior to the vanishing act was considered the world's largest bitcoin exchange. That's a situation ripe for the Jon Stewart treatment. He quips that the money "only exists online? ... I don't see what could go wrong. Nothing is more reliable and secure than the Internet." Along the way there's a Tamagotchi joke, a rapper gold grill joke, a Madonna joke, a Mac joke, and a Dr. Seuss joke. Very 1990s and still funny. (Skip to 0:43 to go straight to the Bitcoin bit.)  FREE AppDownload
Google ImagesWe first called it a civil war. Following the New York Department of Financial Service's Bitcoin hearings, a rift seemed to develop between those who believed Bitcoin could not go mainstream without further regulation, and those who appeared to be clinging to the cryptocurrency's anarcho-libertarian roots.   But the issue has now basically been settled by the spectacular implosion of MtGox: The above-board faction has won, diluting the freedom-fighter's ideology and pushing their activities to the margins.  "I think the technology has a smaller, more outlier future if it's only going to be a wild west," said James Barcia, the spokesman for the NYC Bitcoin Center, whose founders maintain connections to small-government evangelists like U.S. Rep. Steve Stockman (R-Tex.). Stockman was the first incumbent in Washington to accept bitcoin for his campaign. In an emailed statement yesterday responding to a senator's call to ban Bitcoin, Stockman said, "Rather than thwart innovation Congress should help resolve challenges." He has not yet responded for further comment. The Federal Reserve itself has said that while it cannot yet regulate Bitcoin, is is observing the digital currency with interest. In comments made yesterday, Fed Chair Janet Yellen seemed to echo Stockman's sentiments.  "The Fed doesn't have authority with respect to Bitcoin," she said. "But certainly it would be appropriate for Congress to ask questions about what the right legal structure would be for digital currencies."The professionalization of Bitcoin has already begun SecondMarket has announced it plans to start the first U.S.-based exchange network. Fortress Investment Group just made the first-ever public filing of bitcoin holdings. While extreme wealth is no guarantee of ensured survival — the collapse of what was once the world's largest exchange is unlikely to increase mainstream demand for Bitcoin — it will likely be enough to carry it into its next phase. "Today, thanks to the hard work of many, the Mt. Gox 'crisis', as it’s been reported, has really been more of a speed bump on the road to mainstream maturity," Tyler Winklevoss, a major bitcoin investor, wrote on his blog. "Several other exchanges have stepped up and seamlessly shouldered the burden, and as a result, the price of bitcoin has shown remarkable resilience."  Some still cling to the notion that Bitcoin will suffer from further regulation. In a note on his blog, Union Square Ventures' Fred Wilson said that it was actually too much regulation that caused MtGox's problems. "Bitcoin is already regulated in the US and it is becoming more regulated every day. And the regulatory environment in the US has dampened the amount of innovation around Bitcoin that has developed here in the US. All the major Bitcoin exchanges have been built outside of the US and a significant amount of the venture capital investment in the Bitcoin ecosystem is happening outside of the US. This is a direct response to the stricter regulatory oversight and requirements here in the US versus other countries." While not necessarily sharing the ideological implications of Wilson's statement, Chicago Ventures exec Ezra Galston, a Bitcoin enthusiast, believes there is some truth to the idea that a jumbled regulatory environment may have contributed to Gox's collapse. He draws an analogy to what happened to the online poker industry. He launched a poker hedge fund in 2011. "As poker became more popular, banks became less comfortable with how much they were holding," he told us. "That forced poker sites downstream into black market banks, which increased the risk of collapse." He continued: "What typically happens is companies don't want to shut down, so they move down-market, waiting for the day when it becomes easier to go mainstream. The near-term risk is [thus] in consumer deposits." It's clear that a rump customer base will continue to use bitcoin for illicit activity. There seem to be at least two dozen online "dark" marketplaces where drugs and the like can be purchased, and bitcoin seems to be the preferred currency for some. Some argue it also retains a potential as a tax haven.  We've gone over what Bitcoin needs to do next for the mainstream branch to take off: Fix its wallets problem, and bring in customer protections. The victors in the battle for the heart of Bitcoin — along with the regulators — are already on the road to doing so. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsAmerica doesn't have many political dynasties as powerful and well known as the Bush Family. Their success is an effort that takes money, power, and all of the right connections — some of which comes from a history on Wall Street. Bushes have served in both the executive and legislative branches of our federal government. The family provided a pair of Presidents — the 41st and 43rd — and have held two state governorships. And because of George W. Bush’s close ties to Texas and connections with the oil industry, the Bush family is often perceived as a bunch of oil tycoons. In reality, however, the oil industry is just one of many in which the Bush family displayed their financial expertise. The family tradition, which continues to this day, was founded upon the pursuit of riches through investment banking and wartime business ventures. This is why the family has had a hand in businesses from Halliburton to Merrill Lynch, and also has a history of owning major league sports teams. Linette Lopez also contributed to this story. FREE AppDownload
AP Wall Street is reportedly up in arms over a tax reform plan released by Republican Rep. Dave Camp this week. According to a report in Politico a "GOP lobbyist with knowledge of the conversations" said finance firms have reached out to Republicans to say fundraising commitments have been "canceled for the foreseeable future." Camp's proposal would be a sweeping overhaul of the tax code that would have a negative impact on some financial firms, particularly in private equity. Among other things, it would raise taxes on financial institutions with more than $500 billion in assets and would close the "carried interest" loophole that allows hedge fund and private equity profits to be taxed at a lower rate. Politico reported lobbyists for Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs, and others are "meeting privately with lawmakers" to explain the effects of the bill.  The plan isn't expected to get a vote on the House floor. Both Republicans and Democrats have distanced themselves from the plan. Camp is in his final year as chair of the Ways and Means Committee and many observers have suggested he's eager to make a splash on the way out. Still, his proposal could encourage others to float certain elements of the plan in future negotiations.  However, some Republican lawmakers who spoke to Politico suggested Camp's plan could help them with Wall Street by letting them make their opposition clear. Ohio Republican Rep. Patrick Tiberi, who is a member of the Ways and Means Committee, predicted financial fundraisers won't unleash their wrath on the party as a whole and would instead react to individual politicians depending on whether or not they backed Camp's plan.  "It might impact Chairman Camp’s relationship with that sector," Tiberi said. "I think individual members, depending on how they do support or don’t support, I think it’ll be based on that." FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsTwo academics from the University of Virgina got a hold of the trading records of SEC employees — then they built a mock hedge fund to see how it would do. The results are all in a paper presetned at UVA's Darden School of Business. The academics, Emory University professor Shivaram Rajgopal and Georgia State University accounting PhD candidate Roger M. White found that SEC employees tend to sell a company's stock before the SEC takes enforcement action against the company. The result, they wrote, were abnormal returns of about 4% for the market in general, and about 8.5% for the U.S. stock market. That's significant. While an SEC employees' stock purchases are normal, their stock "sales appear to systematically dodge the revelation of bad news in the future," according to the paper's findings. Check out the table below. It shows that 60 days before an enforcement action, when the market is selling at a rate of about 50%, SEC employees are selling at a rate of 71%. The SEC employee rate of sales increases as the enforcement action approaches, while the wider market's pretty much stays the same. "Stock Picking Skills of SEC Employees" Rajgopal and White specifically found a high volume of SEC employee sales from 2010 to 2011 before enforcement action in Bank of America, General Electric, Citi, Johnson and Johnson, and JP Morgan. This information was obtained through the Freedom of Information Act, and the identities of specific SEC employees that traded on this information is unknown. In fact, this kind of information wasn't even recorded until 2009 when a new rule required SEC employees to get clearance from an ethics committee before stock trades. In a statement to the Washington Post, the SEC said that this can all be explained. Before an employee works on a case, they must divest themselves from any interest in the company. So it makes sense that employees sell their stock in a company before enforcement action. It just happens to also be profitable. FREE AppDownload
HeyRocker/flickrInternships are essential today. They’re the best way to gain experience, develop a professional network, and get your foot in the door — which is why so many interns are willing to work for free.  But some don’t have to. And the very lucky ones will watch their bank accounts grow enormously this summer. Glassdoor.com, a jobs and career community where people share information and opinions about their workplaces, compiled a list of the 25 highest-paying internships, based on at least 20 intern salary reports for each company. They found that paid internships typically offer between $15 and $19 an hour, or $2,400 to $3,100 a month, on average. But companies like Twitter, ExxonMobil, and BlackRock pay double that — and Palantir Technologies, a Palo Alto-based software firm, pays nearly triple the monthly average, making it the highest-paying company for interns in 2014. Palantir Technologies landed the top spot with an average monthly base salary of $7,012, out-ranking tech giants like Facebook, Microsoft, Google, and Apple. But it's not all about money. A support engineer intern at the company said: “[The] work is motivated by a real mission. Very few people are there just for money.” Here are the 25 highest-paying companies for interns: 1. Palantir TechnologiesAverage monthly base pay: $7,012 2. VMwareAverage monthly base pay: $6,966 3. TwitterAverage monthly base pay: $6,791 4. LinkedInAverage monthly base pay: $6,230 5. FacebookAverage monthly base pay: $6,213 6. MicrosoftAverage monthly base pay: $6,138 7. eBayAverage monthly base pay: $6,126 8. ExxonMobilAverage monthly base pay: $5,972 9. GoogleAverage monthly base pay: $5,969 10. AppleAverage monthly base pay: $5,723 11. Amazon.comAverage monthly base pay: $5,631 12. NvidiaAverage monthly base pay: $5,446 13. ChevronAverage monthly base pay: $5,424 14. AdobeAverage monthly base pay: $5,409 15. ConocoPhillipsAverage monthly base pay: $5,357 16. Salesforce.comAverage monthly base pay: $5,158 17. BlackRockAverage monthly base pay: $5,049 18. Yahoo!Average monthly base pay: $5,039 19. Capital OneAverage monthly base pay: $4,850 20. QualcommAverage monthly base pay: $4,823 21. NetAppAverage monthly base pay: $4,691 22. AutodeskAverage monthly base pay: $4,684 23. IntelAverage monthly base pay: $4,648 24. Juniper NetworksAverage monthly base pay: $4,648 25. SchlumbergerAverage monthly base pay: $4,634 Landing one of these coveted high-paying positions is no easy feat, says Samantha Zupan, a Glassdoor spokesperson. “While these internships definitely offer attractive compensation, these companies are looking for the best and brightest.” She says employers begin hiring for summer interns as early as February, “so be on the lookout early and often for the latest internships as they get posted.” She also suggests that internship-seekers carefully read what companies are looking for in interns. “The more you can customize your resume and cover letter to show what skills you can bring to the job, the more likely you are to get noticed by the employer.” She adds: “Also take the time to attend college career fairs and get to know the companies you are interested in working when they come to you.” FREE AppDownload
Better-than-expected economic data in the United States this morning have lifted stocks to new all-time highs as Treasuries slide, sending yields racing higher. The S&amp;P 500 index is trading up 0.5% at 1862, a new intraday record high. 10-year U.S. Treasury futures, meanwhile, are 0.4% lower, and the yield on the 10-year note is 2.69%, 5 basis points below Thursday's close. ISM-Chicago's monthly Chicago Business Barometer unexpectedly rose to 59.8 in February from January's 59.6 reading, indicating an acceleration in the pace of expansion in manufacturing activity in the states of Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan over the past month. Economists expected the the index to fall to 56.4. Notably, the report's employment sub-index surged to 59.3 from 48.2, indicating a marked acceleration in the pace of hiring in Midwest manufacturing following January's decline. The final results of the University of Michigan's February consumer confidence survey, meanwhile, revealed an unexpected increase in confidence this month, providing further momentum for risk sentiment. Also out this morning were revisions to fourth quarter U.S. GDP data — which were worse than expected but contained positive elements — and January pending home sales data, which missed expectations but will likely be explained away as weighed down by to transitory weather effects. The charts below show action in various markets this morning. Across the top from left to right are the S&amp;P 500, the U.S. dollar-Japanese yen exchange rate, and the euro-U.S. dollar exchange rate. Across the bottom are gold futures, 10-year U.S. Treasury futures, and December 2016 eurodollar futures. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Richard ClementPending home sales climbed a modest 0.1% month-over-month, and were down 9.1% year-over-year in January. This missed expectations for a 1.8% MoM rise, but was better than expectations for a 10.8% YoY fall. December's data was revised up to show a 5.8% decline, compared to an initial reading of an 8.7% fall. "Ongoing disruptive weather patterns in much of the U.S. inhibited home shopping," Lawrence Yun, NAR chief economist said in a press release. "Limited inventory also is playing a role, especially in the West, while credit remains tight and affordability isn’t as favorable as it was a year ago." Here's a look at the regional breakdown: While other housing data has been distorted by the severe winter, new home sales surprised in January.  The index is considered to be a leading indicator for future existing home sales. The Commerce Department expects that 80% of signings will become existing home sales transactions within two months. Here's a look at the trajectory of pending home sales: National Association of Realtors FREE AppDownload
APMichigan forward Jon Horford (15) slams a dunk in the second half of an NCAA college basketball game against Michigan State at Crisler Center in Ann Arbor, Mich., Sunday, Feb. 23, 2014. Michigan won 79-70.The final results of the University of Michigan's consumer confidence survey are out. The report's headline index ticked up to 81.6 from January's 81.2 reading. Economists were expecting the index to remain unchanged, as preliminary results published earlier this month indicated. The economic conditions sub-index fell to 95.4 from January's 96.8 reading, while the economic outlook sub-index rose to 72.7 from 71.2. Inflation expectations one year ahead rose to 3.2% from 3.1%, and inflation expectations five years ahead were unchanged at 2.9%. FREE AppDownload
APThe February reading of Chicago PMI is out. The regional index rose to 59.8, well above economist expectatations of 56.4 (and up from 59.6 in January). Here's the release: The Chicago Business Barometer remained broadly unchanged at 59.8 in February <U+2028>compared with 59.6 in January, as a double-digit gain in Employment offset declines <U+2028>in New Orders, Production and Order Backlogs. The Chicago Report points to firm growth and a continued recovery in the US <U+2028>economy, with the Barometer standing at its highest level since December and <U+2028>remaining around 60 for the fifth consecutive month. Some panellists cited the negative effect of the poor weather on their business, <U+2028>although overall this appeared to have a minor impact that was only visible in longer <U+2028>supplier lead times. After expanding at a faster rate in January, Production and New Orders decelerated in February, while a more pronounced set back was seen in Order Backlogs. In contrast, the Employment Indicator bounced back sharply in February, jumping out of contraction, and nearly reversing the declines seen in the previous two months. Prices Paid fell in February, following January’s supplier led price hikes, which had <U+2028>pushed the indicator to the highest level since November 2012. Inventory of finished goods expanded a little faster as companies continued to rebuild <U+2028>stocks, following December’s sharp drawdown. Commenting on the MNI Chicago Report, Philip Uglow, Chief Economist at MNI <U+2028>Indicators said, “The latest Chicago Report confirms that the US economic recovery <U+2028>continued in February, with New Orders and Production remaining at high levels.” “In line with the pick-up in demand, firms continued to rebuild inventory and just over 50% of respondents said they planned to increase stock levels over the next three <U+2028>months." FREE AppDownload
While you can use Microsoft Excel to build any sort of model that you want, it's important to remember that the program comes bundled with a ton of awesome features that will do the work for you.  One such feature is Goal Seek. Here, we'll look at a simple example for the function that will show you the basics of how to use Excel to find out what you need to do to meet your expectations given as many parameters as you need. Produced by Daniel Goodman and Walter Hickey. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Tomas Bravo A couple admire Mexico flags used through its history at the Obispado lookout in Monterrey September 14, 2010. Mexico is preparing lavish celebrations this week to mark the 200th anniversary of the day rebel priest Miguel Hidalgo set it on a path to independence. Citigroup has revised down its Q4 2013 earnings by $235 million because of fraudulent activity in one of its Mexican subsidiaries, Banco Nacional de Mexico (Banamex). An audit Banamex had been scamming money from Pemex, Mexico's soon-to-be-former state oil company. Over several years, Banamex was able to overcharge Pemex for services to a third party company, Oceanografia S.A. de C.V. (OSA), that provided equipment for Pamex. From Citi's release: "Pemex asserted that a significant portion of the accounts receivables recorded by Banamex in connection with the Pemex accounts receivable financing program were fraudulent and that the valid receivables were substantially less than the $585 million referenced above." Pemex only owed Banamex about $185 million, according to the audit. Citi CEO Michael Corbat says the investigation is ongoing, but that he believes that this is an isolated incident. The bank is also collecting misappropriated funds and cooperating with law enforcement in Mexico. “I can assure you there will be accountability for those who perpetrated this despicable crime and any employee who enabled it, either through lax supervision, circumvention of our controls, or violating our Code of Conduct," said Corbat in a statement. "All will be held equally responsible and we will make sure that the punishment sends a crystal clear message about the consequences of such actions.” FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
This morning, Q4 GDP growth was revised down to 2.4% at an annualized pace from the BEA's initial 3.2% call. This chart from Bloomberg LP chief economist Michael McDonough shows what is adding and subtracting to changes in GDP. Anything above the x-axis is adding to GDP and anything below is taking away. As you can see, government spending is still a large drag. Here's the chart: @M_McDonough FREE AppDownload
The Asahi News Network has posted video of MtGox CEO Mark Karpeles' Tokyo press conference admitting 850,000 bitcoins — worth nearly half a billion dollars — held by the exchange are gone, and that the firm is filing for bankruptcy. "We have lost bitcoins due to weaknesses in the system," the France-born Karpeles said in Japanese according to the AFP. "We are really sorry for causing trouble to all the people concerned," he said, before bowing deeply. MtGox was once the world's largest bitcoin exchange. Federal investigators in both Japan and the U.S. have launched probes into possible criminal conduct there. Check it out:  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg/Michael McDonoughContributions to quarterly percentage change in U.S. GDP growth. The BEA's second estimate of fourth quarter 2013 U.S. GDP is out. Q4 GDP growth was revised down to 2.4% at an annualized pace from the BEA's initial 3.2% estimate published a month ago. Personal consumption growth was revised down to 2.6% from 3.3%. Market economists were looking for smaller downward revisions to 2.5% and 2.9%, respectively. The GDP price index, however, was revised up to 1.6% from 1.3%, and the core PCE deflator was revised up to 1.3% from 1.1%. Economists had predicted no revisions to either number. Growth in business investment spending was revised to 7.3% from the initial 3.8% estimate, and in particular, equipment investment growth was revised to 10.6% from 6.9%. "The government drag was about 0.1 percentage points more than initially estimated because of weaker spending across state and local governments," says Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at Renaissance Macro. "It is hard to see this government drag persisting, particularly with state and local governments in their best fiscal position in years. Stepping back, in the second half of 2013, real GDP expanded a respectable 3.3% annualized, while final sales grew 2.4%. Going forward, we expect weaker inventory investment and stronger final sales, narrowing the gap." Below is a summary of the data from the BEA: Real gross domestic product -- the output of goods and services produced by labor and property located in the United States -- increased at an annual rate of 2.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2013 (that is, from the third quarter to the fourth quarter), according to the "second" estimate released by the Bureau of Economic Analysis. In the third quarter, real GDP increased 4.1 percent. The GDP estimate released today is based on more complete source data than were available for the "advance" estimate issued last month. In the advance estimate, the increase in real GDP was 3.2 percent. With this second estimate for the fourth quarter, an increase in personal consumption expenditures (PCE) was smaller than previously estimated (see "Revisions" on page 3). The increase in real GDP in the fourth quarter primarily reflected positive contributions from PCE, exports, nonresidential fixed investment, and private inventory investment that were partly offset by negative contributions from federal government spending, residential fixed investment, and state and local government spending. Imports, which are a subtraction in the calculation of GDP, increased. The deceleration in real GDP growth in the fourth quarter reflected a deceleration in private inventory investment, a larger decrease in federal government spending, and downturns in residential fixed investment and in state and local government spending that were partly offset by accelerations in exports, in PCE, and in nonresidential fixed investment and a deceleration in imports. Markets are little changed immediately following the release. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
OMAHA, Neb. (AP) — Billionaire Warren Buffett's annual letter to Berkshire Hathaway shareholders will be released on March 1. Buffett will again be able to release his letter on a Saturday this year, as he prefers. Buffett's shareholder letter is one of the most-quoted and best-read business documents because of skill at explaining complicated subjects and sense of humor. Buffett, who is Berkshire's chairman and chief executive, also addresses other topics besides the company's financial results. Investors always want clues about what Buffett might buy next, and who will lead the Omaha-based conglomerate he built after the 83-year-old is no longer around. Buffett's letter accompanies Berkshire's annual report. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Scott Olson/Getty ImagesFrom Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus... Good Morning, and Happy Friday!   US Futures are off small, after posting a new closing all-time high yesterday, with Nasdaq futures slightly outperforming into AAPL’s shareholder meeting today (I’m long AAPL).   EU markets are under some slight pressure – as Spain’s sale of a Bankia stake has the Fins under pressure, and stronger Inflation data has the Hawks in charge, pressing the DAX off 30bp in very light volume.    In Asia, weak economic data did nothing to boost the Nikkei, which lost another 50bp as volatility continues to spike there.   Shanghai snapped back for 50bp, despite the Yuan taking another dive overnight as traders note the PBoC is being “very active” in weakening the FX.   In EM – we have some stability in Ukraine, despite reports of more Russian army intrusion – as their FX bounces back from it’s sharp weakness, and both Hungary and Turkey’s equity markets are bouncing over 1%.   Focus is on the EEM here in the States, which just managed it’s first close above the 50dma in 2014.   Globally, it feels like Material and Tech shares are outperforming in the overnight, while Banks are under pressure globally again, led by a 1%+ drop in Europe.The US 10YY is bouncing higher, as US and EU Debt got hit on the EU inflation number – but the US 10YY is failing to get upside of yesterday’s 2.67% peak after bouncing off the 200dma yesterday.   The € is on 2014 peaks (stronger EU inflation data), and combined with the Yen’s strength has the DXY under the $80 level, and the weakest in 4 months.  This is a tailwind for commodities, but I am seeing red across the board.   Gold and Silver are under slight pressure, while Brent, WTI and Natty are all red despite the frigid temperatures here in the Northeast.We have a active catalyst schedule today – at 8:30 we get US GDP, at 9 ISM Milwaukee, at 9:45 we get Chicago PMI (available at 9:40 for paying subscribers), at 9:55 U of Mich confidence, at 10:15 we have 4 Fed speakers (Stein, Kocherlakota, Evans and Plosser), at10:30 we hear from the BOE’s Carney, the Week’s smallest POMO is at 11, and we get the March POMO schedule, along with Agriculture price data at 3.   On the close, we have the Monthly Russell Rebalance, and the MSCI Quarterly Review – and late tonight brings us China’s official PMI for February FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/CDICA Chinese soldier takes part in a drill during a heavy snow in Heihe, Heilongjiang provinceGood morning! Here's what you need to know. The Chinese yuan takes its largest drop since 2005. The yuan fell 0.9% to a 10-month low of 6.1808 per dollar in Shanghai. "FX sales data released this week point to continued strong capital inflows in January, and there are no signs of large capital outflows or sharp deterioration in fundamentals in recent weeks," Jian Chang at Barclays wrote in a note to clients. "This supports the view that the recent CNY devaluation was mostly guided by the PBoC to deter speculative capital inflows, rather than due to capital outflows on concerns of China risks" Mt. Gox files for bankruptcy. The Bitcoin exchange's chief executive Mark Karpeles blamed "a weakness in our system" at a press conference in Japan, where the company was based. Mt. Gox froze withdrawals earlier this month after weeks of glitches and issues, and now many in the Bitcoin world are worried they lost their holdings in what was once the world's largest Bitcoin exchange. It's a packed day of economic data, starting with U.S. GDP at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists expect Q4 GDP was revised down from 2.5% to 3.2%. "Substantial downward adjustments to core ex auto retail sales in November and  December, which recast the holiday shopping season as slow instead of strong, pointed to a downward revision to consumption to +2.8% from +3.3%," wrote Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman. "Lower results than BEA assumed for December international trade and wholesale inventories should lower the initially estimated +1.3pp net exports and +0.4pp inventories contributions by 0.2pp each." Then at 9:45 a.m., Chicago PMI will be released. Economist expect the regional indicator fell to 56.4 in February from 59.6 the month prior. "We anticipate a substantial drop-off in the Chicago business barometer in February," wrote Citi's Peter D'Antonio. "The Chicago area is accustomed to nasty winter conditions, so we normally wouldn’t look for weather effects in a manufacturing index from that region. However, the region’s activity would be affected by a pullback in demand for its products due to weather. In this case, the relative importance of autos means that the dramatic weather-related reduction in vehicle sales in recent months (and the corresponding overstocked lots and reduced orders) could impact this measure of activity." Consumer confidence comes out at 9:55 a.m. Economists believe the final reading of the Michigan consumer confidence measure will come in at 81.2. "On one hand, higher utilities bills during the winter season could cut into discretionary income and weigh on the index," wrote Nomura economists. "On the other hand, households have been more optimistic about the labor market and their finances." At 10:00 a.m., we'll get pending home sales. Economists are looking for sales to increase 1.5% in January. Though, some are forecasting a drop. "We look for pending home sales, which track signed contracts on single-family homes, condos, and co-ops, to fall 5% m/m in January," wrote Barclays economists. "One factor in our forecast is MBA applications for purchase, which rose 4.4% on the month after declining 6.1% in December. Buyer traffic in the NAHB home index, however, fell to 40 in January, perhaps driven by adverse weather, and is suggestive of less momentum." Ukraine's interior minister says Russian forces have begun an "armed invasion" in Crimea by blocking an air base and entering another airport in the Black Sea peninsula, the AFP reports. "The incidents come a day after dozens of pro-Moscow gunmen seized government buildings in the Crimean capital of Simferopol including the regional parliament, which subsequently voted to hold a referendum on May 25 to expand the region's autonomy from Kiev," according to the report. Asian markets were mixed in overnight trading. Japan's Nikkei fell 0.55% while Shanghai climbed 0.44%. Markets across Europe were lower and U.S. futures were pointing to a negative open. India's slow growth. Economists believe India's economic growth will remain below the 5% mark for the fifth straight quarter, the Wall Street Journal reports. "India’s pace of economic expansion has halved to a decade-low of 4.5% in the last fiscal year from about 9% till two years before that. Overburdened infrastructure, rising borrowing costs, bureaucratic red-tape and uncertainty over tax policies have spooked consumers and corporations in Asia’s third largest economy," according to the Journal. European unemployment stays flat while Japan looks healthier. According to new data from Eurostat, the unemployment rate in the euro area held at 12%. Meanwhile, data on Japanese consumer prices, industrial production, and labor market all looked solid. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVJanet YellenWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The U.S. government is set to slash its estimate of fourth-quarter growth as exports and restocking by businesses were less robust than previously thought, leaving the economy on a more familiar path of modest expansion. Gross domestic product growth will probably be lowered to a 2.5 percent annual rate, according to a Reuters poll of economists. That would be down sharply from the 3.2 percent pace reported last month and the 4.1 percent logged in the third quarter. "The revision to the GDP number will better reflect the underlying economic trend because the increases in inventories and exports that massively lifted growth in the second half of the year were simply not sustainable," said Harm Bandholz, chief U.S. economist at UniCredit Research in New York. The Commerce Department will release its fresh estimate of fourth-quarter GDP at 8:30 a.m. (1330 GMT) on Friday. It is not unusual for the government to make sharp revisions to GDP numbers as it does not have complete data when it makes its initial estimates. In fact, the figures on Friday will be subject to revisions next month as more information is received. If economists' forecasts are correct, Friday's revision will leave GDP just above the economy's potential growth trend, which analysts put somewhere between a 2 percent and 2.3 percent pace. Trade is expected to account for a large chunk of the revision. A report earlier this month showed exports fell in December, leading to a bigger trade deficit in the fourth quarter than the government had assumed. Initial estimates had trade adding 1.33 percentage points to GDP growth in the fourth quarter. Economists expect trade's contribution will be cut down to about 1.0 percentage point. "This is still a sizable contribution to GDP growth and the largest since late 2010," said Ryan Sweet, a senior economist at Moody's Analytics in West Chester, Pennsylvania. INVENTORIES GIVE LESS OF A BOOST Inventories, previously reported to have risen by $127.2 billion in the fourth quarter, are likely to be revised down. The reported increase in the stocks of unsold goods in the fourth quarter was the largest in nearly 16 years and followed a gain of $115.7 billion in the third quarter. But economists expect the contribution to growth from inventories, which the government put at 0.42 percentage point a month ago, could be revised to just about two-tenths of a percentage point. Downward revisions are also expected to consumer spending after data showed weak retail sales in November and December. Consumer spending had been estimated expanding at a 3.3 percent rate in the fourth quarter, the fastest in three years. That could be lowered to a pace of about 3 percent. Consumer spending accounts for more than two-thirds of U.S. economic activity. As a result, final domestic demand is likely to be revised weaker than the 1.4 percent rate previously reported. The loss of momentum appears to have spilled over into in the first quarter, with an unusually cold winter weighing on retail sales, home building and sales, hiring and industrial production. The Federal Reserve, which has been cutting back on the amount of money it is injecting into the economy through monthly bond purchases, views the recent soft patch as temporary. Fed Chair Janet Yellen told lawmakers on Thursday that severe weather had played a role in the weakening of the data. She said, however, that it would take a "significant change" to the economy's prospects for the Fed to put plans to wind down its bond buying on hold. Despite the first quarter's weak start, economists remain optimistic that growth this year will be the strongest since the recession ended almost five years ago. "We may have the headline GDP number revised down, but I would not interpret that as a weakening in overall economic conditions. We just have some headwinds," said Adolfo Laurenti, deputy chief economist at Mesirow Financial in Chicago. "I remain fairly optimistic about the outlook for 2014." Government spending is likely to be revised downward, but the impact will probably be offset by upward revisions to investment in residential construction, nonresidential structures and business spending on equipment. (Reporting by Lucia Mutikani; Editing by Jan Paschal) FREE AppDownload
Kazuhiro Nogi/AFP/FileThis file photo shows Sony Corp. former headquarters building in Tokyo, on August 4, 2006Sony will sell properties at a prestigious Tokyo site where it had its headquarters for six decades, as the once-world beating firm struggles to improve its bottom line, reports said on Friday. The company is looking for a buyer for buildings that once served as the control tower for its sprawling operations, the Nikkei daily said, in a move that stands as neat signifier for the diminished fortunes of the consumer electronic giant. The properties are in the Gotenyama area near Shinagawa railway station, where land prices have been on the rise recently. The properties are expected to fetch around 15 billion yen ($147 million), the economic paper said. Jiji Press news agency the sale was intended to help make up for losses from Sony's slumping electronics business, which includes television and personal computer operations. Sony declined to comment on the reports. Several hundred people from the group's various operations currently work there. In 2007 Sony sold a portion of the site, moving its headquarters to the opposite side of Shinagawa station. Sony started as Tokyo Tsushin Kogyo in 1946, the year after Japan's defeat in World War II. The following year it moved from a different site in the capital to the Gotenyama area, where it grew into a global player built on its groundbreaking Walkman and popular televisions. The Nikkei and Jiji said a museum archiving Sony's epoch-making products would be one of its few remaining properties there. Sony this month warned it would book a $1.08 billion loss in the fiscal year to March as well as cut 5,000 jobs and exit the stagnant PC market. The embattled company said in January last year it was selling its US headquarters in Manhattan for $1.1 billion. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderHeads up! It's going to be a busy day for economic data. Here's the lineup from Calculated Risk: • At 8:30 AM ET, the second estimate of Q4 GDP from the BEA. The consensus is that real GDP increased 2.5% annualized in Q4, revised down from the advance estimate of 3.2%.• At 9:45 AM, Chicago Purchasing Managers Index for February. The consensus is for a decrease to 57.8, down from 59.6 in January.• At 9:55 AM, Reuter's/University of Michigan's Consumer sentiment index (final for February). The consensus is for a reading of 81.2, unchanged from the preliminary reading of 81.2, and unchanged from the January reading.• At 10:00 AM, Pending Home Sales Index for January. The consensus is for a 2.7% increase in the index.• Also at 10:00 AM, Regional and State Employment and Unemployment (Monthly) for January 2013. FREE AppDownload
RT Ousted Ukrainian Viktor Yanukovych spoke to the press from the southern Russian port city of Rostov-on-Don, where he is under Kremlin protection. A lot happened in the hours preceding his appearance (summary below). Yanukovych called for a reorganization of the government, new presidential elections, and a new constitution. His highlighted the truce signed on February 19, which would have kept him in power and was subsequently rejected by protesters. After a day of bloodshed, Yanukovych fled and parliament stripped him of his position. A new government was approved yesterday, but neither Yanukovych nor Russia recognize it. "I believe that the Ukrainian parliament is not legitimate," he said.  He argued that the people who forced him out of the country are "radical mobsters," and that the turmoil would have calmed down if the February 19 truce was implemented. "I didn't flee anywhere," Yanukovych said, adding that he was on his way to meet with activists in the eastern city of Kharkov when his car came under attack. "Radical groups started arriving in Kharkov. It was not about fear. I didn't have any fear. I needed to comply with the safety conditions." He says he then went to Crimea, and he described threats to his family. "The intentions that I had were ruined by the new threats." He advocated the forming of militia units in Crimea. He said that he will not ask for military assistance from Russia. He did not mention the apparent Russian takeover of legislative buildings and airports. "I know that Crimeans hear me," he said. "I will return to Ukraine once my conditions of my security and the security of my family [are] assured." Speaking about the economic situation in Ukraine, he said that Russia is an important partner and now the new government is responsible for the "full-blown disaster." He later described the close economic relations between Ukraine and Russia, bashing the EU. "They are to blame: All those who came to power today," he says, adding that there were invisible forces at work in Kiev. "The U.S., who connived with [protesters] in Maidan, bears the full responsibility for the Ukrainian people." He said he will not take part in May presidential election in Ukraine. "I have facts to prove [that I am still the president]. The laws that were passed through force by parliament will not be accepted by me. I did not sign them, so the laws [do not] come into effect." More than 80 people died in clashes that led to Yanukovych's ouster, but he says that he did give orders to shoot protesters. "I never gave any orders to police to open fire," Yanukovych stated, adding that police began firing when they were fired upon. "I prevented bloodshed." Here's what he said about Russia's involvement: "Russia needs to use all of the leverage it has to prevent, the terror, that is unfolding in Ukraine." He added that he does not condone splitting up the country. Speaking about his lavish compound, he said: "I paid $3.2 million for that house." He then said that he does not have any offshore accounts. He ended by saying: "Think twice before you make the next move," addressing the new government. "We can now see the end is near. The Ukrainian nation will never live with that." Russia has not acknowledged the new government in Kiev, besides the foreign ministry spokesman saying that "a 'government of winners' which includes representatives of the extreme nationalists is being created." Here's what else is happening today: FREE AppDownload
Greg Wood/AFP/FileA Qantas (R) and a Virgin plane sit on the tarmac at the international airport in Sydney, Australia, on June 21, 2011Australian carrier Virgin urged the government not to bail out rival Qantas Friday after slumping to a first-half loss of Aus$83.7 million (US$75 million), blaming intense competition and economic uncertainties. The results follow Qantas on Thursday announcing a Aus$235 million loss over the same six month period to December 31. In response, Qantas will axe 5,000 jobs and defer aircraft deliveries. There was no similar drastic action by Virgin Australia, the country's second-biggest airline, despite a significant hit to its bottom line after a Aus$23 million profit in the same period last year. Qantas is lobbying the government to provide a guarantee on its debt borrowings to help it survive, but Virgin Australia chief executive John Borghetti said this should not happen. "Providing a financial facility to the detriment of the rest of the industry -- as I hope our government and opposition agree -- is wrong. Two wrongs don't make a right," he said. "It is not our place to tell government what to do, but any government or opposition should think very carefully before it decides to pick winners in an industry." Qantas complains that it is hindered by the Qantas Sales Act which limits foreign ownership in the carrier its ability to attract capital. It claims Virgin has an advantage through its majority ownership by Singapore Airlines, Air New Zealand and Etihad, bringing their substantial financial clout. Borghetti said Virgin's disappointing interim result reflected "the tough trading conditions across the entire industry for the first half of financial year 2014". "The Australian aviation market continues to be impacted by the significant capacity growth which occurred during the 2013 financial year, compounded by weak economic conditions and the inability to recover the cost of the carbon tax," he said. The airline said the country's controversial tax -- a corporate levy on each tonne of carbon pollution from Australia's top emitters -- added Aus$27 million to its costs. Its underlying pre-tax loss -- the airline's preferred measure of financial performance -- was Aus$49.7 million. While revenue jumped 6.4 percent to Aus$2.2 billion, costs increased 4.5 percent. The airline declined to provide any full-year guidance. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
From the ANZ comes their brilliant weekly summary of portfolio flows around the world. Of interest on the day the Chinese Yuan has its biggest fall since 2005 is what’s happening in emerging markets and ANZ says, based on EPFR funds flow data, “portfolio outflows from Emerging Asia rebounded to $US2,094m in the week ending 26 February, after two weeks of slower outflows.” ANZ It looks like it is money out of equities with outflows doubling this week to $US1,771m from $US809m last week. Chinese outflows have picked up once again as well. Understandably the week that the S&amp;P 500 made a new intraday high and the Stoxx 600 index in Europe a 6 year high the data shows that “US stocks ($US7.5bn) and European equities ($US3.1bn) remained the dominant recipients of funds” over the past week. These flows might have fallen off the front page of the newswires but as the G20 agreed last week the possibility of emerging market instability remains high. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Guang Niu/Getty ImagesSHANGHAI (Reuters) - China's central bank delivered two major surprises to investors this week: it engineered a sharp decline in the yuan against the dollar and at the same time relaxed its tight grip on money markets that had kept interest rates firm. In effect, the central bank was playing bad cop with speculators in the foreign exchange market to try to shake out one-way appreciation bets, while making nice with money market traders. That was a marked change from December and January when the regulator appeared deaf to howls of pain emerging from China's money market as interbank lending rates spiked, rattling both domestic and global investors. "The PBOC has suddenly become surprisingly soothing, and that has resulted in a great improvement in money market sentiment," said a trader at a Chinese commercial bank in Shanghai, although he questioned how long the new environment would last. The central bank's action was unusual because traders had expected the authority to mop up the extra yuan entering markets as a result of its intervention in order to prevent interest rates from easing. It did drain funds, but not to the extent that the market had expected. Traders and analysts are divided over what the central bank is trying to achieve. Some argue the looser rates could be designed to provide a further deterrent to hot money inflows as its tries to battle against speculation that the yuan is a one-way appreciation bet. Others suspect the change of heart may be designed to offer relief to equities and real estate markets, both of which have shown signs of strain under the tighter credit environment in place since last year. That could boost sentiment during the annual session of parliament that begins next week. But the relaxation also complicates the central bank's efforts to maintain pressure on risky shadow banking and encourage heavily indebted Chinese corporations to cut their debt burden. "The central bank has a difficult task in trying to prevent growth from sliding sharply and avoid a financial crisis, while taming the credit bubble and deleveraging the economy," wrote Barclays economist Jian Chang in a research note on Friday. THE NEW "NEW NORMAL" The PBOC has remained rhetorically committed to maintaining adequate liquidity for growth, but in practice that has meant different things at different times. During dramatic cash crunches in Chinese markets in June, December and January, the central bank declined to act to ease the pressure and instead insisted liquidity was in fact "ample". On Wednesday, however, the PBOC announced it had no plans to change monetary policy, adding that stock market investors in particular should not worry about liquidity supply. Traders usually discount such talk - especially rhetorical attempts to juice stock markets - and instead watch what the central bank actually does. In this case, the central bank put its money where its mouth was by allowing rates to ease. The average rate for the seven-day bond repurchase contract, considered the most reliable indicator of China's real-time liquidity conditions, was already easing before Wednesday's announcement by the PBOC. One transaction was done as low as 1.6 percent on February 21, the lowest rate for that instrument since late 2010. Market participants who believed the PBOC wanted to keep rates in elevated territory widely expected the PBOC to conduct a major drain of funds during open market operations. While the central bank did indeed drain funds to the tune of 160 billion yuan ($26 billion) for the week, the amount was much less than had been expected. During the comparable week of 2013, the PBOC pulled a massive 351 billion yuan out of the financial system. COORDINATED STRATEGY? Some traders argue the central bank is only allowing rates to ease in the run-up to the annual meeting of the National People's Congress starting next Wednesday - hoping to deliver a liquidity-driven stock market rally to give an optimistic backdrop to the event. However, others wonder if Beijing has lost its will to keep up the pressure on money markets following a run of weak economic indicators. China's official manufacturing purchasing managers' index (PMI) is forecast to slip to 50.1, which would be the lowest level since June last year, a Reuters poll shows. The data is due to be released on Saturday. PBOC data shows it has been largely successful in its attempts to isolate the money market from its intervention in the currency market, supporting the thesis that the decline in rates is deliberate and not an unintentional side effect of currency meddling. Bank of America Merrill Lynch economist Lu Ting argued that the combination of falling money rates and a falling yuan shows the PBOC is trying to solve a policy conundrum produced by its campaign to push up money rates, launched in mid-2013. The rising rates attracted hot money, which in turn put one-way upward pressure on the yuan, which in turn attracted even more hot money. "The PBOC has been under tremendous pressure to deliver solutions to this dilemma since late 2013, and it has been persistently requesting co-ordination from other government agencies," he wrote, and argued that it is at long last getting support from other regulators. "We did not simplistically call the rising rates in 2H13 as the PBOC's tightening, and we won't simplistically call the PBOC's current action as easing." (Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Konstantin Chernichkin Ukraine's new prime minister Arseny Yatseniuk attends a session of the Parliament in Kiev February 27, 2014.KIEV (Reuters) - Ukraine hopes to receive international financial aid soon and is determined to fulfill all the conditions needed to secure support from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk said on Friday. An IMF mission is due in Kiev next week for talks with Ukraine's new leaders, who have said the heavily indebted country needs at least $35 billion over two years to stave off the bankruptcy. "I hope that in the short-term we will receive foreign currency which will help us to boost foreign reserves and to stabilize the situation," Yatseniuk told reporters. Ukraine's foreign currency reserves dropped to $15 billion from $17.8 billion on February 1, with the central bank attributing the fall to intervention moves to prop up the weakening national currency, the hryvnia. Since then, the central bank has allowed the hryvnia to fall. The Ukrainian currency hit 10.50 against the dollar on Friday, from 8.2 at the beginning of the year. Stepan Kubiv, Ukraine's central bank governor, told reporters on Friday the bank had limited foreign currency withdrawals from banking deposits to 15,000 hryvnia ($1,500) per day in a move to tame the volatility. He also said Kiev had enough reserves to pay off creditors but did not specify over which time period. An EU diplomat said on Thursday Ukraine's new rulers told the European Union the country's economy needed an immediate infusion of some $4 billion. Kiev owes Russian Gazprom over $1 billion in gas payments from 2013 and 2014. Once the situation has stabilized, the government will ask the central bank and commercial banks to start large-scale lending to the economy, Yatseniuk said. (Reporting by Natalia Zinets, Writing by Katya Golubkova; Editing by Angus MacSwan) FREE AppDownload
We've said it before, and we'll say it again. This chart of Eurozone unemployment is the worst in the world. It's not that it's getting worse (it's not) it's that in the midst of what should be a "recovery" for the Eurozone, it's just going nowhere. Once again, according to Eurostat, unemployment refuses to budge at 12.0%. So the economy is flatlining — marginally improved from its worst levels, but really not showing any traction at all. There's an ECB meeting next week. Will they do anything? Eurostat FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
@jonwallerThe troubled MtGox Bitcoin exchange filed for bankruptcy protection in Japan Friday, saying it had lost nearly half a billion dollars worth of the digital currency in a possible theft. Mark Karpeles, who has not been seen in public for several days, re-emerged to tell a press conference that his firm's digital vaults had been almost completely emptied. "We have lost Bitcoins due to weaknesses in the system," the France-born Karpeles said in Japanese. "We are really sorry for causing trouble to all the people concerned," he said, before bowing deeply. The company's lawyer said 750,000 Bitcoins belonging to customers had gone, along with MtGox's own store of the currency, which she said was around 100,000 units. That number of Bitcoins would be worth around $477 million dollars, calculated against the price on the Coindesk exchange at 1030 GMT. The global Bitcoin community was shaken this week by the shuttering of MtGox, which had frozen withdrawals earlier this month because of what the firm said was a bug in the software underpinning Bitcoin that allowed hackers to pilfer them. Supporters rallied round, insisting that the Bitcoin itself is sound and the problems lay with MtGox, which they said was badly-managed and unable to cope with the burgeoning popularity of the young currency. Kolin Burges, an investor who has kept vigil outside the Tokyo offices of MtGox for several weeks, said on Twitter that he would be packing up. "Karpeles in Tokyo says MtGox is bankrupt. 750,000 customer bitcoins stolen &amp; 120,000 company bitcoins stolen. None left ' he tweeted. He later added: "Packed up for the last time and did leaving interview with Asahi TV. It's been a wild ride!" The admission that such a huge amount of the crypto-currency has disappeared could add to calls for regulation of an industry that has taken regulators and bankers by surprise.   - 'No authority' -   Japan's finance minister said earlier Friday he had always thought Bitcoin was suspect and said the country might take action following the MtGox debacle. Taro Aso's comments came as Vietnam said it was banning banks from using the unit and after chief US central banker Janet Yellen said the Federal Reserve had no powers to control it. Aso, who also serves as deputy prime minister, said he had foreseen difficulties for the crypto-currency, which is generated by complex chains of interaction among a huge network of computers around the planet. "I was thinking that this sort of thing won't last long," said Aso, 73. "I was thinking it would collapse sometime." "Japan is overwhelmingly advanced in this field. In this sense, I was thinking since before that we might face a situation where Japan has to act, but I'd say it came earlier than I thought." His comments come after Yellen told a Senate hearing that banks under the Fed's regulatory purview were not involved with Bitcoin, and so it had no powers in the matter. "This is a payment innovation that is taking place entirely outside of the banking industry," she said. "The Fed doesn't have authority with respect to Bitcoin." Yellen pointed to other US regulators, including the Treasury, watching the Bitcoin sector for potential money laundering and other criminal uses of the digital currency. However, she stressed, "it's not so easy to regulate Bitcoin" because it is used outside the banking system, and has no centralised authority behind, as do regular fiat currencies. Vietnam banned its banks from handling Bitcoin, with the State Bank of Vietnam cautioning: "The ownership, trading and use of Bitcoin and other virtual money as an asset carries potential risks for users."   Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Desmond BoylanGood morning! Today could be a busy Friday.  There's quite a bit of economic data coming out, but furthermore there's growing tension in Ukraine, as a Ukrainian minister has accused Russia of staging an armed intervention in Crimea. This will rattle some nerves, for sure. US futures are in the red, as are various stock markets across Europe. It's nothing too huge, just broadbased. The other big event of the day is the record drop for the Chinese yuan, the biggest one-day fall since 2005. Later today we get UMich Consumer Sentiment, GDP, and Chicago PMI. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersDemonstrators hold signs and banners outside Cyprus’s parliament as they protest plans by the government to sell off state-owned enterprises, in NicosiaNICOSIA (Reuters) - Cyprus faced fresh uncertainty on Friday over the future of its bailout program after lawmakers rejected privatization plans, casting doubt on a new tranche of financial aid due in March. Parliament voted down a roadmap for privatizations - a condition of the country's international bailout - in a cliffhanger vote late on Thursday. The 'No' vote raises the risk the island will be plunged back into fiscal turmoil just a year after the 10 billion euro lifeline from the European Union and IMF pulled it back from the brink of default. The government called an emergency cabinet meeting for Friday morning. "Above all we want to avert any adverse developments and maintain economic recovery," said Christos Stylianides, the government spokesman. Authorities were likely to call a new session of parliament and present modified privatization proposals. The Cypriot finance minister has previously warned that the roadmap must be approved by March 5 for Cyprus to receive new aid worth 236 million euros. Plans to establish a framework for the sale of ports, telecoms and electricity utilities have met stiff opposition from labor unions, with hundreds protesting outside parliament on Thursday evening. The 56-member chamber's rejection of the plan hinged on the ruling right-wing party's refusal to endorse proposed modifications related to workers' legacy rights, claiming lenders would not accept it. The centrist Democratic Party - which until Thursday was part of the government - said its support was conditional on proposals made by the party being adopted. "I hope more mature thoughts prevail," said Nicolas Papadopoulos, the Democratic Party chairman. "A precondition for us to move forward is that our amendments are accepted." (Reporting by Michele Kambas; Editing by Catherine Evans) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David Mdzinarishvili An armed man patrols at the airport in Simferopol, Crimea February 28, 2014. A group of armed men in military uniforms have seized the main regional airport in Simferopol, Crimea, Interfax news agency said early on Friday. Ukraine's interior minister on Friday accused Russian forces of staging an "armed invasion" in Crimea, claiming they had blocked one air base and entered another airport overnight on the Black Sea peninsula. The incidents come a day after dozens of pro-Moscow gunmen seized government buildings in the Crimean capital of Simferopol including the regional parliament, which subsequently voted to hold a referendum on May 25 to expand the region's autonomy from Kiev. "I consider what is happening to be an armed invasion and an occupation," Interior Minister Arsen Avakov wrote in a statement on his Facebook page. Avakov said that troops from Russia's Black Sea fleet -- stationed in Russian-speaking Crimea -- had blockaded the Belbek airfield near Sevastopol, where Ukrainian soldiers and border guards were stationed. No armed clashes had occurred but the base was not operating as normal. Despite not displaying any identifying insignia, the alleged Russian troops "did not hide who they belong to," Avakov wrote. Meanwhile Avakov said some 120 armed men in camouflage fatigues but without insignia, whom he also said belonged to the Russian armed forces, had entered a second airport in Simferopol early Friday. The incidents followed the ouster of Kremlin-allied Ukraine president Viktor Yanukovych last weekend in an avalanche of change following the deaths of scores of people in clashes in Kiev.   Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - The collapse of Mt. Gox might appear sudden, but bitcoin insiders say its downfall began nearly a year ago as the virtual currency exchange tangled with regulators, split from former business partners and grappled with cyber attacks. Mt. Gox's fall lays bare the difficulties the bitcoin community faces as it tries to square its freewheeling, libertarian ideals with the rigorous regulation required in financial services and customers' needs for reliable service. To be sure, Mt. Gox may return. Its Tokyo-based chief executive, Mark Karpeles, has said he is working hard to solve the problems that forced the exchange to halt trading this week after suspending withdrawals on February 7. But its road back, if there is one, will be difficult. U.S. federal prosecutors have subpoenaed Mt. Gox - and other bitcoin businesses - to seek information on a spate of disruptive cyber attacks. And Mt. Gox, once the largest bitcoin exchange, has now been surpassed by others, such as Slovenia-based Bitstamp. "The first wave of entrepreneurs were evangelists for the technology, but low on quality," said Nick Shalek, an investor at Ribbit Capital, which has backed bitcoin companies including digital-wallet Coinbase. Now, he said, a more serious group of entrepreneurs is trying to build more serious infrastructure around bitcoin. Bitcoin is a digital currency that, unlike conventional money, is bought and sold on a peer-to-peer network independent of central control. Its value has soared in the last year, and the total worth of bitcoins minted is now about $7 billion. Mt. Gox's decline, ironically, started just as bitcoin was hitting a new level of notoriety in the broader public. Proponents include prominent Silicon Valley venture capitalists who talked up a virtual currency system free of government intervention or control. THE FACE OF BITCOIN Founded in 2009 by American software hacker Jed McCaleb, Mt. Gox was originally a site for people to trade cards for a game called "Magic: The Gathering." (Mt. Gox is short for "Magic: The Gathering Online Exchange") McCaleb turned the site into a bitcoin exchange and sold the fledgling business in 2011 to Karpeles. Under the Frenchman, Mt. Gox became the face of bitcoin - where investors regularly checked the price of the digital currency and where the largest volume of trades occurred. As regulators started to take notice of the bitcoin market, Karpeles became a vocal champion. He described Mt. Gox as "the main exchange" and argued for bitcoin's legitimacy while trying to distance it from criminals using the digital currency for money laundering or drug-related activities. Karpeles said Mt. Gox had no interest in helping criminals launder funds, and pushed back against claims that bitcoin transactions were completely anonymous, noting that while the system was designed for privacy, it was easy to track bitcoins across the network. If authorities found a way to shut down Mt. Gox, "the likely result will be more exchanges popping up all over, with methods much harder to track, and who will be much less likely to agree to help with any investigation," Karpeles said in a 2011 email to a reporter for the Compliance Complete service of Thomson Reuters Accelus. "We want (authorities) to understand that the problem is not bitcoin itself, but what some people do with those," he said in the message, one of numerous emailed exchanges over the years. In 2011, bitcoin was barely trading at $1, but volumes were picking up at Mt. Gox, which routinely saw more than 20,000 transactions daily, more than double those in late 2010. Karpeles said Mt. Gox had servers in the United States but little in the way of money. It used Iowa-based online payment processor Dwolla Inc to make U.S. customer transactions easier. RISE IN POPULARITY Bitcoin's popularity increased incrementally, similar to its price. On April 1, 2013, it topped $100 for the first time, and trading volumes were increasing. Around this time, a regulatory push intensified. The U.S. Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) declared bitcoin exchanges to be money transmitters, requiring them to register, enact formal anti-money laundering programs, and report suspicious activity. Shortly after that, a bitcoin exchange known as bitfloor was shuttered after its U.S. bank account was closed because it had not properly registered with regulators. Concerns that regulatory action would cause customer funds to be trapped resulted in a sharp plunge in bitcoin, falling from $230 on April 10 to a low of $68.49 on April 17 - a period of time that turned out to be the peak in terms of dollar-denominated trading on Mt. Gox, according to Bitcoincharts. It was a sign of the increased regulatory scrutiny the virtual currency would receive. Karpeles said in an April 13 email that bitfloor's closure was a fate that would not befall Mt. Gox. "We apply very strict AML (anti-money laundering) procedures to avoid exactly this kind of issue. We have very good relationships with our banking partners and making sure everything is run as good as possible." On April 18, Karpeles clarified that Dwolla was the company's only transaction provider. "We do not use any U.S. bank," he said via email. Mt. Gox did not immediately register with FinCEN - a misstep that would in part lead to its demise. In May 2013, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security froze an account that Dwolla held at Veridian Credit Union in the name of Mutum Sigillum LLC, a Mt. Gox subsidiary incorporated in Delaware. A related court document said another account at Wells Fargo had been seized earlier that month. The Department of Homeland Security justified the seizures by accusing Mt. Gox of failing to register with Treasury as demanded by FinCEN. (It eventually registered in June.) Karpeles has declined to comment on the seizures, but this complicated the ability of Mt. Gox to allow U.S. customers to liquidate existing investments. Dwolla eventually ended its relationship with Mt. Gox, in a blow to the exchange. "Most professional users moved away from Mt. Gox months ago, leaving April 2013 or thereabouts. By June 2013, the final nail was in the coffin for U.S. users," said one of bitcoin's core developers, who requested anonymity. This in turn caused bitcoin's prices on Mt. Gox to surge. "What happened then is because you couldn't withdraw dollars, there became a major premium for bitcoin on Mt. Gox," said Jacob Dienelt, a maker of bitcoin paper wallets in New York. CYBER ATTACKS The rise in bitcoin's value gave it more cachet with the general public, even though most people were still uninformed about exactly what bitcoin was. Dollar trading volumes started to diminish on Mt. Gox then - from about 66,770 transactions daily in May to a little over 14,000 in September. Volumes surged for a few months, but dropped to about 9,000 daily by January, according to bitcoincharts. Those in the industry said Mt. Gox ceased to be the exchange of choice about nine months ago as competitors such as Bitstamp gained prominence. By the start of this year, Mt. Gox was considered a diminished player due to concerns about its technology and safety. "It was obvious there was something really bad going on there for nearly a year. They were processing withdrawals very slowly and generally being very opaque about what was going on," said Mike Hearn, a bitcoin developer based in Switzerland. Mt. Gox's problems earlier this month stemmed from "distributed denial of service" attacks, where hackers sent thousands of phantom transactions to the exchange to slow its operations. Other exchanges experienced this problem as well, but were able to restore service more quickly. The hackers exploited a process used by some bitcoin exchanges that introduced "malleability" into the code governing transactions, experts said. Simply put, this allowed hackers to slightly alter the details of codes to create thousands of copies of transactions. These copies slowed the exchanges to a crawl, forcing them to independently verify each transaction to determine what was real and what was fake. "It was a well-known issue that every major exchange in the bitcoin community knew about and had solutions for. Mt. Gox did not," said Jordan Kelley, chief executive of Robocoin, the world's first bitcoin ATM maker. A document circulating on the internet purporting to be a crisis plan for Mt. Gox, said more than 744,000 bitcoins were "missing due to malleability-related theft" and noted Mt. Gox had $174 million in liabilities against $32.75 million in assets. It was not possible to verify the document. If accurate, though, it would mean about 6 percent of the 12.4 million bitcoins minted would be considered missing. As questions swirl about where the bitcoins and money Mt. Gox supposedly possessed ended up, some in the industry speculate that Mt. Gox's problems stem fundamentally from financial mismanagement. If the company was selling more bitcoins than it could acquire, it may have gotten behind in its attempts to balance its own books. "We are currently at a turning point for the business," Karpeles said in an email on Tuesday, adding that an announcement would come soon. "I can't tell much more for now as this also involves other parties." (Reporting by Brett Wolf of the Compliance Complete service of Thomson Reuters Accelus in St. Louis and Emily Flitter in New York; Additional reporting by Jim Finkle in Boston and Sarah McBride in San Francisco; Writing by David Gaffen; Editing by Tiffany Wu) FREE AppDownload
