(Reuters) - The Federal Reserve's vow to keep interest rates near zero for a "considerable time" is likely to remain in place for now, with the U.S. central bank set to take a slow and steady approach to its first rate rise in a decade.The pledge will be up for debate again when policymakers meet next week, with a strong jobs report bolstering the case of officials who want to remove it. But others feel it still has some shelf life, and even when officials drop it, they will almost certainly insert a placeholder to assure financial markets any rate hike is still a ways off. "I think 'considerable time' captures about as best you can with two words ... the appropriate time for liftoff," San Francisco Fed President John Williams told Market News International on Monday, adding that it's still a "reasonable guess" the Fed will begin raising rates in mid-2015. Atlanta Federal Reserve Bank President Dennis Lockhart, like Williams a policy centrist, agreed. "For my purposes I am not in a rush to drop it," he said after a speech in Atlanta on Monday. In October, the Fed restated the pledge, but also added in its post-meeting statement that a rate hike would come sooner if the economic data was strong, and later if it wasn't. JPMorgan economist Michael Feroli said in a research note last month that it made sense for the Fed to keep the phrase "now that it has been 'neutered' by the addition of the sentence that indicates faster progress would bring earlier rate hikes, and slower progress would bring later rate hikes." Some economists, however, see a strong case for the phrase to be dropped next week. Jan Hatzius of Goldman Sachs has said it would be "awkward" to wait until the Fed's next meeting in January because Fed Chair Janet Yellen is not currently scheduled to hold a news conference then. She is set to speak with reporters next week. Once the language is dropped, a review of policy-setting history suggests the central bank will guide investors to an eventual rate hike through a series of incremental verbal steps to avoid roiling markets. Replacing the reference to "considerable time" with a pledge to be "patient" on raising rates, for instance, could help markets get used to the idea of an eventual policy tightening. That's exactly what the Fed did the last time it was approaching a rate-hiking cycle in late 2003. In December of that year, it signaled it was getting closer to tightening monetary policy by saying it no longer viewed a fall in inflation to be the main risk but rather viewed risks to inflation as balanced. At the next meeting, it jettisoned its "considerable period" pledge and said it could be "patient" in removing stimulus, language it kept until May when it dumped patience and said rate hikes would likely be "measured." At the next meeting in June, it raised rates by a quarter point. With that history as a guide, dropping their current vow next week could suggest a move as early as April, something officials who have repeatedly pointed at mid-2015 would likely be loath to do. Rate-futures traders are currently betting the first hike will come in June 2015.   (Reporting by Michael Flaherty in Washington and Ann Saphir in San Francisco; Additional reporting by Howard Schneider in Atlanta; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
We've been hearing a ton about plunging oil prices. We've also heard a lot about falling gold prices. However, we almost always report about those price moves relative to the dollar. For countries that don't use the dollar, the commodity price story is very different when their local currencies make big moves against the dollar. As you can see in the upper left chart, the price of oil has plunge for most major countries. However, relative to the Russian ruble, it's gone sideways.  That's because the ruble has been collapsing along with oil. These complicated dynamics are very important to consider as these commodities go into everything. The charts below come from Morgan Stanley's Adam Longson. Morgan Stanley
The Chinese stock market has been on fire.  The Shanghai Composite index is up an eye-watering 48.6% in just the last six months.  On Monday, the Shanghai Composite index rose another 2.8% despite trade numbers out of China that disappointed, with exports rising 4.7% in November while imports fell 6.7%.  But where the stock market goes from here could be insane. In a note to clients over the weekend, analysts at Morgan Stanley gave an overview of six tracks they think the market could take from here. And the outcomes are pretty wild.  In one scenario, Morgan Stanley sees the index gaining 453% as price-to-earnings multiples expand to 71.  In another the market falls almost 30%. Currently, the Shanghai Composite is trading an earnings multiple of 14, which is a 35% discount to its historical average of 21.8.  Morgan Stanley sees the six possibilities for the Shanghai Composite as follows: Here's the wild chart from Morgan Stanley with the various possibilities for where the Shanghai Composite could go from here.  Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
Marat Guelman/FacebookThis happened. Its caption says: "MOSCOW, street Neglinnaya, 2 December 2014. A priest is casting out the demons responsible for maintaining the course of the ruble from the servers of the Central Bank." But as great as that sounds, it's only semi-accurate. Yes, it is a real photo of a priest sprinkling holy water on hardware, but unfortunately this has nothing to do with the current struggling Russian economy. People familiar with the shot tell Business Insider that it's actually a photo from back in 2001. The priest is blessing the "payment systems" from a "northern company" called Rapida. (Here's a link to the actual photo — from the deep web — in case you're interested.) Womp womp.    FREE AppDownload
Jewel Samad/AFPTesla shares have fallen nearly $80 from their peak. After recovering some momentum following a selloff in September, Tesla stock is once again getting clobbered. Investors regained confidence in CEO Elon Musk's electric-car startup following the debut of the Model D at a spectacular event in Los Angeles in early October. But since mid-November, the stock has been sliding. It closed on Monday at $214, down from a recent peak of $259, which it hit on Nov. 14. Yahoo Finance Shares are now well below a trading-day high of $291, achieved on Sept. 4. Why the dip? Some of is probably due to noise around the company. There was a dustup over the specifics of Tesla's relationship with BMW. Both Daimler and Toyota, two former Tesla partners, decided to sell their stakes in the company. It's also unclear whether Tesla will meet its 2014 sales goals. Still, the stock is up over 1000% since Tesla's 2010 IPO.      FREE AppDownload
 The historic drop in crude-oil prices is poised to give a clear boost to President Barack Obama both in the US and abroad. "Even President Barack Obama likely would agree that 2014 has been a tough year for him—and he doubtless would welcome a sign that he will catch a break or two in 2015," Gerald Seib, the Washington bureau chief of The Wall Street Journal, wrote on Monday. "Well, here’s one: Low oil prices ... are shaping up as a win-win for the president." Earlier on Monday, the price of both Brent and WTI crude hit a five-year low. Prices have fallen more than 30% since peaking in June, and the decline has accelerated since OPEC declined to cut production at its November meeting. Declining global demand and rising US production have led to a glut in supply this year. Seib argued this price drop has both domestic and international benefits for the Obama administration. High gasoline prices, which result from high oil prices, are widely detested among American consumers. And many of the countries hurt by low oil prices could be on a who's-who list of US geopolitical foes. "It's hard to imagine a single development that carries so many upsides and so few downsides. The domestic economic benefits are obvious," Seib wrote. "It just happens that the countries hurt most by the oil-price decline are on the current U.S. naughty list, from Iran and Syria to Russia and Venezuela. Meanwhile, many obvious economic and strategic beneficiaries—Jordan, Egypt, Israel and Japan among them—are on the nice list." A senior administration official told the Journal the impact would be "very profound" in Russia, an oil exporter that has repeatedly clashed with the US over its recent annexation of Ukrainian territory. "They may be heading into a recession," the official remarked, suggesting the Russian government may need to curtail its financial support for Ukrainian separatists. "There are going to have to be tradeoffs." Seib said Obama would also see benefits in the Middle East, where the White House is hoping to negotiate a deal with Iran to rein in its nuclear program in exchange for ending economic sanctions. The jihadists of the Islamic State, or ISIS, also use oil sales to partially self-fund their military in Iraq and Syria. "Iran’s predicament is similar and, from the American point of view, particularly well timed," Seib wrote. "The Obama administration has perhaps three months to pressure Iran into a long-term deal restricting its nuclear program. Only economic pressure has brought such a deal into view, and the pinch on Iranian oil revenues now will escalate the pressure at precisely the right time."    FREE AppDownload
screengrab from "There Will Be Blood"There Will Be BloodStocks fell on Monday as the price of both Brent and WTI crude oil tumbled to five-year lows to start the week.  First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. Crude oil hit five-year lows on Monday. The price of Brent crude oil fell to $66.22 while WTI futures fell to $63.05 as crude resumed the plunge that really began in earnest on Thanksgiving day after OPEC declined to curb production. Meanwhile, the average price of a gallon of gas i the US fell to $2.67 on Monday morning, according to AAA, down from $3.27 a year ago.  2. Oil prices continue to make new lows, but the price of oil has been depressed now for months since peaking in June, and shale projects around the world are starting to feel the pinch. As Business Insider's Shane Ferro reports, international shale projects in Argentina, China, Mexico, and Russia haven't gotten off the ground as these projects are more capital intensive, and the current state of the oil market doesn't make pursuing these projects economically viable.  3. And while fracking projects are facing financing pressure, oil giants ConocoPhillips and BP have also moved to cut expenses amid the drop in oil prices. ConocoPhillips announced on Monday that its projected capital expenditures budget for 2015 is down 20% from 2014, while reports over the weekend said BP would move to cut staffing levels across all of the company's layers above operations. On Monday, shares of ConocoPhillips lost more than 4% while BP shares were down more than 2.5%.  4. As the decline in oil put the major stock indexes under pressure, "safe haven" assets like gold and Treasury bonds rallied on Monday. The price of gold spike violently during afternoon trade, quickly gaining more than $10 an ounce to move back above $1200. Treasury yields, meanwhile, fell on Monday with the 10-year falling back below 2.25%, an almost 10 basis point decline from its highs following Friday's big jobs number.  5. McDonald's reported global same-store sales that fell 2.2% in November, worse than expectations for a 1.7% decline. But the really bad news for the fast food giant came from the US, where sales fell 4.6% in November, as it has been more than a year since same-store-sales in the US were positive for McDonald's. Shares of McDonald's lost 3.8% on Monday.  6. In an afternoon email, NYSE floor governor Rich Barry gave an overview of how traders in the floor were feeling about the action in the stock market and some of the commentary floor traders are looking at. Barry wrote: "For the record, we feel that both Brent and WTI are very close to a 'capitulation-move' to extreme lows ... Be that as it may; this morning we received an extremely Bullish note from one of the top technical analysts on the Street who loves the market in 2015. His words: 'We currently have a large number of stocks breaking above past tops to new all-time highs. All-time highs leave just two types of sellers, shorts and profit takers, meaning stocks can accelerate to the upside. These breakouts, and neutral bullish trends are not necessarily at buy junctures, however both patterns can drive the equity markets higher quickly. Add to this the number of bullish names versus bearish names, and the odds favor we trade to the upside.' We like the way this guy thinks, which is why we shared his views with you." Don't Miss: The Most Bullish Chart You'll See Has A Big Stock Market Crash In The Middle Of It » FREE AppDownload
Pixabay via Google ImagesWASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. securities regulators on Monday ordered the operator of a stock exchange, which allowed clients to use Bitcoin to trade in certain securities, to pay $68,000 to resolve claims that he did not register the exchanges. Ethan Burnside and his company BTC Trading Corp operated two online exchanges through which account holders could buy, sell and trade securities of companies in the virtual currency business between 2012 and 2013, the Securities and Exchange Commission said. Burnside and BTC neither admitted nor denied the charges. Burnside agreed to be barred from the securities industry but will be able to reapply after two years. His lawyer could not be immediately reached for comment. The exchanges had solicited more than 10,000 users who had opened online accounts and executed more than 425,000 traders, the SEC said. The settlement requires Burnside to pay $58,387 in profits and interest, and a penalty of $10,000.   (Reporting by Aruna Viswanatha; Editing by Bernadette Baum) FREE AppDownload
Kai MorgenerMerino wool considerably softer and insulates better than regular wool.Nearly every suit on the market today — especially in the high and mid-range area of the market — is made from wool shorn from the descendants of just four ewes and two rams. That's according to Nicholas Antongiavanni, author of the book The Suit: A Machiavellian Approach to Men’s Style. It all started in 1789 when King Charles IV of Spain gave six merino sheep as a gift to the Dutch government from the Spanish crown. At the time, the finest wool in the world came from Spanish Merino sheep. These six sheep were closely guarded by the King of Spain, who had the sole right to export them, so it was a pretty big deal for them to be given as gifts. But according to Farmer's Weekly of South Africa, the sheep had trouble adjusting to the climate of the Netherlands, and were then sent to the Colonel Robert Jacob Gordon, head of the Dutch garrison at the Cape of Good Hope in South Africa. In 1795 the British captured the garrison and Gordon committed suicide. His widow sold the sheep in 1797 (which now numbered 26 — sheep like to breed) to British military captains bound for Australia. Finally, the sheep were sold yet again to British army officer, politician, and entrepreneur John Macarthur. He had been experimenting in making finer-quality wool, and was the one who turned these Merino sheep into the founding flock of the great Australian wool industry. Within four decades, Australia had become the world's largest producer of Merino wool. Wikimedia CommonsMacarthur's work was memorialized with a series of $2 Australian bank notes in 1966. For his contribution, Macarthur's work was memorialized with a series of $2 Australian bank notes in 1966. He's pictured next to a Merino sheep, of course. Australia's Merino flock now numbers in the 100 to 120 million range and produces the vast majority of the wool used in quality suiting around the world, from Fifth Avenue to Savile Row. FREE AppDownload
Brazil's quasi-state oil company Petrobras is getting pounded, falling around 6% in Monday's trading day. The stock is down 40% year-to-date. Yahoo Finance As Petrobras falls it's taking Brazil's stock market, the Bovespa, down with it. The index is down 3.6%. The MSCI Brazil ETF is also down 3.2%. Petrobras, with a market capitalization of $54 billion, is heavily weighted in the index, which also includes Brazil's currency, the real. Unfortunately, this is the last thing Brazil needs right now. Some analysts estimate that when all is said and done this year, Brazil will have grown 0%. Inflation is high and corporate margins are thin. Gross government debt is expected to balloon unless action isn't taken.  Oxford Economics Her new finance minister, Joaquim Levy, is also known as "Scissorhands," if that's any indication. He's already started talking about a number of austerity measures meant to put the country back on track. But they're going to hurt. Of course, Petrobras' problems go beyond anything a finance minister can fix. Its costs have increased while production has not. It's taken on around $95 billion in debt. Another reason why the company's revenue has been anemic is that the government was giving Brazilians subsidies on their energy consumption, undercutting Petrobras' domestic revenue. Short-seller Jim Chanos called the company "a scheme, not a stock." To make matters worse, Petrobras executives are also being investigated for all sorts of corruption, from kickbacks to outright using company money to fund political activity. Rousseff, once a board chair of the company, said the far-reaching corruption scandal could "change Brazil forever" if heads roll. So far she has not been implicated. However, officials have raided offices and taken dozens of wealthy, powerful Brazilians into custody. Like we said, bad timing.    FREE AppDownload
Flickr user Bruce StockwellFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors.  Many Americans Still Don't Earn Enough To Save For Retirement (Financial Advisor Magazine) Many middle- and lower-income households don't earn enough to accumulate meaningful savings, which is terrible news for their retirement. "We've had stagnant wage growth for a long time — a lot of people can't save and cover their living expenses," Alicia Munnell, the director of Boston College's Center for Retirement Research, said. "It's no surprise that many people, especially middle- and lower-income households, crash," reports Mark Miller. "The Federal Reserve's latest Survey of Consumer Finances, released in September, found that ownership of retirement plans has fallen sharply in recent years, and that low-income households have almost no savings." Brazil Could See A Turnaround Like India Did (WisdomTree) Brazilian President Rousseff recently appointed a new finance minister, a move that appears to be a step in the right direction, according to Rick Harper. He hopes that "Brazilian assets respond in much the same way that Indian markets rebounded in response to reforms enacted by the Reserve Bank of India's governor." "[T]his marks a positive first step by the administration in its attempt to re-establish its credibility with the market," he adds. That being said, Brazil isn't going to change overnight: The real is trading at 2005 levels, interest rates are still the highest in EMs, and cheap assets could continue to get cheaper. Ameriprise Snapped Up Two Advisors With More Than $150 Million In Combined AUM (Financial Planning)  "Ameriprise recruited two Raymond James advisors in November who managed more than $150 million in combined assets, an Ameriprise spokesperson acknowledged," reports Andrew Welsch. Ameriprise has been actively recruiting this year, and has increased the value of its recruiting package to sweeten the deal. In September, the firm has brought in several recruits managing more than $500 million, and one more in October, who managed $165 million. 96% Of Advisors Are Optimistic About 2015, But Clients ... Not So Much (Think Advisor)  Advisors are ready for 2015: 96% are "optimistic or excited" about the upcoming year, and 85% are "expecting the markets to be as good or better in 2015 than in 2014," according to a new SEI Advisor Network survey. However, clients aren't feeling quite so positive. Almost 25% of clients are feeling more pessimistic and reactionary about the markets. Immigration Reform Could Shake Up Social Security (Investment News)  Obama's immigration reform would let some undocumented immigrants defer deportation, following a criminal background check and if they paid the required taxes and fees. "[T]hose who obtain work permits and are issued Social Security numbers would be subject to payroll taxes that fund Social Security and Medicare," writes Mary Beth Franklin. This could bolster trust funds initially, she adds. "Beyond the taxes paid and benefits received by unauthorized workers, the larger effect on the long-term actuarial status of the [Social Security] trust funds derives from the children born in the US to these immigrations," said Social Security chief actuary Stephen Goss. FREE AppDownload
(Photo by Andreas Rentz/Getty Images)Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and German Chancellor Angela Merkel. And there are no candidates yet.  On Monday, Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras announced that Greece's presidential elections will be held on December 17, two months earlier than scheduled, according to a report from German news agency DPA (via Bloomberg). The report said Greek officials made the move in order to bring "political clarity" to Greece.  If Greece does not elect a president on December 17, snap parliamentary elections will be called. DPA's report cited Samaras spokeswoman Sofia Voultepsi, who said no candidates have been named yet. According to headlines from Bloomberg, the radical opposition party Syriza, best known for its opposition to the eurozone's bailout of Greece, said the government doesn't have the votes needed to elect a president.  Also on Monday, a report from The Financial Times said that Greece and finance ministers in the eurozone agreed to extend Greece's bailout by two months after the government failed to adopt the economic reforms required to get the last of their rescue funds. The FT's report added that Syriza has been leading public-opinion surveys as of late.  And so while the European Central Bank deals with flagging economic growth and rapidly declining inflation, the eurozone might have to respond to political unrest in Greece, too.         FREE AppDownload
 As the great bourbon shortage heats up, some collectors are turning to hoarding. The Wall Street Journal reported on Monday that a man in Virginia has a basement bunker with 700 bottles in it. According to the report, domestic sales are up 36% since 2009, and international exports are up more than 50% since 2010. A representative for the Beverage Information &amp; Insights Group, which tracks the industry, told Business Insider that sales grew 6.7% in 2013 alone. That's a lot, but not enough to threaten big bourbon production. Jim Beam and Jack Daniels are going to be fine, partially because there's so much more supply of mass market whiskeys and partially because they aren't aged very long — only about four years — so there's less of a time lag for supply to catch up to demand if it starts increasing rapidly. But older and small-batch whiskey is starting to feel the pinch. And that's why big enthusiasts have started to hoard. According to The Journal, "panic has gripped bourbon enthusiasts across the country, and they are amassing stockpiles of it, hoping to guard against shortages and price hikes." If you are tempted to get in on this hoarding game, remember that this is a relatively long-term but still temporary problem.    FREE AppDownload
NASA scientists are studying deep-sea hydrothermal vents to get clues about what life might be like in other areas of our universe. This video originally appeared on Slate Video. Watch More: slate.com/video Jim Festante is an actor/writer in Los Angeles and regular video contributor to Slate. He's the author of the Image Comics miniseries The End Times of Bram and Ben.
Necole Bitchie via Google ImagesIf you drive a car like this, you're probably saving a lot of money on gas. As gasoline — a refined product of oil — becomes cheaper, consumers will have more money in their pockets, which they will then go out and spend on other goods and services. However, a research note from UBS indicates that the effect on the US economy might be a bit more limited than many expect — for a couple of reasons. The bulk of gasoline spending is done by families at the top of the income distribution. Almost a third of gasoline spending comes from the top 20%, with another quarter coming from the next quintile: UBS While the top 20% are the largest consumers of gasoline, those families spend a smaller share of their income on gasoline than families with less wealth. People at the top of the income distribution are also less likely than lower-income families to spend their gas savings on other items, instead tucking that money away into their savings.  According to the authors of the UBS note, "These families' overall expenditures generally are not tightly constrained by income and credit availability. In other words, part of the lower gasoline expenditures likely will be reflected in a higher than otherwise overall personal saving rate." The note points out a couple other reasons the drop in oil prices might introduce some drag on growth. Lower prices means that there will be less of a drive to build new wells and develop new fields in the US, leading to lower capital expenditures. Furthermore, in the wake of falling oil prices, the dollar has exploded, which could lead to people buying more imports, moderately tempering GDP. While the drop in oil prices should be an overall boon to the US economy, it's worth noting that there are other effects of that drop that could provide a small drag.       FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonJack Ma, Executive Chairman of Alibaba Group, speaks at the WSJD Live conference in Laguna Beach, California October 27, 2014. TIME has revealed the eight people who are still in the running for the magazine's Person of The Year issue. Here they are: Pope Francis won last year. TIME FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Louisa GouliamakiGreece may yet secure a bailout extension from the EU, despite criticism that its budget predictions are too optimisticBrussels (AFP) - Eurozone ministers on Monday approved a request from Greece for a two-month extension to its bailout programme that was set to end December 31, amid an ongoing budget row between Athens and its EU-IMF creditors. The decision comes a day after violent protests in Athens and a high-stakes budget vote in Greek parliament revived memories of the debt crisis that nearly sank the euro. Pressure became even greater with the threat of snap legislative elections in Athens if Prime Minister Antonis Samaras fails to muster 180 votes in parliament to elect a new Greek president. Moments after the extension decision, Samaras on Monday called for the first round of the presidential elections in parliament for December 17. A loss for Samaras in parliament could trigger general elections and pave the way to power for the extreme left Syriza party.   - Markets spooked -   A new line of credit became urgent after Athens proposed in October to break free completely of financial oversight. This spooked the markets, which sent Greek borrowing rates to dangerously high levels.  But a new credit line for Greece would require the previous bailout to be completed or terminated, and with a bitter row between the government and the creditors still ongoing, this seemed unlikely before December 31. At issue is the fifth and final review of Greece's current bailout, which would be the last 1.8 billion euro instalment of almost 240 billion euros in rescue funds lent Athens since 2010. "Despite this progress there is not enough to conclude the review now or before the end of the year," said Eurogroup President and Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem. "Given this we have concluded that the Eurogroup would be favourable to a request by Greece for a two month extension of the programme," he said. Before the talks, the influential German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble downplayed the difficulty of approving the extension.   "If we need another extension, it wouldn't be the first time," Schaeuble said, while adding that Greece must remain on the path of reform.   - Too optimistic -   As protests raged outside, the Greek parliament late Sunday passed the disputed budget for 2015 based on growth and deficit figures that Greece's "troika" of creditors -- the European Commission, European Central Bank, and International Monetary Fund -- regard as too optimistic. Agreement on the budget is required in order for Greece to receive the final 1.8 billion euro instalment. The payment should be delivered to Greece this month, but Prime Minister Samaras -- hit by the protests as well as a political threat from the resurging far left Syriza party -- has refused to yield in the budget fight, holding up the end of the bailout programme.  The greenlight by the ministers now requires a fast track approval by member state parliaments before the end of the year.   FREE AppDownload
Peter Thiel, author of “Zero to One” and serial venture capitalist, found success early in his career as one of the founders of Paypal with Elon Musk. What he learned from that experience and his subsequent meteoric rise is the key ingredient that he now looks for in companies he invests in today. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional camera by Graham Flanagan. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
ATLANTA (Reuters) - Atlanta Federal Reserve Bank President Dennis Lockhart said on Monday he saw no rush to remove language from the central bank's policy statement that there remains a "considerable time" before the first interest rate increase. "For my purposes I am not in a rush to drop it," particularly if there is a risk in doing so of suggesting that a rate hike is imminent, Lockhart said. Though the U.S. economy continues to grow and job growth has been sustained, he said he will watch the behavior of prices in coming months and wants to be confident inflation will rise to the Fed's two percent target before committing to an initial rate increase. He said he expects that to happen and anticipates the Fed will be able to approve an initial rate increase sometime in the second half of 2015. "Inflation is the one key element that does not seem to be consistent with what we are seeing in terms of growth and what we are seeing in the labor market," Lockhart said. If inflation "goes completely sideways or begins to indicate a decline, disinflation, then I think it will raise some concerns." The Fed's policy committee meets next week.   (Reporting By Howard Schneider; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
Gold is surging. In afternoon trade on Monday, gold futures were up more than 1% to north of $1,200 after a sharp $10/ounce rally in just the last few minutes. Gold is surging as both stocks and oil are falling, with the Dow off almost 150 points, the Nasdaq down more than 1%, and crude oil falling to multi-year lows. Amid the decline in oil and stocks, markets are taking a "risk off" approach to trading on Monday. In a "risk off" environment, assets like Treasury bonds and gold are would be expected to gain, and on Monday the US 10-year was rallying, with yields falling below 2.25% in afternoon trade, an almost 10 basis point move from Friday's lows.  Here's the rally.  FinViz FREE AppDownload
Don't let the residual anger from Occupy Wall Street fool you. Consumer opinion of corporate reputations is higher now than anytime since 2008. The financial markets meltdown damaged the reputations of many companies, whether they were on Wall Street or not, but according to the pollsters at Nielsen, they've used the time to repair the damage. And none has a more sterling reputation than Coca-Cola. Oh, sure, Amazon.com was the top-ranked company on the Harris Poll's 2014 list of Reputations of the Most Visible Companies, a position it's held for two years running now, and Coke was only second. But the beverage giant pulled up its "reputation quotient," or RQ, so much that it jumped from 6th place in 2013 to the next-to-best slot this year. The most remarkable thing about Coca-Cola's achievement was not its appearance on the list, or its improvement from last year to now, but rather that it was the only one of the 60 companies listed to rank high enough in all six categories used to define its RQ -- social responsibility, emotional appeal, products and services, workplace environment, financial performance, and vision and leadership. Amazon was one of the top-five companies in five of the six categories; Apple did well in four of the six; and a bunch of companies did well in half the categories. Only Coca-Cola ranked highly in all six of six groupings. Of course, Coca-Cola has a history as a stellar brand. The soda king has achieved a most-reputable status for all 15 years the survey's been conducted, and it's achieved an aggregated RQ score of around 80 across all those years. Harris characterizes that as "a nearly unmatched show of reputation consistency." How has it done this? By forever investing in its brand in ways that matter to consumers. It doesn't have to be the top-ranked company in everything -- in fact, it was only ranked highest in two of the six categories, vision and leadership and financial performance -- but consistently hitting singles and doubles elsewhere makes it the most well-rounded of businesses. Despite producing a product with seriously declining levels of volumes sold (diet soda), Coca-Cola still resonates with consumers. It does so through superb marketing, such as its "Share a Coke" campaign that encourages the social sharing of its beverages; helping impoverished workers in Dubai connect with loved ones back home (though it was criticized for profiting from the effort); and celebrating diversity here at home (another controversial ad in some quarters). But Coke also proves willing to invest in technologies and markets to reach new customers. Over the past year alone it's: Not all of these will pay off -- I'm skeptical about its dairy product, for example, because people are drinking less milk as it is, let alone at the premium price Coke will sell it for -- but it indicates a willingness to invest beyond the confines of its soda business. Sparkling beverages account for the lion's share of Coca-Cola's business, representing 63% of its sales volume in 2013. Diet soda accounted for only 6% and still beverages like its juices, juice and energy drinks, and water made up the other 31%. Declining diet soda volumes are a problem, but not fatal. And diversifying beyond just soda ought to give it equilibrium. Financially, it remains as sturdy as ever. Since 1920 Coca-Cola has paid a dividend to investors, and for more than 50 years has increased the payout annually at a better than 12% clip. The dividend currently yields 2.8% and with its payout ratio of 66%, there's still plenty of room for additional sustainable growth. KO data by YCharts Coke has also generated $7.9 billion in cash from operations through the first three quarters of fiscal 2014, and over $6.3 billion in free cash flow, ensuring it has the wherewithal to continue investing in the future while returning value to shareholders. Coca-Cola has been around for more than 100 years and it's not in any danger of not being around for 100 more. It generates the warm fuzzies both for consumers with its nostalgic commercials, and for investors with its year-in, year-out performance. It's easy to see why Coca-Cola has a sterling reputation, one that's not about to be tarnished. FREE AppDownload
Arista Networks stock is taking a pounding this morning, thanks to a lawsuit filed by Cisco on Friday accusing Arista of stealing Cisco's technology. Arista is down about 15% since Cisco announced the lawsuit Friday, trading near end-of-IPO-day levels. Arista went public in June. The stock was priced at $43 and soared to $60 that day. Arista board member, Dan Scheinman, posted a blog on Monday, disputing Cisco's allegations. He wrote: Arista’s EOS [technology] was developed from the ground up as a next generation network operating system for the cloud based upon the pioneering technologies invented by Arista – far from the ugly messaging pursued by Cisco on Friday Cisco’s lawsuit is just like the lawsuits (actual and threatened) brought against it in the 90’s by Lucent, IBM and Nortel – an attempt by a legacy vendor that is falling behind in the marketplace to use the legal system to try and slow a competitor who is innovating and winning. Ironically, Scheinman is the very same guy that helped defend Cisco against its competitors' lawsuits when it was a young upstart starting to chomp into their businesses. He was hired by Cisco in 1997, just a couple of years after John Chambers was promoted to CEO. He founded Cisco's legal department, then did business development and M&amp;A work before being given his own product line, the Cisco Eos platform. Cisco shut down Eos during Cisco's awful 2011 and Scheinman left the company. Investors are concerned that this suit could take years to settle, similar to Juniper's lawsuit against Palo Alto Networks, which was founded by ex-Juniper employees. That suit ended with Palo Alto settling for $175 million. According to one, Chad Kusserow, who tweeted, "This $ANET/ $CSCO lawsuit is like $PANW/ $JNPR part 2-prob ends same way ult in a settlement of some type but mucks things up ST for $ANET." He added. "$CSCO may/ may not have a real case here but strikes me as a last resort to stem mkt shr losses." That's because, as we previously reported, this lawsuit is less about two companies competing, and more like a family fight. The folks at Cisco don't just look at Arista like a competitor such as a Juniper or HP, they treat the company like traitors because so many of Arista’s leaders and engineers are former Cisco employees, including its Arista CEO, Jayshree Ullal, many of its vice presidents and top engineers, and seven of its board members. When hearing of the lawsuit, Ullal said, "I am disappointed at Cisco's tactics. It's not the Cisco I knew." LinkedIn/Dan ScheinmanArista chairman Dan ScheinmanThe bigger question is, why now? Speculation is that Arista's latest quarter, showing amazing growth, was the catalyst. Founded a decade ago, Arista is profitable. It reported an excellent a huge beat last month. Quarterly revenue of $155.5 million was up over 50% from the year-ago quarter. Profits hit $28.1 million, or 40 cents per diluted share, when analysts were expecting 28 cents. But the heaviest straw was likely that Ullal started speaking publicly about Arista's biggest customer: Microsoft. Microsoft makes up 10% of Arista's revenues, Ullal said, and it's building out its cloud computing network like crazy, which only bodes well for Arista. Microsoft is not only a huge customer, but is also a huge endorsement in the hottest growth area. Cisco has been watching an increasing amount of enterprise technology being moved to cloud computing platforms from competitors like Microsoft, Google, and Amazon, where it doesn't have much of a stake, market researcher Bern Elliot, a vice president for Gartner, told Business Insider. Many of these companies, like Google or Facebook, famously build their own computer network equipment. But now that Microsoft has become an Arista customer, others may follow suit. Cisco's got a plan to combat that. It is building its own cloud, called the Intercloud, investing a $1 billion to do that. In the meantime, it is also suing Arista, hoping to slow it down. Cisco spokesperson, John Earnhardt, refuted Arista's chairman Scheinman's post: Arista's argument is a red herring. It’s what they want the world to focus on and ignores the most significant issues of patent violation. Using examples from decades ago, like Alcatel, Lucent and IBM, is not an accurate comparison. They all had very aggressive patent monetization programs, designed to extract money and cross-licenses. That approach and business model simply doesn’t exist at Cisco. The most important question is why Arista feels they could not innovate, like many of our competitors have done, to compete on their own. On the question as to 'why now?' - Cisco's sale of data center products are growing faster than Arista’s. Arista is losing market share. As they face the daunting task of delivering their next generation of product, our ask is that they use their own innovation rather than continue copying ours, to do so. And stop trying to use the copying from us as a basis for attracting customers. Arista tells Business Insider that it disputes Cisco's claims that it is losing market share. Here's the full blog post from Arista's chairman Scheinman: I am on the Board of Arista Networks which as you all know was sued by Cisco on Friday with claims that include something called the command line interface and additional patents. The command line interface has been the industry standard method of configuring switches for decades and is widely used. There is a separate suit about several patents, and a long blog post attempting to justify the action. You are all going to learn more details about the technology involved here over the next few months. While I cannot comment about the specifics of the lawsuit, I want to say two things clearly at the outset: Arista’s EOS was developed from the ground up as a next generation network operating system for the cloud based upon the pioneering technologies invented by Arista – far from the ugly messaging pursued by Cisco on Friday. Cisco’s lawsuit is just like the lawsuits (actual and threatened) brought against it in the 90’s by Lucent, IBM and Nortel – an attempt by a legacy vendor that is falling behind in the marketplace to use the legal system to try and slow a competitor who is innovating and winning. The networking industry is in the midst of a revitalization as the value shifts from boxes to cloud networking software (a shift which is causing apparent consternation at Cisco). Arista is winning the software battle in the cloud, so Cisco has chosen to do what others did to it previously and is attempting to use the legal system to cover for its lack of innovation in software I was the General Counsel at Cisco in the 1990’s when it was being attacked in much the same way as Arista is today. Cisco faced this same challenge from the legacy vendors in the 1990’s, and the legacy vendors also wrongly used litigation to slow down innovation. I agreed with Mr. Chambers quote then and I agree with it even more now. “Symbolically it’s huge,” Mr. Chambers said of the suit. “It shows that some companies don’t have a way to compete in this new market.” Suing the new competition did not work in 1998 and it will work no better in 2014. What makes me most sad is that the millions of dollars that will be spent on this litigation could instead be spent innovating, helping customers or, heck, donating to food banks. The litigation is not going to help innovation, customers or the larger world. One last question to ask. Why now? Arista has been shipping the product for 6 years with the command line interface in question. Why did Cisco file this lawsuit on a Friday, without any discussions with Arista, and with no visibility from Mr. Chambers? Why now? The answer to that question speaks volumes about the real motivation going on here. FREE AppDownload
FitbitThe holiday season is upon us, but don't freak out — there's still time to get your mom something other than a card. Whether it's your mother, grandma, step-mom, wife, sister, or daughter, it's nice to make all the moms in our lives feel special. Here are our picks for the best holiday gifts for moms this season, from gifts that pamper to accessories for the tech-obsessed. FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Garrett ParrishGarrett Parrish furthers the music industry using technology. Less than 8% of applicants are admitted to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which means getting in is an impressive feat by itself. We found 14 students who stand out at this esteemed university. MIT is known for its top notch engineering and computer science programs, and some of these students are certainly breaking ground in these areas, but others are dancers, firefighters, and Olympic archers. The semester may be wrapping up, but their work certainly isn't. FREE AppDownload
Madeline Scotto has gone through a lot of math teaching methods. At age 100, she still teaches at Brooklyn's St. Ephrem's School.  We talked with Madeline and no other approach to mathematics has caused her more concern than Common Core.  Produced by Sam Rega. Camera by Devan Joseph. Follow BI Video: On Facebook  
GIF from YouTube/riicksteadThe collapse of oil prices may have a bigger impact on the shale boom than anyone realizes. The biggest threat may not be to the existing wells in the US, but the untapped resources around the world. According to Bloomberg, "Russia, China, Australia, Mexico and Argentina hold some of the [world's] richest shale reserves," but haven't yet invested in the fracking technology to drill them. Because the price of oil isn't high enough to cover the costs, there's just no economic incentive to start. As a comparison, here are the breakeven oil prices for the US shale basins, from Citi: Citi Plenty of them need prices above $60 to make money, meaning we're already past the point where it's worth it to continue production (and definitely past the point when it is worth making huge capital investments). The international shale projects that are going forward mostly have state backing — in Argentina and China particularly. There are a few state-run oil companies investing in projects in Argentina's Vaca Muerta basin, according to Bloomberg. But while state backing makes short-term cost concerns less relevant, if prices stay low for too long, eventually it may not be worth it. The Chinese government seems committed to shale despite the recent drop in prices, but, according to Bloomberg, "has cut its 2020 shale gas production targets to about a third of an earlier estimate." But all of this is only accurate until the next oil price swing. This in some ways mirrors the discussion about US shale in the mid-2000s, when oil prices were so low that there was no incentive to invest in new extraction methods. Then, in 2008, prices shot up to almost $150 a barrel, which incentivized the shale boom. (h/t Bloomberg) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonIt’s been a tough few years since the financial crisis. But life is getting better in the US, no doubt about it. America posted a stunning set of employment figures on Friday. In November, more than 320,000 new jobs were created. That absolutely trounced the 230,000 predicted by economists. Previous months’ figures were revised higher too. I’ll be the first to say that it’s stupid to base your entire investment strategy on one set of volatile figures. But the trend here is clear. Americans are getting jobs fast. Good news? It certainly is for the man and woman in the street. But for investors, it could make life very tricky indeed. Since the financial crisis turned around in March 2009, life has been good for investors. A significant chunk of the population has had to cope with unemployment, low-to-negative savings interest, and frozen wages. But anyone with the available capital and gumption (or foolhardiness) to invest – and the ability to stay invested – has done very well indeed. However, that might now be set to turn around. And it boils down to one main thing – the US dollar. The US currency ended last week at its highest level in eight years. There are good reasons for that. The strong jobs data means the economy is getting stronger. That means that the Federal Reserve will be under pressure to raise interest rates more quickly than investors had expected. All else being equal, higher interest rates tend to make a country’s currency more attractive. It’s just like a bank account – if one bank offers a higher interest rate than another, then you’re likely to opt for the higher rate, unless there’s an obvious reason not to. So why might a stronger US dollar make life tricky for investors? In short, it’s because the US dollar is the world’s reserve currency. Almost everyone uses it for something. So when the US dollar strengthens – ie the US dollar gets more expensive – monetary policy around the world gets tighter, because dollars cost more. And for a market that has been driven higher by cheap money, that’s bad news. Of course, some markets will feel the pain of a tighter dollar much more keenly than others. Emerging markets tend to be the most vulnerable. For a start, a rising US dollar is usually bad news for commodity prices. That makes life tough for resource-dependent economies. The Bank for International Settlements (BIS) is often described as the central bankers’ central bank. It warned yesterday of how a strong dollar could expose many emerging markets by making it harder for companies who have borrowed in US dollars to pay their debt. As the FT points out, many governments in Latin America and Asia have learned painful lessons from currency crises of the past. As a result, they no longer peg their currencies to the dollar. But “companies in emerging markets have been borrowing heavily via the issuance of dollar securities in recent years”. But it’s not just emerging markets. More generally, tighter monetary policy could reveal areas of underlying weakness that free-flowing credit is currently concealing. For example, the BIS also highlights a recent ‘melt-up’ in US bond prices that happened on 15 October. It didn’t last long, but only because the central bank intervened. Can money printing by other countries offset the US tightening? Potentially. But poor old Mario Draghi is clearly having a struggle dragging the Germans over to his side of the table when it comes to quantitative easing. And the Japanese can’t necessarily provide enough stimulus for the entire world themselves. So what happens? The risk is that if global liquidity gets too tight, we’ll see asset prices fall and perhaps even another crash, as the dodgiest bits of the market revealed. Or as Warren Buffett puts it: “Only when the tide goes out, do you see who’s been swimming naked”. Of course, central bankers aren’t likely to take too kindly to another crash. Researchers on global money flows, Crossborder Capital, suggest that as a result, we may end up seeing both the US and China forced into doing more quantitative easing later next year. That would push asset prices higher once again. In the meantime, we’d suggest sticking with Japan (where money-printing is happening) and Europe (where we’d expect money printing to happen). FREE AppDownload
ReutersA man receives tattoo at the 2nd International Hong Kong China Tattoo Convention in Hong Kong August 22, 2014. The territory held its second international tattoo convention on Friday, hoping to pin Hong Kong onto the global tattoo-map and aiming at changing the perception of tattoos in a city where inked skin is still strongly associated with triads and criminalsOn June 23, Malaysian businessman Wei Seng Phua, aka Paul Phua, landed his G-550 jet in Las Vegas. He was likely tired, as one would be after a long flight from Macau — where he had been arrested and held in police custody. Unfortunately for Phua, an alleged high-ranking member of China's brutal mafia, the 14K Triad, his troubles had only begun. Within a month, FBI agents would descend on the three villas he and his associates — including Macau casino junket operator Richard Yong — had rented at Caesars Palace. They would arrest him and seven others in connection to an allegedly illegal World Cup gambling ring, which authorities claim Phua and his associates controlled remotely, according to the FBI's complaint. Now months later, Phua is maintaining his and his son Darren's innocence. He says he has nothing to do with a the 14K Triad — though US and Malaysian law enforcement agents say they have been monitoring his association with the crime syndicate since 2009. He says he did not flee Macau on his jet after bribing his way out of jail in June.  And he says the government should not be able to use any of the information found on laptops and cellphones collected during the FBI's raid on his villa. “The searches were unconstitutional,” Phua's lawyer wrote in a brief. “A ruling upholding these intrusions would cause innocent Americans to live their daily lives burdened with the palpable fear that their government is regularly scheming to spy on them in their homes.” The raid was conducted under interesting circumstances. wikimedia upload.wikimedia.orgA view of Caesars Palace. Phua and his crew were occupying villas 8881, 8882, and 8888 — 8 is a lucky number in Chinese culture. According to the complaint, once they landed they requested a bunch of electronic equipment. The Feds used that request to enter the villas. One June 22, a few Caesars Palance engineers allegedly entered the villas to help set up and troubleshoot the equipment set up in the rooms. The engineers took detailed notes and pictures, according to the Feds. They later presented their findings to the Feds and the Nevada Gaming Control Board. The engineers said there were about five stations, each set up with a Century Link DSL line, three monitors and voice over internet protocol capability. Cox, Dish, and Direct TV signals were all allegedly set up on big screen televisions tuned in to the World Cup games.  To law enforcement agents, the setup looked like a "wire room," where illegal bets are made and monitored. Technicians made a few more visits back to the villas in the first few days of July. This time they were accompanied by special agents in disguise. At one point they were blocked from fully entering the villa by a butler brought to Caesars by the guests. Finally, on July 9 agents officially raided the villas, where Phua and his son Darren were watching the Argentina vs. Netherlands match.  One woman working at a computer was so focused on her work, according to the FBI's complaint, that when the agents demanded that everyone put their hands up, she lifted one arm and continued typing with the other. Phua was arrested a few days later in the lobby of the Palazzo hotel. The problem is that Phua and his associates were allegedly using gambling platforms, SBOBet and IBCBet. Both are not licensed in Nevada. According to the complaint, Darren Phua admitted under questioning that his father owns IBCBet. Paul Phua was bailed out of jail by poker stars Andrew Robl and Phil Ivey. They paid out $2.5 million and offered up Phua's $48 million jet as collateral. The government argues that Phua was able to get out of jail in Macau in part because he's a powerful junket operator. Junkets are one way high-rollers get money to gamble in Macau. The system works like this : Investors pull their money into a fund, and the junkets use that money to give high-rollers cash for the casinos. The junkets, in turn pay, investors a certain amount of interest on their investment — maybe 1%-2%. The system worked until this spring, when a junket operator walked out of a casino with over $1 billion in junket money. All of the sudden investors wanted higher returns. It couldn't have come at a worse time, the Chinese economic slow down and President Xi's crackdown on corruption have China's super-wealthy laying lower than before. That means less money in Macau.  Wells Fargo estimates that Macau revenue could be down as much as 25% from this time last year. Analysts think the business model is "nearly broken." Reutershe Sands casino and hotel is seen in Macau October 31, 2009. Las Vegas Sands Corp, which is expected to launch a public offering of its Macau operations in November, posted a net loss of $123 million, or 19 cents a share, compared with a year-earlier loss of $32.2 million, or 9 cents a share. Picture taken October 31, 2009.  Since the arrest, government officials have used the information they found on laptops and cellphones in the raid to connect Phua to other high-ranking members of the 14K Triad. Meanwhile, Phua has maintained that he has nothing to do with the organization. "[The] allegation rests entirely on one sentence from a six-year-old document stating information supposedly provided by someone in the Malaysian police," lawyer Tejinder Singh argued in opposition. "One isolated sentence does not support the US government's claim that Phua supposedly is a leader of the organisation." They allege that Cheung Chi-Tai, the leader of Hong Kong's Wo Hop To Triad who also has ties to Macau's Neptune junket, is connected to the World Cup group — a charge everyone soundly denies. Officials also allege that Richard Yong is a member of the 14K Triad. A charge his lawyers also deny. Phua is trying to make the case that he's merely a globe-trotting poker aficionado who regularly plays in multimillion dollar "nosebleed" games.  Phua's next hearing will take place in Nevada on Dec. 15.  "We're looking forward to the hearing as an opporunity to expose the unconstinutional conduct engaged in by law enfrocement," said Phua attorney David Chesnoff.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fabian Bimmer A lot of banks and consultancies have now released their outlooks for 2015. There's a lot to look forward to. The US economy is more healthy than at any time since the crisis, and the UK is following close behind. But not everything is exactly rosy. Analysts and economists are pointing to some major crisis threats that could derail the warm, Christmassy glow of recovery. Here are the three bearish scenarios likely to be keeping investors up at night over 2015. The possibility of a rapid slowdown and crash for China could have been included in any list of risks for at least the last six years. So far, it's the dog that didn't bark, and people who keep forecasting it have looked more like doom-mongers than wise sages. But economist Michael Pettis thinks the idea of hard and soft landings is misplaced, and that it's better to think of it as the two ways the Chinese authorities could decide to deal with an inevitable growth slowdown: Beijing can manage a rapidly declining pace of credit creation, which must inevitably result in much slower although healthier GDP growth. Or Beijing can allow enough credit growth to prevent a further slowdown but, once the perpetual rolling-over of bad loans absorbs most of the country's loan creation capacity, it will lose control of growth altogether and growth will collapse. China's credit growth has been extremely fast, and with Beijing cutting interest rates and Chinese equities going parabolic, it certainly doesn't look much like the state is gently managing the situation. In a separate post, Pettis offers this ominous warning:  I have studied most of the major growth miracles of the past 100 years (and directly experienced some), and in every case there have been pessimists that predicted a difficult adjustment process with much slower growth. ... that the pessimists have always been wrong, it always turned out that they were wrong because actual growth turned out to be much worse than they predicted. Pettis does not expect that the government will handle the slowdown in a disorderly way. But for more pessimistic observers, a major slump could see the world deprived of a major source of demand, which there's precious little of anywhere at the moment. Here's a chart from Nomura showing that Chinese debt has accumulated very rapidly since the global financial crisis: Nomura Claudio Borio, current head of economic and monetary analysis the Bank of International Settlements, think the strong dollar is going to threaten the debt burdens of emerging nations — and cripple growth there. There's some basic but powerful logic here. In a lot of countries around the world, particularly in the developing world, it's common for companies and banks to borrow in dollars. So although their day-to-day business might be denominated in pesos, or dinars, or francs, their debt levels depend on how strong that currency is against the dollar. So when the dollar falls, it's good news! Your debts are getting smaller in real terms. You need to earn less of your domestic currency to repay them. When it rises (like it's doing now), that isn't good news at all! You need to earn more and more to pay back your debts. This wouldn't be the first crisis in emerging markets linked to the strength of the US dollar: the Asian crisis in the late 1990s and the Latin American crisis of the 1980s were both spurred by dollar bull markets. Andy Xie, the former Morgan Stanley economist, noted that the coming strength of the dollar would be unpleasant for emerging markets. What's more, this year's Geneva Report (an annual study) noted that there is a lot more debt in emerging markets than there was at the start of the crisis. While emerging nation stock markets have barely grown (they're actually smaller than they were in 2007), debts have surged. Debt crisis, in other words, is a bigger systemic risk than an equity collapse in emerging markets: Geneva Report Europe really can't handle any more big shocks. The currency union is struggling to generate any visible growth or inflation, and this is meant to be a recovery. It really seems unlikely that the eurozone could weather any major negative economic surprises without slumping into recession and deflation. Maybe the most obvious catalyst is back in Greece: the current government has to nominate a president in February, and it doesn't look like it has the votes. To install a president, the coalition would need the support of 180 MPs, not the 155 that it currently has. If it can't get the votes, a snap election would be won by left-wing radical party Syriza (based on current polls). The party is in favour of serious bondholder haircuts and abandoning the bailout deals that have been negotiated with international authorities. That would almost certainly send bond prices crashing and yields surging for Greece like they did in during the crisis (rapidly raising the cost of issuing debt). Syriza aren't the only new anti-austerity party leading in southern Europe: Podemos are in the lead in Spain. Here's Citi's global outlook for 2015 on the rise of anti-establishment parties on both the left and right in Europe: Podemos has captured the public debate in Spain, and is dipping in and out of first place in political polling: BNP Paribas FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/PlatiauStocks are staying level, but oil is way down. In mid-afternoon trade, the Dow was down 148 points, the S&amp;P 500 was down 20 points, and the Nasdaq was down 52 points, or more than 1%.  Oil was also making new lows on Monday morning, with Brent crude falling more than 3% to nearly $66 a barrel. WTI crude futures were down more than 3% to below $64 a barrel. Stocks in Europe were also trading lower, with markets in the UK and France down 0.8% and Germany's Dax down 0.5%.  In stock news, the big event on Monday was the release of McDonald's November same-store-sales, which fell more than expected in November, declining 2.2% against expectations of 1.7%.  In the US, the story is even worse for the fast-food giant, with same-store-sales falling 4.6% in November. The chain hasn't recorded positive same-store-sales growth in the US in over a year. Shares of McDonald's were down more than 3.5% on Monday. The economic data flow is quiet on Monday, with the market paying closest attention to the release of the Federal Reserve's latest Labor Market Conditions Index. That declined to 2.9 in November from 3.9 in October.        FREE AppDownload
Mark Lennihan/AP The event-driven fund — which focuses on takeovers, spinoffs, or bankruptcies — fell 3.1% in November, according to the Bloomberg report. Paulson became famous for his 2007 bet against subprime. It was called the greatest trade ever.  Things aren't looking so bright this year, though.  Paulson, who manages about $19 billion in assets, saw three of his funds make HSBC's worst-performing funds list for 2014.    FREE AppDownload
 Big cuts from big oil are coming. On Monday, ConocoPhillips announced its capital expenditures plan for 2015, and the company expects to spend 20% less next year than it will this year.  "We are setting our 2015 capital budget at a level that we believe is prudent given the current environment," ConocoPhillips CEO Ryan Lance said in a statement.  ConocoPhillips said that 2015 capex would total $13.5 billion, down 20% from 2014. In a statement, the company said: "The reduction in capital relative to 2014 primarily reflects lower spending on major projects, several of which are nearing completion, as well as the deferral of spending on North American unconventional plays." On Monday, the price of both WTI and Brent oil was falling sharply, with both benchmarks making fresh multiyear lows.  Brent prices were down more than 4% to just above $66 a barrel, and WTI was down more than 3% to just above $63 a barrel.  The news from ConocoPhillips comes after a report by The Sunday Times said BP was accelerating plans to reduce headcount. According to Reuters, BP official Brian Gilvary told The Times: "What you'll see with this simplification plan is that headcounts are starting to come down across all of our activities in upstream, downstream and in the corporate centers — essentially the layers above operations." A look across the universe of oil and gas stocks, and the damage has been done, with the "XLE" ETF representing the S&amp;P 500's Energy sector down 19% year-to-date.  The more focused oil &amp; gas sector ETF trading under "XOP" and the oil &amp; gas services ETF trading under "XES" have seen even steeper losses this year, with both funds down more than 33% year-to-date.   FREE AppDownload
Education Images/UIG/GettyAerial view of a jack up rig.Size of the Energy Sector Because the energy sector is a large component of the U.S. high yield market relative to some other asset classes, the market has received increased scrutiny due to recent declines in oil prices. Prior to the recent sell off, energy accounted for more than 15% of the high yield market, making it by far the largest industry (healthcare is the second largest at approximately 8.5%). Energy accounts for approximately 11% of the U.S. investment grade market (based on the Barclays U.S. Investment Grade Corporate Index). However, the sub-sectors that are most sensitive to commodity prices – Exploration and Production (E&amp;P) and Oilfield Services  – account for roughly 4% of the investment grade market (versus approximately 9.5% of the high yield market). In the equity markets, energy accounts for approximately 8.5% of the S&amp;P 500 Index. Columbia Management Energy has historically been a large component of the high yield market because of the underlying asset value and the continuous need for capital required by energy companies to replace their oil and gas production.  In addition, the U.S. shale revolution has brought a number of new companies to market for growth. Furthermore, over the past four years, oil has averaged around $90/barrel (bbl), oil price volatility was low by historical standards, the high yield market was conducive for new bond issuance and rates were low. The energy sector took advantage of this favorable environment and became an increasing portion of the new issuance and overall market.  Columbia Management Recent Developments in the Oil Market Oil peaked around $107/bbl in June and has dropped nearly 40% to $66/bbl. A number of factors contributed to the drop. There has been a lot of press about the rapid increase in U.S. oil production driven by new shale regions. Production increased from approximately 5 million bbls/day in 2008 to approximately 8.8 million bbls/day currently. This new supply had been offset by increasing global demand and almost 4 million bbls/day of outages from countries like Iraq, Libya, Syria, Yemen and Iran. Recently global production has picked up (fewer outages) while demand growth has slowed along with economies in Europe and China. Historically, Saudi Arabia has helped balance the market but that changed during the recent OPEC meeting. Saudi Arabia is a low-cost producer (excluding social costs in the budget) and has amassed a significant asset surplus over the past number of years. Rather than give up share to higher cost producers (including some of the U.S. shale regions), Saudi Arabia decided to hold production steady. Without Saudi Arabia balancing the market, the resulting oversupply has driven prices lower. There remains an ongoing debate as to whether Saudi Arabia refrained from reducing their production in order to flush out the high cost producer and maintain market share, or whether the action was driven by geopolitics and desire to apply economic pressure to Iran and ISIS to name a few.    Regardless, the result is lower oil prices and higher volatility until the market is more balanced. Going forward, monitoring changes in supply from capital expenditure reductions, OPEC cuts and unplanned outages will be important to help determine the direction in oil prices. We will also be watching to see if there is a positive demand response from lower prices. Columbia Management Valuation and Performance Impact on the Energy Sector and High Yield The impact of lower oil prices has been felt directly by high yield energy bonds and the high yield market.  Since the beginning of September, high yield energy bonds have posted a return of -11.2% and yields widened by 331 basis points (bps). During this same period, the high yield market (including energy) returned -2.6%. But when energy is excluded, the return of the market improves to -0.95% and the yield and spread of the market tightens by nearly 40 bps. Columbia Management The energy industry is comprised of four sub sectors. As evidenced by the yield in the above chart, the impact from the drop in oil prices has been most acute within Exploration and Production (E&amp;P) and Oilfield Services (which collectively account for approximately 9.5% of the market). The remaining 4.5% of the energy sector (Midstream and Refining) is less impacted by changes in commodity prices, but not immune. New issuance had been robust for E&amp;P companies. In some cases, the high yield companies were early movers in a shale region and acquired what we would call the core “A” type properties that have lower costs than other parts of the region or U.S. But in other cases, especially with some of the more recent new issuance, the properties were in higher cost fringe areas. Overall break-even prices in the U.S. shale regions have a wide range of $40-$80/bbl, making the assessment of asset quality critical when investing in the sector. Prior to the drop in oil prices, energy bonds traded with minimal differentiation despite differences in asset quality, leverage, hedging levels and full cycle costs. As you would expect, the companies with the higher break-even costs, high leverage and limited hedges have been negatively impacted the most. Additionally, with the market in oversupply, growth in the higher cost basins is likely to slow, resulting in lower demand for oilfield services including rigs and completion services. If lower oil prices persist longer than expected, they will not only impact high yield market performance, but also, we could see an increase in default rates. Our internal expectations for defaults are 2.45% in 2015 and 3.45% in 2016. In the event oil prices were to remain low into 2016, the default rate is likely to head higher than our current projections in 2016 due to an increase in energy defaults. Outlook We believe the decline in oil prices will ultimately create compelling opportunities within the energy sector. It could also serve as a tailwind for other sectors and stimulus to the overall global economy which is favorable for credit markets. We will look to be opportunistic in the sector as we have the resources to analyze and identify strong risk-adjusted fundamentally driven opportunities to take advantage of the volatility in the market. Our focus continues to be on asset quality, the company’s full cycle costs, leverage and capital needs going forward.  Additionally, when prices drop, liquidity and understanding the dynamics around bank borrowing bases and redeterminations is critical.   We continue to believe that the energy sector can provide solid asset coverage, attractive M&amp;A candidates and in some cases, the potential for upgrades to investment grade. Given the challenge in predicting the timing of oil price changes, we are currently positioning for an extended period of lower oil prices; but we acknowledge that if oil prices sustainably improve, it could lead to stronger than expected high yield market performance. Given the stable fundamentals of the majority of the high yield asset class with below average default rate expectations, limited refinancing risk, low overall levels of leverage, and reasonable earnings outlook, we still view high yield as an attractive investment alternative to other core fixed income products. However, we believe high yield will have a difficult time outperforming the equity market.  Disclosures: Information as of December 2, 2014 unless otherwise stated. All data for the high yield market is based on the BofA Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield Cash Pay Constrained. This article originally appeared at Columbia Management Perspectives.  Copyright 2014. Follow Columbia Management Perspectives on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockNorway will attract "Frozen" fans next year.It's time to start thinking about planning your dream trip next year. So where should you go? We looked at major developments, cultural trends, and global festivals to find the hottest places to travel around the world in 2015. From the Philippines to Peru, here are the best places to travel next year.    Tourism in Japan has taken a hit since the 2011 tsunami hit the country's coast and ricocheted into a nuclear disaster at the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant. Since then, the Japanese government has cleaned up the countryside and launched a massive public-relations campaign encouraging tourists to come visit. Pair that with a sharp decline in the value of the Japanese currency, and you get a country that's ripe for tourism. Traditionally one of the most expensive countries in the world, Japan is quickly becoming a bargain destination that's luring in travelers looking for a deal.  More than 11 million visitors have traveled to Japan so far this year, with more expected. Most tourists are heading to Tokyo, which is also busy preparing for the 2020 summer Olympics.  Lima, Peru has been slowly building its reputation as a city for foodies, cementing its status most recently when the Latin America's 50 Best Restaurants Awards gave the coveted top spot to the city's Central restaurant. In total, eight of 50 restaurants on the prestigious list were in Lima. The Peruvian city is home to everything from Michelin-starred restaurants to hole-in-the-wall cevicherias that will continue to draw in foodies from around the world. "Frozen" has made over $1.2 billion for Disney, and with its increased merchandising and rumors of a sequel, the "Frozen" craze will only continue to grow. Set in Arendelle, a fictional kingdom in Norway, "Frozen" shows a gorgeous landscape of lakes, waterfalls, mountains, and fjords. Fans of the animated film are now seeking out real-life Arendelle in Norway. The country has seen a huge growth in tourism since the release of the film, with tour operators reporting a 40% increase in sales. Bergen, a city on the west coast, was the inspiration for the film. Voss is also popular with fans for its nearby fjords, glaciers, rivers, and lakes. With its small fishing villages and breathtaking cliffs, the Lofoten Islands will also attract Frozen fans.  Iran is becoming a tourist hotspot, with tour operators reporting significant increases in tourists booking trips to the Middle Eastern country. Perhaps that's because of a slight thaw in its relationships with the West, or simply because of the allure of exploring a little-known destination with few other tourists around.  Note that Americans are allowed to visit Iran, but they must travel with an official tour guide or get their itinerary approved by the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA). Travel within Iran is considered safe if you tour responsibly, even though the U.S. Department of State has issued a travel warning to the country. The country is home to ancient cities with breathtaking mosques and gorgeous natural landscapes. Popular cities with tourists are Isfahan and Tehran, but people also travel to see the ruins at Persepolis, the tombs at Shiraz, and the beaches on the Caspian Sea.  Forget the massive, personality-devoid cruise ships. The river cruise industry is booming these days. These cruises offer a more refined, intimate, and cultured experience than the behemoth ocean liners. They also allow guests to embark right in the center of the cities, and enjoy riverbank scenery the entire ride. Luxury cruise-ship operator Viking River Cruises has carved a niche for itself as the top river-cruise ship company. It offers cruises all over the world, filled with unique cultural activities like lectures, language lessons, and demonstrations like cuckoo-clock-making, that are meant to shed light on the destinations visited. Even the food aboard the ship reflects the local culture, showcasing regional specialties from each destination. With its diverse wildlife, colonial architecture, and stunning landscape filled with mountains, deserts, and beaches, Namibia is hands-down one of the most picturesque countries in the world.  It's also one of the safest countries in Africa and was named the hottest travel destination of the future by LoveHomeSwap. Travelers can go on safari, compete in the grueling Namib Desert Challenge, or explore the country's vast sand dunes. Canberra, Australia's capital city, was named the best place to live in the world by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, according to the New York Times. Located in southeastern Australia, Canberra doesn't have the glitzy buildings and beautiful beaches of Sydney, but it does feel quainter and more peaceful — even though it's the country's capital. The city is set on an artificial lake and is home to Australia's Parliament House and High Court, as well as several great cultural institutions like the National Gallery and National Museum. It's no secret that Berlin is one of the coolest cities in Europe, but it's only recently that it's really blown up as the quintessential hipster destination. The center of all that? Kreuzberg, a central neighborhood that straddles both east and west Berlin. Visitors to Berlin can check out some hipster hotspots, like White Trash fast food, an ironic restaurant, club, and tattoo parlor; Meschugge Berlin, a nightclub that feels like an Israeli dance party; and Stattbad Wedding/Stattbar, a nightclub inside an old swimming pool. Widely regarded for its beauty, Palawan was named the best island in the world by Conde Nast Traveler this year.  The small island is home to the Puerto Princesa Subterranean River, one of the new seven natural wonders of the world. It also has gorgeous beaches and clear waters that are perfect for snorkeling, diving, and swimming. With more direct flights to Europe, America, and Australia planned on Philippine Airlines, Palawan is sure to see more international visitors next year. Lithuania will join the eurozone in 2015, which means that travelers will be able to use a convenient, continentwide currency. Explore the capital city of Vilnius, whose historic center is designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site, or relax on a beach at the Curonian Spit National Park. There are also historic castles and museums filled with treasures all over the country. Since Colorado legalized marijuana use and began allowing the sale of recreational marijuana to anyone age 21 and over earlier this year, Denver has become a tourist destination for people who enjoy the drug. These "weed tourists" come to frequent medicinal and recreational marijuana shops, much like oenophiles travel around the world to go wine tasting. Some tour companies, like My 420 Tours, cater to this crowd. While there, tourists can also check out cultural institutions like the Denver Art Museum and Denver Performing Arts Center. There are also several local craft breweries. Traditionally, South Africa has been an expensive destination to visit, but recent currency fluctuations mean that it's becoming a cheaper destination for tourists.  An upgraded public-transportation system, new hotels, and new urban infrastructure projects like the Fan Walk will make Cape Town much more tourist-friendly. Even safaris to Kruger National Park seem to be more affordable now. For even better discounts, visit in the spring or fall (March to May, September and October), when it's not peak tourist season.  Florence is a perennial favorite, but 2015 is sure to bring even more visitors to the Italian city, since it was recently named the world's best city for travelers by Conde Nast Traveler. It's a historic jewelbox that's full of incredible art, museums, shops, and restaurants. The Duomo, the city's main cathedral, is the most iconic tourist attraction here, but there are tons of other world-famous spots, like the Uffizi museum, the Accademia (home to Michelangelo's David), and the Ponte Vecchio. Curacao is a gorgeous Caribbean island that's tucked between Aruba and Bonaire. But until recently, it was pretty inaccessible, as there were few direct flights from major international destinations. Now that's all about to change.  Jetblue just launched nonstop flights to the island from New York twice a week, and early next year, Air Canada will launch direct flights from Montreal to Curaçao every Thursday. To accommodate these new visitors, new hotels are being built, like a Courtyard by Marriott, while others are expanding and undergoing renovations. Located in the South China Sea at the southernmost tip of China, Hainan Island is one of the fastest-growing tourism destinations in the country. It has seen a huge increase in hotel-room capacity in the last few years, and it plans to keep building new hotels and increase international flights. The majority of tourists come from China and Russia, but Hainan has been embarking on a campaign to attract more international tourists.  The beaches are the main attraction here, but there are also several historic temples, tombs, and forts. It's also a big surfing destination that's hosted the Hainan Wanning International Surfing Festival for three years in a row. A region straddling northern Spain and France, the Basque Country has its own language, cuisine, and culture. The region hasn't registered on the mainstream tourist radar for years, but all of a sudden it seems like people are talking about it.   It's a rich region that's home to exciting museums, bustling cities, gorgeous beaches, and wine country. Bilbao is famous for its Frank Gehry-designed Guggenheim museum, San Sebastian is known for its sprawling beaches, and Pamplona is known for its annual fiesta of San Fermin, also called the Running of the Bulls. But there are also lesser-known cities that are almost untouched by tourism, like Vitoria and Bayonne. Lonely Planet named Tasmania one of the best regions to explore in 2015. Located south of the main continent of Australia, the island-state is famous for its gorgeous landscape, wild animals, heritage estates, premium wines, and some of the best mountain biking in the world.  Adventure travelers will love exploring Tasmania's rugged coastline and wilderness. In 2015, the second stretch of the Three Capes Track will open, allowing people to trek through the bush on foot and explore places like the sea cliffs of Tasman National Park. But Tasmania isn't just for adventurers. Foodies and oenophiles will enjoy tasting the excellent cool-climate wines, while couples will find plenty of opportunities for romance. Queens, New York has gotten some attention recently. As prices in Manhattan and Brooklyn have gotten so high, people are rediscovering this sometimes overlooked New York City borough. Queens is one of the most diverse urban areas in the world. It's home to immigrants from over 100 countries who speak more than 138 languages. All that diversity means one thing: great food.  Head to Flushing for Chinese, Astoria for Greek, or Little India in Jackson Heights for Indian food. There's also amazing Czech food at the Bohemian Hall in Astoria, incredible Dominican food in Elmhurst, and succulent Jamaican cuisine in Queens Village, to name just a few neighborhoods. Chef and TV personality Andrew Zimmern told us that Queens is the best food city in the world.    The World Cup may be over, but Rio de Janeiro, Brazil is still in prep mode as it gears up to host the 2016 Summer Olympic Games.  The city will use all of the new arenas, hotels, shops, and restaurants that were built to accommodate the international crowds who came for the 2014 FIFA World Cup. But 2015 will be a relative bargain, since visitors won't have to contend with the crowds who will descend on the city for the Olympics in 2016. Croatia saw a huge boom in tourism after the hit series "Game of Thrones" filmed several seasons there, so it's only natural that Northern Ireland, another filming location for the show, will see similar results after Season 5, which is filming there, airs. Northern Ireland doubles as Westeros, the kingdom featured in GoT. The Stangford Castle Ward Estate in County Down doubled as Winterfell and the Dark Hedges in County Antrim doubled as Kings Road. The UK country is full of incredible natural wonders, like the Giant's Causeway and the Slieve League Cliffs, as well as ruined medieval castles like Dunluce Castle.  For years, Pittsburgh was thought of as a working-class, Rust Belt town, but that image is now actually working to its advantage as the city undergoes a hipster transformation. The city has a huge and growing youth population, which in turn seems to be driving a growth in tourism.  The neighborhood of Lawrenceville is the city's hipster center, with cool shops, restaurants, bars, and breweries, like the Roundabout Brewery, the Industry Public House, and Espresso a Mano. A few years ago, Myanmar opened its doors to the public for the first time in years. Since then, the Southeast Asian country has slowly been developing its infrastructure, building new hotels and restaurants, and improving roads and buildings. The country still has a long way to go, but that hasn't stopped millions of travelers from around the world from visiting. Yangon (formerly Rangoon) is the major city, but tourists also tend to visit Bagan, where they can go hot-air ballooning over incredible ancient temples. The country has more than 1,250 miles of coastline, and some of the best beaches in Asia. Sandwiched between Italy, Croatia, Hungary, and Austria, Slovenia is a small country that hasn't really been discovered by tourists — yet. It's a beautiful country with great food, historic cities, and stunning landscapes, and it's also one of the cheapest countries to visit in Europe. Ljubljana, the capital, is one of the most underrated destinations in Europe, with a quaint Old Town, beautiful bridges spanning the Ljubljanica River, and a historic castle that towers above the city. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas PeterJapan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe delivers a speech during a ceremony marking the 50th anniversary of the founding of the Komeito Party in Tokyo November 17, 2014. Japan’s economy dipped into a surprise recession in the third quarter, causing many investors to question the economic platform of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. The initial focus has been on the second stage of the consumption tax hike, which was blamed for the setback. The economic contraction seems to be triggering leadership in Japan, including the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Japan (BOJ), to re-evaluate how to coordinate through supplemental fiscal budget rather than austerity measures designed to raise tax revenue—as well as even further monetary stimulus. While Japan’s economic numbers are interesting for economists to debate policy prescriptions, these numbers are, in our opinion, the wrong data for investors to be focusing on. When investors buy Japanese equities, they don’t really buy a slice of that economy; they buy shares in corporations that operate both in Japan and around the world. “Japan, Inc.” (i.e., Japanese corporations) is showing a profit picture that differs dramatically from the country’s economic growth rate. And this is helping to maintain attractive valuations in Japan. Despite having the best price gains—70.7%—from the start of Abe’s reign through October 2014, earnings are up nearly 72%, which is more than any other major regional market1. Additionally, it is also the only major developed region (the U.S., Europe and broader MSCI EAFE Index markets included) to see a contraction in its price-to-earnings (P/E) ratios since the start of Abenomics, while the U.S., Europe and EAFE saw multiples expand 23%, 22% and 14%, respectively2. Critically for future returns, what are the prospects for future earnings growth and corporate profitability? We think they’re promising: WisdomTreeFor definitions of terms and Indexes in the chart, visit our glossary.  • GDP Growth <U+2260> Profit Growth: Despite lackluster GDP growth that trailed the U.S. by more than 4.5% annually for 20 years, Japan’s earnings per share (EPS) growth for TOPIX not only rivaled but surpassed that of the U.S. during that time—with especially compelling growth in the last one and three years with the revival of the weakening yen and coinciding with the start of Abenomics. • More Room for Profit Margin Expansion? In the Unites States, profit margins grew from 5.27% in 1994 to 9.58% in 2014—and many worry that the United States is at a cyclical peak in profit margins, causing future pressure on EPS growth. Japan’s margins have surely grown, but at rates that are less than half those of the United States; it is possible for Japan to show even more room for improvement. • Improving Profitability and Corporate Governance: While the U.S. return on equity has increased marginally over the last 20 years, Japan’s has increased markedly and remains below that of global peers. There are signs of pressure on Japan to be more competitive globally on a return-on-equity focus. In January, the government encouraged the development of the JPX-Nikkei 400 Index, which sought to reward and emphasize more profitable, higher-ROE companies. The Index is ultimately intended to serve as a new benchmark for large allocations from both the Japanese pension funds and the Bank of Japan in their exchange-traded funds (ETF) purchases. Some have referred to this Index as a “shame index,” highlighting companies not included and pressuring them to increase ROE. We are already seeing signs of increased dividends and buybacks to better manage balance sheets. • Japanese earnings have grown 526% cumulatively from October 1994 to October 2014: Such envious growth was achieved against a backdrop of lackluster Japanese economic growth averaging -0.17%. Let’s contrast this with the 433% cumulative growth achieved under “more normal” conditions in the U.S., averaging a 4.44% GDP growth number in nominal terms. This suggests that Japan has vast earnings growth potential that has yet to be unlocked. It’s important to note that over the last 20 years, none of these earnings metrics has shown any correlation to Japanese GDP’s relative stagnation. To reiterate, Japan, Inc. has grown profits from its global operations, while Japan’s local economic performance has languished. In a nutshell, performance in the Japanese equity markets thus far has been strongly supported by earnings growth. When people talk about the Japanese economy and whether it can weather another bout of a consumption tax hike in the future, remember an important formula: GDP growth <U+2260> profit growth, or stated differently, GDP growth <U+2260> equity market potential. Japan, Inc.’s overall profit profile is clearly being boosted by its global nature. This is one reason WisdomTree has focused on the exporters of Japan that we think are bound to reap longer-term gains from the more competitive yen exchange rates. This is a new trend that we see in place for the coming years based on shifting monetary accommodation at the Bank of Japan and the U.S. Federal Reserve. We thus think investors should stay favorable to Japan despite the recession headlines. 1Sources: WisdomTree, Bloomberg, 11/30/12–10/30/14, numbers are based off of the forward earnings filed on Bloomberg.2Sources: WisdomTree, Bloomberg, 11/30/12–10/30/14, numbers are based off of the on forward P/E filed on Bloomberg. FREE AppDownload
 The progressive political group Democracy for America sent out an email blast over the weekend contending that Wall Street was "out to destroy Sen. Elizabeth Warren." The email again criticized President Barack Obama's nomination of Lazard investment banker Antonio Weiss for a senior Treasury position, Politico's Ben White reported. One of Warren's objections to Weiss is that he worked on Wall Street, and she is casting him as a symbol of Wall Street's influence on government. Democracy for America has been circulating a petition supporting her opposition of him. Weiss' supporters, meanwhile — and there are many — argue that it is in the country's best interest to have policymakers at the Treasury Department who have real-world finance experience, and they point out that Weiss is a highly respected adviser who has never worked at a firm that received a taxpayer bailout. Nevertheless, Warren has turned Weiss into a symbol and is now rallying supporters in an attempt to block him. She is also framing any support for Weiss as an effort by "Wall Street" to win a war in Washington. "Wall Street knows that Sen. Warren's opposition to Weiss is a game-changing moment in the fight for the future of the Democratic Party. That's why they're pulling out all the stops to try and defeat her," the Democracy In America email continued. "The Antonio Weiss nomination has become a crucial moment in the fight for the future of this country. We cannot let Wall Street win." Quite the battle cry.   FREE AppDownload
In a recent blog post, I revealed how Millennials may want to think about fixed income in their portfolios. Bonds can play an important role in managing portfolio risk, even if you have a long investment time horizon. What's more, bonds aren't just for people in retirement or Millennials; they can be incredibly useful for other life stages as well. If you're saving for a particular milestone, such as buying your first home, you may want to consider investing in bonds. Bonds help you to lock away a certain amount of money for a specific purpose, while collecting income at regular intervals until you receive the principal at maturity. Think of it this way: instead of investing entirely in equities to maximize your return potential, you can instead aim to reduce risk by allocating a percentage of your portfolio to bonds that mature around the time you expect to purchase your first home. This helps you estimate how much money you will have when it comes time to make that future purchase. There are even term maturity ETFs like iBonds® in the market that have a specific end date like a bond. The word used in finance for this application is immunization. Essentially you are immunizing yourself against a future expenditure by putting that money aside today in a bond or term maturity ETF. Bonds also have a place in your child's college savings plan. Here the role they can play builds off of both of the topics we discussed earlier: bonds as a potential risk mitigator and bonds as an immunizer for future expenditures. The challenges presented by saving for college are not that different than those faced by Millennials. Both are trying to build portfolio value over a long time period. In this way you can think of children as mini-Millennials. Depending on your risk tolerance, the mix of stocks and bonds in a 529 plan may weight more heavily towards equities initially, but as high school graduation approaches many investors will start to shift into bonds and money market funds to reduce risk. When the child is getting closer to college, you may want to think about using bonds to build a short-term bond ladder. You could invest in bonds that mature at different intervals, such as one, two, three, and four years in the future. The principal received at maturity could then be applied to a tuition payment.   This is similar to the buying a home example above, but here we are looking at a series of cash payments that you will need to make in the future instead of just one. Again, it's the same immunization concept. So where does that leave us with bonds? They can potentially play a role in almost any portfolio. From the retiree looking for income, to the adult looking to save for a home, to the recent grad looking to build their portfolio and manage risk. And even to the kid who can't yet walk yet, but who someday will want to go off to college (where they could even study … bonds!). FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ina FassbenderA woman walks past vintage Porsche cars.When the economy's going down, the next logical step is to go out and buy a new Porsche — right? Well, in Russia right now, yes. According to a new report by Bloomberg, Russians from all financial backgrounds have started buying fancy sports cars to protect themselves against the crashing ruble, which has the potential to destroy their savings. In the last month alone, Porsche and Lexus sales surged by 55% and 63% respectively, according to the report. So why is this happening?  As the ruble continues to devalue, Russians are starting to get nervous about their savings. Right now, 1 million rubles in savings is worth $18,600. And that number's dropped by $4,650 since November 1. Basically, Russians are looking for a way to protect their savings. "In times of crisis, people view cars as an investment," Andrei Rodionov, the head of corporate communications at Mercedes-Benz's Russian unit, told Bloomberg. "The rule of thumb that a car loses 20% of its value once it leaves the showroom isn't valid anymore." Over the last several months, the Russian economy has taken a serious beating following the sanctions imposed by the US and the EU, and the dropping oil prices. The ruble is down. Google FinanceThe ruble's decline over the last 3 months. And inflation is up.Trading EconomicsRussia's inflation rate is up to 9.1%. But car prices have been relatively resilient to the economic pains. Prices have only increased by 5 to 7% in the last quarter, according to Bloomberg. So, to put it simply, it's smart to buy cars right now. "The urge to spend is about dealing with the blues of high inflation and a declining currency," according to the Bloomberg report. You can read the full Bloomberg report here. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Peter MorganTraders work on the oil pit at the New York Mercantile Exchange on June 1, 2004. On Monday morning, the price of both Brent and WTI crude was at a five-year low, extending losses that started accelerating about two weeks ago after OPEC did not move to curb production. Many in the market expected OPEC to cut production in order to combat the recent price decline that many have blamed on a glut of global supply.  On Monday, Brent crude was down more than 4% to as low as $66.12 a barrel, its lowest level since 2009. Investing.com Meanwhile, West Texas Intermediate crude, the US benchmark, was also extending losses from earlier on Monday, losing more than 3% and cracking $64 a barrel for the first time since 2009. WTI fell as low as $63.29 a barrel.  FinViz And while the decline in oil prices has left many companies in the energy space facing an uncertain future, US consumers appear in-line to be a main beneficiary of the decline in oil prices, as the national average of a gallon of gas as of early Monday morning was $2.67, according to AAA, down from $3.27 a year ago.  Many have talked about the benefits US consumers will enjoy due to the decline in gas prices, with this decline amounting to a huge tax break for consumers.  In a note to clients on Monday, however, Brean Capital's Peter Tchir wrote, "There are too many oil plays — both direct and indirect — that will struggle with low oil. That will leak into the economy and the stock market. "We are firmly in the camp that this steep, rapid decline in oil is harmful to the economy as we risk losing a driver of good 'trickle down' jobs and serious CapEx." In a report Friday, Morgan Stanley adjusted its forecasts for oil prices, saying oversupply would most likely peak next year with OPEC deciding not to cut output.  "Without OPEC intervention, markets risk becoming unbalanced, with peak oversupply likely in the second quarter of 2015," Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Longson told Reuters. In a meeting on Nov. 27, the oil producers' cartel announced it would not cut its output anytime soon, a move that aims to squeeze US domestic shale production, according to many analysts. Morgan Stanley now expects prices to drop as low as $43 a barrel in 2015, meaning crude could lose a further $20 in the coming months.   FREE AppDownload
Robert SkidelskyRobert Skidelsky gives a speech at Brighton College.Award-winning economist Robert Skidelsky has savaged the Coalition government's claim that its policies helped drive the UK recovery, further suggesting that, for the average British person, the recovery hasn't happened at all.  In his speech on the Chancellor's Autumn Statement last week to the House of Lords, Baron Skidelsky said that the average British worker is now £1,600 a year worse off than they were at the start of this parliament in 2010. "The only relevant welfare measure — the measure by which the government should be judged — is GDP per head. GDP grew by 4.1%, between 2010 and 2013, but GDP per head has grown by only 2.3%, and the typical earner is £1,600 a year worse off," he said. This, he argues, is because government policy has replaced unemployment by underemployment, meaning that skilled workers are stuck in low-paying jobs. Underemployment is a situation in which someone is willing to work more hours than an employer is willing to offer them. It has been championed especially by academics David Bell and David Blanchflower as a key measure of remaining "slack" in the UK job market, or the amount of work that employers could employ people to do before having to offer higher wages. The level of underemployment is generally seen to be significantly higher than the unemployment rate as the latter only counts people currently who are currently out of work. It's been cited by the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee on a number of occasions to explain why they have left interest rates at emergency levels despite recent improvements in the UK's economic growth prospects. What it means is that despite lots of people being able to find work over the last four years much of these have been low-skilled, poorly-paid jobs. So while out-of-work benefits bill has been shrinking, the in-work benefits tab (used to provide support for low income workers) has been offsetting those falls. This, Skidelsky says, is why the government has failed in its original aim to eliminate the budget deficit during this parliament. "We would expect falling unemployment to increase tax revenues and reduce public spending. But not if unemployment is replaced by jobs which pay so little as to be exempt from tax, and which have to be propped up by benefits. For example, the number of housing benefit claimants who are in work has doubled since 2009." With this warning in mind, it is no surprise that Chancellor George Osborne announced on Monday that "we are going to have to cut certain welfare bills like benefits that go to working-age people". FREE AppDownload
Stack Commerce There may be a scientific explanation for why your headphones are constantly tangled, but no one wants a rat's nest in his pocket. You can avoid annoying headphone knots entirely with AViiQ's tangle-free earphones. Their flat-cable design ensures that unlike their rounded counterparts, they'll generate less friction and be less aerodynamic, which decreases the possibility of a tangle. These headphones also have up to 20 decibels of noise isolation and a built-in microphone and remote. They work with any phone or tablet, so no need to fret about compatibility.  You can grab it here with a discount thanks to Insider Picks and our friends at Stack Commerce. Get 52% off the AViiQ Concert Series Tangle-Free Earphones ($16.99+Free Shipping). Full specs below: Get 52% off the AViiQ Concert Series Tangle-Free Earphones ($16.99+Free Shipping). Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload

Julie Zeveloff / BIBusiness Insider's Careers vertical is looking for a reporter in our Manhattan office. If you enjoy covering corporate news (think Google, Apple, Facebook), hiring trends, and successful leaders, as well as topics like resume writing, negotiations, salary, job interviewing, and millennials in the workplace, you might be the ideal candidate.  But it's important that you also have the following: *Excellent writing skills *A basic understanding of business *An interest in all types of news  *Familiarity with the Harvard Business Review, Fast Company, LinkedIn, and other sites that cover the latest trends in business  *A curiosity about the psychology of success and what makes CEOs, innovators, and creative minds tick    *An ability to package information in a fresh and original way *Creative and inspired ideas *A journalism background *Knowledge of social media *Previous writing experience APPLY HERE with a resume and cover letter if this sounds like your dream job, and specify why you're interested in working on Careers.  This job is full-time and based in our New York City headquarters. Business Insider offers competitive compensation packages complete with benefits.  FREE AppDownload
 I recently wrote about one of the best trans-Atlantic flights I've ever had. The article was called, "I've Figured Out How To Fly First Class For The Price Of Coach! ;-)" I put the emoji in the headline to indicate the lighthearted tone of the story and to suggest that there was some trick to it. (Alas, I haven't yet figured out how to fly in the actual first-class cabin for the price of coach. If you have, I'm all ears.) The story was about how I took a pill before I got on the plane. It chronicled how soon after I settled into my seat, the next six hours basically disappeared. I do have vague recollections of bodily readjustments, odd dreams, and my mouth hanging open like a grouper's. But the next thing I remember is waking up in full daylight on the approach to Heathrow Airport. Minutes later, when we landed in London, I was better rested after a red-eye than I had ever been. Way better rested than when I flew a sponsored trip to Germany in business class last year. Among other things, my story revealed that people have strong feelings about drug use on planes. First, it set off a debate about the best drugs to use on planes. Some people, I learned, swear by Ambien. Others, Xanax. Others, Benadryl. Others, Tylenol PM. Others just recommend the commonly available drug that airline employees walk the aisles of the plane pouring for free all night long. Other readers quibbled with the timing of the pill ingestion. They recommended waiting until I was ensconced in my airplane seat, thus reducing the risk that the flight would be cancelled and I would spend the night passed out in the airport lounge. Still other people were appalled at the idea taking a pill of any kind. (Most of these folks, presumably, prefer the liquid drugs that the flight attendants serve.) I also heard from a registered nurse who said that taking a pill on an airplane is dangerous because you might get a blood clot and die: I read your article on taking a pill while flying on a pill with horror. Taking medication to help you sleep while flying increases your risk of blood clots in your legs that can lead to death. The risk of getting a Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT) is 1 in around 5000 and taking medication increases that risk. Having read that, I feel the need to reiterate that I am in no way recommending that anyone else employ this upgrade strategy. I was merely presenting the (remarkable) results of a scientific experiment in which I was the guinea pig. Some people also demanded to know what this pill was. So I'll tell you.  It is called Ativan. I should explain that the last time I took a pill on a plane was 25 years ago. The pill was called Halcion. It served its desired purpose on the plane, as I recall. But the next day, I felt like killing myself. I didn't link this temporary bout of depression to the pill until I heard that some people who had taken Halcion had actually killed themselves. That was the last time I took that pill, or any pill, to sleep on a plane. But after watching me stagger around Europe like a zombie for days after another recent redeye, a friend took pity on me. The friend suggested that one Ativan would pack less of a punch than two drinks — or, for that matter, a Benadryl, which usually knocks me out cold. The friend also suggested that after taking an Ativan — and unlike after taking other pills or booze — I would wake up whenever I needed to without a hangover. I was actually familiar with Ativan. A dozen years ago, during a stressful period in which a then-attorney-general-and-now-sort-of-friend-of-mine named Eliot Spitzer was keelhauling me for writing some scandalous emails on Wall Street, I was spending lots of nights staring at the ceiling. My being a zombie during the day wasn't helping anyone, so I consulted a professional. The professional gave me a bottle of generic Ativan (lorazepam). I chopped the pills in half and took half of one sometimes when I found myself staring at the ceiling. So that's why I wasn't terrified about taking an Ativan. To be clear: I am not a medical professional. I am not a big drug-use advocate. I am not recommending that anyone take Ativan or any other drug — including alcohol — to sleep on planes or for any other purpose. These drugs are potentially addicting, have nasty potential side effects (especially when mixed with other drugs like booze), and according to the registered nurse above, may cause blood clots that give you heart attacks or kill you. You have been warned! And now excuse me while I call up my medical professional and refill my bottle of Ativan... [*KIDDING*]  SEE ALSO: I've Figured Out How To Fly First Class For The Price Of Coach! ;-)    FREE AppDownload
Business Insider, data via Bloomberg This missed analysts' expectations for a 1.7% decline. In the US, the story was even worse for the fast-food giant as same-store sales fell 4.6%. To the right is the staggering chart showing the collapse in US same-store sales over the past five years. Same-store sales represent sales at all McDonald's restaurants open at least 13 months, including those temporarily closed.  On Monday, McDonald's also announced that its fourth-quarter results would most likely be affected by the continued negative top-line performance, as well as a $0.07 to $0.10 per-share earnings impact because of a supply issue in China and a $0.07 to $0.09 per-share earnings impact because of the strength of the US dollar.  In a statement, McDonald's said it was "diligently working to enhance its market, simplify the menu, and implement a more locally driven organizational structure to increase relevance with consumers." The disappointing numbers from McDonald's come as the chain faces increasing competition from restaurants like Chipotle. Last week we noted that even the Federal Reserve's fieldwork on the US economy showed the consumer shift toward outlets like Chipotle and away from chains like McDonald's.  Business Insider's Ashley Lutz reported that McDonald's CEO Don Thompson noted the shift in consumer attitudes that have plagued the company, and almost exactly described what it's like to eat at Chipotle.  "Customers want to personalize their meals with locally relevant ingredients," Thompson said. "They also want to enjoy eating in a contemporary, inviting atmosphere. And they want choices — choices in how they order, choices in what they order, and how they’re served." There are more than 600,000 ways to order food at Chipotle. In the third quarter, Chipotle's same-store sales rose 19.8%. McDonald's same-store-sales fell 3.3% over the same period.    FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA view of the Merck & Co. campus in Linden, New Jersey(Reuters) - Merck &amp; Co Inc said it would buy Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc for $8.4 billion plus assumption of debt, giving the major drugmaker an entry into the market for drugs that target so-called superbugs. Merck and British rival AstraZeneca Plc have turned their attention to newer kinds of antibiotics that attack superbugs - strains of bacteria that are resistant to several types of antibiotics - after the 2013 threat report from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The CDC estimated that more than 2 million people in the United States are sickened every year by such infections, with at least 23,000 dying as a result. Merck said on Monday that the deal, which will give it access to Cubist's antibiotic Cubicin, is expected to add more than $1 billion to revenue in 2015 after closing in the first quarter. Cubist's third-quarter sales rose 16 percent, driven by strong sales of Cubicin. Cubist's lead drug in development, Ceftolozane/Tazobactam, is widely expected to win marketing approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration later this month as a treatment for complicated urinary tract infections. Merck will pay $102 per share for Cubist, a premium of 37 percent to the Lexington, Massachussetts-based company's closing share price of $74.36 on Friday. The deal includes assumption of $1.1 billion in debt. Cubist shares were trading at $101.15 premarket. The New York Times, citing people briefed on the matter, first reported the deal on Friday. The Cubist deal is Merck's second big acquisition this year. The company bought Idenix Pharmaceuticals for $3.85 billion in June to boost its hepatitis C drug portfolio.  (Reporting by Vidya L Nathan in Bengaluru; Editing by Ted Kerr) FREE AppDownload
More and more Wall Street strategists* argue we should think about stocks as being in the middle phase of a long-term, multiyear, secular bull market. "Our view, which we have held since the market bottomed in 2009, is that the current bull market is secular, not cyclical," Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders said. "Secular bull markets — like from 1949 to 1968 and 1982 to 2000 — are extended bull markets characterized by above-average annualized returns and generally less-dramatic downside risk." "Given our view that the market is transitioning toward the second stage of a secular bull market ("acceptance"), we believe US stocks are poised to provide average returns of 8-10% for at least the next three to five years, similar to historical norms," Belski wrote in a Dec. 1 note to clients. This is the kind of stuff that drives the bears and crash-mongers nuts. To be fair, the folks touting the secular bull market also warn of volatility. "[S]ince volatility is typically higher during this stage, we believe corrective phases are not out of the question and some years may be better or worse than the average (or even negative)," Belski said. Sonders put it very bluntly at a media event Thursday, noting that the Black Monday crash of 1987 occurred in the middle of the secular bull market between 1980 and 2000. On Oct. 19, 1987, the Dow plunged a breathtaking 22% in one day. Those days were so bad that you can see it in the chart like you can see the Great Wall of China from outer space. For the long-term investor, even Black Monday 1987 was small compared with the returns the market eventually returned. Nevertheless, it's a good reminder to stock market investors that the risk of a crash is very real. BMO Capital Markets *This is a position floated by RBC Capital's Jonathan Golub, Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker, FundStrat's Tom Lee, BMO Capital's Brian Belski, and Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders. This contrasts with folks like GMO's Jeremy Grantham and John Hussman who warn of low or negative returns. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's Blog As I do every month, I cut to the chase when analyzing the employment report by calculating our Earned Income Proxy, which is highly correlated with both private-sector wages and salaries as well as retail sales. Our proxy is simply the average workweek times payrolls times average hourly earnings in the private sector. It jumped 1.0% m/m during November as the workweek rose 0.1 hours, payrolls jumped 314,000, and wages rose 0.4%.  Revisions have added 44,000 jobs to the preliminary estimates for September and October, now showing gains of 271,000 and 243,000, respectively. During the first 10 months of this year, nine of the months were revised higher.  Some cranky observers question November’s strength, noting that it might have been boosted more than usual by seasonal workers in retailing, transportation, and warehousing. Others question the seasonal adjustment factor. Then again, odds are that November’s number will be revised higher anyway.  What about wages? November’s 0.4% m/m increase was the best monthly gain since June 2013. However, it remained stuck around 2% on a y/y basis. So far, upward pressures seem to be building up only in construction (2.5%) and leisure &amp; hospitality (3.6). Manufacturing (1.1) remains remarkably moderate. Retail trade (2.3) and wholesale trade (2.5) are in line with the average trend. Financial services (3.8) and transportation and warehousing (2.9) are relatively high, while natural resources (1.4) and educational &amp; health services (1.6) are relatively low.  Today's Morning Briefing: Sheik Out. (1) Sheiks vs shale. (2) The world’s lowest-cost producer. (3) Offshore drillers tend to have highest costs. (4) Shale drillers are more nimble and tech savvy. (5) No bust for frackers. (6) Saudis facing Iranian surrogates in Yemen. (7) Saudis draw $60 line in the sand. (8) Frackers still pumping. (9) Weak oil price boosting dollar. (10) EM oil consumers are winners. (11) Back to the old normal in the labor market? (12) “The Theory of Everything” (+ +). (More for subscribers.) Dr. Ed's Blog FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA McDonald's restaurant is pictured in Encinitas, California(Reuters) - McDonald's Corp reported a steeper-than-expected fall at global established restaurants in November, hurt by increased competition in the United States and the after-effect of a supplier scandal in China. Shares of the world's largest restaurant chain by revenue fell 2.4 percent in premarket trading. McDonald's worldwide sales at restaurants open at least 13 months fell 2.2 percent last month. Analysts on average had expected a 1.7 percent decline in worldwide same-restaurant sales, according to Consensus Metrix.   (Reporting by Devika Krishna Kumar in Bengaluru and Lisa Baertlein in Los Angeles; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonJonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are chatting about right now: Morning!   US Futures are under some pressure this AM, losing 30-40bp, as we have Oil breaking down sharply on growth warnings from EU and Japan.   Germany is off 60bp, as Construction companies among the worst hit, while Energy and Materials companies have the FTSE down nearly 90bp – but volumes are tracking light ("Immaculate Conception" holiday in Europe).    Of note, interesting that EU Banks are outperfroming despite PIIGS yields wider (Italy cut by S&amp;P) and Moody’s warning on the sector.   Over in Asia, Despite weaker trade data, Shanghai jumped another ~3%, extending its rally since late October to 32% on heavy retail activity.   The Nikkei was up small, while the Hang Seng continues to underperform as student protestors up their activities.   India’s Sensex was hit for 1% as Call Centers and Consulters were hit as INFY flounders sold a block.   Aussie gained 70bp despite the miners staying red – as headlines “Aussie Banks need $20B in Capital” sparked buying.    The US 10YY is nearing red as “Flattener” trades continue.  Keep an eye on that “Policy Sensitive” 2YY gaining 2bp to 3 ½ year highs.   Japanese GDP comes in light, hitting Yen past Y121.8 – but concerns the Yen has “Fallen too far, too fast” sparked covering.  The DXY is green, making most gains against Euro – causing a headwind for commodities.   Oil is breaking down sharply as Brent is hit with street downgrades; Nowotny comments on a “Massive slowdown” and Chinese data showing a lack of imports.   Brent is off 3%, while despite the stronger $, we continue to see WTI outperforming, off “only” 2.2%.   Metals are mixed, with Gold trying to get back towards $1200, while Copper if off 40bp (China data).  We have very light catalysts scheduled today, at 10 The Fed will release the monthly Labor Market Conditions Index, while at 12:30 Fed's Lockhart (Dove) Speaks on Monetary Policy in Atlanta  Growth was a solid outperformer last week, with the IWO gaining 1% - Heavy speculation that China will slash rates again – we have heavy data ahead of us this week:  Trade Balance, CPI, PPI, New Yuan Loans, Industrial Production, Retail Sales, Money Supply  With Crude Oil continuing to break down on weaker (ex USA) global eco data – Watch for the Airlines to keep outperforming, Rails Lagging – HYG to test $90 (15% HYG is energy), and of course the OIH/XOP  Retails have been for sale since Black Friday – With the XRT losing 2% last week.  XLY (Discretionary) has been well outperforming as Gasoline prices plunge in the USA – Wonder if this week’s Advance Retail Sales spark some buying in the XRT  Finally, keep an eye on Treasuries.   We have been watching huge “Flattener” trades pressing the 10YY lower, and with German Yields nearing record lows we have to assume the bid remains for Treasuries.  FREE AppDownload
In our health-conscious world, people are increasingly sensitive to the impact of the foods they eat. A particularly controversial food is unprocessed red meat, which many believe to be a source of various health problems. However, many of these beliefs have no scientific basis. Produced by Ryan Larkin Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Dado RuvicA member of the Imperial Russian Ballet waits to perform Tchaikovsky's "Swan Lake" at Arena hall in the central Bosnian town of Zenica on Sunday.Good morning! Here are 10 things you need to know in markets Monday. Japan Is In Worse Shape Than We Thought. Japan's economic contraction in July-September was deeper than initially expected, according to revised data on Monday that backs Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's recent decision to delay a second sales tax hike. The annualized contraction was 1.9%, not 1.6% as previously thought.  But Abe Is Set For An Even Bigger Landslide. Latest media projections show Abe's Liberal Democratic Party winning 303 to 320 of 475 seats, up from the 294 he won in 2012. Japan will be holding snap elections on Sunday. China's Latest Trade Figures Don't Look Healthy. China's imports fell unexpectedly in November while export growth slowed, adding to concerns that the world's second-largest economy could be facing a sharper slowdown. Exports rose 4.7% in November from a year earlier, while imports dropped 6.7% — the sharpest decline since March. Germany's Industrial Production Ticked Up. Output rose 0.2% in October, slightly less than analysts had expected. That follows a 2.5% increase in factory orders for the same month. "Stabilization continues, but no signs yet of an upturn in Q4," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen said. European Investor Confidence Gets Less Bad. The Sentix index of investor confidence improved to -2.5 in December from -11.9 in November. "The recent months' improvement in eurozone investor sentiment intensified this month with the Sentix index posting its largest monthly gain since January 2013," Pantheon's Vistesen said. "Much more importantly, the expectations index leaped to 12.0 in from -2.0 last month, which points to a very positive month for other key eurozone sentiment surveys." Markets Are Down. US futures are in the red, with Dow futures down 57 points and S&amp;P futures down 7.3 points. Europe is in the red, with Britain's FTSE down 0.8%, France's CAC 40 down 0.8%, and Germany's DAX down 0.6%. Asia closed higher, with Japan's Nikkei up 0.1% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 0.2%. China's White-Hot Stock Market Surged. The Shanghai Composite added to its monster year, surging 2.8% Monday. It's up 47% since the beginning of the year. Plunging Oil Prices Are Pushing BP Into A Round Of Job Cuts. BP is to axe middle managers and could freeze projects as it grapples with the plummeting oil price, The Sunday Times reported, citing finance director Brian Gilvary. Greece Passed Its 2015 Budget With A Midnight Vote. The budget, which predicts 2.9% economic growth for Greece next year, and a deficit of just 0.6% of GDP, was passed by 155 lawmakers to 134 overnight. US Data. There are no major market-moving economic reports scheduled for release Monday. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Grigory DukorVisitors look at the headless, reclining sculpture of the river god Ilissos at the State Hermitage Museum as part of its 250th anniversary celebration in St Petersburg, December 6, 2014. Economists were elated on Friday to learn US nonfarm jobs increased by a whopping 321,000 in November. This was the biggest single month of job gains since January 2012. It was also the 50th straight month of job gains. Impressively, all major industries saw gains. Things are good in the US. Employment is improving and inflation is low. All eyes will be on the retail sales report this week. Economists expect low gas prices to appear as a big plus in this report. The numbers will also offer some clarity regarding Black Friday sales. Most folks understand that Black Friday stats reveal little about the health of the consumer or the retail business. Still, the retail sales report may offer additional color regarding why sales were unusually disappointing this year. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary More and more strategists argue we should think about stocks as being in a long-term, secular bull market. So rather than obsessing over 12-month targets, investors should consider the likelihood that we'll see many more years of gains. This is a position floated by RBC Capital's Jonathan Golub, Morgan Stanley's Adam Parker, FundStrat's Tom Lee, BMO Capital's Brian Belski, and Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders. (This contrasts with folks like GMO's Jeremy Grantham and John Hussman who warn of low or negative returns.) "Our view, which we have held since the market bottomed in 2009, is that the current bull market is secular, not cyclical," Sonders said. "Secular bull markets—like from 1949 to 1968 and 1982 to 2000—are extended bull markets characterized by above-average annualized returns and generally less-dramatic downside risk." "Given our view that the market is transitioning toward the second stage of a secular bull market (“acceptance”), we believe US stocks are poised to provide average returns of 8-10% for at least the next three to five years, similar to historical norms," Belski wrote. "This does not mean this market is immune to corrections," Sonders warns very explicitly. Belski similarly warns "corrective phases are not out of the question and some years may be better or worse than the average (or even negative)." Indeed, Black Monday 1987 — the day the Dow plunged 22% — was right in the middle of the 1982-2000 secular bull. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tyrone SiuRussia's Evgeny Gradovich punches Belgium's Alexander Miskirtchian. The head of Russia's second-largest bank on Friday threatened to "fist fight" anyone who accused his firm of speculation against the rouble. Andrei Kostin, the head of state-owned VTB bank, told TV channel Russia-24 that he rejected the "completely unfounded allegations" that his company was involved in betting against the currency. "The Central Bank unreservedly denies that any of our [Russia's] major banks are involved in these [speculative] schemes," he said. "I am absolutely ready to argue with anyone and fist fight those who make these completely unfounded allegations about what that the bank is doing." Kostin's comments were widely seen as a response to Sergei Mironov, the leader of "A Fair Russia" political party, who was quoted by independent Russian news service Interfax last week as saying that "the five largest banks in Russia [are] the biggest speculators in the foreign exchange market". Russian authorities have been threatening to take action against businesses in the country that are trying to profit from driving down the value of the rouble. President Vladimir Putin recently called on the Russian central bank to take tough action against currency speculators.  "I ask the government and the Bank of Russia to hold tight coordinated action to discourage so-called speculators play on the Russian currency exchange rate fluctuations," Putin said in his annual address to the nation last Thursday. "The authorities know who these speculators are, and have tools to influence them. It's time to take advantage of these tools." The latest criticism of currency speculators is strongly reminiscent of the events of 2008-09. In February 2009, then-Prime Minister Putin told banks receiving emergency loans from the central bank that the funds "should be spent not on financial speculations but go to the real sector in the form of loans to enterprises". At the time, it was suspected that financial institutions were using cheap dollars provided by the central bank to finance bets against the rouble. This forced the central banks to set limits on its foreign-exchange swap operations to prevent banks from setting up these speculative positions. It remains unclear what the authorities plan to do this time around, however. Despite a commitment last month to allow the currency to free float, sharp falls in the rouble last week forced the central bank to intervene in currency markets once again. The bank spent $2.6 billion last week buying up roubles as the currency slid against the dollar and the euro on the back for further weakening in global oil prices. One possible action would be to impose capital controls to either prevent money from leaving the country or to force sales of foreign currency reserves held by private companies. The downside is that these could be seen as as panic measures undertaken by the government that would cause Russian consumers to lose more faith in the value of their own currency. Furthermore, depriving banks from being able to access central bank foreign currency reserves entirely could cause them to struggle to meet their debt repayment obligations, putting the already fragile Russian economy into an even more parlous state. Putin has repeatedly ruled out imposing currency controls at this stage. But as the rouble crisis wears on, these extreme measures are becoming ever more likely. As Igor Nikolaev, director of the Institute of Strategic Analysis FBK, told Russian newspaper Novaya Gazeta: "Some time ago, all these fears of currency restrictions might have seemed nonsense, because for so many years progress was being made to ensure the liberalisation of this sector of activity. But now they do not seem like nonsense." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEmployee welds the exterior of a vehicle along a production line at a factory in QingdaoBy Kevin Yao BEIJING (Reuters) - China's top leadership will meet on Tuesday for an annual gathering to map out economic and reform plans for the following year, and some influential advisers to the government are recommending it cuts its 2015 growth target to seven percent.     China looks set to miss its growth target this year for the first time since 1999, and full-year growth is likely to be the weakest in 24 years. The government last cut its annual growth target in 2012, to 7.5 percent from eight percent that it had kept for eight years.     Sources said government-run think-tanks, which are influential in the decision-making process but do not wield power themselves, are planning to recommend Beijing reduce its official GDP growth target in 2015 to seven percent, down from 7.5 percent this year.     "President Xi (Jinping) has already hinted at the growth target when he said growth of seven percent is the highest in the world," said a senior economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS), who declined to be identified.     "I think it should be seven percent if there are no more surprises. But it cannot be lower than seven percent, otherwise there could be employment problems and debt default problems."     China's reform-minded leaders have shown greater tolerance for slower growth, but they will have to tread carefully to avoid a sharper slowdown that could fuel job losses and debt default risks, analysts say.     The annual Central Economic Work Conference, which state radio said meets from Tuesday, may reiterate a prudent monetary policy, but the sources believe the underlying tone could be accommodative to ward off a sharp growth slowdown. Economists expect policymakers to embark on their biggest easing campaign since the global financial crisis, forecasting a combination of more rate cuts and reductions in bank reserve requirements to encourage lending despite mounting bad loans. After months of saying major stimulus wasn't needed, the central bank surprised markets on Nov. 21 by cutting interest rates for the first time in more than two years to shore up growth and lift some of the pressure off debt-laden companies.         INFLATION SEEN EASING TOO     Several think-tanks have also suggested the government lower its target on consumer inflation to around three percent from this year's 3.5 percent, given falling commodity prices.     "We recommended a growth target of around seven percent," said Zhu Baoliang, chief economist at the State Information Centre, a top government think-tank.     "We suggested an inflation target of around three percent. On employment, we should aim for 10 million new jobs," he said, adding that he recommended a quicker pace of reform in 2015.     The government may budget a deficit of nearly three percent of GDP in 2015 from this year's 2.1 percent, to allow local governments to sell bonds independently as they scale back fund-raising via local financial vehicles, sources said.     "We will close the back door, barring local governments from raising debt via special purpose vehicles, but we must open up the front door. We need to boost fiscal spending and expand the budget deficit as we need to stabilize growth," said the CASS economist.     The meeting, which sources said would run until Thursday, is unlikely to result in any public announcement of economic targets, which are usually reserved for the opening of the national parliamentary session in early March.     Adding to already gloomy data, analysts expect upcoming figures on investment and inflation to be similarly lackluster, and the property market is likely to remain weak well into 2015, weighing on demand for everything from furniture and glass to cement and steel. Reducing the growth target would be a natural reaction as Beijing moves to manage domestic expectations. Top leaders could discuss ways to quicken economic reforms next year, including a fiscal overhaul to deal with the root cause of local government debt, and further financial market liberalization, the sources said.  (Writing by Pete Sweeney in SHANGHAI; Editing by Mike Collett-White) FREE AppDownload
The combination of plummeting oil prices and international sanctions imposed after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine over the summer has done significant damage to the Russian economy in recent months. Now, it looks as though the problems in Moscow are migrating across national borders. The Russian ruble has lost a third of its value against international benchmark currencies this year, and the Russian central bank has found it difficult or impossible to access international capital markets at rates it finds acceptable. Indeed, the central bank is forecasting a recession next year. Until recently, though, Russia’s economic troubles have, at least, not had an obvious impact on its neighbors. Unfortunately for a handful of former Soviet states that border Russia, things are starting to change. The struggles of the Russian economy are not, right now, a major issue for U.S. consumers. But as the problems facing Moscow grow, there is a possibility that the contagion could spread into Europe, which would have a more direct effect on U.S. businesses that trade with European countries. Georgia’s national currency, the lari, tumbled 10 percent last week to 2.04 per U.S. dollar, the lowest it has been for more than a decade. The country’s central bank said that it is prepared to intervene in the currency markets if necessary, though experts suggest that its ability to do so to any great effect is limited. In neighboring Armenia, the national currency, known as the dram, has fallen in value against global benchmarks for six straight weeks and is now trading near an eight-year low. According to analyst Timothy Ash of Standard Bank, while both countries are in a relatively good position in terms of their internal fiscal situation, a dependence on the continued strength of the Russian economy is punishing both right now. “Russia is an important trading partner for both, as they have both benefitted from worker remittances, which are likely stalling now with weak growth in Russia, and lower oil prices,” Ash wrote in a research note last week. “Exports to Russia have also been quite significant for both - Georgia has tried to refocus on Russian markets as relations warmed a bit following the departure of President Saakashvilli. Russian tourism has been a new "boon" for Georgia in recent years - a rediscovery for many Russians from the Soviet era. These are obviously lagging now.” Ash observed that both countries’ economies rely on “significant” agricultural exports to Russia. At first, the imposition of sanctions by many Western European countries had appeared to hold promise for the former Soviet satellites increasing their trade with their larger neighbor. However, Ash said, “Massive Russian devaluation is clearly threatening this trade. So these managed currency weakenings are only to be expected.” Across the Caspian Sea, Kazakhstan has been more protective of its national currency, but international securities markets are demanding higher premiums for the nation’s debt offerings. The Kazakhs also depend on the Russian economy, both for income from exports and for remittances by workers who have crossed the border to find work. The big question facing the rest of Eastern Europe right now is just how quickly, and how far, the contagion from the Russian economy will spread. In a speech to the legislature last week, Russian President Vladimir Putin described the ruble’s slide as the result of a U.S.-led conspiracy aimed at “containment” of his nation. He also pledged to take “harsh” measures against the currency speculators who, he said, are contributing to the devaluation of the ruble. In the same speech, Putin appealed to Russians with assets overseas to bring them home, making clear that his government would be willing to overlook such things as the source of the assets in question or the methods by which they were obtained. He specifically promised, more than once, that criminal prosecution was out of the question. The country’s desperation when it comes to retaining capital has caused increasing concern among international investors. Although the Russian government has repeatedly denied it, analysts are concerned that Moscow might institute capital controls, measure that prevent individuals and companies from moving assets out of the national currency. Some have suggested that recent pressure on major exporters to convert income to rubles amounts to a kind of shadow capital control regime. Again, the Russian government has consistently promised that capital controls are not on the horizon. But that said, by their very nature, they aren’t the sort of thing you want to advertise in advance. FREE AppDownload
MOSCOW (Reuters) - A Russian deputy foreign minister accused the United States on Monday of trying to bring down President Vladimir Putin by imposing sanctions on Moscow over the crisis in Ukraine, TASS news agency reported. "It is hardly a secret that the goal of the sanctions is to create social and economic conditions to carry out a change of power in Russia," TASS quoted Sergei Ryabkov told a hearing in the lower house of parliament. He said it would take years to overcome the impact of the crisis in Ukraine, during which the United States and the European Union have imposed sanctions on the finance, defense and energy sectors in Russia as well as on some individuals. Ryabkov also accused Washington of trying to drive a wedge between Russia and the other former Soviet republics and said these efforts were being made particularly aggressively in Ukraine this year. (Writing by Gabriela Baczynska, Editing by Timothy Heritage) FREE AppDownload
A former senior Chinese military officer was obsessed with gold and often ferried gold bars for bribes in a luxury car, a Hong Kong magazine reported Monday, in connection with a graft case that investigators estimate is worth some $5 billion. The government charged Lieutenant General Gu Junshan, who had been deputy director of the logistics department of the People's Liberation Army, with corruption in March, and he is suspected of selling hundreds of military positions. Phoenix Weekly, a magazine run by Hong Kong broadcaster Phoenix Television that has close ties with the Chinese government, said total ill-gotten gains amounted to some 30 billion yuan ($5 billion), including about 600 million yuan in bribes accepted by Gu. Gu also loved gold, especially gold statues of Buddha, though he preferred receiving ground-up gold rather than gold bars when he was taking bribes, the magazine added, in a story widely carried by mainland Chinese news websites. When offering gifts, he would fill up a Mercedes with hundreds of bars of gold and then simply hand over the car keys to the recipient, the report said. "Gu got exactly what he wanted," a person with knowledge of the probe told the magazine. Gu's case is connected to Xu Caihou, who retired as deputy head of the powerful Central Military Commission last year and from the ruling Communist Party's decision-making Politburo in 2012. Xu's graft probe was announced in June. The magazine said Gu had powerful patrons, though did not name Xu directly, referring only to a person called "X." It has not been possible to reach either for comment, and it is not clear if they have lawyers. President Xi Jinping has launched a sweeping campaign against graft since becoming party chief in late 2012 and president last year, vowing to take down powerful "tigers" as well as lowly "flies." He has made weeding out corruption in the military a top goal. It comes as Xi steps up efforts to modernize forces that are projecting power across the disputed waters of the East and South China Seas, though it has not fought a war in decades.  (Reporting by Ben Blanchard; Editing by Nick Macfie) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersDaniel Alter, general counsel at New York's Department of Financial Services, is seen in an undated handout pictureNEW YORK (Reuters) - Billions of dollars have flowed to New York state coffers thanks to headline-grabbing settlements with global banks announced by Governor Andrew Cuomo and Benjamin Lawsky, New York's first superintendent of financial services. But little attention has been focused on Daniel Alter, the 49-year-old legal mastermind behind many of the deals. Sources close to the settlements describe Alter, general counsel at New York's Department of Financial Services (DFS), as instrumental to crafting strategies that leverage the three-year-old agency's unique powers to extract large and sometimes painful penalties from major banks. For example, Alter wrote the order threatening to revoke Standard Chartered's license to operate in New York, which paved the way for a $340 million settlement he helped negotiate with the British bank over transactions linked to Iran, sources said. That 2012 deal put the young agency on the map. Alter also played a key role negotiating a $2.24 billion penalty for the state against BNP Paribas &lt;bnpp.pa&gt; for sanctions-related violations. That settlement included an unprecedented punishment that curbed the French bank's ability to clear U.S. dollars, a core service for clients, people familiar with the settlement said. In the latest salvo against banks, the Yale Law School graduate pushed to install monitors in Barclays and Deutsche Bank, so the regulator could study possible manipulation of foreign exchange rates from the inside, one source said. Those investigations are ongoing and could result in more hefty penalties. Sources familiar with the matter say Alter may soon get a higher profile because he is being discussed as a possible replacement for Lawsky, who is said to be eyeing an early 2015 departure for the private sector. A spokesman for the agency declined comment and said Alter was not available for an interview. A spokesman for Cuomo, who will appoint the next superintendent, did not return a call for comment. A veteran of the New York legal scene, Alter was previously a high-level official at the Manhattan U.S. Attorney's office and has made allies including Mary Jo White, now head of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and FBI director James Comey. In 2010, Senator Charles Schumer recommended him to serve as a Manhattan federal judge, though he was not nominated. "His towering intellect is matched only by his staggering capacity for hard work," Comey, a former U.S. Attorney, and more than 60 others wrote in support. Some adversaries have bristled at the agency's exercise of raw power, but many express grudging respect for Alter's legal acumen and say he has a warm personal style. "He's a real straight-shooter," said Ted Mirvis, an attorney for Bank of America &lt;bac.n&gt; who has sat across the table from Alter both while Alter was at DFS and when he did a stint at the New York attorney general's office. "He takes aggressive positions, but he's also willing to listen and exchange ideas." Those who have worked with Alter say he is an expert at crafting new ways to use old laws. He came up with a legal hook to crack down on the consulting industry, notably during an investigation into whether Deloitte omitted critical information in its report to regulators on Standard Chartered's money laundering controls. Alter was able to take advantage of his power to sign waivers that allow banks to share the information with consultants, according to a person familiar with the agency's operations. In June 2013, Alter met Deloitte and threatened to send an order barring DFS-regulated banks from sharing information with the firm, said a person close to those negotiations. The meeting marked a turning point, the person said. Two weeks later, Deloitte agreed to pay $10 million, refrain from certain business for a year and adopt reforms the agency would use as a model for other consultants. James Corcoran, former superintendent of New York's insurance department, which merged with banking to form DFS, said Alter's legal prowess has been key to successfully taking on powerful global banks. "You're outnumbered, you're outstaffed, you're outspent. The only way you can do your job is to be creative," he said.   (Reporting by Karen Freifeld; Editing by Karey Van Hall and Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luke MacGregor European markets are in a slump Monday morning, despite better-than expected figures for eurozone investor confidence, which reached a 4-month high in December.  Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40: -0.43% Germany's DAX: -0.59% UK's FTSE 100: -0.69% Spain's IBEX: -0.33% Italy's FTSE MIB: -0.38% Asian markets rallied before close. Japan's Nikkei rose 0.08% from Friday's close, Hong Kong's Hang Seng finished 0.18% higher and the Shanghai Composite surged once again, up by another 2.81% US futures are currently mixed: the S&amp;P is down 6.50 points, while the Dow is up 7 points.  Later in the US, we'll get figures from the labour market conditions index at 3 p.m. GMT. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ivan Alvarado Pretty much every currency around the world is dropping against the dollar this morning. The US currency is still gaining strength after a fantastic jobs report on Friday.  Here's how the dollar holds against some major currencies: Against the euro:+0.23% at 0.8158 Against sterling: -0.25% at 0.6400 Against the Swiss franc: +0.14% at &gt;0.9806 Against the Australian dollar: +0.39% at 1.2061 Against the New Zealand Dollar: +0.93% at 1.3083 The dollar is currently down a little against the yen, after touching a seven year high over ¥121. Overall, the dollar is riding at a near-eight year high against a basket of foreign currencies, as the DXY index shows:  Investing.com That's on the back of Friday's jobs report, which showed US firms adding 321,000 jobs in November, way above the 230,000 that economists had expected. The Bank of International Settlements is warning today about how the rise of the dollar might impact emerging market economies, as the strength of the US currency has in the past. There's a good FT report on it here showing how a stronger dollar raises the debt burden for companies in developing economies that borrow in the currency. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerStrong winds and waves brought by Typhoon Hagupit pound the seawall in Legazpi City, Albay province, southern Luzon, on Sunday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Monday. 1. At least 21 people were killed and about 1 million evacuated as typhoon Hagupit, which has been downgraded to a tropical storm, swept through the Philippines over the weekend. 2. Japan's economy contracted more than expected in the period between July and September, revised data showed Monday. 3. The ride-sharing service Uber has reportedly been banned in Delhi after a passenger alleged that a driver raped her.  4. DNA results from a bone fragment confirmed the death of one of the 43 students in Mexico who have been missing since September after clashes with police.  5. Amazon workers at two warehouses in Germany called a strike Monday over wage disputes with the online US retailer.  6. At least 70 migrants from Africa drowned after their boat sank near the entrance of the Red Sea off the coast of Yemen.  7. A US doctor who was treated for Ebola has spoken out for the first time in an interview with The New York Times. 8. New Zealand authorities said Monday that about 200 passengers on a cruise ship were sickened by an outbreak of norovirus.  9. Two Myanmar men have pleaded not guilty to murder chargers over the killing of two British tourists on the Thai island of Koah Tao in September. 10. Prince William and his wife, Kate, arrived in New York Monday as part of a three-day trip to the East Coast, during which William will meet with US President Barack Obama to discuss the illegal wildlife trade. And finally ... Grumpy cat has earned its owner nearly $100 million in just two years. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Shanghai stocks accelerated again in trading on Monday, climbing another 2.82%. That's despite, or maybe even because of some bleak trade figures coming out of China: exports rose 4.7% in the year to November, which is pretty sluggish by Chinese standards, and imports fell by 6.7%, indicating a bit of a slump in domestic demand. Here's that dramatic boom in Shanghai stocks: Investing.com, Business Insider The reason that poor trade data and other signs of an economic slowdown might send stocks up is because investors will expect more interest rate cuts and easing from the People's Bank of China. That would cut the debt-servicing and raising costs for big listed companies, and typically would be good news for stock prices. The Shanghai Composite is now up by an astonishing 48.7% in the last six months alone: just one more similar-sized rally will push that over 50% before the year ends.  That's not the end, according to Morgan Stanley. They're forecasting that a "secular bull market" is back in China, "and probably in a big way". Though they say there's a chance of a 28% drop by the end of 2015 in their most pessimistic scenario, their most optimistic forecast would mean gains of 453%. Morgan Stanley China's regulators are perhaps not quite so optimistic. Last week a spokesman warned investors to "invest rationally, respect the market, fear the market, and bear in mind the risks present." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man and a child walk in the snow at the destroyed war memorial at Savur-Mohyla, a hill east of the city of DonetskKIEV (Reuters) - Ukraine's government has allowed state energy company Ukrinterenergo to import electricity from Russia to cover current power shortages caused by a lack of coal, the Ukrainian energy ministry said. Energy Minister Volodymyr Demchyshyn last week said Ukraine had a shortfall in electrical power of more than 10 percent as separatist violence in the country's industrial eastern region has disrupted coal supply to power plants. Most of Ukraine's coal mines are in territory controlled by pro-Russian rebels. President Petro Poroshenko last month urged the government to consider importing power from Russia. The country's deputy energy minister allowed two firms to buy 1,500 megawatts (MW) from Russia but was later dismissed, raising doubts about the fate of the importation plan. Ukraine and Russia have joint electricity systems and there are no technical obstacles to such imports, but analysts say importing electricity is more expensive than importing coal. Ukraine has an electricity generation capacity of 55,000 MW but only around 26,000 MW is being used, according to the energy ministry. Ukraine is traditionally a net exporter of power and relies on coal to generate around 40 percent of its energy. The ministry said this weekend that Russia had allowed some of the coal previously bought by Ukraine to cross the border. (Reporting by Pavel Polityuk; editing by Jason Neely) FREE AppDownload
NEW YORK (Reuters) - A fast-growing segment of U.S. retirement plans is using hedge-fund type strategies to bet a small but increasing slice of their assets. BlackRock Inc, the world's largest asset manager, and Manning &amp; Napier are among the managers that use strategies such as shorting stocks and trading derivatives in some 401(k) retirement plans, including target date funds. J.P. Morgan Asset Management and Voya Investment Management are considering adding similar strategies, executives told Reuters. A hedge-fund style can be more expensive and riskier than just buying stocks and bonds, and workers may not fully realize their exposure, retirement consultants said. On the other hand, they can act as a shock absorber to events like the 2008 financial crisis. Target-date funds, where some of these strategies are being used, have more than doubled their assets to $701 billion since 2010, according to Morningstar. U.S. legislation in 2006 allowed employers to automatically enroll employees into these funds, a default feature that has spurred asset growth. In a target-date fund, retirement savers choose or are placed in a fund based on their expected retirement year and the portfolio adjusts its mix of assets, which traditionally were stocks and bonds, to become less risky over time. About 41 percent of 401(k) plan participants invest in target-date funds, compared with 20 percent five years ago, according to the SPARK Institute, a Washington DC-based retirement plan lobbyist. As of December 2013, 14 percent of target date fund managers had allocations to hedge fund strategies, up from 10.5 percent three years ago, according to retirement plan consultant Callan Associates. The median target date fund allocation to hedge fund strategies rose to 5 percent in 2013, from 1.86 percent in 2011. Many target date funds saw their performance plummet during the financial crisis because they were too heavily exposed to stocks and are turning to hedge strategies to prevent that from happening again, said Lori Lucas, defined contribution practice leader for retirement plan for Callan. Meanwhile, these funds' expenses have risen. A 2050 target date fund with a 5 percent allocation to hedge funds carries a 60 basis point expense ratio, nine basis higher than an average target date fund, according to Callan. That would add about $450 a year in fees to a retirement account containing $500,000. Asset managers say the true value of adding alternative strategies, which are designed to protect investors from downside risk, will not prove itself fully until equity markets stumble. "These strategies have not helped in the bull market but tough times will be the litmus test," said Jeff Coons, president and co-director of research at Manning &amp; Napier, which manages about $50 billion, including about $768 million in target date funds. Last summer, Rochester, New York-based Manning &amp; Napier's target date funds began trading fixed income futures contracts to hedge against interest rate risk, as well as stock option calls and puts on stocks it holds in its portfolios to hedge against equity market volatility. Employers with 401(k) plans and the advisers who serve them worry that these additions mean more complexity. "How are we supposed to evaluate and monitor these investments?" said Don Stone, director of defined contribution strategy and product development for Pavilion Advisory Group, which advises 401(k) plans. "The fact is it is hard and there has to be a certain level of trust in the managers." Mutual funds using hedge fund strategies have grown in popularity since the financial crisis and had $158 billion in assets as of October, up from $37.6 billion at year-end 2008, according to Morningstar. When average investors assess how risky their target date funds are, however, most just look at the allocation to equity versus fixed income, said Jim Lauder, portfolio manager of Wells Fargo's Advantage Dow Jones Target Date Funds, which are index-based. By adding hedge-like strategies to its target date funds, firms like BlackRock expect they are reducing the risks of their portfolios. Over the past 12 months, BlackRock has added alternative strategies to its $200 million Lifepath Active target date funds. The funds' allocation to hedge fund strategies rises as the investor gets closer to retirement, with the current maximum percentage allocated to them "in the high teens," said Dagmar Nikles, head of investment strategy for BlackRock's U.S. and Canada defined contribution group. BlackRock has offset any added expense through other enhancements to the funds. As such, the overall expense of the funds hasn't risen and is below average. Manning &amp; Napier bought a team of portfolio managers earlier in the year that specializes in managed futures and wanted to add the capability to its target funds. The goal is to protect investors at or near retirement from interest-rate risk, Coons said. Still, the average 401(k) plan participant does not have access to these kinds of strategies because employers will not offer them. Jim Phillips, president of Retirement Resources, a Peabody, Massachusetts-based firm that advises 401(k) plans with $50 million to $100 million in assets, said employers don't want to offer hedge fund strategies to their workers as stand-alone investments. The fear is that employees would put all of their retirement savings into those strategies. He said he welcomes the addition of hedge fund strategies as a piece of target-date fund portfolios. "It is really the only sensible way to give these investors exposure to alternative investing," Phillips said. More target date funds may add these investments once the current bull market comes to a close. New York-based Voya is holding off because there is no rush given the strong equities market, said Paul Zemsky, CIO of multi-asset strategies. The average alternative mutual fund has returned 2.3 percent over the past year, compared to the average equity fund, which has returned 10.55 percent, according to Morningstar "You are really putting a lot of faith in the skill of the portfolio manager when you choose these funds," Zemsky said. (Reporting By Jessica Toonkel, Editing by Tim McLaughlin and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
 China's stock market ripped higher on Monday. The Shanghai Composite, which opened lower, closed up 2.8%. Since the People's Bank of China unexpectedly cut its benchmark interest rates on Nov. 21, the Shanghai composite has been going bonkers, surging a whopping 20%. It's up 47% since the beginning of the year. "Equity bulls have benefited from a perfect storm of positive conditions," Bloomberg's Tom Orlik wrote Friday. "Policy easing has boosted optimism about growth, lower oil prices raise profit expectations, and the Shanghai-Hong Kong connect promises to bring more funds onshore." "The trouble is that none of those factors are quite as positive as they seem," Orlik cautioned. He notes that GDP growth expectations have been stuck at 7% and that the Shanghai-Hong Kong connect has been disappointing, with trading flow quotas not being met. So, what's going on here? Orlik attributes the recent surge to retail Chinese investors piling in. "A sustained rally since the middle of the year appears to have lured many back into the market, evidenced by the pronounced rise in trading accounts," he wrote. The folks at Bespoke Investment Group put together the chart below overlaying the Shanghai Composite with the creation of Chinese brokerage accounts. The correlation is compelling. However, Orlik says, this is likely to end badly. "China’s retail investors have an unfortunate track record of jumping in at the top of the market," he wrote. "A 2011 survey conducted by Gan Li, an economist at Texas A&amp;M University, found that just 22 percent were up on their investments, compared to 56 percent who had made losses and 22 percent breaking even." Bespoke Investment Group   FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
