TORONTO (Reuters) - Facebook Inc's stunning $19 billion bid for fast-growing mobile-messaging startup WhatsApp sent shares of BlackBerry Ltd surging after the closing bell on Wednesday, as investors were cheered by the lofty valuation for the messaging platform. The deal sent shares in BlackBerry up as much as 9 percent in trading after the bell because it put a rough valuation metric around the smartphone maker's own BlackBerry Messaging service. BlackBerry Messaging, or BBM as it is more commonly known, was a pioneering mobile-messaging service, but its user base has failed to keep pace with that of WhatsApp, in part because BlackBerry had long refused to open the service to users on other platforms. WhatsApp, with a user base of some 450 million, has grown rapidly. Its service works on Apple Inc's iOS platform, Google Inc's market-dominating Android operating system, along with devices powered by both the Windows and BlackBerry operating systems. BBM remains popular, even though BlackBerry devices have waned in popularity. Late last year, the Waterloo, Ontario-based smartphone maker finally opened the messaging platform to users of iPhones and Android devices, and the service currently has over 80 million active users. However, investors have attributed little value to the asset within the company. On Tuesday, Raymond James analyst Steven Li, in a note to clients, broke out a sum-of-parts valuation of the company and pegged the value of BBM at merely $240 million, or $3 per user. Facebook's valuation of WhatsApp translates into roughly $42 per user, and that could lead investors and analysts to rethink their valuation of the asset within BlackBerry. BlackBerry has given no indication it is keen to sell the asset. While there has been some speculation that BlackBerry may seek to carve out the unit, or even sell it, the company's new Chief Executive John Chen has so far said that BBM remains a core asset for the company. After surging as high as $9.82 in post-market trading on the Nasdaq soon after the WhatsApp deal was announced, shares in BlackBerry settled at around $9.54, almost 6 percent above their closing price of $9.01 a share. (Reporting by Euan Rocha; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
Surprisingly, money can’t buy everything. Yes, money can buy a new car, a lavish house, or even your own island, but it can’t buy everything. You can’t purchase a sense of humor — although you might be able to pay people to laugh at your jokes — and money won’t force someone to fall in love with you, or make you younger. People love to say that money can’t buy happiness, but while happiness itself can’t be bought, you can certainly purchase many things that will make you happy. People love to talk about money; that’s why there are so many talk shows, movies, and even books dedicated to the subject. However, there are many money myths out there that are just not true. This is a very popular belief, but maintaining a balance won’t improve your credit. In addition, by maintaining a balance, you may end up paying interest charges. A better idea is to pay your bill on time every month. In addition, keep your credit utilization low; avoid using too high percentage of your max credit limit very often. As 30 percent of your credit score is actually based on how much of your available credit you are using, so long as you are paying your bills regularly and avoiding maxing out your cards, you will build your credit score. If you need to regularly use a large percentage of your limit, you can consider asking for your limit to be raised so that the credit utilization percentage will go down. Like the myth that owning your own home is a good investment — which it sometimes is and sometimes isn’t — remodeling your home isn’t always a good investment either. Like owning a home, when you remodel, you have to live in your home for a certain amount of time before you recoup the majority of the cost. In addition, some remodeling jobs are better for resale value than others. Buyers of certain price points will expect certain upgrades, so depending on the price of your home, you might have to do some updates. According to MSN, some of the best remodeling jobs include replacing exterior siding, replacing an entry door, a mid-range kitchen remodel, and a new wood deck. If you are planning to sell soon, try looking around at similar homes in your area. If you won’t be able to sell your house for enough to cover the cost of the remodel, then you should probably not do it because many people remodel and then can’t recoup enough to break even. In a literal sense, this is true because banks have to insure your money to at least $250,000, but if the bank fails, you may not get all of your additional money back. While your money might be safe in the bank, you will actually be losing money because the interest rates for most savings accounts and CDs are so low. If you’re lucky, you might be staying on track with inflation, but most likely you will actually be losing money and would be better off investing if you don’t need the money in the near future. While most people feel it’s necessary to maintain a checking account in order to pay bills, several checking accounts come with fees, so research your bank to find out if you are losing too much in unnecessary fees. Yes, diversifying your investments can help you avoid financial ruin if you place all your money in one stock and then the stock plummets. Diversifying investments can help limit financial risk, but according to INVESTOPEDIA, there are several times when diversifying is not the best idea. In order to properly diversify your portfolio, you will need at least $10,0000 to invest in different stock sectors. Maintaining a diversified stock portfolio also requires a large time commitment and make your taxes more complicated. Diversifying investments is often a good decision, but it isn’t the right decision for everyone. Moving to a new tax bracket should be something to celebrate, not something to worry about. Tax rates are progressive, so the entirety of your income won’t be tasked higher just because your new income puts you in a higher bracket. Only the amount of your income that goes over the previous tax rate will be taxed at the higher rate. For example, if you are filing your 2013 taxes as a single taxpayer, and you make $80,000 annually, your first $8,925 of income will be taxed at 10 percent, your income up to $36,250 will be taxed at 15 percent, and only the difference between $36,250 and your $80,000 income will be taxed at 25 percent. Plus, if you are making more money but living on the same budget, you can save more, which means you have more cash to contribute to tax-advantaged accounts, which can actually reduce your tax bill. Do we ever really get what we pay for? Sometimes, but paying more money isn’t a guarantee that this will happen. For example, if you buy a brand new tablet for $300 dollars, it won’t necessarily be any better than a lightly used one for $100 on eBay (NASDAQ:EBAY). Yes, the more expensive one has never been used, but new items ship with problems all the time. Store brand items at grocery stores often have the same exact ingredients as brand name products, but many consumers pay more for the brand names anyway. Purchasing items at garage sales can often save you a lot of money, and you aren’t necessarily sacrificing quality. Of course, sometimes you do get what you paid for. As an example, you might want to avoid clothing that is priced cheap regularly (as opposed to cheap on sale) because it probably isn’t made as well. Sometimes it is best to pay with cash. A Dunn &amp; Bradstreet study found that customers spend an average of 12-18 percent more when using credit cards. Using cash can often help you stay on a budget, but sometimes when you have cash, it disappears quickly and you don’t know how you spent it. In addition, you can set your credit or debit card up to pay regular monthly bills, which will help you to avoid late fees; you can’t do that with cash. Credit cards often provide cash-back incentives, points, or other perks, that you will never get by using straight cash. With a credit card, you also have some protection from the credit company or your bank, whereas if you lose a wad of cash, no one will be paying you back. There are many other money myths out there, some of which have changed over time and now are just old money lessons that used to be true. Since there are so many ways to store and carry your money, you have to figure out what is right for you right now. FREE AppDownload
Some six weeks into the new year, 2014 has seen its fair share of ups and downs for technology superpower Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL  ). Apple disappointed investors with its first earnings report of the year late last month. However, new product rumors and some savvy buying of its own shares have helped buoy investor confidence in the past few weeks. Bar none, the single most important question facing Apple is how the company intends to continue to grow as the global smartphone and tablet markets mature, especially at the higher end of these markets where Apple operates. Apple is on the record saying it will introduce at least one new product this year, and many expect the oft-discussed iWatch to be among the most likely candidates in Apple's potential product pipeline. And if that's indeed the case, Apple should be shaking in its boots, at least according to one source. The company Apple should fear mostReading over the weekend, I came across an interesting piece from Wired, a publication I generally respect, discussing the one start-up Apple should fear the most. In the article, Wired staff writer Marcus Wohlsen makes the case that the start-up best suited to disrupt Apple's future efforts is none other than Jawbone, the consumer audio and wearable start-up.  Going by the article's logic, Jawbone presents such an imminent threat to Apple for a number of reasons. For starters, Wohlsen notes that each time Jawbone has raised venture capital money, it has preceded a push on its part into a new space, and that its recently closed $250 million round of funding is likely no different. A more advanced smartwatch or wearable sensors placed in actual clothing are the two specific advancements Wohlsen cites as most likely. Like Apple, Wohlsen goes on to note that Jawbone places design at the core of every product it makes, and that its devices, notably its Up smartband, which has helped establish an early foothold for Jawbone in the wearable tech category. By moving quickly into the smart wearables space, Wohlsen believes Jawbone now faces a key advantage over Apple's still unreleased iWatch. Wolhsen concludes that either Apple will be forced to buy Jawbone outright, or either rival Google could snatch up Jawbone, or Jawbone could simply grow organically into a dominant force in the wearables space. Either way, the end result in this article is certainly negative for Apple. Why I'm not buying itTo be sure, the article raises a number of worthy points. At the same time, though, I disagree with some of the author's thinking. To be sure, Jawbone is a major threat. It's no secret that wearables, and connected devices in general, will likely be the next big thing in tech, and Jawbone is obviously well suited to benefit from the category's growth as a whole. Moreover, the author's also right in noting that Jawbone's design expertise should only help it as wearables shift from the wrist to other highly stylized areas like clothing. But at the same time, the article makes it sound like Jawbone has beaten Apple as the wearables category is still unfolding, and that simply isn't the case. How Apple enters marketsBy now, anyone watching the tech space should hopefully have a firm grasp on Apple's tightly controlled approach to new products. The company will build massive product teams and toil away for years in secret to develop a device it believes will revolutionize a given space before it will ever see the light of day. It's all part of Apple's tendency to want to control every aspect of the user experience, a key tenet of Steve Jobs' business philosophy. Few doubt that Apple has some type of wearable in development. According to reports, Apple has been steadily snapping up small companies and hiring personnel with expertise in biometrics and biosensors. This supports the notion that Apple's iWatch could make huge strides with capabilities like non-invasive blood sugar and blood pressure monitoring, light years ahead of the current technologies offered by today's wearables. Likewise, rumors of possible solar or NFC charging paint the iWatch as being markedly superior to today's crop of smart wearables.  So, given Apple's demonstrated preference to only release a product that infuses a host of new capabilities into a category, the argument that Jawbone presents so serious a threat to Apple seems premature. Apple's biggest competitor remains the sameWhile Jawbone is certainly worth worrying about, the company most likely to compete with Apple in wearables is its current chief rival, Google (NASDAQ: GOOG  ) . With its recent $3.2 billion acquisition of smart thermostat start-up Nest Labs, Google has signaled it plans to make a major push into the Internet of Things, just like Apple.  That fact alone should be enough to concern Apple investors. But there are other reasons to worry about Google's push toward further connected devices. In smartphones and tablets, Google has shown a strong dedication toward keeping its software as open as possible, a preference that would likely extend to connected devices. Equally worrisome, the $58 billion of cash and equivalents Google had on its balance sheet at the end of last quarter give it the dry powder to buy its way into virtually any market it deems interesting. Apple is one of the most profitable companies on the face of the earth, and should remain so, so who's to say it's investors need to be losing sleep? But if there is a company that should have Apple investors counting sheep, maybe it's an established powerhouse like Google they should be focusing on instead of an unproven upstart like Jawbone.  Wearable tech is an exciting field, find out how Apple will profitIf you thought the iPod, the iPhone, and the iPad were amazing, just wait until you see this. One hundred of Apple's top engineers are busy building one in a secret lab. And an ABI Research report predicts 485 million of them could be sold over the next decade. But you can invest in it right now... for just a fraction of the price of Apple stock. Click here to get the full story in this eye-opening new report. Andrew Tonner owns shares of Apple. The Motley Fool recommends Apple and Google. The Motley Fool owns shares of Apple and Google. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.  FREE AppDownload
We just got a really nasty China flash manufacturing conditions reading — 48.3, signaling contraction that was even worse than expected. As a result, U.S. futures are down. Here's the chart for the S&amp;P: Ramonte It looks the same for Dow futures. Meanwhile currencies across the board including the Aussie dollar are getting smoked. As Arab Bank’s David Scutt tweeted soon after: “this is the first data we’ve seen that’s both pre-and-post Lunar New Year, and it’s very, very bad”. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Aly Song Workers are pictured in front of a billboard showing an image of trees near a subway construction site in central Nanjing, Jiangsu province, February 19, 2014. China's manufacturing conditions fell to a seven-month low of 48.3 in February, according to a flash reading from HSBC. Analysts expected a reading of 49.5, unchanged from January. Anything below 50 signals contraction. The production sub-index fell to 49.2 versus 50.8 in January. The employment sub-index hit the lowest level since Feb. 2009. HSBC's Hongbin Qu commented: “February’s flash reading of the HSBC China Manufacturing PMI moderated further as new orders and production contracted, reflecting the renewed destocking activities. The building-up of disinflationary pressures implies that the underlying momentum for manufacturing growth could be weakening. We believe Beijing policy makers should and can fine-tune policy to keep growth at a steady pace in the coming year.” Here's the full table of sub-indexes. Everything got worse: HSBC FREE AppDownload
Keystone-Xl.comA Nebraska judge ruled Wednesday afternoon that Lincoln legislators violated the state's constitution when they granted Gov. Dave Heineman the authority to approve a route proposed for the Keystone XL Pipeline. Lancaster County District Judge Stephanie Stacy concluded that the decision should have been the sole domain of the state's public service commission, according to Joe Duggan at the World Herald. We covered Gov. Heineman's original approval of the route when he first made it in January 2013. Steele City, Neb. is the end-point for the leg of the pipeline that remains to be built. The new ruling is being appealed, but if it is upheld, TransCanada, the company building the pipeline, would likely have to return to Nebraska to get the route reapproved by the commission. “Under the court's ruling, TransCanada has no approved route in Nebraska,” Dave Domina, a lawyer representing the case's plaintiffs, said in a press release. “TransCanada is not authorized to condemn the property against Nebraska landowners. The pipeline project is at a standstill in this state.” Last month, the pipeline got a seeming boost from the State Department, which concluded in its environmental assessment that existence of the pipeline would have no meaningful impact on increasing carbon dioxide emissions. The ultimate decision rests with President Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry, which will decide whether to grant a cross-border permit based on national security criteria. FREE AppDownload
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Biggest Mistake Investors Make (Vanguard)  Vanguard interviewed financial advisor Allan Roth, founder of Wealth Logic, about the biggest mistake clients make and the top question they ask him. He said the biggest mistake is chasing risky sources of income, whether it's emerging market bonds, utilities, or master limited bonds because they are afraid to reach into their principal. He  said the number one question he gets is about generating income. To that he says, that goal of a portfolio is not to produce income but to support their lives. "Money is stored energy that lets you determine what you want to do with the rest of your life. ...The goal isn't to be the richest guy in the graveyard," and that's the a difficult message for clients to digest. Advisors Need To Get Couples To Air Their Dirty Financial Laundry (The Wall Street Journal) Advisors should get couples to air all their dirty financial laundry before starting the financial planning process, Therese Nicklas, wealth manager at Massachusetts-based U.S. Wealth Management, writes in a new Wall Street Journal column. Whether this is about student loan debt or poor credit ratings, couples should communicate about their financial issues and habits to avoid destroying trust.  "Be their sounding board," Nicklas writes. "When you can walk couples through the labyrinth of a financial nightmare, you'll be their partner for life. They'll look at you as a person who gave them a service they can't get anywhere else. Raymond James Is Looking To Client Associates To Save The Industry From The Retirement Wave (Investment News) The financial advisory industry is in the midst of a generational change as a large chunk of advisors are set to retire. Raymond James has launched a training program to "bridge the gap between working as an associate and as a financial adviser," reports Mason Braswell at Investment News. "We are excited as well as confident that this will help Raymond James address two industry challenges," Tash Elwyn, president of Raymond James &amp; Associates. "The first being attracting more women to the profession and also positioning us as we build scale over time to have the right quality and quantity of potential successors for our retiring advisers." An Asset-Allocation Pundit Explains Why Advisors Should Be Wary Of Tactical Strategies Based On Valuation (FA Mag) Speaking at the CFA Institute’s wealth management conference in California, Roger Gibson, founder and CIO of Gibson Capital said that advisors using tactical strategies based on valuation measures will be disappointed, Dan Jamieson at FA Mag reports. "The irony of tactical allocation that is valuation-based is that, because [of the way investors react], it prevents anyone from taking advantage of it," he said. Gibson pointed out that in 1930, 1954 and 1990, stocks had 10-year normalized P/E ratios of 16.6 but had varying returns over the next decade in each of those instances. "More than 15 percent compounded from 1990, but less than 5 percent after 1930," Jamieson reports. The Difference Between Recruiting Practices At Big Banks And Family Offices (Mergers &amp; Inquisitions)  Brian DeChesare at Mergers &amp; Inquisitions spoke with a former soccer player who transitioned to finance and knows about private banking. He pointed out some of the key differences in the recruiting process at family offices and at larger banks.  1. Family offices care more about analytical rigor and investment ideas.2.Large banks "large banks like to recruit undergraduate interns to help with all the client reporting work that’s required, whereas many family offices barely try to recruit anyone." It's harder to get into a family office but easier to move up the ranks once you're in. 3. Banks also want candidates that are good at speaking with clients while in family offices " they care less about client relationship skills since you’ll be doing mostly research and analysis when you first start."4. Banks care about the Series 7 and Series 66 licenses because they are need to place trades, family offices care less about licenses because the roles tend to center on research. FREE AppDownload
John Hussman(chart and background h/t Claasen Research, James Goode, Thomas Bulkowski)Among the more unusual stock market chart patterns is the "three peaks and a domed house." Observed by a technician named George Lindsay, the formation includes 28 inflection points that basically look like three peaks and a domed house. Not too many people take the pattern too seriously. But some chart watchers believe the pattern holds at least some merit. John Hussman of Hussman Funds thought it was worth addressing in his lengthy discussion of market topping patterns. Indeed, it very much resembles patterns seen in the mid 1910s, late 1920s, and early 1970s. From Hussman: As it happens, the sequence described here is not at all new. Instead, it follows a pattern that technical analyst George Lindsay described in 1970 (and notably before even the 1973 instance above), which he called “Three Peaks and a Domed House.” Lindsay observed this pattern repeatedly across historical market cycles, describing about half of the bull market tops in the DJIA. My sense is that it is enormously ambitious to label 28 separate points in a technical pattern, but the central observations do appear to nicely characterize many historical instances. Lindsay called points 8-10 a “separating decline” that distinguishes the series of consolidating peaks from first vertical portion of the speculative blowoff (the “wall of the first story”). Following a choppy correction, the pattern completes with the “domed house” – which is roughly the analog of a narrow head-and-shoulders pattern: "after peaking at 25, price tumbles to 26, retraces to 27, before heading lower to 28, completing the pattern." Here's the Dow today via Hussman: John Hussman So, should we be freaked out about an impending stock market crash? Based on three peaks and a domed house or some other series of similar market patterns? Maybe. It would most certainly be silly to think that 1) a crash will never happen again and 2) you would see a crash coming. FREE AppDownload
YouTubeA Tesla Model S catches fire on Washington State Route 167 in OctoberTesla's stock took a huge beating back in October and November after there were three separate Model S fires reported within in six weeks. None of the fires were spontaneous; they were all caused by accidents.  At the time, Tesla CEO Elon Musk went on the offensive and blogged about the safety of the vehicle. In the Q4 earnings conference call earlier today, Musk was asked about the impact that the reports had on demand. He admitted he was "quite worried" about it. But it was his opinion on the power of social media that we found interesing. From the call: "At first we saw a significant drop in demand  and we were quite worried about it. And then as consumers came to understand that this was really a media driven thing, and not a real danger with the car, our sales have improved steadily since then, and continued to improve since that initial news. "Basically consumers have come to understand that out car has a far lower propensity for fire than a gasoline car by a half order of magnitude and so as consumers became aware of that their fears subsided. "I think it's great that we live in an era where there's the internet and social media so that when the fans are flamed literally by the media there is at least a path for consumers to understand what is really going on. In the absence of social media, I'm not sure we would have been able to correct the misperception." Musk also went on to say he thinks the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) probe into Model S safety will yield positive results. And as regulatory agencies go, the U.S. was "the lone holdout." A fourth fire involving a Model S was reported in Toronto, Canada earlier this month. While we don't know if it was spontaneous it took place in the garage of a Tesla owner after he returned from a drive. Tesla has yet to clarify what caused the fire, though they say it didn't originate in battery, the charging system, the adapter or the electrical receptacle. Listen to Musk talk about it here: FREE AppDownload
Kusakabe via www.flickr.com creative commonsJapan had a 2.79 trillion yen trade deficit in January, which was wider than the 2.49 trillion yen expected by economists. This was the larges monthly deficit on record, reports Bloomberg. Exports during the monthy climbed 9.5%, which was lower than the 12.7% expected. Japan has been employing aggressive monetary and fiscal policies in its effort to stimulate the economy. "Abenomics" — named after Prime Minister Shinzo Abe — has been highlighted by a weaker yen, which in theory makes the countries goods more competitive in foreign markets. The obvious downside of a weakening currency is that imports become more expensive. And among other things, Japan imports a lot of energy. "Japan’s fuel imports have been historically high due to the shutdown of the nuclear power plants, and the depreciation of the yen has further pushed up import growth in value terms," said Societe Generale economists ahead of the report. "However, this is not enough to fully explain the cause of the expansion of the trade deficit. We think that stronger domestic demand is pushing up recent import growth. In addition to the increase in winter bonus payments and the recovery in the employment situation, last-minute demand before the consumption tax hike startgin in April has been strong." FREE AppDownload
We first wrote about the “American Industrial Renaissance” in 2012, and it remains one of our favorite investment themes. We continue to implement this theme through small US-centric industrial companies and small financial institutions that lend to public and private industrial firms.  It remains unlikely that the United States will be the manufacturing powerhouse that it was during the 1950s and 1960s, but many factors are suggesting that the US industrial sector will continue to gain market share.  Investors have been slow to adapt to the global sea change. Global growth has slowed more than investors had previously anticipated and political risk has risen; yet over the past four years flows into emerging markets funds have remained very strong despite their underperformance. (see charts 1 and 2).  More recently, investors have apparently begun to recognize the economic and political headwinds facing companies that operate within the emerging markets. In 2013, US equity funds had an annual inflow for the first time in a number of years, but also had slightly stronger inflows than did EM equity funds. Richard BernsteinBecause of the lack of sustained interest in US stocks, the American Industrial Renaissance investment theme appears to still be in its early stages. While recognition of this theme has begun to grow, it has not yet become mainstream. There are many reasons why the US manufacturing sector seems likely to gain market share. Our three main reasons remain wages and productivity, energy costs, and political stability.  Wages and Productivity  Markets do not value assets on the absolutes of good or bad. Rather, markets price on whether fundamentals are getting better or worse. Investors, therefore, should generally ignore analyses that don’t highlight measures of marginal improvement or deterioration.  With that in mind, wages within the US industrial sector seem to be increasingly competitive. For example, manufacturing wages in China increased 18% per year over the 5 years from December 2007 through Dec. 2012, whereas US manufacturing wages rose 2.3% per year (see Chart 3). Richard BernsteinUS manufacturing wage growth has not only lagged Chinese wage growth, it has lagged wage growth in much of the world. Chart 4 compares the compound wage growth for five years (2008 through 2012) for a broad range of countries. US wage growth remains tepid particularly in comparison to countries in Asia and Latin America, whose comparative wage advantage continues to decline. Richard BernsteinUnit Labor Costs are the link between productivity and the cost of labor. When unit labor costs are rising, wages are increasing faster than productivity, which suggests decreased competitiveness. Conversely, when unit labor costs are falling, productivity is rising faster than wages, which suggests increased competitiveness. China’s global competitiveness has begun to deteriorate on this measure. Chart 5 below highlights that despite its well-known productivity growth, unit labor costs are on the rise as wage growth has outpaced that of productivity. Richard BernsteinEnergy Costs Energy is not as large of a factor input to manufacturing as many might expect. Chart 6 highlights that energy costs are generally less than 6% of total expenses for US manufacturers. Richard BernsteinMaterials costs are the most significant expense for manufacturing. Commodities are generally denominated in US dollars, and the fall in many emerging market currencies has accordingly further increased input costs to manufacturers in these countries. Energy is a more significant component of supply chain and distribution costs, and in this respect the United States is also becoming increasingly competitive. The following chart, shows gasoline costs around the world. Middle East countries have relatively cheaper gasoline prices, but gasoline in the US is inexpensive relative to its cost in most countries outside of the Middle East. US gasoline is cheaper than is gasoline in most of the major emerging market manufacturing countries like China, Brazil, India, and South Korea. Richard Bernstein Political Stability Academic studies have cited various relationships between economic growth and political stability. Governments tend to be more stable when an economy is healthy, but significant deterioration in economic growth can increase political risk. Countries sometimes resent when foreigners’ local operations are profitable while the domestic economy suffers. When this occurs, politicians sometimes take drastic actions, such as nationalizing foreign companies’ facilities, to appear as though they are rectifying their domestic economy’s problems. Egypt’s coup was an extreme case, but an increasing number of emerging markets are experiencing some increased level of civil unrest. Political uncertainty appears to be increasing, and companies seem to be considering such risks when locating manufacturing plants. Geopolitical and geo-economic risks, in general, may become a larger consideration for companies searching for locations for new plant and equipment. The US is an extremely safe place for corporations to do business. The American Industrial Renaissance – a secular theme The US is unlikely to be the industrial leader that it was in the 1950s and 1960s. However, it seems very likely that the US industrial sector will continue to gain global market share over the next decade. Narrowing wage differentials, lower energy and logistical costs, and political stability are just some of the factors that investors should consider. We continue to believe that investors are over-estimating the risks within the United States and under-estimating the risks in the emerging markets. If we are correct in that assessment, then the American Industrial Renaissance could be an investment theme for many years. This article originally appeared at Richard Bernstein Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
This chart almost certainly explains why Facebook just spent a ton on WhatsApp. Daily messaging volume is in the 2o billion range, and it's growing like a weed. Analyst Benedict Evans, of Andreesen Horowitz, notes the volume may have already surpassed texting. WhatsApp message volume growth is still accelerating. Has probably now overtaken SMS. pic.twitter.com/KsR85Mplrt FREE AppDownload
Tesla just announced it beat its Q4 earnings and that weekly production rates for the Model S will rise from 600 to 1,000, and shares are going bonkers. But not everyone is thrilled with the electric automaker at the moment: Edmunds Senior Editor Mike Jones reports that during a recent test ride in a Model S with his son, the car suddenly stopped working, stranding them: While accelerating up the 101 north onramp, something happened. I'm not sure what as I'm not a tech guy. The best way to describe the feeling would be to compare it to a manual-transmission car stalling in first gear. The Tesla jerked violently forward, and then lost power. Tesla roadside assistance sent a tow truck within half an hour — just as the hazard lights on the Model S gave out. Here's the car on the truck: Stranded in our @TeslaMotors Model S.Midnight meltdown left our electric sedan dead on the hwy http://t.co/oryNxuqeaI pic.twitter.com/15cf1hiy9d But in conclusion, he's not so interested in the electric ride any more: "First dates don't always work out the way you plan. And although I still admire the Tesla, I think I'm going love it as I have since I started working at Edmunds. From afar." FREE AppDownload
Facebook shares are down over 5% in after-hours trading. This comes as the social network announced a pact to acquire messaging service WhatsApp for $16 billion. According to the press release, the Facebook would buy the company for $12 billion in stock and $4 billion in cash. Here's the after-hours action via MarketWatch: MarketWatch FREE AppDownload
Flickr via Dow Jones EventsSequoia Capital venture capitalist Jim Goetz Facebook just bought messaging app monster WhatsApp in a $19 billion deal. WhatsApp never raised much outside funding, except from one lucky VC firm: Sequoia Capital. In 2011, Sequoia Capital put $8 million into an obscure messaging app called WhatsApp.* The deal was led by Jim Goetz, who also invested in AdMob and Palo Alto Networks. To date, Sequoia is the only venture partner in WhatsApp. The company hasn't raised any more money. WhatsApp is extremely quiet on the PR front. The company doesn't even have a marketing person in place. But it's a massive company that processes more than 27 billion messages in a day. In October, WhatsApp's CEO Jan Koum revealed that the service had 350 million monthly active users, up from 300 million in August. That's bigger than Twitter. Now the app has over 400 million monthly active users. The Santa Clara-based company was founded by two former Yahoo employees, Brian Acton and Koum, in 2009. new daily record: 10B+ msgs sent (inbound) and 17B+ msgs received (outbound) by our users = 27 Billion msgs handled in just 24 hours! FREE AppDownload
Robert Johnson — Business InsiderEarlier Sam Ro posted a flyer showing a sample of San Francisco rent prices that are totally insane. But San Francisco doesn't have the highest rents in the country. That honor belongs to Williston, N.D. Williston, which finds itself at the epicenter of the North Dakota shale boom, is now among the fastest growing cities in the country, with a current estimated population of 33,000 compared with just 14,716 at the 2010 Census. It could reach 77,000 by 2020. This week, Apartment Guide said the city now has the highest rents in the country, with a 700 sq. ft. one bedroom costing north of $2,000 on average. According to their methodology explanation in a blog post on their site, they only counted 16 listings. That sample seemed small, so we reached out to the locals for some more color. We reached out to Katie Long of Williston's economic development council. She said that in a recent random phone survey she conducted of 12 units on her list of available Williston apartments, only one or two had something in the +$2,000 range. "Some of our locals are definitely taking advantage of the situation — can you blame them? But their rents are $1,000, not $2,000. So I think what you're seeing are listings posted on websites, and these are the 'creme de la creme' — if you can call it that, luxury apartments in Williston." But Mike Galt of Bakken Realty told us by phone that the Apartment Guide report is probably accurate, because the new units represent the majority of available rents. Rental occupancy is north of 90%, Long said.  "If you can find a one bedroom, it's going to be $2,000-$2,500," he told us by phone Wednesday. "There are some established apartments [that are cheaper], but there really isn't that much, so everything is basically new. They didn't have enough housing for this influx of people, so the majority are under construction." Sandy Haviland, a developer whose group just began putting up high-end units in town, said he's asking $2,700 for a one bedroom. But he also said the majority of Williston residents aren't living in these types of places. "Williston is high, but that's not the whole story," he told us by phone. In a follow-up email he added: "their methodology was that they compared the CHEAPEST rent for each type of floor plan.  Most markets in the US have some crappy old building where you can live for nothing. In Williston, there are no low-end places on the market -- that's the difference."   The report also jibes with where average wages now stand in the town — $71,000, the highest in the country.   Of course, more units coming online will have the perverse effect of bringing rents down. But for now it does seem that Williston is No. 1 in the country. Here are the leasing rates at the Renaissance Heights, which abuts the town's airport. The units are expected to come online within the next few months. You can see they're pretty much in-range with Apartment Guide's figures. Renaissance Heights FREE AppDownload
The Winklevoss twins want to dominate the Bitcoin world. So much so that they're now going to tell you what its price is. In the latest filing (first spotted by the New York Times' Nathaniel Popper) for their Bitcoin ETF, the brothers lay out how it will work: "Math-Based Asset Index, LLC (“Index Provider”) [the twins' firm — ed.] developed, calculates and publishes Winkdex on a continuous basis using a patent-pending mathematical formula developed for such purpose. The formula provides a volume-weighted, exponential moving average market price by blending trading data from the largest Bitcoin Exchanges by volume on a list of Sponsor-approved Bitcoin Exchanges. Bitcoin Exchange criteria for inclusion as a Winkdex constituent include (i) trading denominated in US Dollar, (ii) availability of trading data, (iii) volume criteria and (iv) lack of recent trading halts. The Index Provider maintains a monitoring system that tests for these criteria on an ongoing basis." And there's already a website — winkdex.com. Winkdex.com   FREE AppDownload
I have been harsh in the past about some things William D. Cohan has written about Wall Street, specifically in this review of his book about Goldman Sachs, and this view on Fabulous Fab’s criminal conviction for just doing his job as a CDO structurer. However, I really appreciated his Op-Ed in this weekend’s New York Times about the Wolf of Wall Street movie versus the reality of Wall Street. Cohan nails it. The Wolf of Wall Street depicts a Hollywood version of a dark corner of the finance world – boiler rooms – that bears little resemblance to the actual Wall Street. My colleagues generally worked too hard, had too much pride in their fancy educational pedigrees, and too much ambition to get ahead in a culture that actually punished irresponsible behavior to do the stuff that Leonardo DiCaprio’s character does in the movie. I’m not saying there weren’t jerks – of course there were – but the point was you didn’t want to get identified inside the firm as a jerk. It was a very bad career move to get known for bad behavior. That’s the real truth, but it obviously makes for far less exciting cinema than cocaine, prostitutes, and scamming people on purpose. I have been harsh in the past about some things William D. Cohan has written about Wall Street, specifically in this review of his book about Goldman Sachs, and this view on Fabulous Fab’s criminal conviction for just doing his job as a CDO structurer. However, I really appreciated his Op-Ed in this weekend’s New York Times about the Wolf of Wall Street movie versus the reality of Wall Street.  Cohan nails it. The Wolf of Wall Street depicts a Hollywood version of a dark corner of the finance world – boiler rooms – that bears little resemblance to the actual Wall Street. My colleagues generally worked too hard, had too much pride in their fancy educational pedigrees, and too much ambition to get ahead in a culture that actually punished irresponsible behavior to do the stuff that Leonardo DiCaprio’s character does in the movie. I’m not saying there weren’t jerks – of course there were – but the point was you didn’t want to get identified inside the firm as a jerk.  It was a very bad career move to get known for bad behavior. That’s the real truth, but it obviously makes for far less exciting cinema than cocaine, prostitutes, and scamming people on purpose. This article originally appeared at Bankers Anonymous.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Tesla shares are up a whopping 16% after hours to $224.44. This comes after the company beat Q4 earnings and on its 2014 forecast. Tesla sees weekly production rates rising to 1,000 Model S vehicles from 600.  It expects more than 55% vehicle delivery growth in 2014 and sees production at 7,400 vehicles in the first quarter. "Deliveries will grow dramatically in future quarters as the logistics pipeline fills." Elon Musk has previously said the Tesla is production constrained not demand constrained, so the number was crucial from that point of view. Tesla delivered 6,892 Model S vehicles in Q4. This was roughly in line with the 6,900 deliveries that were pre-announced at the Detroit Auto show earlier this year. The green automaker reported Q4 adjusted earnings of $0.33 per share, on $761 million. This beat expectations for earnings of $0.25 per share, on revenue of $713.50 million. It also reported a gross margin of 25.2%. The first Model S deliveries to China are scheduled for this spring. "Already, the Beijing store is our largest and most active retail location in the world," he said. Tesla is looking to add new stores, service centers and a supercharger network in China this year. The price for the Model S will remain the same "adding only unavoidable taxes, customs duties and transportation costs." Management also sees costs rising this year. "Operating expenses and capital expenditures will increase significantly in 2014, as we plan to invest in the long term growth of Tesla," management said in the press release. "We plan to expand production capacity for Model S and Model X, invest in our store, service and Supercharger infrastructure, complete the development of Model X and start early design work on our third generation car." Tesla also said that it will soon share more information about a Tesla Gigafactory that will lower battery costs. "Working in partnership with our suppliers, we plan to integrate precursor material, cell, module and pack production into one facility. With this facility, we feel highly confident of being able to create a compelling and affordable electric car in approximately three years. This will also allow us to address the solar power industry’s need for a massive volume of stationary battery packs." Click here for the full press release » FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsStocks fell after some bad housing market news. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
reddit We told you how a London programmer had trekked across the world to Tokyo to demand his money back from MtGox, where Bitcoin withdrawals remain halted. A second guy joined him soon after.  Now MtGox has announced they're moving offices. Here's their new release: Dear MtGox Customers,MtGox Co.,Ltd. (Japan) has moved to the address below:MtGox Co.,Ltd.Cerulean Tower 15F26­1 Sakuragaoka­cho150­8512 Shibuya TokyoJapanPlease address all documents/letters to the above address from now on.Thank you for your kind corporation. Best Regards,MtGox Team We can't confirm whether it's to evade the protesters. But as you can see from this link, Cerulean Tower is actually an enormous office park with multiple entrances and presumably robust. Here's a screenshot: Google Maps FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsSbarro is going to close 155 stores in an attempt to become more profitable.  The pizza chain most commonly seen in mall food courts is still trying to recover from its 2011 bankruptcy, reports Lauren Coleman-Lochner at Bloomberg News.  "The move is part of a broader plan to boost financial performance under a new management team," Lochner writes.  The closures are all company-owned stores in North America, not franchises, according to Bloomberg.  Sbarro has more than 800 stores total.  FREE AppDownload
Business Insider just launched a cool new content partnership with China Internet behemoth Tencent. Tencent is the company behind QQ, WeChat, and other mind-bogglingly huge apps and sites. Basically, Tencent will become our exclusive partner in China.   Here's the announcement. By the way, in case you're curious about the state of instant Mandarin-English web translation these days, here's the Google-Translate version of Tencent's announcement of the partnership: [ REVIEW ] After the two sides to cooperate, other media in China (including mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan) will not be translated disseminate any content Business Insider website.     Business Insider Chinese version of the page (Artesyn Technologies screenshot) IDG Feb. 17 news, Tencent Finance with leading U.S. technology website Business Insider recently signed a cooperation agreement to become the exclusive Greater China Business Insider content partners, exclusive content to enjoy the Chinese version of its copyright. After the two sides to cooperate, quality content Business Insider will by Tencentthree-dimensional media platform, it is recommended to give more attention to global Financial Technology News domestic readers. As a leading U.S. financial technology news site, Business Insider to provide popular news stories and edgy sharp comments and critically acclaimed. Founded in 2007, this site different from traditional media news presentation, quickly gained recognition readers.Business Insider let the news become "illustrated", and through a comprehensive optimization of headlines and content, the mass of information on the Internet, quickly grab the reader's eye. Business Insider's investors include Amazon's Jeff Bezos head of the company (Jeff Bezos) and other celebrities. Third-party websites Alexa traffic statistics data show, Business Insider worldwide traffic has exceeded the Financial Times and Bloomberg and other well-known media sites. Tencent is the largest contemporary Chinese views of Chinese portal dedicated in the new media era provide valuable news content to readers. In today's rapid development of mobile Internet, Tencent will press through a variety of channels of high-quality websites, news client, IM platforms, social platforms, personalized push to the hundreds of millions of users and readers. FREE AppDownload
Yale/CourseraLots of people think the world of finance is a blot on humanity. Recently Nobel econ laureate Robert Shiller of Yale thinks they're all wrong.  In the introductory remarks to his new, free online course at Coursera, Shiller says that finance may have caused some of the problems that led to the financial crisis — but that giving up on finance is the exact thing we shouldn't be doing. Here's the full transcript:  "The Great Recession caused millions of people to lose jobs their jobs or lose their homes, and find career prospects were derailed. And fingers were pointed at the financial community.  That's a problem. It seemed like the financial community was the cause of our most serious problems — but I found myself thinking, 'Yes this is a problem,' — and I don't mean to minimize it — 'But what about all of the strength that has developed preceding this crisis, the strength of our economies?' The world is going through an amazing revolution. Ever since Deng Xiaoping in China or Boris Yeltsin in Russia, we saw the development of financial capitalism all over the world. That development is real and important. It has its ups and down, it has crises, but those crises are manageable if one understands finance." Shiller even invited former Hank Greenberg, the former head of bailed-out insurance giant AIG, to be the course's first guest speaker.   We're not able to upload the video, but you should definitely head over to Coursera and register. FREE AppDownload
"Margin Call"/screenshotOver a few beers after work one spring evening, two junior Goldman Sachs employees started contemplating the best ways to kill themselves. “If the goal is, like, how do I inflict maximum psychological damage, then I think just going up to your desk and blowing your brains out in the middle of the day would be the best,” said Jeremy Miller-Reed, 23. “Nah,” said Samson White, 22. “You know what would happen? All the other analysts would get an e-mail from the associates saying, ‘Can you guys clean this up?’ And then everyone would go back to work.” Jeremy and Samson — I’ve change their names to protect their anonymity — were first-year analysts at Goldman. They’d arrived from their Ivy League campuses less than a year before, fresh-faced and idealistic. Jeremy had gotten placed in commodities, and Samson had made a home in the firm’s mortgage division. Good friends since their summer internships the year before, they’d been excited, at first, to join the ranks and get to work making money. But quickly, their enthusiasm had been buried underneath massive piles of work, grueling hours, and unforgiving bosses. In one particularly bleak moment, they’d started calling Goldman’s downtown headquarters “Azkaban,” after the prison in the Harry Potter series where inmates’ souls are sucked from their bodies. For my new book, Young Money: Inside the Hidden World of Wall Street’s Post-Crash Recruits, I spent three years shadowing eight young Wall Street workers, including Jeremy and Samson. Given the rollicking depictions of finance life we see in movies like The Wolf of Wall Street, and the fact that these jobs are extremely well-paid — first-year investment bankers make anywhere from $90,000 to $140,000, including year-end bonuses — you might think that my eight banker informants were living the good life. But in three years, hardly an interview went by without a young banker confessing his or her struggles with depression and health problems, expressing a desire to quit, or simply complaining about how working in finance was ruining the pleasures of normal life. Why are young bankers so uniformly miserable? After spending many, many hours in their company, I think at least three factors explain why Wall Street is a singularly unpleasant place for young people to work. Wall Street is notorious for the long hours it imposes on its worker bees. (One young banker bragged to me about working the “banker 9-to-5,” defined as 9 a.m. until 5 a.m. the next day.) But lots of professions — law and medicine, to name just two — work their underlings hard. What makes banking different is that the work can arrive at any moment, unannounced and requiring immediate attention. If a client needs a PowerPoint presentation at 4 a.m. on Christmas morning, a junior banker will have to wake up and get to the office. What this means, in practice, is that young bankers live in a state of perpetual anxiety, and advance planning becomes impossible. Boyfriends and girlfriends get upset about broken dinner plans, friends and family members become estranged, and phones function as third limbs. This unpredictability, combined with the sheer number of hours involved, takes a toll. A recent academic study of young bankers by a University of Southern California business school professor named Alexandra Michel underscored the vital, even bodily, nature of the transformation that is taking place during a banker’s first years. Michel wrote: During years 1–3, bankers construed their bodies as objects that the mind controls. They worked long hours, neglected family and hobbies, and fought their [bodies’] needs in order to enhance productivity. They suppressed the need for prolonged sleep, taking “naps at 11 p.m. and then again at 1, 3, and 4.” When I asked, “Aren’t you worried that this will affect your health?” most responded like this Bank A associate: “For the next few years, work has priority. I’ll worry about my health then.” To my question, “What if you do irreversible damage?” many answered, ‘‘I am willing to take that risk.” Recently, Wall Street banks have tried to ease up on young workers by, in many cases, giving them the weekends off. But will the new rules really mean a lighter workload? Or will the weekdays become even more painful to make up for missed Saturdays? All eight of the young bankers I followed entered the financial industry after the crash of 2008 and saw a wildly different scene than they’d imagined as college students. Thousands of bankers were being laid off, firms were chopping off entire divisions, and pay for everyone had come down to levels that, while still lucrative by any real-world measure, were far lower than they’d been before the crash. For young Wall Street bankers, who often get themselves through tough stretches by imagining their year-end bonuses arriving, the post-crash uncertainty was destabilizing. Once, it had been relatively certain that a young banker or trader who did well would earn much more with each passing year, and would eventually become a millionaire, probably before his or her 30th birthday. But after 2008, the golden pathway began to splinter. New regulation meant to prevent another financial crisis made banks less profitable, and the struggling markets meant that even young bankers — who had historically been immune from layoffs during downturns, so cheap was their labor compared to that of senior bankers — were at risk of losing it all.  One Goldman Sachs analyst explained to me the effect the layoffs and cost-cuts had on the psyches of the sector’s youth. “You’re working with this constant fear,” he said. “You go to this bulletproof firm, it gives you a ton of options, and it’s really self-validating. And then all of the sudden, you have no options, you’re not getting paid nearly as much as you thought, and you might get fired. And then you start thinking, Well, shit, I could be halfway through law school, and instead I’m in New York dicking around doing models and bottles, and at the end of it I won’t even have that much to show for it.” The markets have since recovered, as has profitability at some of the Wall Street firms damaged during the crisis. But young Wall Street hasn’t regained its sense of security. It might take a while. It might sound strange, but many young people come to Wall Street expecting to make the world a better place. This is partly the fault of recruiters, who tempt college juniors and seniors with promises of “real-world responsibility” and rhapsodies about socially responsible investing. But it’s also wishful thinking on the recruits’ part. Jeremy, for instance, had arrived at Goldman thinking that his specific job — trading commodities derivatives — could make the world a teensy bit better by allowing large companies to hedge their costs, and pass savings along to customers. But one day, his boss pulled him aside and told him that, in effect, he’d been naïve. “We’re not here to save the world,” the boss said. “We exist to make money.” The British economist Roger Bootle has written about the difference between “creative” and “distributive” work. Creative work, Bootle says, is work that brings something new into the world that adds to the total available to everyone (a doctor treating patients, an artist making sculptures). Distributive work, on the other hand, only carries the possibility of beating out competitors and winning a bigger share of a fixed-size market. Bootle explains that although many jobs in modern society consist of distributive work, there is something intrinsically happier about a society that skews in favor of the creative. “There are some people who may derive active delight from the knowledge that their working life is devoted to making sure that someone else loses, but most people do not function that way,” he writes. “They like to have a sense of worth, and that sense usually comes from the belief that they are contributing to society.” During my interviews with young bankers, I heard a lot of them express this exact sentiment. They wanted to do something, make something, add something to the world, instead of simply serving as well-paid financial intermediaries at giant investment banks. It doesn’t hurt that creative jobs — including, but not limited to, jobs with Silicon Valley tech companies — are now considered sexier and more socially acceptable than Wall Street jobs, which still carry the stigma of the financial crisis. At one point, during the Occupy Wall Street protests, Jeremy told me that he had begun camouflaging his Goldman affiliation in public. “I lie whenever I go out now,” he told me. “I tell people I’m a consultant, a lawyer, whatever — anything but a Wall Street guy.” I won’t spoil the end for you — you’ll have to read the book to find out how Jeremy and Samson ended up coping with their dissatisfaction — but suffice it to say that they both found creative work that satisfied their desire to make a difference while still providing financial stability and drawing upon their well-honed business skills. For them, and for countless other young Wall Streeters in the post-crash era, the promise of a six-figure paycheck alone just doesn’t cut it anymore. FREE AppDownload
Getty Images Sport/ Hannah JohnstonIn the spirit of the Winter Olympics, we've decided to track down some of the top ski racers who are now working on Wall Street.  We've found folks who competed in the Olympics and others who were World Cup medalists. We found many skiers who were captains of their college teams. We've also found some younger skiers who are heading to Wall Street when they're finished with school. These alpine skiers have swapped running gates for putting together financial models and analyst reports. They can still hit the slopes on the weekends, though.  One of the skiers on our list happens to own a ski area, too. If you know of other skiers who should be included, feel free to send an email to jlaroche@businessinsider.com. Please include a photo and a brief bio of ski highlights.  FREE AppDownload
e_calamar / FlickrThe stock market is slightly in the red this afternoon. The Dow is up 25 points, the S&amp;P 500 is flat, and the Nasdaq is down 9 points. Moments ago, the Fed released the minutes from its January FOMC meeting. Believe or not, the stock market is within points of a new all-time high. The S&amp;P 500 is currently at 1,838. The all-time high was established on January 15 at 1,850. Turmoil in the emerging markets were blamed for some of the volatility in the U.S. markets. But all of that seems to have been largely brushed off. Housing market data, however, has been ugly lately. Earlier today, we learned that mortgage applications fell another 4.1% during the week ending Feb. 14. That was followed by the Census' January residential construction report that showed housing starts plunged 16% and building permits fell 4.9% during the month. "Housing was an area of weakness even before the recent stretch [of bad data], with the Fed having made note of the slowing of the housing recovery following last year’s sell-off," wrote Credit Suisse interest rate strategists ahead of today's data. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mary F. CalvertFederal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen (C) arrives to testify before a House Financial Services Committee hearing on "Monetary Policy and the State of the Economy." at the Rayburn House Office Building in Washington, February 11, 2014.The minutes of the Federal Open Market Committee's January meeting on monetary policy are out. Here is what they have to say about the Fed's forward guidance: Participants agreed that, with the unemployment rate approaching 6-1/2 percent, it would soon be appropriate for the Committee to change its forward guidance in order to provide information about its decisions regarding the federal funds rate after that threshold was crossed. A range of views was expressed about the form that such forward guidance might take. Some participants favored quantitative guidance along the lines of the existing thresholds, while others preferred a qualitative approach that would provide additional information regarding the factors that would guide the Committee's policy decisions. Several participants suggested that risks to financial stability should appear more explicitly in the list of factors that would guide decisions about the federal funds rate once the unemployment rate threshold is crossed, and several participants argued that the forward guidance should give greater emphasis to the Committee's willingness to keep rates low if inflation were to remain persistently below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run objective. Additional proposals included relying to a greater extent on the Summary of Economic Projections as a communications device and including in the guidance an indication of the Committee's willingness to adjust policy to lean against undesired changes in financial conditions. And here is what they have to say about emerging markets: In considering recent events in emerging market economies, the staff judged that the effects of recent financial market volatility had not been large enough to have a material effect on the overall outlook for those economies and, similarly, that the spillover effects on the United States of developments to date were likely to be modest. Because conditions were in flux, however, these markets would require careful monitoring. Below is the full text of the release. --------------------------------------- A meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee was held in the offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, January 28, 2014, at 2:00 p.m. and continued on Wednesday, January 29, 2014, at 9:00 a.m. PRESENT: Ben Bernanke, ChairmanWilliam C. Dudley, Vice ChairmanRichard W. FisherNarayana KocherlakotaSandra PianaltoCharles I. PlosserJerome H. PowellJeremy C. SteinDaniel K. TarulloJanet L. Yellen Christine Cumming, Charles L. Evans, Jeffrey M. Lacker, Dennis P. Lockhart, and John C. Williams, Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee James Bullard, Esther L. George, and Eric Rosengren, Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of St. Louis, Kansas City, and Boston, respectively William B. English, Secretary and EconomistMatthew M. Luecke, Deputy SecretaryMichelle A. Smith, Assistant SecretaryScott G. Alvarez, General CounselThomas C. Baxter, Deputy General CounselSteven B. Kamin, EconomistDavid W. Wilcox, Economist James A. Clouse, Thomas A. Connors, Evan F. Koenig, Thomas Laubach, Michael P. Leahy, Loretta J. Mester, Paolo A. Pesenti, Samuel Schulhofer-Wohl, Mark E. Schweitzer, and William Wascher, Associate Economists Simon Potter, Manager, System Open Market Account Lorie K. Logan, Deputy Manager, System Open Market Account Michael S. Gibson, Director, Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation, Board of Governors Nellie Liang, Director, Office of Financial Stability Policy and Research, Board of Governors Stephen A. Meyer and William Nelson, Deputy Directors, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Jon W. Faust, Special Adviser to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors Linda Robertson and David W. Skidmore, Assistants to the Board, Office of Board Members, Board of Governors Trevor A. Reeve, Senior Associate Director, Division of International Finance, Board of Governors Joyce K. Zickler, Senior Adviser, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Daniel M. Covitz and Michael T. Kiley, Associate Directors, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors Jane E. Ihrig, Deputy Associate Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Edward Nelson, Assistant Director, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors; John J. Stevens, Assistant Director, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors Jeremy B. Rudd, Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors Dana L. Burnett, Section Chief, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Burcu Duygan-Bump, Senior Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors David H. Small, Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Andrew Figura, Group Manager, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors Michele Cavallo, Senior Economist, Division of International Finance, Board of Governors Yuriy Kitsul, Economist, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Randall A. Williams, Records Project Manager, Division of Monetary Affairs, Board of Governors Kenneth C. Montgomery, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston David Altig, Glenn D. Rudebusch, and Daniel G. Sullivan, Executive Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta, San Francisco, and Chicago, respectively Troy Davig, Geoffrey Tootell, and Christopher J. Waller, Senior Vice Presidents, Federal Reserve Banks of Kansas City, Boston, and St. Louis, respectively Robert L. Hetzel, Senior Economist, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond Annual Organizational Matters1 In the agenda for this meeting, it was reported that advices of the election of the following members and alternate members of the Federal Open Market Committee (the "Committee") for a term beginning January 28, 2014, had been received and that these individuals had executed their oaths of office. The elected members and alternate members were as follows: William C. Dudley, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with Christine Cumming, First Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as alternate Charles I. Plosser, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, with Jeffrey M. Lacker, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, as alternate Sandra Pianalto, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, with Charles L. Evans, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, as alternate Richard W. Fisher, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, with Dennis P. Lockhart, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, as alternate Narayana Kocherlakota, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, with John C. Williams, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, as alternate By unanimous vote, the Committee selected Ben Bernanke to serve as Chairman through January 31, 2014, and Janet L. Yellen to serve as Chairman, effective February 1, 2014, until the selection of her successor at the first regularly scheduled meeting of the Committee in 2015. By unanimous vote, the following officers of the Committee were selected to serve until the selection of their successors at the first regularly scheduled meeting of the Committee in 2015: By unanimous vote, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York was selected to execute transactions for the System Open Market Account. By unanimous vote, the Authorization for Domestic Open Market Operations was approved with an amendment that makes the structure of paragraphs 1.A and 1.B more similar. The Guidelines for the Conduct of System Open Market Operations in Federal-Agency Issues remained suspended. AUTHORIZATION FOR DOMESTIC OPEN MARKET OPERATIONS(As amended effective January 28, 2014)  1. The Federal Open Market Committee authorizes and directs the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, to the extent necessary to carry out the most recent domestic policy directive adopted at a meeting of the Committee: A. To buy or sell in the open market U.S. government securities, including securities of the Federal Financing Bank, and securities that are direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, any agency of the United States, from or to securities dealers and foreign and international accounts maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, on a cash, regular, or deferred delivery basis, for the System Open Market Account at market prices, and, for such Account, to exchange maturing U.S. government and federal agency securities with the Treasury or the individual agencies or to allow them to mature without replacement; and B. To buy or sell in the open market U.S. government securities, and securities that are direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, any agency of the United States, for the System Open Market Account under agreements to resell or repurchase such securities or obligations (including such transactions as are commonly referred to as repo and reverse repo transactions) in 65 business days or less, at rates that, unless otherwise expressly authorized by the Committee, shall be determined by competitive bidding, after applying reasonable limitations on the volume of agreements with individual counterparties. 2. The Federal Open Market Committee authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to undertake transactions of the type described in paragraphs 1.A and 1.B from time to time for the purpose of testing operational readiness. The aggregate par value of such transactions of the type described in paragraph 1.A shall not exceed $5 billion per calendar year. The outstanding amount of such transactions of the type described in paragraph 1.B shall not exceed $5 billion at any given time. These transactions shall be conducted with prior notice to the Committee. 3. In order to ensure the effective conduct of open market operations, the Federal Open Market Committee authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to use agents in agency MBS-related transactions. 4. In order to ensure the effective conduct of open market operations, the Federal Open Market Committee authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to lend on an overnight basis U.S. government securities and securities that are direct obligations of any agency of the United States, held in the System Open Market Account, to dealers at rates that shall be determined by competitive bidding. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York shall set a minimum lending fee consistent with the objectives of the program and apply reasonable limitations on the total amount of a specific issue that may be auctioned and on the amount of securities that each dealer may borrow. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York may reject bids that could facilitate a dealer's ability to control a single issue as determined solely by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York may lend securities on longer than an overnight basis to accommodate weekend, holiday, and similar trading conventions. 5. In order to ensure the effective conduct of open market operations, while assisting in the provision of short-term investments or other authorized services for foreign and international accounts maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and accounts maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as fiscal agent of the United States pursuant to section 15 of the Federal Reserve Act, the Federal Open Market Committee authorizes and directs the Federal Reserve Bank of New York: A. For the System Open Market Account, to sell U.S. government securities and securities that are direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, any agency of the United States to such accounts on the bases set forth in paragraph 1.A under agreements providing for the resale by such accounts of those securities in 65 business days or less on terms comparable to those available on such transactions in the market; B. For the New York Bank account, when appropriate, to undertake with dealers, subject to the conditions imposed on purchases and sales of securities in paragraph l.B, repurchase agreements in U.S. government securities and securities that are direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, any agency of the United States, and to arrange corresponding sale and repurchase agreements between its own account and such foreign, international, and fiscal agency accounts maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank; and C. For the New York Bank account, when appropriate, to buy U.S. government securities and obligations that are direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, any agency of the United States from such foreign and international accounts maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank under agreements providing for the repurchase by such accounts of those securities on the same business day. Transactions undertaken with such accounts under the provisions of this paragraph may provide for a service fee when appropriate. 6. In the execution of the Committee's decision regarding policy during any intermeeting period, the Committee authorizes and directs the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, upon the instruction of the Chairman of the Committee, to (i) adjust somewhat in exceptional circumstances the degree of pressure on reserve positions and hence the intended federal funds rate and to take actions that result in material changes in the composition and size of the assets in the System Open Market Account other than those anticipated by the Committee at its most recent meeting or (ii) undertake transactions of the type described in paragraphs 1.A and 1.B in order to appropriately address temporary disruptions of an operational or highly unusual nature in U.S. dollar funding markets. Any such adjustment as described in clause (i) shall be made in the context of the Committee's discussion and decision at its most recent meeting and the Committee's long-run objectives to foster maximum employment and price stability, and shall be based on economic, financial, and monetary developments during the intermeeting period. Consistent with Committee practice, the Chairman, if feasible, will consult with the Committee before making any instruction under this paragraph. The Committee voted unanimously to amend the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations, the Foreign Currency Directive, and the Procedural Instructions with Respect to Foreign Currency Operations in the form shown below. The approval of these documents included approval of the System's warehousing agreement with the U.S. Treasury. These documents were modified to incorporate the dollar and foreign currency liquidity swap arrangements authorized by a resolution on October 29, 2013. Changes were made to the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations and the Procedural Instructions with Respect to Foreign Currency Operations to align the treatment of the liquidity swap arrangements and that of the reciprocal currency arrangements that have been in place with the central banks of Mexico and Canada since 1994 as part of the North American Framework Agreement. The Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations was amended to remove language regarding the transmission of pertinent information on System foreign currency operations to appropriate officials of the Treasury Department because this language duplicated language in the Program for Security of FOMC Information. AUTHORIZATION FOR FOREIGN CURRENCY OPERATIONS(As amended effective January 28, 2014)1. The Federal Open Market Committee authorizes and directs the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, for the System Open Market Account, to the extent necessary to carry out the Committee's foreign currency directive and express authorizations by the Committee pursuant thereto, and in conformity with such procedural instructions as the Committee may issue from time to time: A. To purchase and sell the following foreign currencies in the form of cable transfers through spot or forward transactions on the open market at home and abroad, including transactions with the U.S. Treasury, with the U.S. Exchange Stabilization Fund established by section 10 of the Gold Reserve Act of 1934, with foreign monetary authorities, with the Bank for International Settlements, and with other international financial institutions: B. To hold balances of, and to have outstanding forward contracts to receive or to deliver, the foreign currencies listed in paragraph A above. C. To draw foreign currencies and to permit foreign banks to draw dollars under the arrangements listed in paragraph 2 below, in accordance with the Procedural Instructions with Respect to Foreign Currency Operations. D. To maintain an overall open position in all foreign currencies not exceeding $25.0 billion. For this purpose, the overall open position in all foreign currencies is defined as the sum (disregarding signs) of net positions in individual currencies, excluding changes in dollar value due to foreign exchange rate movements and interest accruals. The net position in a single foreign currency is defined as holdings of balances in that currency, plus outstanding contracts for future receipt, minus outstanding contracts for future delivery of that currency, i.e., as the sum of these elements with due regard to sign. 2. The Federal Open Market Committee directs the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to maintain for the System Open Market Account (subject to the requirements of section 214.5 of Regulation N, Relations with Foreign Banks and Bankers): B. Standing dollar liquidity swap arrangements with the following foreign banks: C. Standing foreign currency liquidity swap arrangements with the following foreign banks: Dollar and foreign currency liquidity swap arrangements have no pre-set size limits. Any new swap arrangements shall be referred for review and approval to the Committee. All swap arrangements are subject to annual review and approval by the Committee. 3. All transactions in foreign currencies undertaken under paragraph 1.A above shall, unless otherwise expressly authorized by the Committee, be at prevailing market rates. For the purpose of providing an investment return on System holdings of foreign currencies or for the purpose of adjusting interest rates paid or received in connection with swap drawings, transactions with foreign central banks may be undertaken at non-market exchange rates. 4. It shall be the normal practice to arrange with foreign central banks for the coordination of foreign currency transactions. In making operating arrangements with foreign central banks on System holdings of foreign currencies, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York shall not commit itself to maintain any specific balance, unless authorized by the Federal Open Market Committee. Any agreements or understandings concerning the administration of the accounts maintained by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York with the foreign banks designated by the Board of Governors under section 214.5 of Regulation N shall be referred for review and approval to the Committee. 5. Foreign currency holdings shall be invested to ensure that adequate liquidity is maintained to meet anticipated needs and so that each currency portfolio shall generally have an average duration of no more than 18 months (calculated as Macaulay duration). Such investments may include buying or selling outright obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, a foreign government or agency thereof; buying such securities under agreements for repurchase of such securities; selling such securities under agreements for the resale of such securities; and holding various time and other deposit accounts at foreign institutions. In addition, when appropriate in connection with arrangements to provide investment facilities for foreign currency holdings, U.S. government securities may be purchased from foreign central banks under agreements for repurchase of such securities within 30 calendar days. 6. All operations undertaken pursuant to the preceding paragraphs shall be reported promptly to the Foreign Currency Subcommittee and the Committee. The Foreign Currency Subcommittee consists of the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Committee, the Vice Chairman of the Board of Governors, and such other member of the Board as the Chairman may designate (or in the absence of members of the Board serving on the Subcommittee, other Board members designated by the Chairman as alternates, and in the absence of the Vice Chairman of the Committee, the Vice Chairman's alternate). Meetings of the Subcommittee shall be called at the request of any member, or at the request of the manager, System Open Market Account ("manager"), for the purposes of reviewing recent or contemplated operations and of consulting with the manager on other matters relating to the manager's responsibilities. At the request of any member of the Subcommittee, questions arising from such reviews and consultations shall be referred for determination to the Federal Open Market Committee. 7. The Chairman is authorized: A. With the approval of the Committee, to enter into any needed agreement or understanding with the Secretary of the Treasury about the division of responsibility for foreign currency operations between the System and the Treasury; B. To keep the Secretary of the Treasury fully advised concerning System foreign currency operations, and to consult with the Secretary on policy matters relating to foreign currency operations; C. From time to time, to transmit appropriate reports and information to the National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Policies. 8. All Federal Reserve Banks shall participate in the foreign currency operations for System Account in accordance with paragraph 3G(1) of the Board of Governors' Statement of Procedure with Respect to Foreign Relationships of Federal Reserve Banks dated January 1, 1944. 9. The Federal Open Market Committee authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to undertake transactions of the type described in paragraphs 1, 2, and 5, and foreign exchange and investment transactions that it may be otherwise authorized to undertake from time to time for the purpose of testing operational readiness. The aggregate amount of such transactions shall not exceed $2.5 billion per calendar year. These transactions shall be conducted with prior notice to the Committee. FOREIGN CURRENCY DIRECTIVE(As amended effective January 28, 2014) 1. System operations in foreign currencies shall generally be directed at countering disorderly market conditions, provided that market exchange rates for the U.S. dollar reflect actions and behavior consistent with IMF Article IV, Section 1. 2. To achieve this end the System shall: A. Undertake spot and forward purchases and sales of foreign exchange. B. Maintain reciprocal currency arrangements with foreign central banks in accordance with the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations. C. Maintain standing dollar liquidity swap arrangements with foreign banks in accordance with the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations. D. Maintain standing foreign currency liquidity swap arrangements with foreign banks in accordance with the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations. E. Cooperate in other respects with central banks of other countries and with international monetary institutions. 3. Transactions may also be undertaken: A. To adjust System balances in light of probable future needs for currencies. B. To provide means for meeting System and Treasury commitments in particular currencies, and to facilitate operations of the Exchange Stabilization Fund. C. For such other purposes as may be expressly authorized by the Committee. 4. System foreign currency operations shall be conducted: A. In close and continuous consultation and cooperation with the United States Treasury; B. In cooperation, as appropriate, with foreign monetary authorities; and C. In a manner consistent with the obligations of the United States in the International Monetary Fund regarding exchange arrangements under IMF Article IV. PROCEDURAL INSTRUCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FOREIGN CURRENCY OPERATIONS(As amended effective January 28, 2014) In conducting operations pursuant to the authorization and direction of the Federal Open Market Committee (the "Committee") as set forth in the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations and the Foreign Currency Directive, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, through the manager, System Open Market Account ("manager"), shall be guided by the following procedural understandings with respect to consultations and clearances with the Committee, the Foreign Currency Subcommittee (the "Subcommittee"), and the Chairman of the Committee, unless otherwise directed by the Committee. All operations undertaken pursuant to such clearances shall be reported promptly to the Committee. 1. For the reciprocal currency arrangements authorized in paragraphs 2.A of the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations: A. Drawings must be approved by the Subcommittee (or by the Chairman, if the Chairman believes that consultation with the Subcommittee is not feasible in the time available) if the swap drawing proposed by a foreign bank does not exceed the larger of (i) $200 million or (ii) 15 percent of the size of the swap arrangement. B. Drawings must be approved by the Committee (or by the Subcommittee, if the Subcommittee believes that consultation with the full Committee is not feasible in the time available, or by the Chairman, if the Chairman believes that consultation with the Subcommittee is not feasible in the time available) if the swap drawing proposed by a foreign bank exceeds the larger of (i) $200 million or (ii) 15 percent of the size of the swap arrangement. C. The manager shall also consult with the Subcommittee or the Chairman about proposed swap drawings by the System. D. Any changes in the terms of existing swap arrangements shall be referred for review and approval to the Chairman. The Chairman shall keep the Committee informed of any changes in terms, and the terms shall be consistent with principles discussed with and guidance provided by the Committee. 2. For the dollar and foreign currency liquidity swap arrangements authorized in paragraphs 2.B and 2.C of the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations: A. Drawings must be approved by the Chairman in consultation with the Subcommittee. The Chairman or the Subcommittee will consult with the Committee prior to the initial drawing on the dollar or foreign currency liquidity swap lines if possible under the circumstances then prevailing; authority to approve subsequent drawings for either the dollar or foreign currency liquidity swap lines may be delegated to the manager by the Chairman. B. Any changes in the terms of existing swap arrangements shall be referred for review and approval to the Chairman. The Chairman shall keep the Committee informed of any changes in terms, and the terms shall be consistent with principles discussed with and guidance provided by the Committee. 3. Any operation must be approved by: A. The Subcommittee (or by the Chairman, if the Chairman believes that consultation with the Subcommittee is not feasible in the time available) if it: i. Would result in a change in the System's overall open position in foreign currencies exceeding $300 million on any day or $600 million since the most recent regular meeting of the Committee. ii. Would result in a change on any day in the System's net position in a single foreign currency exceeding $150 million, or $300 million when the operation is associated with repayment of swap drawings. iii. Might generate a substantial volume of trading in a particular currency by the System, even though the change in the System's net position in that currency (as defined in paragraph 1.D of the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations) might be less than the limits specified in 3.A.ii. B. The Committee (or by the Subcommittee, if the Subcommittee believes that consultation with the full Committee is not feasible in the time available, or by the Chairman, if the Chairman believes that consultation with the Subcommittee is not feasible in the time available) if it would result in a change in the System's overall open position in foreign currencies exceeding $1.5 billion since the most recent regular meeting of the Committee. 4. The Committee authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to undertake transactions of the type described in paragraphs 1, 2, and 5 of the Authorization for Foreign Currency Operations and foreign exchange and investment transactions that it may be otherwise authorized to undertake from time to time for the purpose of testing operational readiness. The aggregate amount of such transactions shall not exceed $2.5 billion per calendar year. These transactions shall be conducted with prior notice to the Committee. In its annual reconsideration of the Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy, participants generally agreed that only minor updates were required at this meeting. It was noted, however, that because this was the third year in which the statement was being issued, the coming year would be an appropriate time to consider whether the statement could be enhanced in any way. For example, some participants advocated an explicit indication that inflation persistently below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run objective and inflation persistently above that objective would be equally undesirable. Some others suggested that the statement could more clearly describe how the mandated goals of maximum employment and price stability are linked with the objective of financial stability. Following the discussion, the Committee voted to approve minor wording changes to the statement and to update the statement's reference to participants' estimates of the longer-run normal unemployment rate. Mr. Tarullo abstained from the vote because he continued to think that the statement had not advanced the cause of communicating or achieving greater consensus in the policy views of the Committee. STATEMENT ON LONGER-RUN GOALS AND MONETARY POLICY STRATEGY(As amended effective January 28, 2014) "The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) is firmly committed to fulfilling its statutory mandate from the Congress of promoting maximum employment, stable prices, and moderate long-term interest rates. The Committee seeks to explain its monetary policy decisions to the public as clearly as possible. Such clarity facilitates well-informed decisionmaking by households and businesses, reduces economic and financial uncertainty, increases the effectiveness of monetary policy, and enhances transparency and accountability, which are essential in a democratic society. Inflation, employment, and long-term interest rates fluctuate over time in response to economic and financial disturbances. Moreover, monetary policy actions tend to influence economic activity and prices with a lag. Therefore, the Committee's policy decisions reflect its longer-run goals, its medium-term outlook, and its assessments of the balance of risks, including risks to the financial system that could impede the attainment of the Committee's goals. The inflation rate over the longer run is primarily determined by monetary policy, and hence the Committee has the ability to specify a longer-run goal for inflation. The Committee reaffirms its judgment that inflation at the rate of 2 percent, as measured by the annual change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures, is most consistent over the longer run with the Federal Reserve's statutory mandate. Communicating this inflation goal clearly to the public helps keep longer-term inflation expectations firmly anchored, thereby fostering price stability and moderate long-term interest rates and enhancing the Committee's ability to promote maximum employment in the face of significant economic disturbances. The maximum level of employment is largely determined by nonmonetary factors that affect the structure and dynamics of the labor market. These factors may change over time and may not be directly measurable. Consequently, it would not be appropriate to specify a fixed goal for employment; rather, the Committee's policy decisions must be informed by assessments of the maximum level of employment, recognizing that such assessments are necessarily uncertain and subject to revision. The Committee considers a wide range of indicators in making these assessments. Information about Committee participants' estimates of the longer-run normal rates of output growth and unemployment is published four times per year in the FOMC's Summary of Economic Projections. For example, in the most recent projections, FOMC participants' estimates of the longer-run normal rate of unemployment had a central tendency of 5.2 percent to 5.8 percent. In setting monetary policy, the Committee seeks to mitigate deviations of inflation from its longer-run goal and deviations of employment from the Committee's assessments of its maximum level. These objectives are generally complementary. However, under circumstances in which the Committee judges that the objectives are not complementary, it follows a balanced approach in promoting them, taking into account the magnitude of the deviations and the potentially different time horizons over which employment and inflation are projected to return to levels judged consistent with its mandate. The Committee intends to reaffirm these principles and to make adjustments as appropriate at its annual organizational meeting each January." By unanimous vote, the Committee amended its Rules of Organization to add the position of deputy manager of the System Open Market Account.By unanimous vote, the Committee amended its Program for Security of FOMC Information with minor changes to the review and reporting process for breaches in the information security rules and with several other minor updates and clarifications. By unanimous vote, the Committee selected Simon Potter and Lorie K. Logan to serve at the pleasure of the Committee as manager and deputy manager of the System Open Market Account, respectively, on the understanding that their selection was subject to their being satisfactory to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Secretary's note: Advice subsequently was received that the manager and deputy manager selections indicated above were satisfactory to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Developments in Financial Markets and the Federal Reserve's Balance SheetThe manager of the System Open Market Account (SOMA) reported on developments in domestic and foreign financial markets as well as System open market operations during the period since the Federal Open Market Committee met on December 17-18, 2013. The manager also presented an update on the ongoing overnight reverse repurchase agreement (ON RRP) exercise. All operations to date had proceeded smoothly. The number of participating counterparties and total allotment in the daily operations increased in late December, in part reflecting the fact that overnight secured rates were low compared with the fixed rate offered in the operations as well as the increase in the cap on individual counterparty bids to $3 billion from $1 billion that was implemented on December 23, 2013. Counterparties' year-end balance sheet adjustments also boosted participation for a time; the ON RRP operations reportedly helped limit downward pressure on money market rates around year-end. Following the manager's report, meeting participants discussed a proposal to extend the Desk's authority to conduct the ON RRP exercise for 12 months and to lift the per-counterparty bid limit. Under the terms of the proposal, the interest rate on ON RRPs would remain between 0 and 5 basis points. The Chair of the FOMC would authorize any changes in the offered rate or per-counterparty bid limit. Adjustments to the bid limit would be made in gradual steps, and the Committee would be consulted before the exercise would move to full allotment. The proposed changes were intended to allow the Committee to obtain additional information about the potential usefulness of ON RRP operations for affecting market interest rates when that step becomes appropriate. Most meeting participants supported the proposal, with a couple emphasizing that the period for which the exercise would be extended was likely sufficiently long that counterparties would be willing to adjust their current money market practices, thereby providing better information on the possible market effects of such operations. It was remarked that the additional insights obtained from the exercise could be useful in the context of the Committee's future discussions about monetary policy implementation over the medium and longer term. A number of participants, however, indicated a preference for retaining a cap on the per-counterparty bid limit until the Committee has discussed possible approaches to medium-term policy implementation, and a few of these participants preferred to extend the exercise for a shorter period. Following the discussion, the Committee approved the following resolution: "The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to conduct a series of fixed-rate, overnight reverse repurchase operations involving U.S. Government securities, and securities that are direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, any agency of the United States, for the purpose of further assessing the potential role for such operations in supporting the implementation of monetary policy. The reverse repurchase operations authorized by this resolution shall be offered at a fixed rate that may vary from zero to five basis points, and for an overnight term, or such longer term as is warranted to accommodate weekend, holiday, and similar trading conventions. Any change to the offered rate within the range specified above or the per-counterparty bid limits will require approval of the Chairman. The System Open Market Account manager will notify the FOMC in advance about any changes to the terms of operations. These operations shall be authorized through January 30, 2015." Messrs. Fisher and Plosser dissented because of their preference for retaining a cap on the maximum size of counterparties' offers during the extension; Mr. Plosser also preferred a shorter extension of the exercise. By unanimous vote, the Committee ratified the Open Market Desk's domestic transactions over the intermeeting period. There were no intervention operations in foreign currencies for the System's account over the intermeeting period. Staff Review of the Economic SituationThe information reviewed for the January 28-29 meeting indicated that the rate of economic growth picked up in the second half of 2013. Total payroll employment increased in December, but at a slower pace than in previous months, and the unemployment rate declined but was still elevated. Consumer price inflation continued to run below the Committee's longer-run objective, while measures of longer-term inflation expectations remained stable. Overall, labor market indicators appeared consistent with a gradual ongoing improvement in labor market conditions. Total nonfarm payroll employment expanded by less in December than in the previous two months, perhaps partly because of unusually bad weather. The unemployment rate declined to 6.7 percent in December. The labor force participation rate also decreased, and the employment-to-population ratio was little changed. The rate of long-duration unemployment declined, but the share of workers employed part time for economic reasons was little changed, and both measures remained elevated. Among other indicators of labor market conditions, the rate of job openings edged up in recent months, and the share of small businesses reporting that they had hard-to-fill positions trended up. Measures of firms' hiring plans were higher than a year earlier, but the rate of gross private-sector hiring was still low. Initial claims for unemployment insurance moved down, on balance, over the intermeeting period, and household expectations of the labor market situation improved, on net, in December and early January. Manufacturing production increased at a robust pace in the fourth quarter, with broad-based gains across industries. Indicators of manufacturing production, such as the readings on new orders from national and regional manufacturing surveys, were consistent with a further expansion in factory output early this year, but automakers' production schedules indicated that the pace of light motor vehicle assemblies would decline in the first quarter. Real personal consumption expenditures (PCE) rose at a faster pace in October and November than in the third quarter. In December, the components of the nominal retail sales data used by the Bureau of Economic Analysis to construct its estimate of PCE increased strongly, although sales of light motor vehicles declined after posting a large gain in November. Recent information on several important factors that influence household spending was somewhat mixed. Households' real disposable income was little changed in October and November, and the expiration of the emergency unemployment compensation program at the end of 2013 was expected to reduce aggregate income growth early this year. However, households' net worth likely continued to expand in recent months as a result of rising equity prices and home values. Consumer sentiment in the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers improved, on balance, in December and early January after a decline in the fall of 2013. The pace of activity in the housing sector showed some tentative signs of stabilizing, as the effects of the past year's rise in mortgage rates appeared to wane. Single-family housing starts increased in November and only partly reversed that gain in December, while permits for new construction rose a little, on balance, in the fourth quarter. New home sales declined in November and December but were nonetheless higher than in the third quarter, and existing home sales flattened out in December after decreasing for several months. Real private expenditures for business equipment and intellectual property products appeared to strengthen in the fourth quarter, as nominal shipments of nondefense capital goods rose at a solid pace. Although nominal new orders for these capital goods declined in December and November's increase was revised down, the level of orders remained above that of shipments, pointing to further increases in shipments in subsequent months. Other forward-looking indicators, such as surveys of business conditions and capital spending plans, were also generally consistent with near-term gains in business equipment spending. Nominal expenditures for nonresidential construction, which had been flat in October, moved higher in November. Data on book-value inventories suggested little change in the pace of nonfarm inventory investment in the fourth quarter, and the available information did not point to significant inventory imbalances in most industries. Real federal government purchases likely fell sharply in the fourth quarter because of continued declines in defense spending and the temporary partial shutdown of the federal government in October. Increases in real state and local government purchases appeared to have moderated in the fourth quarter. The payrolls of these governments were about unchanged during the fourth quarter, and nominal state and local construction expenditures for October and November increased at a slower pace, on net, than in the third quarter. The U.S. international trade deficit narrowed substantially in November, as exports increased and imports fell. The higher value of exports stemmed in large part from an increase in sales of petroleum products, while the fall in imports was primarily due to a decline in purchases of crude oil. Total U.S. consumer price inflation, as measured by the PCE price index, was a little under 1 percent over the 12 months ending in November, well below the Committee's 2 percent longer-term objective. Over that period, consumer energy prices declined, consumer food prices rose modestly, and core PCE prices--which exclude consumer food and energy prices--increased slightly more than 1 percent. In December, the consumer price index (CPI) rose somewhat faster than in recent months, primarily reflecting an upturn in consumer energy prices; core CPI inflation remained low. Both near-term and longer-term inflation expectations from the Michigan survey were little changed, on net, in December and early January. Over the 12 months ending in December, nominal average hourly earnings for all employees increased slightly faster than consumer price inflation. Foreign economic activity continued to improve, with economic growth in the third quarter of 2013 higher than in the first half of the year and more recent indicators suggesting further gains. The pickup was widespread, as the euro area registered a second consecutive quarter of positive economic growth, the Mexican economy bounced back from a second-quarter contraction, and stronger external demand boosted growth in emerging market economies more generally. At the same time, inflation continued to run below central bank targets in several advanced economies, and monetary policy remained expansionary in these economies. Inflation in emerging market economies remained moderate on average, although Brazil, India, and Turkey again tightened monetary policy during the intermeeting period in response to concerns about inflation and currency depreciation. The policy tightening in Turkey was particularly sharp and followed several days of heightened financial market pressures toward the end of the intermeeting period. Similar pressures were evident in some other emerging market economies as well. Staff Review of the Financial SituationFinancial market conditions over the intermeeting period were importantly influenced by Federal Reserve communications, somewhat better-than-expected economic data releases, and developments in emerging market economies. On net, financial conditions in the United States remained supportive of growth in economic activity and employment: Equity prices increased a bit, longer-term interest rates declined, and the dollar appreciated against most other currencies. While investors were somewhat surprised by the FOMC's decision at its December meeting to reduce the pace of its asset purchases, the policy action and associated communications appeared to have only a limited effect on market participants' outlook for the Federal Reserve's balance sheet. Indeed, the Committee's decision to cut the pace of purchases and its rationale for doing so seemed to increase investors' confidence in the economic outlook, a shift that was further supported by subsequent U.S. economic data releases. However, those effects were reversed late in the period when investors appeared to pull back from riskier assets in reaction to rising concern about developments in some emerging market economies and their possible implications for global economic growth. Results from the Desk's survey of primary dealers conducted prior to the January meeting indicated that dealers anticipated only minor changes to the Committee's postmeeting statement. In addition, the median dealer expected a $10 billion reduction in the monthly pace of asset purchases to be announced at each meeting in the first three quarters of 2014, with the purchase program ending with a final $15 billion reduction at the October 2014 meeting. On balance, 10-and 30-year nominal Treasury yields declined about 10 basis points and 20 basis points, respectively, over the intermeeting period, in part because of an increase in safe-haven demands toward the end of the period. The December policy action and subsequent muted market reaction led to decreased uncertainty about future longer-term interest rates, perhaps contributing to the decline in longer-term rates. The measure of 5-year inflation compensation based on Treasury inflation-protected securities increased a little, while inflation compensation 5 to 10 years ahead decreased somewhat. Conditions in short-term dollar funding markets generally remained stable. Year-end funding pressures were modest, and overnight money market rates declined about in line with their typical behavior in past years. Repo rates were quite low at the end of the year and remained low through most of January, leading to increased participation in the Federal Reserve's ON RRP operations, with a substantial temporary increase in take-up at year-end. Primarily reflecting the increased participation in the exercise, reserve balances expanded more slowly and the rate of increase in the monetary base slowed in December. M2 continued to expand moderately. Reflecting the improved outlook for economic activity and despite mixed fourth-quarter earnings results, the stock prices of bank holding companies rose notably and spreads on credit default swaps for the largest bank holding companies narrowed somewhat. According to the January Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices, domestic banks continued to ease their lending standards and some loan terms on balance; they also experienced an increase in demand, on net, in most major loan categories in the fourth quarter. Broad U.S. equity price indexes edged higher, on net, over the intermeeting period, and equity issuance by nonfinancial corporations increased. Credit remained widely available to large nonfinancial corporations. Corporate bond spreads continued to narrow over the intermeeting period, with investment-grade bond spreads reaching their lowest levels in several years and those on speculative-grade corporate bonds approaching pre-crisis levels. Bond issuance by domestic corporations generally stayed strong, commercial and industrial loans on banks' books increased by a notable amount late in the fourth quarter, and issuance of leveraged loans and collateralized loan obligations generally continued apace. Conditions in the commercial real estate sector recovered further in the fourth quarter, with rising property prices and fewer distressed sales. In the market for commercial mortgage-backed securities, investor demand remained strong and spreads continued to be tight despite high issuance near year-end. Commercial real estate loans on banks' books expanded moderately. Credit conditions in municipal bond markets generally remained stable, although a few issuers continued to experience substantial strain. Available data suggest that, for the first time in several years, the ratings agency Moody's Investors Service made more upgrades than downgrades to municipal debt in the fourth quarter. However, Moody's put Puerto Rico on watch for a downgrade. Households continued to face mixed credit conditions in the fourth quarter. Consumer credit expanded again in November, boosted by further gains in auto and student loans, and bank credit data indicate that this expansion likely continued through December. In contrast, credit card balances were little changed, on net, through November, as underwriting appeared to remain quite tight. The volume of mortgage applications for home purchases held about steady since the previous FOMC meeting while refinance applications remained at very low levels. Mortgage rates declined slightly, in line with modestly lower yields on agency mortgage-backed securities. Despite tight mortgage availability and subdued borrowing, house prices continued to increase in November, although not as quickly as earlier in 2013. Financial market conditions in the advanced foreign economies over the intermeeting period generally became more supportive of growth. Long-term government bond yields declined and headline equity indexes increased, on net, in most of these countries, with bank stock prices in the euro area rising more than broader indexes. In addition, debt issuance by both governments and banks in the European periphery picked up, and sovereign yield spreads in those countries were flat to down, on balance, over the period. In contrast, amid a ratcheting-up of financial market strains in some emerging market economies, headline stock price indexes in most emerging market economies declined, outflows from emerging market mutual funds continued, and yield spreads on dollar-denominated emerging market bonds increased. Local-currency yields rose in some emerging market economies, such as Brazil, South Africa, and Turkey, and short-term interbank rates in China were volatile and trended higher over the period. The foreign exchange value of the dollar appreciated against most other currencies over the period, with particularly large increases against the Argentine peso and the Turkish lira. Staff Economic OutlookIn the economic projection prepared by the staff for the January FOMC meeting, growth of real gross domestic product (GDP) in the second half of 2013 was estimated to have been stronger than the staff had expected, though some of the strength in inventory investment and net exports was possibly transitory. The staff's medium-term forecast for real GDP growth was little revised, on balance, as the momentum implied by faster GDP growth in the second half of 2013 was largely offset by a higher projected path for the foreign exchange value of the dollar. In addition, the staff revised downward its view of the pace at which potential output had increased over recent years and would increase this year and next. The staff continued to project that real GDP would expand more quickly over the next few years than in 2013 and that real GDP would rise faster than potential output. This acceleration in economic activity was expected to be supported by still-accommodative monetary policy and an easing in the effects of fiscal policy restraint on economic growth, as well as by increases in consumer and business confidence, further improvements in credit availability and financial conditions, and continued gains in foreign economic growth. The expansion in economic activity was anticipated to lead to a slow reduction in resource slack over the projection period, and the unemployment rate was expected to decline gradually, reaching the staff's estimate of its longer-run natural rate in 2016. The staff's forecast for inflation was little changed from the projection prepared for the previous FOMC meeting, although the near-term forecast was revised down a little to reflect recent declines in energy prices. The staff continued to forecast that inflation would run well below the Committee's 2 percent objective early this year but above the low level observed over much of 2013. Over the medium term, with longer-run inflation expectations assumed to remain stable, changes in commodity and import prices expected to be muted, and slack in labor and product markets receding gradually, inflation was projected to move back slowly toward the Committee's objective. In considering recent events in emerging market economies, the staff judged that the effects of recent financial market volatility had not been large enough to have a material effect on the overall outlook for those economies and, similarly, that the spillover effects on the United States of developments to date were likely to be modest. Because conditions were in flux, however, these markets would require careful monitoring. The staff continued to see a number of risks around its outlook. The downside risks to the forecast for real GDP growth were thought to have diminished, but the risks were still seen as tilted a little to the downside because, with the target federal funds rate at its effective lower bound, the economy was not well positioned to withstand future adverse shocks. At the same time, the staff viewed the risks around its outlook for the unemployment rate and for inflation as roughly balanced. Participants' Views on Current Conditions and the Economic OutlookIn their discussion of the economic situation and the outlook, participants generally noted that economic activity had strengthened more in the second half of 2013 than they had expected at the time of the December meeting. In particular, consumer spending had strengthened, and business investment appeared to be on a more solid uptrend. Although the government shutdown likely damped economic growth somewhat, the extent of restraint on growth from fiscal policy diminished late in the year. However, several participants observed that temporary factors had helped boost real GDP during the second half, pointing specifically to the substantial contributions from net exports and increased inventory investment. As a result, participants generally did not expect the recent pace of economic growth to be sustained, but they nonetheless anticipated that the economy would expand at a moderate pace in coming quarters. That expansion was expected to be supported by highly accommodative monetary policy, a further easing of fiscal restraint, and a modest additional pickup in global economic growth, as well as continued improvement in credit conditions and the ongoing strengthening in household balance sheets. A number of participants noted that recent economic news had reinforced their confidence in their projection of moderate economic growth over the medium run. It was also noted that recent developments in several emerging market economies, if they continued, could pose downside risks to the outlook. Overall, most participants still viewed the risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having become more nearly balanced in recent months. Consumer spending had advanced strongly in late 2013, contributing importantly to the pickup in growth of economic activity. This picture was reinforced by survey data that suggested that consumers had become more optimistic about future income gains. While noting that households remained cautious, participants cited a number of factors that were likely to continue to underpin gains in household spending, including rising house prices, growing confidence in the sustainability of the economic expansion, increasing payrolls, and the high ratio of household wealth to disposable income. Although the recovery in the housing sector had slowed somewhat in recent months, a number of participants reported solid activity in their Districts. Moreover, various factors were seen as likely to support stronger growth in the sector going forward, including favorable housing affordability, which was in turn partly due to still-low mortgage rates, and demographic trends. However, there were also reasons for being cautious about the prospects for housing construction, such as recent disappointing news on permits for new construction and the possibility that investors' interest in purchasing properties for the rental market would recede. Business contacts in many parts of the country reported that they were guardedly optimistic about prospects for 2014. While inventory investment would likely come down from its recent unusually high level, participants heard more reports that the business sector was willing to increase spending on capital projects. A number of factors were cited as likely to support such an increase, including the high level of profits, the low level of interest rates, a reduction in policy uncertainty, the easing of lending standards, and large holdings of liquid assets by corporations. In discussing financial developments over the intermeeting period, several participants noted that the Committee's December decision to make a modest reduction in the monthly pace of asset purchases had not resulted in an adverse market reaction. Several participants observed that current market expectations for asset purchases and the future course of the federal funds rate were reasonably well aligned with participants' own expectations of the path for policy. However, one participant expressed concern that longer-term interest rates could rise sharply if market participants' expectations of future monetary policy came to deviate from those of policymakers, as appeared to have happened last summer, while a couple of others argued that the current highly accommodative stance of monetary policy could lead investors to take on excessive risk and so undermine longer-term financial stability. Recent volatility in emerging markets appeared to have had only a limited effect to date on U.S. financial markets. Nevertheless, participants agreed that a number of developments in financial markets needed to be watched carefully, including the financing situation of the Puerto Rican government and particularly the unfolding events in emerging markets. In their discussion of recent labor market developments, many participants commented on the relatively small increase in payrolls in December and the further decline in the unemployment rate. A number of participants indicated that the December payrolls figure may have been an anomaly, perhaps importantly reflecting bad weather, and it was noted that the initial readings on payrolls in recent years had subsequently tended to be revised up. In addition, some participants reported that their business contacts had become more positive about hiring in the year ahead. Participants continued to debate the reliability of the unemployment rate as an indicator of overall labor market conditions, taking into account the further decline in labor force participation in recent quarters, still-elevated levels of underemployment and long-term unemployment, and the apparent absence of wage pressures. Much of the downward trend in the labor force participation rate since the start of the recession was seen as the result of shifts in the demographic composition of the workforce and the retirement of older workers; the extent of the cyclical portion of the decline was viewed by some as difficult to gauge at present. A few participants judged that the decline in participation for younger and prime-age workers likely reflected the slow recovery in jobs and wages and so might be reversed as labor market conditions strengthened. In addition, several others pointed out that broader concepts of the unemployment rate, such as those that include nonparticipants who report that they want a job and those working part time who want full-time work, remained well above the official unemployment rate, suggesting that considerable labor market slack remained despite the reduction in the unemployment rate. A few participants noted worker shortages in specific regions and occupations, with one District reporting widespread shortages of skilled labor leading to emerging labor cost pressures. However, a number of participants saw the low rates of increase in most measures of wages as consistent with continued labor market slack. Inflation remained below the Committee's longer-run objective over the intermeeting period. Participants still anticipated that, with longer-run inflation expectations stable, transitory factors that had been damping inflation likely to recede, and economic activity picking up, inflation would move back toward the Committee's 2 percent objective over the medium run. However, several factors that cast doubt on this outcome were also mentioned, including slow growth in labor costs, the lack of pricing power reported by business contacts in various parts of the country, the low level of inflation in other advanced economies, and the danger that inflation expectations at short and medium horizons might not be as well anchored as longer-run inflation expectations. Participants noted that inflation persistently below the Committee's objective would pose risks to economic performance and that inflation developments would need to be monitored carefully. In their discussion of the path for monetary policy, most participants judged that the incoming information about the economy was broadly in line with their expectations and that a further modest step down in the pace of purchases was appropriate. A couple of participants observed that continued low readings on inflation and considerable slack in the labor market raised questions about the desirability of reducing the pace of purchases; these participants judged, however, that a pause in the reduction of purchases was not justified at this stage, especially in light of the strength of the economy in the second half of 2013. Several participants argued that, in the absence of an appreciable change in the economic outlook, there should be a clear presumption in favor of continuing to reduce the pace of purchases by a total of $10 billion at each FOMC meeting. That said, a number of participants noted that if the economy deviated substantially from its expected path, the Committee should be prepared to respond with an appropriate adjustment to the trajectory of its purchases. Participants agreed that, with the unemployment rate approaching 6-1/2 percent, it would soon be appropriate for the Committee to change its forward guidance in order to provide information about its decisions regarding the federal funds rate after that threshold was crossed. A range of views was expressed about the form that such forward guidance might take. Some participants favored quantitative guidance along the lines of the existing thresholds, while others preferred a qualitative approach that would provide additional information regarding the factors that would guide the Committee's policy decisions. Several participants suggested that risks to financial stability should appear more explicitly in the list of factors that would guide decisions about the federal funds rate once the unemployment rate threshold is crossed, and several participants argued that the forward guidance should give greater emphasis to the Committee's willingness to keep rates low if inflation were to remain persistently below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run objective. Additional proposals included relying to a greater extent on the Summary of Economic Projections as a communications device and including in the guidance an indication of the Committee's willingness to adjust policy to lean against undesired changes in financial conditions. A few participants raised the possibility that it might be appropriate to increase the federal funds rate relatively soon. One participant cited evidence that the equilibrium real interest rate had moved higher, and a couple of them noted that some standard policy rules tended to suggest that the federal funds rate should be raised above its effective lower bound before the middle of this year. Other participants, however, suggested that prescriptions from standard policy rules were not appropriate in current circumstances, either because the target federal funds rate had been constrained by the lower bound for some time or because the equilibrium real rate of interest was likely still being held down by various factors, including the lingering effects of the financial crisis, and was significantly below the value of the longer-run rate built into standard policy rules. Committee Policy ActionCommittee members saw the information received over the intermeeting period as indicating that growth in economic activity had picked up in recent quarters. Labor market indicators were mixed but on balance showed further improvement. The unemployment rate had declined but remained elevated when judged against members' estimates of the longer-run normal rate of unemployment. Household spending and business fixed investment had advanced more quickly in recent months than earlier in 2013, while the recovery in the housing sector had slowed somewhat. Fiscal policy was restraining economic growth, although the extent of the restraint had diminished. The Committee expected that, with appropriate policy accommodation, the economy would expand at a moderate pace and the unemployment rate would gradually decline toward levels consistent with the dual mandate. Moreover, members continued to judge that the risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market had become more nearly balanced. Inflation was running below the Committee's longer-run objective, and this was seen as posing possible risks to economic performance, but members anticipated that stable inflation expectations and strengthening economic activity would, over time, return inflation to the Committee's 2 percent objective. However, in light of their concerns about the persistence of low inflation, many members saw a need for the Committee to monitor inflation developments carefully for evidence that inflation was moving back toward its longer-run objective. In their discussion of monetary policy in the period ahead, all members agreed that the cumulative improvement in labor market conditions and the likelihood of continuing improvement indicated that it would be appropriate to make a further measured reduction in the pace of its asset purchases at this meeting. Members again judged that, if the economy continued to develop as anticipated, further reductions would be undertaken in measured steps. Members also underscored that the pace of asset purchases was not on a preset course and would remain contingent on the Committee's outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the efficacy and costs of purchases. Accordingly, the Committee agreed that, beginning in February, it would add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $30 billion per month rather than $35 billion per month, and would add to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $35 billion per month rather than $40 billion per month. While making a further measured reduction in its pace of purchases, the Committee emphasized that its holdings of longer-term securities were sizable and would still be increasing, which would promote a stronger economic recovery by maintaining downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, supporting mortgage markets, and helping to make broader financial conditions more accommodative. The Committee also reiterated that it would continue its asset purchases, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. In considering forward guidance about the target federal funds rate, all members agreed to retain the thresholds-based language employed in recent statements. In addition, the Committee decided to repeat the qualitative guidance, introduced in December, clarifying that a range of labor market indicators would be used when assessing the appropriate stance of policy once the unemployment rate threshold had been crossed. Members also agreed to reiterate language indicating the Committee's anticipation, based on its current assessment of additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments, that it would be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate well past the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6-1/2 percent, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's longer-run objective. Members also discussed other elements of the policy statement to be issued following the meeting. Members agreed on updating the description of the state of the economy to reflect the recent strength of household and business spending and to note that, although the labor market showed further improvement on balance, the recent indicators were mixed. Members did not see an appreciable change in the balance of risks and so left the statement's description of risks unchanged. At the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee voted to authorize and direct the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, until it was instructed otherwise, to execute transactions in the SOMA in accordance with the following domestic policy directive: The vote encompassed approval of the statement below to be released at 2:00 p.m.: "Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in December indicates that growth in economic activity picked up in recent quarters. Labor market indicators were mixed but on balance showed further improvement. The unemployment rate declined but remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment advanced more quickly in recent months, while the recovery in the housing sector slowed somewhat. Fiscal policy is restraining economic growth, although the extent of restraint is diminishing. Inflation has been running below the Committee's longer-run objective, but longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace and the unemployment rate will gradually decline toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as having become more nearly balanced. The Committee recognizes that inflation persistently below its 2 percent objective could pose risks to economic performance, and it is monitoring inflation developments carefully for evidence that inflation will move back toward its objective over the medium term. Taking into account the extent of federal fiscal retrenchment since the inception of its current asset purchase program, the Committee continues to see the improvement in economic activity and labor market conditions over that period as consistent with growing underlying strength in the broader economy. In light of the cumulative progress toward maximum employment and the improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions, the Committee decided to make a further measured reduction in the pace of its asset purchases. Beginning in February, the Committee will add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $30 billion per month rather than $35 billion per month, and will add to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $35 billion per month rather than $40 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. The Committee's sizable and still-increasing holdings of longer-term securities should maintain downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative, which in turn should promote a stronger economic recovery and help to ensure that inflation, over time, is at the rate most consistent with the Committee's dual mandate. The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and financial developments in coming months and will continue its purchases of Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved substantially in a context of price stability. If incoming information broadly supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective, the Committee will likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured steps at future meetings. However, asset purchases are not on a preset course, and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on the Committee's outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy will remain appropriate for a considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the economic recovery strengthens. The Committee also reaffirmed its expectation that the current exceptionally low target range for the federal funds rate of 0 to ¼ percent will be appropriate at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continue to be well anchored. In determining how long to maintain a highly accommodative stance of monetary policy, the Committee will also consider other information, including additional measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. The Committee continues to anticipate, based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate well past the time that the unemployment rate declines below 6-1/2 percent, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent." Voting for this action: Ben Bernanke, William C. Dudley, Richard W. Fisher, Narayana Kocherlakota, Sandra Pianalto, Charles I. Plosser, Jerome H. Powell, Jeremy C. Stein, Daniel K. Tarullo, and Janet L. Yellen. Voting against this action: None. It was agreed that the next meeting of the Committee would be held on Tuesday-Wednesday, March 18-19, 2014. The meeting adjourned at 10:55 a.m. on January 29, 2014. Notation VoteBy notation vote completed on January 7, 2014, the Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the Committee meeting held on December 17-18, 2013. FREE AppDownload
Inflation has been lower than expected in the U.S. One of the main reasons for this is because health care cost inflation has been extremely tame. But that appears to be turning around. "Healthcare inflation has begun to accelerate," wrote Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna pointing to the new producer price index numbers. "The price of “selected health care industries” rose +0.3% in January following gains of +0.2% in December and +0.3% in November." These numbers are likely to have an amplified effect when we get an updated reading on the PCE deflator, the preferred inflation measure of the Federal Reserve. "While these figures are not seasonally adjusted, we can see in the chart below that they track the seasonally adjusted health care prices in the PCE deflator very closely, as they should, since the former are an input into the latter," added LaVorgna. "The correlation coefficient between the two series is a high 0.75. The acceleration in health care costs should push the core PCE deflator higher, thereby helping to narrow the 60 basis point gap between the year-over-year growth rates in the two series." The focus of the inflation conversation lately has been on wage growth, which also has been subdued. But if health care inflation acceleration is real, that conversation could shift quickly. And this could put the Fed under increasing amounts of pressure to tighten monetary policy sooner than later. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
America's cities are economic powerhouses. Reddit user atrubetskoy created a map showing just how important cities are to the American economy. Atrubetskoy took gross metropolitan product data — the total of economic activity in a metropolitan area, and the equivalent of gross domestic product for cities — and noted that the top 23 cities have GMPs that add up to about to half of overall United States GDP. The orange regions fall in those top 23 metro areas, and the blue region falls outside them, accounting for the other half of GDP: Reddit user atrubetskoy Here are the top 23 cities, and their 2012 gross metropolitan products, from the Bureau of Economic Analysis:    FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA mock Bitcoin is displayed on a table in an illustration picture taken in Berlin JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Israel said on Wednesday it was considering regulation of bitcoin and warned citizens that using such decentralized virtual currencies was risky. As a crypto-currency, bitcoin is passed between two parties digitally and can be traded on exchanges for real-world currencies. Its value fluctuates according to user demand but it is not backed by any government or central bank. Supporters of bitcoin are drawn to its decentralized platform and say it is here to stay. Detractors call it a bubble and expect it to be forgotten in a year or two. However, it has proved increasingly popular and governments and regulators around the world have been searching for the best way to respond. Israel, home to pioneering firms in hi-tech fields such as cryptography, has emerged as a bitcoin hotspot, prompting central bank governor Karnit Flug to convene a meeting this week with other regulators, including those for capital markets, taxes, securities and money laundering and terror financing. "It was agreed to continue to examine various perspectives related to the use of, and trade in, virtual currencies," the authorities said in a joint statement on Wednesday. "These perspectives include possible macro effects, their legal standing, their regulation, money laundering and terror financing risks, taxation and consumer protection." They said the Israeli public should be aware that bitcoin is unsupervised, is not legal tender and presents fertile ground for fraudulent activities. At the same time, such transactions are anonymous and often hard to trace, they added. CRIMINAL ACTIVITY "This anonymity is liable to be exploited for criminal activity, including money laundering, financing illegal activities and financing terrorism," the statement said. "Law enforcement authorities are therefore likely to close trading platforms in virtual currencies which are used for illegitimate activities, by preventing access or use of customers' capital, which would likely be held by those platforms," the statement added. Other governments have also issued warnings on the use of bitcoin and New York's financial regulator revealed plans this month to govern virtual currency firms in the state in order to protect consumers and combat money laundering. At least two dozen Israeli startups have popped up in the past year with a view to creating tools that will allow bitcoin to be used in almost any kind of transaction - from buying shoes to issuing company stock. In recent weeks, bitcoin was hit by attacks from unknown computer hackers that led to problems at two exchanges. They had to temporarily halt withdrawals by customers who stored bitcoins in digital wallets provided by the exchanges. This week, a bitcoin is worth about $635, down from around the $1,000 mark in late 2013. However, it was worth only about $150 as recently as last September. (Editing by Gareth Jones) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarThis strikes me, on first take, as a smart way to broadly look at how America is doing, economically.Richard Reeves of Brookings: At the top, we can see an elite doing well in a labor market offering big returns to human capital. This is perhaps not the just the top 1% (much though politics might be easier if that were so) but, say, the top decile, or 10%, of the income distribution. This stratum is not only prospering economically. For the people on this top rung, education levels are high and rising. Families are planned, marriages strong, neighborhoods safe and rich in social capital, networks plentiful, BMIs low and savings rates high. Below this affluent class is a broad swath sometimes dubbed the ‘squeezed middle.’ This group have decent labor market participation rates, but wages that are rising slowly. In many cases, two wages are needed to support the family. They own a home, but are not otherwise wealthy. Savings exist for emergencies or one-off expenditures, but run out fast if the households has a serious downward shock to income. Private schooling is rarely an option, financially. (This is a group that might benefit from one of the schemes of wage insurances currently being discussed, most recently by Prof Miles Corak). At the bottom of the social scale are those whose poverty is entrenched. Labor market attachment is weak, with many people in long-term unemployment. Teen pregnancy is still heard of, unlike in most communities today. Poverty is felt in most domains of life – crime, health, education, parenting, drug addiction and housing. The growing economic segregation of neighborhoods further isolates this group from chances of work, better schooling or valuable social networks. Upward intergenerational mobility rates are low. And how will automation affect this trifurcation with policy intervention? Solidify the barriers between Affluent and Squeezed with the former skimming off the top bit of the latter? Worsen the mobility of the Entrenched, creating more zero marginal product workers and even less labor force participation? Much to think about here. FREE AppDownload
There are several explanations for this decline: 1. The Russian economy is barely growing, with the GDP growth projection falling below that of the US. Reuters: - Russia's central bank said on Tuesday the country's economic growth rate may reach the level of 1.7 to 2.0 percent in 2015-16. The forecast, in a quarterly monetary policy report, implies a downward revision compared with its earlier predictions. It said in the previous quarterly report that it saw Russia's medium-term growth potential as 2-2.5 percent. The bank predicted this year's growth at between 1.5 and 1.8 percent, down from a forecast of 2 percent made last quarter. While such GDP trajectory may be OK for some developed economies, growth below 2% is a problem for a BRIC nation. 2. As discussed earlier (see post), unlike its counterparts among emerging economies, the Russian central bank has no intention of supporting the ruble. In fact many in Russia want to see the currency decline further in order to extract more rubles from the nation's energy exports. 3. We are also seeing some spillover from the Ukrainian mess (see story). Given the ties between the two countries and the escalating tensions in Kiev, there is some risk that Russia could become more entangled with its neighbor. That engagement could take various forms, some of which are not too palatable for the capital markets (see discussion). FREE AppDownload
Alan Crowhurst/Getty ImagesYesterday, we looked at a Goldman Sachs interview question based on a simple betting game called Martinagle, as described in Kevin Roose's new book "Young Money". Here is Roose's description of the game: Here's a game I've just invented. The rules are that I flip a coin, and if it comes up heads, you pay me a dollar and the game is over. If it comes up tails, you flip again. If it comes up heads the second time, you pay me two dollars, and the game is over. If it comes up tails again, you flip again. Third time, you pay me four dollars for heads and the game is over, and you flip again for tails. And so on and so on, each time doubling the payout for heads, and flipping again on tails. How much would I have to pay you up front to play this game? As we noted yesterday, a person's answer to this question gives an indication of their appetite for risk. The player flips a coin repeatedly until it comes up heads, and the player's eventual loss doubles for each tail flipped before that merciful heads appears. The good news for our player is that, while her losses are doubling with each additional tail, the probability of getting a bunch of tails in a row keeps halving. The probability that our player only loses one dollar — the probability that she gets a heads on the very first flip — is 1/2, assuming the Goldman Sachs interviewer has provided a fair coin. So if she bets one dollar, she has a fifty-fifty shot of breaking even, and a fifty-fifty chance of losing money. For our player to lose two dollars, she would have to first flip a tail, and then on the second toss, get a heads. The probability that this is our player's outcome is the product of the probabilities of each of these tosses — 1/2 for the initial tail, times 1/2 for the second flip giving heads. This gives us a probability of 1/4. This means that if our player bets two dollars, she has a 1/2 probability of flipping a heads on the first toss and winning a dollar, or a 1/4 probability of breaking even. Adding these together, she has a 3/4, or 75% chance, of either winning or breaking even. This is how the game measures risk appetite. A smaller ask gives a smaller probability of winning or breaking even. A player is taking a bigger risk asking for one dollar to play than if she asks for two dollars — in the former case, they have a 50% chance of avoiding a loss, and in the latter a 75% chance. We can continue as above, looking at the probabilities for the game going on for a particular number of flips, and the associated losses: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz The first column gives the length of the game. One flip means our player gets heads on her first flip, and the game ends. Two flips means she gets one tail and then a head. Three flips means she gets two tails and then a head, and so on. The second column gives the probability of each outcome — 1/2 raised to the number of flips, or 1/2 times itself that number of times. The third column shows the player's loss associated with each outcome. If the player wants to cover herself against a particular outcome, she needs to ask for at least this much money. The final column shows the probability that the player either wins or breaks even if she asks for the corresponding amount of money in the third column. This is the sum of the probabilities of the outcomes where she wins or breaks even: we saw above that if she asks for two dollars, she has a 50% chance of winning a dollar, and a 25% chance of breaking even, giving a 75% chance of one of these events happening.  Similarly, if she asks for four dollars, she wins three dollars if she gets a heads on the first toss, she wins two dollars if she throws a tails and then a heads, and she breaks even if she throws two tails and then a heads. Her chances of at least pushing are thus 50% + 25% + 12.5% = 87.5%. How much a player asks for shows how cautious she is. The more she asks, the more she is avoiding risk. If our player wants to be at least 90% sure she won't lose money, she needs to ask for at least eight dollars, based on the above table. If she wants to be 99% sure she won't lose, she needs to ask for at least 64 dollars. If she wants to cover the tail risk of flipping 13 tails in a row before flipping heads — an event with a probability of less than one in ten thousand — she needs to ask for $8,192. Of course, there is always the chance, however small, that our player might not flip heads in any reasonable amount of time. After 44 straight tails — an event with a probability less than one in ten trillion — she would be in the hole for more than current U.S. GDP. Or, as Reuters' Felix Salmon put it on Twitter, "No, the correct answer is 'I don’t take on unlimited contingent liabilities, for any up front $'".   FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Paul SancyaTesla reports Q4 earnings after the bell. The electric car maker is expected to report adjusted earnings of $0.25 per share, on revenue of $713.50 million. On a generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) basis, Tesla is expected to post a loss of $0.02 per share. During the Detroit Auto show, Tesla announced that the company delivered 6,900 Model S vehicles in the quarter. This was much higher than the 6,000 vehicles management targeted in its Q3 earnings report. Elon Musk has previously said the Tesla is production constrained not demand constrained, so the number was crucial from that point of view. Management already said they began 2014 with a 600 per week pace, which works out to 30,000 annualized. So this time around we will be watching for some other key metrics like their 25% gross margin goal without the zero emission vehicle (ZEV) credits. We'll also be watching for any commentary of Generation 3 vehicles. Tesla hit its all time high at $206 on Tuesday and closed at $203.70, a record high. The stock has been on a tear on reports that Apple might acquire Tesla. The stock took a beating in October and November last year after company missed analyst estimates and after three Model S cars were involved in fires. Tesla is still looking into the fire in Toronto earlier this month. Here's a look at Tesla's one-year chart: GoogleFinance FREE AppDownload
"A lot of people have been credited with starting the modern-day tea party but make no mistake, it was Rick Santelli," Glenn Beck told Business Insider in an email. "His off the cuff monologue spoke the words that millions of Americans felt but could not nor dare not speak." Five years ago on the floor of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, CNBC's Rick Santelli bellowed what would later become his most famous rant ever. Which is saying something if you've ever watched CNBC, where Santelli has reigned as de facto ranter-in-chief since 1999. "All you capitalists that want to show up to Lake Michigan, I'm going to start organizing," he screamed from the CME on February 19, 2009. It was time, Santelli said, for another Tea Party. And with that, a new movement was born. Santelli would later call it the "best five minutes of my life." His infamous segment — in response to a minor homeowner bailout — is now credited with helping launch the Tea Party tidal wave that began during the early years of the Obama administration and ended up "shellacking" the Democrats in the 2010 midterms. Business Insider caught up with Santelli via email to see how he feels about the rant's legacy. Business Insider: Do you still feel like that segment was the "best 5 minutes of your life?" Rick Santelli: Professionally the best five minutes of my life. BI: Did you plan the speech? Or was it all off the cuff? RS: All off the cuff. BI: Do you stand by what you said or regret any of it? Do you feel any differently now? RS: Stand by...no regrets. Don't feel any differently now. Lots of people, companies and agencies played a role but that day I was focused on the home owners that failed in their personal financial responsibility. It was about contract law and about the government promoting bad behavior. BI: Glenn Beck has credited you for getting the ball rolling on the Tea Party. Do you think you fathered the movement? RS: I was fed up, the country was fed up....taxpayers were on the hook after the credit bubble popped.....the country was a tinderbox and I said something that lit the fuse. In the years since the diatribe, the Tea Party still proves to be a powerful force within the American political system, its Members of Congress pressuring both the GOP establishment and the White House on issues from the debt ceiling to immigration. But to a certain extent, the intensity of 2010 has flamed out. Santelli took his share of criticism. "At this point, the financial network is channeling the culture it covers. The barrier between reporter and subject has nearly dissolved," Columbia Journalism Review's Ryan Chittum wrote at the time. "For a journalist to go off with 'Tea Party' rhetoric while maligning millions of down-on-their-luck folks out there is just wrong." Watch the famous rant. Happy five year anniversary:  FREE AppDownload
Hulton Archive /Getty ImagesAfter a brief 5%-10% swoon over the past month, the stock market has popped right back to its all-time highs. I own stocks, so that's good news for me. But I still think there's a decent chance that we'll see a major decline in stock prices over the next year or two (a 30%-50% price drop), and the recent market moves don't change that. And I'm still very confident that stock performance from current prices will be lousy over the next 7-10 years. How lousy? I think we'll see average returns of about 2.5% per year for the next 10 years, a far cry from the 10% long-term average. As I've explained, for many reasons, I'm not selling my stocks as a result of this poor outlook. (Although if the market goes much higher, I may rethink that). I'm just not expecting to get a good long-term return from this level. And I'm keeping some powder dry, in the form of cash and bonds, which I will move into stocks if we do see a crash like the one I described above. Stock market opinions follow the market, not vice versa. So, a month ago, when the market experienced its first meaningful decline in more than a year, the overall consensus started to become more bearish. Similarly, now that stocks have recovered, everyone's wildly bullish again. Be wary of that! As Warren Buffett has observed, one of the keys to not destroying yourself in the market is to "be fearful when others are greedy, and be greedy when others are fearful." So if the market continues to charge higher, try not to get giddy with the herd. (At the same time, don't be so afraid of the market that you avoid stocks altogether. If you have a long-term investment horizon — longer than 5-10 years — a significant percentage of your portfolio should almost always be invested in stocks. The risk of getting demolished by inflation over such periods is too high to try to always try to hide in bonds or cash. The market will never seem "safe." Ever. And it will seem the least safe when it is actually the most safe — after a brutal bear market like the one we had in 2008-2009. So don't try to time anything based on how "safe" the market seems and how "comfortable" you feel. You'll get hosed.) Anyway, why am I so bearish about long-term returns? Valuation. Stocks are now very expensive according to every valid long-term valuation measure that I look at. In the past, when stocks have reached these levels on these measures, they have produced lousy long-term returns. And I think the same thing will happen this time. I've walked through these valuation measures in detail here. Today, I'll just share one chart that includes them all. This chart was produced by a fund manager named John Hussman, of the Hussman Funds. John Hussman of the Hussman Funds is one of the most disciplined and fact-based investment managers of all those who regularly share their logic publicly. John Hussman also made a cautious (prudent) decision during the financial crisis that has hurt his investment returns ever since. As a result, most people who used to listen to John Hussman have decided that he's an idiot and that everything he says should be ignored. John Hussman is not an idiot. And past performance  — especially recent past performance — should only rarely be used to judge whether someone is worth listening to. (Why? Because a few years of performance doesn't tell you much about whether an investor is good or just lucky. Everyone can put together a few good years. But investment returns tend to regress to means over time. And luck always runs out.) I, personally, don't pay much attention to John Hussman's recent investment performance.  What I do pay attention to is John Hussman's logic and facts. And I find his logic and facts far more persuasive than the logic and facts of most of the whooping and effusing market bulls I see every day on TV. So if you think I should disregard the message in the chart below, please do not tell me that John Hussman's recent returns have been crappy. I know that. Please tell me why I should ignore the logic and facts in the chart. In short, please tell me why "it's different this time." And while you're telling me that, please bear in mind that the phrase, "it's different this time," is described, with reason, as "the four most expensive words in the English language." Here's the chart: John Hussman, Hussman Funds This chart compares the historical performance of seven (7) valuation measures against the actual performance of the market. One of these valuation measures is Professor Robert Shiller's famous "cyclically adjusted P/E ratio," which bulls have recently put a lot of effort into trying to dismiss and debunk. But please note that the CAPE is only one of these measures. There are 6 other ones in this chart. And they all show the same thing. The orange line in the chart is the average of these 7 valuation measures. The blue line in the chart, which stops 10 years ago, is the actual performance of the S&amp;P 500 in the 10 years following the date of these measures. (We don't yet know the future 10-year performance of the market for the more recent time periods, which is why the line stops.) So, again, what is this chart saying? It is saying that these 7 valuation measures, all of which have shown to have been highly predictive in the past, are suggesting that future stock returns from this level will be crappy. Could all of these valuation measures be wrong? Yes, they could all be wrong.  It could, in fact, be "different this time."  (Sometimes it is.) But unlike some of the more bullish measures that today's bulls sometimes throw around — such as "the Fed Model" or "price-to-adjusted-predicted-operating-earnings" — these measures have been predictive for many decades. So if the signal these measures are sending is wrong, it will have to be because "it's different this time." Okay, fine, but what about a crash? Why do I think there's a decent chance of a crash? Because, although stocks could deliver lousy performance for the next 7-10 years by just parking at this level and calmly moving sideways, that's generally not the way stocks behave. Generally, stocks deliver average performance by booming and busting. And, right now, you may be unnerved to learn, stocks are more expensive than they have been at any time in the past century, with the exception of a few months in 1929 and a few years around the massive bull-market peak in 1999 and 2000. Is it possible that stocks will just keep charging higher from here, possibly for years? Yes, again, it is possible. Anything is possible. But it doesn't seem likely. And, by the way, please don't take comfort from the recent recovery from the dip of the past two months. This behavior is entirely consistent with the behavior of stocks just before some major crashes. Don't believe it? Let's look at some more charts. (Yes, they're from John Hussman. Yes, I know, John Hussman's recent returns have been crappy. Focus on the charts, please, not John Hussman or John Hussman's recent returns). Here's the past ~year in our current market: John Hussman Here's the year before the crash in 1929 (80% crash). Note the major recovery to close to the old highs just before the real crash: John Hussman Here's the year before the 1973 crash (50% crash). Same recovery just before the real crash: John Hussman Here's the year before the 2000 crash (50% crash). Same pattern. I remember that one, by the way. I was right in the middle of it. And I remember feeling relieved when the market recovered almost to its old highs. Then it crashed: John Hussman Yes, the market behavior before other crashes has been modestly different.  Sometimes the market sets a new high before it crashes. And, sometimes, it doesn't crash — sometimes it just moves sideways for a long time or charges even higher. Just please don't delude yourself into thinking that, because the market just recovered from a "dip" or because cautious investors like John Hussman have been "wrong for years," we're now safe and can go hog wild. And also don't delude yourself into thinking that we need a "catalyst" for a crash. We don't. SEE ALSO: I'm Going To Make A Confession: I Don't Know What The Market Is Going To Do FREE AppDownload
Daniel Goodman / Business Insider There's a theory among startup investors that one good way for an entrepreneur to come up with an idea for a startup is to look at all the services big, successful, older companies provide and then build a company around doing just one of them. In a talk given at Y Combinator's startup school, Andreessen Horowitz partner Chris Dixon called this "un-bundling." He talked about how the big newspapers of the 1990s provided three services. They created content. The published classified ads. And they curated content (through page layout, etc).  Now there are several big companies doing just those those services. The Huffington Post creates news content. Craigslist publishes classified ads. Twitter curates news. What Dixon calls "unbundling," the partners at another big venture capital firm, Spark Capital, call "disaggregation." One of Spark's former analysts, David Haber, made this cool chart showing how all the various services of Craigslist are now being done by individual startups. Check it out: David Haber So which big companies are getting disaggregated next? Lots of startups think the answer is the Apple iOS ecosystem. For a few years there, you probably got all your digital music and movies from iTunes. Now you probably listen to Spotify and watch Netflix. And instead of storing photos on your iPhone, maybe you keep them on Dropbox. Alexander Pease, an analyst at Union Square Ventures, has another cool idea: Banks. He points to startups like Dwolla, which helps merchants accept payments and avoid credit card fees. There's also Wonga, which provide payday loans and Primarq which does home equity loans. Over on Pease's blog, he's made a chart, modeled after the Craiglist one above. Click on it for a larger image. Alexander Pease FREE AppDownload
Think the weather isn't having a major effect on the economy? Here's housing starts in the Midwest, where the cold has bit the hardest. (Via @conorsen) FRED FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) Citi's Economic Surprise Index, a measure that tracks actual economic data relative to consensus estimates of market economists, has fallen to zero following a string of weaker-than-expected data releases driven by a slowdown in economic activity in December and January. The last time the index was this low was at the end of October, in the wake of the government shutdown. At the time, economists revised down estimates for Q4 data points to reflect the likely effect the shutdown would have on economic activity. When the subsequent weakness never materialized, the newly-revised estimates were easy to beat, leading to a surge in the index to multi-year highs. Over the past month, however, the index has fallen swiftly from its Jan. 15 peak. December and January data points have been weaker than expected — in part due to unseasonably harsh winter weather. Given the spate of winter storms that have continued into February, many market economists are telling clients that they won't be able to get a "clean" read on the near-term direction of the economy until April, when March data points are released. However, we could be close to a bottom in economic activity relative to expectations for now as economists incorporate new information into their forecasts. FREE AppDownload
AP  PhotoMartha Levinson in Downton AbbeyIt seems like private banking never gets any respect – whether on this site, in random stories you read online, or even in interviews for other jobs. But as one commenter last time around rightly pointed out, there are a lot of interesting groups and offices operating in the space… IF you look in the right places. While it will never be as analytical as, say, a quant hedge fund role, private banking can still offer you rewarding work that requires thought and creativity. The only catch is that you’ll probably have to join a family office to get that kind of exposure. Our interviewee today knows all about private banking at both large banks and family offices, and he’s going to break it down and tell you all about the trade-offs of both environments. He also made the most unusual career transition we’ve featured on the site, moving into finance from a professional soccer (OK, “football” if you’re outside North America) background. Here’s how he did it, and what private banking is like at family offices vs. bulge bracket banks: Breaking In: How to Set a Stop Loss in Your Personal Life Q: Your story. Let’s hear it. A: Sure. Back in university, I was torn between going into finance and making a run at becoming a professional soccer player. I didn’t know exactly what I wanted to do within finance, so I ended up taking a 3-month long PB / PWM internship that turned into a 9-month internship (which lasted until I graduated). The firm really wanted me to come back, but I didn’t want to give up on being a professional athlete at that stage. So I moved to South America and lived and worked there for over 2 years, making money by playing soccer and then working part-time in PB / PWM roles at various banks, mostly in Argentina. I set a “stop loss” for myself and decided that I wouldn’t stick around unless I could see a path to turning pro within 3 years. That didn’t happen, so I returned back to Miami after my adventure in South America, immediately contacted my old firm, and they hired me back the next day. I got really lucky because someone had just quit the week before, so I walked in and took advantage of an open position. Q: They must have really liked you if you pulled that off after a 3-year absence. What can you tell us about the finance scene in Miami? A: It’s almost entirely private banking / private wealth management and it has relatively little investment banking. There are a few hedge funds in West Palm Beach, but not nearly as many as you see in other major cities. Lots of students here attend the University of Miami or Florida International University, neither of which is a “target school.” Because of the environment here, plus the fact that I didn’t want the hours and lifestyle that come along with IB, I decided to continue on in private banking. Private Banking Family Offices vs. Bulge Bracket Banks Q: You’ve been around the PB scene in Miami for quite some time now – how would you describe the big differences between family offices and bulge bracket banks? A: The main difference is that large banks have far more clients – 100+ clients per financial advisor is not unusual, and sometimes it’s as high as 300. Many family offices, by contrast, have 100 clients TOTAL for the entire office – so each client gets far more personal attention. That happens because large banks require much less money to get started. You can sometimes open PB accounts with as little as $100K USD, whereas some family offices require more like $20 million+ USD. And there are only a few hundred thousand people (or less) in the US with net worth in that range, whereas tens of millions of people have at least $100K USD to invest. Some large banks also spend a lot of time selling PB clients on other products and services, such as credit cards, loans, different investment opportunities, and so on, whereas at family offices clients get a customized experience that’s specific to their needs. The strategies recommended to you are also different – at banks, you see more “traditional” strategies (stocks, bonds, etc.) recommended by the bank’s research department and forwarded to clients. Smaller family offices, by contrast, have their own dedicated research teams within the office and will cater to exactly what clients are looking for. They’ll even recommend non-public markets investments, such as real estate and private equity, if those are appropriate. Q: Thanks for the overview. How does the recruiting process differ? I’m assuming that at family offices they care more about analytical rigor and your investment ideas / stock pitches? A: Yeah, that is one difference. Another is that large banks like to recruit undergraduate interns to help with all the client reporting work that’s required, whereas many family offices barely try to recruit anyone. That makes it harder to get an “in” at family offices, but it’s arguably easier to advance in the process since the HR person will be closer to the key decision-makers. At banks, they’re looking for candidates who are really good at speaking with clients and who want to work in a team of other advisers; at family offices, they care less about client relationship skills since you’ll be doing mostly research and analysis when you first start. Clients at family offices tend to be older than clients at banks, so a lot of the relationship work is left to older, more experienced financial advisors simply because clients take them more seriously. Finally, licenses are a major difference in recruiting. Banks care a lot about the Series 7 and Series 66 licenses since you need them to place trades, whereas at a family office it doesn’t matter as much since junior-level roles are research-focused. It also depends on your location: many clients in a place like Miami will be foreign, so domestic trading restrictions may not apply (as much). Clients, Clients, and More Clients Q: You’ve been describing how clients differ at both firm types – what else can you tell us about that? A: Since family offices are more specialized, you end up doing everything from legal research to tax preparation to estate planning for clients. At a bank, the work is more focused on investment recommendations. Clients at family offices also tend to be much more conservative because they’ve amassed their fortunes through decades of work, often operating their own businesses. So they care more about avoiding losses and preserving capital rather than earning high returns. That’s even more pronounced in Miami since many families are from Latin America, which always seems to have currency/economic crises and political instability. It’s also a matter of net worth: someone worth $20 million USD will care much more about preserving his/her savings, whereas someone worth $100K USD will care more about growing it aggressively. Q: Do clients pay different fees depending on the private banking group they work with? A: At most family offices, fees are based on assets under management (AUM) and a 1% flat rate is quite common (Note: This varies, and sometimes larger accounts negotiate the fee down). So a family office managing $50 million USD for a client might earn $500K in annual fees from that. At banks, it might be a flat rate, but it could also be commission-based and linked to the trades you make. You’ll also see more “random” expenses, such as annual account maintenance fees. Bigger accounts at banks often get a flat rate, whereas smaller ones tend to pay commission-based fees since they trade less frequently. Q: And what about the different roles at both places? We’ve discussed the relationship manager (RM) vs. investment professional (IP) roles before, but does it still work the same way at family offices? A: Yes. The main difference is that the roles are less clearly defined at family offices; you’ll still see research teams, relationship teams, and legal teams, but sometimes there’s also a “middle” role that coordinates everything. And they still have compliance management roles, operations roles, risk management roles, and everything else. It can be easier to move into different roles at family offices as well – sometimes advisors will move into risk management roles, sometimes administrative staff moves into investment research, and so on. Q: You’ve also mentioned how foreign clients tend to be more common at family offices. What are the main differences between foreign and domestic clients? A: It’s a different world. I split my time between both client types, and they could not be more different. With domestic clients, you spend a lot of time on trust and estate planning, retirement, IRAs, 401(k)’s, and so on, so there’s a lot of paperwork and you have to complete quite a few mundane tasks. “Tax emergencies” each April are also common as high net worth clients realize they need to finish a massive amount of paperwork at the last minute. International clients, by contrast, are more interested in investment ideas and in coming up with unconventional strategies. Most foreign clients establish holding companies and put their funds in tax havens, so you rarely see the same issues with filing tax-related paperwork all the time. In Miami, it’s probably a 70/30 split between foreign and domestic clients – but in other parts of the US it’s more like 95% domestic clients. So make sure you come to Miami if you want to do private banking! A Day in the Life on the Beach in Private Banking in Miami Q: The beaches are great, too. And no state income tax! I’m pretty much sold on moving there, but let’s continue… What’s an average day in your life like? A: Sure. Continuing with this theme of PB at bulge bracket banks vs. family offices, the job is generally a bit easier as an analyst at a large bank because you’re working in a team and your role is well-defined. During the day, you’ll be busy handling calls and client requests, but your overall work hours are a bit closer to “normal business hours.” At family offices, the work tends to be much more “random” and you never know what will happen in a given day since it depends on what your clients want. You’ll often stay later as a junior person because a large client might make a last-minute request late in the day, or they might call you at 4 AM and ask for some analysis (international clients love to ignore time zone differences and call whenever it’s convenient for them – one disadvantage of working with them). Once you reach the top of the ladder and become a financial advisor (FA), though, your life is generally better at a family office because you have your client list, you’ve worked with them for years, and there’s less turnover (AKA less chasing down new clients) than at large banks. You’ll see FAs at bulge bracket banks working longer hours and sometimes even working on weekends – part of that is because clients are more tied to you as their specific advisor, whereas at a family office their loyalty is more to the office as a whole. Q: Let’s talk about money. Where do you make the most? A: You’ll generally get a slightly higher starting salary at family offices – think $50-60K USD vs. $40-50K USD at a large bank (these are Miami figures and are likely different in other regions). Keep in mind that Miami is about 50% cheaper than NYC, so it’s perfectly reasonable to live on that salary here. Your bonus could be much bigger at a large bank since bonuses are awarded on a team-wide basis and aren’t tied as closely to your individual performance. As you move up and start developing your own client list, it gets a lot more lucrative. Some financial advisors here make up to $400-500K USD per year and have pretty good work/life balance, working just a bit more than the normal 40-hour workweek and pulling in high incomes due to the 1% fee on clients’ assets. Q: Miami is sounding better and better. But isn’t it harder to advance at a family office? You mentioned that clients are tied to that office rather than to a specific advisor, so it must be pretty tough to build your own client list. A: Yes and no. It’s arguably easier to advance and move around to different firms when you start at a large bank, because clients will follow you wherever you go – it’s like being a free agent in sports. But as FAs at family offices get older and start thinking about retiring, they often “hand off” their clients to younger FAs who want to take over. After decades of earning a high income, they’re not as motivated to keep servicing the same number of clients once they approach retirement age. Note, however, that you need to be very lucky with the timing to take advantage of this – and you must already know the FA and the client quite well. This is a gradual process, but as you continue to work at a family office they’ll start introducing you to more and more clients and making sure the clients know who you are. Also note that this “hand-off process” does happen at large banks as well – but again, timing and your relationship with the FA are both critical. Finally, sometimes the junior people at family offices get hired because they can bring in clients in the first place – so if you’re in that position it can be easier to win new clients via referrals. Bottom-line: I wouldn’t say it’s “easier” to advance at one firm type vs. the other, it just depends on what skills you come in with and what you’re looking for. Q: Awesome, thanks for explaining that. So far, you’ve made family offices sound like a better option than bulge bracket banks, at least for private banking. But is that what you’d recommend for everyone interested in the field? Or are some people better off at large banks? A: It depends. If you’re more interested in research, analysis, and coming up with investment ideas, family offices are better (in my opinion). But if you’re more of a “people person” and you enjoy the client relationship side, large banks may be a better option. You also get potentially better exit opportunities at a large bank since you get the brand name on your resume, plus a large network of co-workers. Going to a family office is more of a “long-term” move where you need to stay for many years to realize the full benefit. You shouldn’t work at one if you’re planning to stick around for only 1-2 years and then leave. Q: Great! Thanks for your time, this was super-informative. A: My pleasure! Make sure you check out Miami sometime, too. FREE AppDownload
Yesterday, the maker of the addictive mobile game Candy Crush, filed to do an IPO. The company is absolutely printing money, and its growth over the last year was absolutely insane. But everyone knows that things could easily turn, and the money could all evaporate, especially since the company hasn't been able to replicate its mega hit, which makes money by having users pay for more lives and more levels. The Taiwanese Animators actually dia a fantastic job explaining what's going on. YouTube YouTube YouTube YouTube  FREE AppDownload
Financial markets may be more vulnerable to traders' stress levels than previously thought, according to a scientific study which found that high levels of the stress hormone cortisol can induce risk aversion. The findings, which turns on its head the assumption that traders appetite for risk-taking remains constant throughout market up and downs, suggests stress could in fact make them more cautious, exacerbating financial crises just at a time when risk-taking is needed to support crashing markets. In a study of City of London traders and the effect of cortisol on behaviour, researchers led by Dr John Coates - a former Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank derivatives trader turned neuroscientist - said this tendency towards caution could be an "under-appreciated" cause of market instability. Mr Coates also said the finding could alter our understanding of risk - since up until now, financial and economic models have largely rested on the assumption that traders' personal risk preferences are consistent throughout the market cycle. "Any trader knows that their body is taken on a roller coaster ride by the markets. What we haven't known until this study was that these physiological changes - the sub-clinical levels of stress of which we are only dimly aware - are actually altering our ability to take risks," said Mr Coates, now a researcher in neuroscience and finance at Cambridge University. "It's frightening to realise that no one in the financial world - not the traders, not the risk managers, not the central bankers - knows that these subterranean shifts in risk appetite are taking place." Mr Coates' team based this study on the findings of previous research conducted with traders in the City of London, which found that cortisol levels rose by 68pc over a two-week period when market volatility increased. Combining that field work with a laboratory study, they gave hydrocortisone, the pharmaceutical form of cortisol, to 36 male and female volunteers aged between 20 and 36 over eight days to test the effects of raised cortisol on financial risk-taking. The volunteers' cortisol levels were upped by 69pc - almost exactly the levels seen in the traders. They were then asked to undertake a series of financial risk-taking tasks with real monetary pay-offs, designed to measure their risk appetite and the probability judgment driving their risk taking. In a report of their findings in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences journal, Mr Coates' team found that initial spikes in cortisol had little effect on behaviour. But chronically high and sustained levels, as seen in traders in the field study, led to a dramatic drop in willingness to take risks, with the "risk premium" - the amount of extra risk someone will tolerate for the possibility of higher return - falling by 44pc. "Many influential models in economics, finance and neurobiology assume risk preferences are a stable trait, but we find they are not," the researchers wrote. The team noted that during the credit crisis of 2007 to 2009, volatility in US equities spiked from 12pc to more than 70pc. They argued that such historically high levels of uncertainty could have caused cortisol levels to rise far higher and for longer than this study analysed, and therefore that chronic stress may have reduced risk taking just when the economy needed it most - when markets were crashing and needed traders and investors to buy risky assets. "Traders, risk managers, and central banks cannot hope to manage risk if they do not understand that the drivers of risk taking lurk deep in our bodies," Mr Coates said. "Risk managers who fail to understand this will have as little success."  This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph .  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
A comparison of the S&amp;P 500 Index in 1929 just ahead of the stock market crash to the performance of stocks from 2012 through today has been making the rounds on the internet [Figure 1]. The implication by the bears is that stocks are poised for an epic crash. LPL Financial This chart is a lot like the chart that went around in the fall of last year comparing 2013 to the stock market leading up to the 1987 crash. You can see in Figure 2 that it did not pan out the way the bears expected and stocks continued to rally. Unfazed by this, they have looked for another pattern predicting an impending crash. LPL Financial One of the reasons that these “crash” charts are able to make their way around the internet almost every year that stocks go up is that charts can lie. It is unfortunate, but true. The easiest way to make a chart lie is to have two different scales for the data being compared. Not all charts that do this are lying, but be very careful taking them at face value. Another look at that 1929 chart with both 1929 and 2014 on the same percentage scale illustrates this. Figure 3 shows that the comparison becomes a lot less convincing and a lot less fearsome. Thankfully, these charts debunking the crash charts often make it around the internet as well. LPL Financial We wish we could assure you that all charts told the truth and data could never mislead. But then we would be lying. If that were true, then all the Federal Reserve and new Chair Janet Yellen would have to focus on is whether the music industry cranks out some better albums in the coming years. Since, as you can clearly see in Figure 4, U.S. inflation simply follows the quality of music with a lag of about five years. LPL Financial The truth is, currently little would suggest the potential for a stock market crash. Nevertheless, we remain vigilant for signs that stock prices no longer reflect fundamentals or that sentiment has become overheated. We think it is still early to expect an overheated market with the potential to plunge, given many signs only point to the beginning of the upturn in sentiment that usually then surges for a while before the potential for major downside exists. For example, individual investors are only beginning to come back to the U.S. stock market in the past few months after years of net selling, according to flow data from the Investment Company Institute; initial public offerings (IPOs) are only now starting to tick up again; and merger and acquisition deals are finally beginning to show signs of life with a solid January. We continue to see 10–15% gains for the S&amp;P 500 in 2014^, as earnings grow solidly and valuations edge higher on improving sentiment. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Earlier today we saw housing starts plummet 16% month-over-month to an annualized pace of 880,000. This was far worse than expectations for a 4.9% fall.  But here's the interesting part of the report. Despite the severe winter weather which has been blamed for softer housing data, the Northeast saw housing starts surge 61.9% to an annualized pace of 136,000 units. On the year it was up 56.3%.  This was offset by a 67.7% MoM fall in the Midwest, a 12.5% MoM fall in the South, and a 17.4% MoM fall in the West. US Census Bureau/Business Insider
Natural gas prices were up nearly 7% this morning to almost $6/mmBtu on concerns of supply shortages as winter drags on. They've been above $5 for most of the past month, though had come down a bit recently. They are now within range of a four-year high set earlier this month. Weather reports suggest that this week's warm break will prove short lived, with temps likely dipping below freezing for much of the U.S. east of the Mississippi by Monday. "Prices surged as the extreme weather conditions were centered in the most populated and user-heavy areas of the US, while inventories fell to below seasonal norms. Energy markets in the US remain set for another move higher should there be yet another wave of extreme winter weather blasting the northeastern and east regions," TD Securities' Bart Melek said in a note yesterday.  Chart: FinViz  Until this week, natgas was the best-performing commodity of the year (commodities tend to be highly volatile). FinViz FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
The BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL service, Credit Suisse Recent weakness in the economic data — like retail sales, industrial production, and employment — are forcing investors to reassess their views on the U.S. economic recovery. One sector where data points have been particularly negative is the housing market. Earlier today, weekly data released by the Mortgage Bankers Association revealed a 4.1% drop in mortgage applications in the week ended February 14, following a string of declines over the past several months. The release of monthly housing starts and building permits data revealed a 16.0% and 5.4% drop, respectively, in January — both much worse than expected. At this point, however, this trend is nothing new — the housing recovery that was supposed to provide a powerful tailwind to the U.S. economy has been slowing for over a year now as prospective borrowers face higher interest rates. "Housing was an area of weakness even before the recent stretch [of bad data], with the Fed having made note of the slowing of the housing recovery following last year’s sell-off," write Credit Suisse interest rate strategists in a note to clients. "An index of the monthly changes in various housing-related indicators shows that the sector rolled over in the first half of 2013 and the slide has been more or less unimpeded. Though the beginning of year rally might be typically expected to be supportive of housing activity, with the bad weather there is no reason to expect the trend to turn at this juncture. Even if the inflation data comes in supportive of higher yields, we expect the other economic indicators will keep the near-term bias range-bound, with risks of modest rallies." The chart above does not include today's data. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric ThayerHousing starts plummeted 16% month-over-month to an annualized pace of 880,000. This was worse than expectations for  a 4.9% to an annualized pace of 950,000 units. December's data was revised up to reflect a 4.8% fall to 1.04 million units. This compares with an initial print of a 9.8% fall to 999,000. Meanwhile, building permits fell 5.4% to 937,000, missing expectations for a 1.6% fall to 975,000. December's number was revised up to reflect a 2.6% fall to 991,000, compared with an initial print of a 3% fall to 986,000. The Northeast however saw housing starts rise a whopping 61.9% to an annualized pace of 136,000 units. Meanwhile, in the Midwest they fell 68% to 50,000 units SAAR, the lowest on record. "Horrible numbers but they have to be seen in the context of the severe weather," Ian Shepherdson of Pantheon Macroeconomics said in a note to clients. "That said, December was snowier than usual but starts were strong, so the weather perhaps is note the only source of Jan weakness." "Permits are much less sensitive to the weather than starts, so we are disappointed by the Jan drop. Between their peak in Oct and Jan, multi-family permits have dropped by 83K; single-family have slipped only 39K from their Nov peak, suggesting that perhaps the multi-family market is losing real steam. That said, we are reluctant to draw any firm conclusions  until we see what happens to activity when the snow stops." On Tuesday, we saw homebuilder confidence tumble t0 46 in February. "Unusually severe weather conditions," and "continued concerns over the cost and availability of labor and lots" were blamed for the slump in homebuilder confidence. Housing data has been deteriorating for some time now and we've also seen mortgage applications fall on the back of rising mortgage rates. Here's a trajectory of housing starts from Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics: Pantheon Macroeconomics Below is the full text of the release ------------------------------------------------  NEW RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION IN JANUARY 2014The U.S. Census Bureau and the Department of Housing and Urban Development jointly announced the following new residential construction statistics for January 2014: BUILDING PERMITSPrivately-owned housing units authorized by building permits in January were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 937,000. This is 5.4 percent (±0.7%) below the revised December rate of 991,000, but is 2.4 percent (±1.0%) above the January 2013 estimate of 915,000. Single-family authorizations in January were at a rate of 602,000; this is 1.3 percent (±0.8%) below the revised December figure of 610,000. Authorizations of units in buildings with five units or more were at a rate of 309,000 in January. HOUSING STARTSPrivately-owned housing starts in January were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 880,000. This is 16.0 percent (±10.5%) below the revised December estimate of 1,048,000 and is 2.0 percent (±10.8%)* below the January 2013 rate of 898,000. Single-family housing starts in January were at a rate of 573,000; this is 15.9 percent (±12.1%) below the revised December figure of 681,000. The January rate for units in buildings with five units or more was 300,000.HOUSING COMPLETIONSPrivately-owned housing completions in January were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 814,000. This is 4.6 percent (±8.3%)* above the revised December estimate of 778,000 and is 13. 1 percent (±12.8%) above the January 2013 rate of 720,000. Single-family housing completions in January were at a rate of 580,000; this is 3.0 percent (±7.3%)* above the revised December rate of 563,000. The January rate for units in buildings with five units or more was 220,000. FREE AppDownload
Margin CallThe newly-revamped January producer prices data are out. The producer price index rose 0.2% from the previous month in January after gaining 0.1% in December. Excluding food and energy, prices were up 0.2% after remaining unchanged in December. Economists predicted both measures would rise 0.1%. The January numbers represent year-over-year increases of 1.2% and 1.3%, respectively. Today's release marks the first change to the index methodology in decades. "The old index measured goods prices only, capturing about 30% of the economy, while the new one measures goods, services, government purchases, exports and construction, about 75% of the economy," says FTN Financial chief economist Chris Low. Given the broader coverage of this indicator and increasing attention on inflation data in general, the new index may become of greater interest to market participants than the old one. Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
Ever since the U.S. housing market bubble busted and bottomed, San Francisco was one of the handful of markets to roar back so aggressively that some have warned it was turning into another bubble. Home to dotcom entrepreneurs and billionaires, San Francisco has some of the most outrageous rents in the country.  Adam Carstens tweeted this flyer highlighting some of these "insane" listings. From the accompanying blog post: "My coworker Max brought in this flier from RentSFNow, where the prices are very telling when it comes to current real estate madness in this city. A studio in Hayes Valley, Duboce Triangle, Downtown, and other listed neighborhoods, runs from $2,295-$2,795. One bedrooms go from $2,695 to close to five grand. And then there's the $14,000 apartment (furnished, for those who find buying furniture a burden) in Russian Hill." Click for the full-size flier: Adam Carstens FREE AppDownload
Apple/USPTOApple has won a patent for health, activity and fitness-tracking earphones and headphones. Will Apple’s next big thing be a pair of headphones for monitoring your heart rate and tracking your activity, fitness and health? Apple has patented designs for earphones and headphones that are capable of monitoring a wearer’s movements and vital signs through a series of embedded sensors. The patent describes both headphones and earphones fitted with accelerometers like those in smartphones for detecting motion, as well as temperature, perspiration and heart-rate sensors for monitoring a user’s activity, fitness and other statistics. Apple filed the patent in 2007 for a “sports monitoring system for headphones, earbuds and/or headsets”, which was granted on Tuesday, indicating that Apple has been investigating the possibility of integrated health monitors for at least six years. The patent also details the possibility of using motion detection to activate gestures such as changing track or pausing and playing music through the headphones. Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, recently confirmed that promised future “product categories” were still on track saying: “Yes. Absolutely. No Change,” when asked during an earnings call last month, stoking expectations of an Apple smartwatch, which is also expected to have a significant role in health and fitness monitoring. “We’re working on things you can’t see today. We have zero issue coming up with things that we want to do that we think we can disrupt in a major way,” Cook said. “The challenge is always to focus to the very few that deserve all of our energy.” In December 2013 Apple reportedly met with senior agents of the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the regulatory body charged with overseeing food safety, sales of medication and the approval of medical devices in the US. The meeting involved Michael O’Reilly, previously the chief medical officer of a medical sensor company called Masimo, who joined Apple last year, as well as Bakul Patel, a senior policy adviser who drafted the FDA’s mobile medical app guidance and plays a role in medical gadget approval. It is clear that Apple is looking at medical applications for its apps and hardware at the very least. Health and fitness tracking could be one of the primary new focuses for Apple’s next mobile software update. Apple news site 9to5Mac claimed that Apple was developing a new “Healthbook” app to collect and store data on fitness activities, including steps taken, calories burned, and distance walked. The Healthbook app was said to target medical and health data, tracking a person’s heart rate and blood pressure, as well as other blood-related statistics like glucose levels, something a pair of sensor-packed earphones could link into as well as a smartwatch. Apple already holds patents for the collection of sensory information, including blood-pressure monitoring, but it is unclear whether that technology is mature enough to build into a smartwatch or earphone-like device. “The whole sensor field is going to explode,” said Tim Cook in an interview in 2013. “It’s a little all over the place right now. With the arc of time, it will become clearer.” LG announced its own fitness tracking earphones capable of monitoring the wearer’s heart rate, feeding information to the Korean company’s Lifeband smart wrist-borne fitness tracker. It is unknown what impact this patent award to Apple will have on LG’s efforts. • Apple’s iWatch: which features are on our wishlist a sensor-packed smartwatch? This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Mortgage applications fell 4.1% during the week ending Feb. 14.  This is according to data from the Mortgage Bankers Association. This is an acceleration from the 2.0% decline from a week ago. Bloomberg LP Chief Economist Michael McDonough tweeted the chart below overlaying mortgage applications with new home sales. "Plunging mortgage purchase applications highlight concerns over continued home sales strength," said McDonough. The U.S. housing market recovery has been one of the most encouraging stories in the global economy. But with prices well off of their lows and mortgage rates becoming increasingly volatile, the clock may be ticking for the recovery. @M_McDonough FREE AppDownload
CNBCDave LutzDave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a roundup of what traders are chatting about ahead of the U.S. market open: Good Morning!   US Futures have been steadily sliding lower, and now rest off about 40bp as VIX trading accelerates (March Contract up 2% right now) – Main area of angst seems to be Ukraine, with the CDS popping 10% as Russia offers “no comment” on when they will release the next tranche of a pre-arranged $15B bailout.  Contagion is pressing Russia’s Ruble on record lows against the €, and can be seen in the weaker FX of Turkey, Hungary and South Africa as well.    Eyes should remain on Brazil, who’s equity market seems to be a favorite target of EM short selling right now.     EU markets are lower, with the DAX off 75bp in very light trading (20% below normal trends) – EU fins are off 1% as the Fed’s Capital Rules sparking profit-taking, and we are seeing some weakness in the PIIGS debt.   In Asia, the Nikkei lost 50bp, but futures are off another 75bp as the $-Yen has given up all of the BOJ’s induced gains from yesterday.   China’s market managed a 1% bounce, breaking upside of the 200dma in heavy volumes.    Aussie’s market bounced small, but the Miners are finally seeing profittaking, with the space off almost 1%.  Keep an eye on the Retail group here in the US, as CAGNY continues, and the XRT (Retail ETF) is in a battle with the 200dma, and Homebuilders, as much negative sentiment is built up into the Housing Starts and Permits number this AM. The 10YY is breaking lower, as we await the Fed Minutes - Traders will be interested to see if the Fed has been discounting the impact on activity from the “polar vortex”.  The DXY is higher, with the $ making gains against both € and Yen – causing a slight headwind for commodities.   Gold is weaker despite headlines India preparing to cut the Import Tax on the metal, while Energy’s tailwinds remain.  Nat gas is surging another 7% this AM as traders scramble for March paper on collapsing supplies - WTI on YTD peaks into API data tonight, and Brent buoyed by Geopolitical factors in Libya, South Sudan, and Syria.   A lot of eyes are on Coffee, after the biggest surge in 10+ years yesterday due to Brazil’s drought – it is adding another 1% this AM, and has gained almost 40% in the last week.    Scheduled Catalysts today include PPI, as well as Housing Starts and Permits for January at 8:30, a Small POMO at 11, Fed's Lockhart Speaks at 12:15, Fed's Bullard Speaks at 1, and at 2pm the Fed Releases Minutes from Jan 28-29 FOMC Meeting.  After the close we get API data for the Crude Complex, and Fed's Williams Speaks on the Economy in New York at 7pm tonight. FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Turney DuffTurney DuffI moved to New York in 1994, aged 24, looking for a job in PR or journalism. It wasn’t working and I was getting very frustrated, so my mum suggested I call my uncle, who knew all about finance. I had no idea about Wall Street but he arranged a few interviews for me. The first one was at Lehman Brothers. There was something about the grandness of the trading floor I was instantly attracted to. I knew I wanted the money and the lifestyle; I knew I wanted in. I didn't get the Lehman Brothers role, but I did get a job working for Morgan Stanley as a sales assistant, which is like a glorified secretary. But a few years later I moved onto the ‘buy side’, investing and managing other people's money for hedge fund firm Galleon Group. We would have this huge pot of commission from private investors or institutions, and the rest of Wall Street was fighting for part of that pot. Everyone wanted my business and they would do anything to get it. I had access to every single restaurant, club and sporting event. Soon I was making as much as $2m a year and being taken all over the country by people who wanted me to work with them. The benchmark for parties was the Super Bowl trip, which usually involved a private jet and every expense paid. One of the wildest was in 2002, in Ohio. I got invited to this super-underground party with about 40 guys and the same number of women. When I got there - I don’t know whether it was the cologne I was wearing or what - literally every single woman in the place wanted me. I was on fire. Everything I said was funny. It was only later I found out that all of them were hired escorts. The first time I was offered cocaine was during the same period as the Ohio trip. I went to the bathroom with it but I didn’t take any - just pretended I had and handed it back. There was this ‘80s basketball player called Len Bias who took it for the first time and died when I was a teenager, so I’d always thought 'you take cocaine, you die'. But six months and a couple of promotions later, I was hanging around with a faster crowd and it didn’t look so menacing. The first time I really took cocaine, it was the most amazing thing ever. It was so good I knew it was going to be a problem. By 2006 I was spending between $600-$700 a week on cocaine - that didn’t include the large amount I was being given or the booze I was drinking with it. I had a girlfriend and a baby daughter by that time but these were dark days. I was taking it five or six nights a week; if I took it easy I wouldn’t be shaking, sweating or bleeding the next day - but I still wouldn’t be able to go into work. There was one point when I’d been up for about three days on cocaine and alcohol. I’d called in sick so many times that year that I knew I'd be fired if I did it again; I also knew I'd be fired if I showed up in the state I was in. I remember circling the block around my office, wondering what to do. I told myself (I obviously wasn’t having rational thoughts) that if I’d been mugged they wouldn’t expect me to work. I ran a few blocks and threw myself into a puddle repeatedly until my trousers were ripped and my hands and knees were all bloody. I got into the office limping and soaking wet, barely able to speak, and told them I’d been attacked. Needless to say, 72 hours later I had left my job and was on a plane to my first rehab. I was clean for a year before I relapsed and had to go back to rehab. After that I had the option of going back to Wall Street for a seven-figure paycheck, but it just didn’t feel right. I sabotaged the interview and walked away. I don’t know if I have any regrets from that whole period. I do wish that maybe I hadn’t hurt some people, especially my family, but I don’t think I could be the person I am today without everything I went through. Now I’m a writer - I turned my time on Wall Street into a book called The Buy Side and have just submitted a paranormal thriller - and I live on Long Island, two miles away from my daughter, who’s eight, so I can see her everyday. When I was writing the first book I made sure there were no cliches in the language, but I realized my character had become the biggest cliche there is - the stereotypical Wall Street douche-bag. Nothing’s left of the $10m I earned there; I made some bad investments and the rest went along the way. But here’s another cliche: money’s not going to bring you happiness and none of the things I had made me feel better on the inside. The Buy Side by Turney Duff is published in paperback by Constable and Robinson and available for £12.99  FREE AppDownload
Ariel Zambelich/WIREDWhen Sony launched the PS4 it shouted loudly that this was the console ‘for the players’ - it was, the company claimed, the machine that was equipped to produce the most powerful graphics and would have the best titles for hardcore gamers. Today Andrew House, Sony’s Chief Executive of Computer Entertainment, said he was “thrilled” by sales figures that confirmed 5.3m PS4s have been sold globally compared to 3.9m Xbox Ones. His console outstripped forecasts of 5m sales and looks to be on track to sell its 10 millionth unit by the end of the year. All of this shows that the video games industry - already bigger than Hollywood - is still more than going strong. Millions may be playing more games on their mobile phones, but titles from Call of Duty to The Last of Us and more are constantly reinventing the arena. Nonetheless, Sony will know that there is more to the game it is playing than meets the eye - Microsoft lost a PR battle before either console had even launched by suggesting its Xbox One needed to be connected to the web all the time, dithering about second-hand games and - worst of all - it focused not on gamers but on the living room. Sony swooped in, declared its console was much more what the traditional audience wanted, and has garnered massive benefits. But if Microsoft sticks to its guns, it may yet find that this is a battle it has lost in a war it could well win. Consoles such as the One and the PS4 will be around for five years, both companies have suggested, and Sony’s approach focuses on gamers while Microsoft’s bets on the fact that everybody who watches the living room TV will increasingly want a comprehensive, internet-connected entertainment experience. That means, they hope, Xbox’s combination of movies on demand, apps, TV, Skype and more will combine with the games that millions adore to create the experience that Sky, Virgin or any TV manufacturer cannot offer alone. The aim is for an updated version of the kind of full family appeal that Nintendo briefly achieved with the Wii. It is a tall order - gaming remains a massive market, and Samsung is just one of the many multi-billion pound corporations that are backing the idea of the connected home. They have more to gain from a domestic environment where the TV, the microwave, the lightbulbs and the vacuum cleaner are all online. But Microsoft is at least on the same page and that appears to be the direction of travel. There’s a caveat to all of this, of course: most of the perceived differences come down not to serious substance but to marketing: the PS4 is an excellent device that offers serious connections to apps and to conventional TV as well. But in not emphasizing that, it has allowed the Xbox One, with its friendlier look and feel, to own a space that is not, for now, the most popular choice. Sony will no doubt think they’ve done well but as time goes on, at the very least, nobody should be surprised to see that both Microsoft and its Japanese rival move to emphasize that there is plenty for all the family in both these consoles. Millions of people may be gamers, but the real prize is producing the gadget that connects to every family’s TV set and that accolade is still very much to be decided.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason Lee A mother feeds her son instant noodles as they wait for their train at Zhengzhou Railway Station in Zhengzhou, Henan province, February 19, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. — The death toll from clashes in Ukraine has now reached two dozen, with more than 20o injured. There are reports a region has declared independence from the standing regime. The EU has convened an emergency meeting to discuss a response, with some calling for sanctions, though this is not unanimous. — UK unemployment unexpectedly climbed to 7.2%, but most analysts are dismissing its significance for the Bank of England. Here's ING's James Knightley (via the FT): "There was a decline in the number of people who were working part-time, but wanted a full time job and there was also a drop in the number of temporary workers who had wanted a permanent job. This, coupled with the decent pick-up in wages suggests that the slack in the labour market continues to shrink. This remains consistent with our view of a Bank of England interest rate rise in February 2015." — Chinese consumer confidence hit a record, according to a Nielsen survey. From Marketwatch: "Thanks to a stabilized GDP growth rate, a resilient labor market and steady household income growth Chinese consumer confidence grew in the last quarter of 2013," Nielsen Greater China President Yan Xuan said. Better job prospects and stronger spending intentions are the most important factors in the improvement, he said. — Tesla will announce earnings after the bell today. Analysts expected $0.22, against a year-ago loss, and revenue of $679 million versus $306 million a year ago. Marketwatch's Jim Jelter explains why investors will also be looking at where gross margin comes in: "After the third quarter, Tesla CEO Elon Musk said told investors he was 'pretty confident' they could hit 25% gross margin in the fourth quarter (excluding zero-emission vehicle credits). He’ll be pressed hard for an explanation if the company misses this one." — Herbalife shares jumped 4% after hours after the health supplement firm posted earnings in line with expectations while raising its growth forecast on strong demand out of China. — Plus, the latest edition of Markit's Household Finance Index shows that for the first time in the survey's five-year history, Britons believe things are going to get better financially. Greece has posted its first-ever current account surplus on record. "Record spending by foreigners as Greece's tourism industry slashed prices helped the country's current account post its first surplus last year since official data began in 1948, central bank figures showed on Wednesday," Ekathemerini reported. — Housing starts plunged to 880,000, down from a prior reading of 1 million and missing expectations. Producer prise rose 0.2%, core rates rose the same amount. And at 2 p.m. we get minutes from the most recent FOMC meeting.  — Markets in Asia closed mostly higher, led by the Shanghai index at 1.1%. European markets and U.S. futures were lower. — Mortgage servicers are being accused of shoddy paperwork, erroneous fees and wrongful evictions, according to a new NYT Dealbook report. "At first, some federal housing regulators quietly cheered the shift to the specialized companies, thinking that they could more nimbly help troubled homeowners without the same missteps. But as the buying bonanza steps up, some federal and state regulators are worried that the rapid growth could create new setbacks like stalled modifications for millions of Americans just as many were getting back on track from the housing crisis." — Signet is buying jeweler Zale for $1.4 billion.    FREE AppDownload
Google/ScreenshotGoogle gave early adopters of its Internet-connected eyewear a bit of advice: don't be "Glassholes." It was the final suggestion in a recommended code of conduct posted online for software developers and others taking part in an Explorer program providing early access to Google Glass. The California-based Internet titan appeared intent on avoiding the kinds of caustic run-ins that have seen some Glass wearers tossed from eateries, pubs or other establishments due to concerns over camera capabilities built into devices. Don't be "creepy or rude (aka, a 'Glasshole')," Google said in a guide posted online on Tuesday for Explorer program members. "Respect others and if they have questions about Glass don’t get snappy." Google suggest Glass wearers be polite and offer demonstrations to possibly win over the wary. Glass fans were advised it is proper to follow the same rules set down for smartphone use in businesses. "If you're asked to turn your phone off, turn Glass off as well," Google said. "Breaking the rules or being rude will not get businesses excited about Glass and will ruin it for other Explorers." - Don't 'Glass-out' - In the wake of one early adopter claiming Glass gave him headaches, Google told users not to "Glass-out" by starring into the inset prism screen for long periods at a time. Glass was designed to deliver helpful bursts of information conveniently to let wearers get back to doing things in the real world, according to the technology firm. "If you find yourself staring off into the prism for long periods of time you’re probably looking pretty weird to the people around you," Google said. "So don't read War and Peace on Glass. Things like that are better done on bigger screens." Google also advised against wearing Glass while playing impact sports; or being foolish enough to think the eyewear won't draw attention. The "do" list included venturing about, using voice commands, asking permission to take pictures, and employing screen locks to prevent use if Glass is lost or stolen. Google last month unveiled a partnership with US vision insurer VSP to make prescription Glass and to reimburse some of the costs under health benefits. That does not include the $1,500 price for Google Glass, which is in a test phase with a small number of "explorers" ahead of a wider release sometime this year. Glass connects to the Internet using Wi-Fi hot spots or, more typically, by being wirelessly tethered to mobile phones. Pictures or video are may be shared through the Google Plus social network. During the testing phase, developers are creating apps for the eyewear, which can range from getting weather reports to sharing videos to playing games. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John KolesidisA big milestone for Greece. From Ekathemerini: Record spending by foreigners as Greece's tourism industry slashed prices helped the country's current account post its first surplus last year since official data began in 1948, central bank figures showed on Wednesday. Current account deficits have been a drag on the Greek economy for decades, offset with borrowing and capital investment from abroad. The payments gap swelled to 15 percent of national output in 2008 after the country entered the euro zone, fed by a debt-fuelled economic boom that led to a consumption frenzy on foreign imports. Most countries, when they need to adjust economically, see a drop in their currencies, making their products more competitive. Greece didn't have the luxury to do that, since it doesn't control its own currency, and thus it had to undergo the much more painful process of internal devaluation (lower wages, etc.). This is painful since nobody likes nominal wage cuts, but also because the value of the country's debt did not adjust. But some normalcy is returning to Greece, and milestones like this point to a light at the end of the tunnel.   FREE AppDownload
Some perspective. Unemployment at 7.2% might seem disappointing, but 6 months ago MPC attached &lt;10% probability to such a good result. pic.twitter.com/iWNelpQ7L9 FREE AppDownload
REUTERS   The European Union has called a rare meeting of the bloc's 28 foreign ministers to discuss the ongoing crisis in Ukraine. European Union governments are expected to urgently agree to sanctions "against those responsible for violence and use of excessive force," according to European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso. At least 25 people died on Tuesday as anti-government protesters clashed with the Russian-backed police forces of Ukraine President Viktor Yanukovych in Independence Square (aka Maidan). "We have ... made it clear that the EU will respond to any deterioration on the ground. We therefore expect that targeted measures against those responsible for violence and use of excessive force can be agreed by our member states as a matter of urgency," Barroso said in a statement. "We call on all sides to immediately put an end to the violence and engage into a meaningful dialogue, responding to the democratic aspirations of the Ukrainian people."  On Tuesday night, police stormed the square at night and took over about a third of it over time, but protesters remain defiant as dawn broke and the area smoldered. "We will stay until victory and will hold the Maidan until the end," a 44-year-old from the western region of Ternopil who gave only his first name of Volodymyr told Reuters after the clashes. The crisis began in late November when Yanukovych snubbed a plan to sign an Association Agreement and trade pact with the EU after Russia persuaded the most populous former Soviet republic to stay in the Kremlin's orbit. Citizens subsequently flooded the streets and made Maidan their base. The confrontations between the opposition and Yanukovych's government have been escalating since. Here's a look at why the EU, and Russian President Vladimir Putin, is so invested in what happening in Ukraine. AFP
FREE AppDownload
REUTERSAn anti-government protester wears a gas mask during clashes with Interior Ministry members in Kiev February 18, 2014. Several thousand anti-government protesters clashed with police near Ukraine's parliament on Tuesday, torching vehicles and hurling stones in the worst violence to rock the capital Kiev in more than three weeks. KIEV, Ukraine (AP) — As thick black smoke rose from the barricades encircling the protest camp in central Kiev on Wednesday, the Ukrainian president blamed opposition leaders for the deadly violence that erupted between riot police and protesters in the capital in which at least 25 people died and 241 were injured. The violence on Tuesday was the worst in nearly three months of anti-government protests that have paralyzed Ukraine's capital in a struggle over the identity of a nation divided in loyalties between Russia and the West, and the worst in the country's post-Soviet history. Amid cries of "Glory to Ukraine!" and with flaming tires lighting up the night sky, thousands of riot police armed with stun grenades and water cannons attacked the sprawling protest camp in the center of Kiev. With the boom of exploding stun grenades and fireworks nearly drowning out his words at times, opposition leader Vitali Klitschko urged overnight the 20,000 protesters to defend the camp on Independence Square that has been the heart of the protests. "We will not go anywhere from here," Klitschko, a former heavyweight boxing champion, told the crowd, speaking from a stage in the square as tents and tires burned around him, releasing huge plumes of smoke. "This is an island of freedom and we will defend it," he said. Early on Wednesday, many were still heeding his call. "I am not going to sit and wait while they kill me," said 32-year-old Anton Rybkovich. "I'm going to attack. The more force the government uses, the more harsh our response will be." About 10,000 people remained on the square as piles of rubber tires continued to burn. A large building that the protesters had used as a headquarters caught fire and had been abandoned during the night, as police used loudspeakers to urge women and children to leave the square because an "anti-terrorist" operation was under way. President Viktor Yanukovych said that opposition leaders "crossed a line when they called people to arms." "I again call on the leaders of the opposition ... to draw a boundary between themselves and radical forces which are provoking bloodshed and clashes with the security services," the president said in a statement. "If they don't want to leave (the square) — they should acknowledge that they are supporting radicals. Then the conversation with them will already be of a different kind." His defiant tone left few with hope of compromise after a night of violence, the worst in the country's post-Soviet history. As the street battles grew to a fever pitch late on Tuesday, the protesters appeared to sense that Ukraine's political standoff was reaching a critical turning point. Waving Ukrainian and opposition party flags, they shouted "Glory to Ukraine!" and sang the Ukrainian national anthem. Shortly before midnight, Klitschko headed to Yanukovych's office to try to resolve the crisis. He returned to the square early Wednesday without reaching any agreement on ending the violence. Klitschko told reporters that he had asked the president to stop the police action to clear the square and prevent further deaths, but Yanukovych's only proposal was that the demonstrators have to go home and stop the protests. "I am very unhappy because there was no discussion," Klitschko said. "They don't want to listen." Klitschko urged the protesters and police to stop the escalation of violence, and said opposition leader Arseniy Yatsenyuk was trying to arrange for more negotiations with Yanukovych later Wednesday, although Yanukovych's statement made no mention of an imminent meeting with opposition leaders. The violence began Tuesday when protesters attacked police lines and set fires outside parliament, accusing Yanukovych of once again ignoring their demands. Parliament, dominated by his supporters, was stalling on taking up a constitutional reform to limit presidential powers. Tensions had soared after Russia said Monday that it was ready to resume providing the loans that Yanukovych's government needs to keep Ukraine's ailing economy afloat. This raised fears among the opposition that Yanukovych had made a deal with Moscow to stand firm against the protesters and would choose a Russian-leaning loyalist to be his new prime minister. The protests began in late November after Yanukovych turned away from a long-anticipated deal with the European Union in exchange for a $15 billion bailout from Russia. The political maneuvering continued, however, with both Moscow and the West eager to gain influence over this former Soviet republic. Until Monday, the government and the opposition had appeared to be making some progress toward resolving the political crisis peacefully. In exchange for the release of scores of jailed activists, protesters on Sunday vacated a government building that they had occupied since Dec. 1. Russia also may have wanted to see Kiev remain calm through the Winter Olympics in Sochi, so as not to distract from President Vladimir Putin's games. But after the outburst of violence against riot police, Yanukovych's government may have felt it had no choice but to try to restore order. While Kiev and western Ukraine have risen up against Yanukovych, he remains popular in the Russian-speaking eastern and southern regions, where economic and cultural ties with Russia are strong. As darkness fell Tuesday, law enforcement agencies vowed to bring order to the streets and they shut down subway stations in the center of the capital. In Independence Square, Orthodox priests prayed for peace. "We see that this regime again has begun shooting people; they want to sink Ukraine in blood. We will not give in to a single provocation," Yatsenyuk told the protesters. "We will not take one step back from this square. We have nowhere to retreat to. Ukraine is behind us, Ukraine's future is behind us." As angry protesters outside parliament hurled stones at police and set trucks blocking their way on fire, riot police retaliated with stun grenades and fired what appeared to be small metal balls, as smoke from burning tires and vehicles billowed over Kiev. The coordinator for the opposition's medical response team, Oleh Musiy, said more than 400 protesters were injured. He also claimed that about 20 had died, but this could not independently be confirmed. One of the civilians was found dead after protesters stormed the office of the president's Party of Regions. Police pushed them away, but when firefighters arrived to put out a fire, they discovered the body of an office employee, Kiev's emergency services said. Justice Minister Olena Lukash, a close Yanukovych aide, accused the opposition of violating earlier agreements with the government and blamed protest leaders for the violence. In Washington, Vice President Joe Biden expressed his "grave concern" in telephone call to Yanukovych, urging him to pull back government forces and exercise maximum restraint. The White House said Biden also called on Ukraine's government to address the protesters' "legitimate grievances" and put forward proposals for political reform. Earlier, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry urged both sides to end the violence, halt their ultimatums and hold high-level talks. U.S. Ambassador Geoffrey R. Payatt also threatened both sides with sanctions. "We believe Ukraine's crisis can still be solved via dialogue, but those on both sides who fuel violence will open themselves to sanctions," Payatt said on Twitter. Germany has refused to back Washington's calls for sanctions against Ukraine's government to pressure it into accepting opposition demands for reforms. But when central Kiev exploded in violence Tuesday, German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said Ukrainian security forces have a "particular responsibility" to de-escalate the situation, adding that the EU might resort to unspecified sanctions against individuals. "Whoever is responsible for decisions that lead to bloodshed in the center of Kiev or elsewhere in Ukraine will need to consider that Europe's previous reluctance for personal sanctions must be rethought," he said. The Russian Foreign Ministry blamed the West for the escalation of the violence and called on the opposition to work with the government to find a way out of the crisis. "What is happening is a direct result of the conniving politics of Western politicians and European bodies," the ministry said in a statement. U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon expressed shock at the escalating and "unacceptable" violence and called for "the immediate renewal of genuine dialogue leading to rapid results," U.N. spokesman Martin Nesirky said. "Preventing further instability and bloodshed is a paramount priority." Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Brendan McDermidFour interesting economic events are happening today. From Calculated Risk: • At 8:30 AM, Housing Starts for January. Total housing starts were at 999 thousand (SAAR) in December. Single family starts were at 667 thousand SAAR in December. The consensus is for total housing starts to decrease to 950 thousand (SAAR) in January.• Also at 8:30 AM, the Producer Price Index for January. The consensus is for a 0.2% decrease in producer prices (and 0.2% increase in core PPI).• During the day, the AIA's Architecture Billings Index for January (a leading indicator for commercial real estate).• At 2:00 PM, the FOMC Minutes for the Meeting of January 28-29, 2014. Each one of these is pretty important. Housing Starts will give us more information about the latest pause in the data in housing. Those concerned about inflation will be watching PPI. Architectural Billing is always fascinating, and FOMC Minutes are FOMC Minutes, so we'll gain more insight into the biggest game in town. None of it is too huge, but it should all give us a bit more color. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Flickr / fazenGood morning! Global markets have an ever-so-slight rouge look to them, as stocks edge slightly lower around the world. After a huge Tuesday, Japanese stocks lost 0.5% today. The UK is down 0.07%. Germany is lower by 0.23%. US futures are off by about 0.1%. Italy is down 0.5%. Today in the US we get housing starts, the Produce Price Index, and the latest Federal Reserve Minutes, each of which should be interesting to watch. FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Herbalife Ltd &lt;HLF.N&gt;, the nutrition products company accused by billionaire investor William Ackman of being a pyramid scheme, raised its forecast for the first quarter of 2014 on strong sales growth in China. The company's China sales rose more than 120 percent in the fourth quarter of 2013, the fastest of any region worldwide, prompting the firm to estimate adjusted profit of $1.25 to $1.29 per share in the first quarter this year. It had earlier forecast $1.24 to $1.28 per share. Direct sales models have recently come under fire in China. Authorities launched a probe into Herbalife rival NU Skin Enterprises Inc &lt;NUS.N&gt; last month after state media published reports that it brainwashed its members. Shares of NU Skin, Herbalife and rival USANA Health Sciences Inc&lt;USNA.N&gt; fell on news of the probe. "Direct sales groups are well organized and can have a lot in common with other social and political organizations, which is why China is rather wary of them," said Torsten Stocker, Hong Kong-based partner at consultancy firm A.T. Kearney. Herbalife, which took around 10 percent of its global sales from China last year, has 200,000 sales representatives in the country using a "unique marketing program" to meet Chinese regulations, it said in its latest annual report. Growth in China helped boost fourth-quarter net profit 10 percent to $123.5 million, while revenue rose 20 percent to $1.3 billion, in line with the company's estimate. The U.S. firm has also had to fend off criticism about its sales model after activist investor Ackman accused it in December 2012 of running a "pyramid scheme" and took a $1 billion short position in the firm. Short-sellers make money when the stock price of a company drops. The U.S. firm has always vehemently denied that it operates a pyramid scheme, which is an unsustainable business that typically makes most of its money by recruiting distributors rather than selling products to real customers. Herbalife, which sells products through a network of independent distributors, reported an adjusted profit of $1.28 per share for the fourth quarter ended December 31, above an expected $1.25 per share according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. (Reporting by Aditi Shrivastava and Adam Jourdan in SHANGHAI; Editing by Don Sebastian and Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
