REUTERS/Petar KujundzicChina has been pushing through reforms to internationalize its currency. As China's economy grows and it exercises greater political influence, the renminbi is also set to take on a greater role in global markets. The European Central Bank's executive board member Yves Mersch said the renminbi could one day challenge the U.S. dollar as the world's leading reserve currency.  But China's efforts to slowly liberalize its currency have led to the creation of the offshore yuan. And the rules that govern the currency can also be tricky. As China begins to step up reforms, its important to understand the basics of the Chinese currency.  With that in mind — and the fact that the Chinese currency has been weakening — we've answered some of the most frequently asked questions about the renminbi. What is the difference between the renminbi and yuan? The renminbi is the currency of the People's Republic of China and is designated by the symbol RMB. The yuan is a unit of the renminbi with the currency code CNY. The yuan has further denominations. 10 jiao make up one yuan and ten fen make  up one jiao. How is the price set? The renminbi is not a free floating currency like the U.S. dollar. The renminbi was pegged at 2.46 yuan for one U.S. dollar since the currency was introduced in 1948. In the 1980s, it strengthened to a high of 1.50 yuan and was devalued to 8.62 yuan by 1994. China finally revalued its currency in 2005 to 8.11 yuan per U.S. dollar and let it trade within a narrow trading band starting 2006. Since then the currency has appreciated some 30% against the greenback. But even so China has controlled how much the currency fluctuates on a daily basis. China recently widened its yuan trading band to 2%, from 1%. China last widened the band to 1%, from 0.5% in April 2012, and to 0.5% from 0.3% in May 2007. While this has been an important step towards internationalizing the renminbi and establishing market-based exchange rate, analysts a more meaningful reform would be for the People's Bank of China to relinquish control of the exchange rate.  The central bank has a daily fix against the dollar and can thereby guide the currency higher or lower. The China Foreign Exchange Trade System (CFETS) publishes the daily fix each day and the renminbi can now trade withing a 2% band in either direction i.e. it can rise or fall. But as long as China has daily fixes it can continue to guide the currency lower or higher and smooth out appreciation or depreciation as it sees fit. What is the difference between the offshore and onshore yuan? As China began to open up its economy, it wanted the renminbi to be used in the international market to settle trade and financial transactions. But it wanted to do so without fully opening up its capital account and risking capital outflows. Hong Kong, which has served as an international hub for mainland China, served as a great place to start an offshore renminbi market. The crucial thing to understand about the offshore market is that the yuan floats freely and doesn't fluctuate within a tight band like in the onshore market, and is free of Beijing's control in that regard. This allows for different prices on a single currency and creates those arbitrage opportunities that the PBoC is now trying to squelch. Those participating in the offshore Forex market can only participate in the onshore market through Qualified Foreign Institutional Investors (QFIIs) which are granted quotas to participate in onshore trading and investment. But corporates can also participate through a cross-border settlement process. The CNY is the currency code for onshore yuan (in mainland China), meanwhile CNH is the code for offshore yuan traded in Hong Kong and other offshore markets. Who regulates the onshore and offshore renminbi market? The CNY market is regulated by the PBoC and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE). SAFE is responsible for regulating Forex market activities and transactions in both the current and capital account. It also works with the central bank on structuring exchange rate policy. The Bank of China (BOC) is the central clearing bank for the RMB Settlement System. The CNH market is regulated by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority which can not intervene in the market. Can the renminbi threaten the U.S. dollar's dominance? The role of the renminbi in international trade settlement has grown and central banks around the world have increased renminbi holdings in their reserves. SWIFT said this year that the yuan knocked out the Swiss franc to become the seventh most used currency. The ECB's executive board member Yves Mersch has said the renminbi could one day challenge the U.S. dollar as the world's leading reserve currency. The answer to this is unclear. A lot of this will have to do with how successful China is in internationalizing its currency and reforming its economy. If it does so successfully, it will have major implications for global markets and financial stability. Note: Data on Renminbi pegs from CME Group. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidA screen displays a news conference by Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen as a trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange March 19, 2014. FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. BLACKROCK: Higher Rates Have Three Key Implications For Investors (BlackRock Blog) Last week markets were briefly caught off guard when Fed chair Janet Yellen said the Fed could raise short-term rates six months after the end of QE. At the current pace of tapering that could be as soon as spring of 2015, writes BlackRock's Russ Koesterich. Higher rates have three implications for investors, he writes. 1. A stronger dollar – If the U.S. raises rates as the central banks in Europe and Japan ease, the dollar could strengthen.2. More volatility in short and intermediate bonds — Bonds with short and intermediate duration, three to seven years, would be most vulnerable. "Investors may find that this part of the curve experiences the most volatility in coming months." 3. Gold prices could fall – A stronger dollar could weigh on gold prices.Of course higher rates would still be dependent on data, but Koesterich "advocate[s] caution toward gold as well as to the short to middle part of the Treasury curve." Rollovers Into IRAs Billed As Top Regulatory Issue For 2014 (Investment News) A panel of legal experts at the National Association of Plan Advisors' annual 401(k) Summit argues that rollovers from retirement plans to individual retirement accounts (IRAs) will be the next key area for regulatory issue in 2014 reports Darla Mercado at Investment News. "Because of the amount of money that's moving from 401(k)s to IRAs, regulators worry about conflicts of interest, higher retail prices and the impact on the sustainability of lifetime income,” C. Frederick Reish, a partner at Drinker Biddle &amp; Reath said. How A Few Poorly-Timed Trades Can Torpedo Two Decades Of Healthy Returns (JP Morgan) Investors are bad at timing markets and frequently buy high and sell low. In its 2014 Guide to Retirement, JP Morgan Asset Management, shows that if investors would have a 9.2% annualized return, if they were fully invested in the S&amp;P 500 from 1993 to 2013. If on the other hand they missed the ten best days they would have 5.4% annualized returns instead. JPMorgan says investors should "Plan to stay invested."  "Trying to time the market is extremely difficult to do consistently. Market lows often result in emotional decision making. Investing for the long-term while managing volatility can result in a better retirement outcome." JP Morgan Asset Management Empathy Is An Important Trait For Financial Advisors (The Wall Street Journal)  Empathy "is a crucial trait for advisers to have if they want to succeed in an industry that is about effectively handling client emotions as well as their money," writes Veronica Dagher in The WSJ. Advisors can do this by listening and sharing ones own experiences.  "Advisers who lack empathy for what a client is going through--say, a tough divorce, illness or financial turmoil--could lose that client, especially if that client feels judged or criticized. And even if the client doesn't fire the adviser, they're not likely to follow recommendations or refer prospects. ...However, if a client feels listened to and validated, the adviser can win over that client for life, and more, therapists and advisers say." GRANTHAM: The Next Bust Will Be Unlike Any Other (Fortune Magazine)  GMO's Jeremy Grantham told Fortune magazine that global central banks have created a stock market bubble. He said he expects the stock market to go higher because the Fed "hasn't ended its game." He thinks this could take the S&amp;P 500 to 2,350 or another 25% from where we are now. But he thinks investing based on the Fed's policies isn't smart.  "We invest our clients' money based on our seven-year prediction. And over the next seven years, we think the market will have negative returns. The next bust will be unlike any other, because the Fed and other centrals banks around the world have taken on all this leverage that was out there and put it on their balance sheets. We have never had this before. Assets are overpriced generally. They will be cheap again. That's how we will pay for this. It's going to be very painful for investors." FREE AppDownload
The styles of forward guidance provided by central banks differ along two main dimensions: (1) the degree of commitment and (2) the motivation for providing guidance in the first place. Both aspects can affect credibility, and therefore the importance of these statements for markets. Forward guidance can take the form of an explicit commitment or a forecast. Central banks never make unconditional promises (at least about instruments), so there is not a black and white difference between commitments and forecasts. But in general, commitments are more difficult to reverse, either because policymakers’ credibility is on the line or because of institutional details of the policy framework. Statements that contain explicit commitments are more credible and should be taken more seriously by investors. Forward guidance based on forecasts alone (“we think we will raise rates next year because we forecast that inflation will rise”) is easier to reverse, less credible and should be given less weight by investors (even if it conveys some relevant information). The motivation for forward guidance also differs over time and across countries. The distinction comes down to whether guidance intends to clarify the existing policy approach or signals an intentional deviation from historical policy. In other words, whether it simply restates the reaction function or changes the reaction function. The European Central Bank, for instance, is adamant that its “extended period” guidance is meant to clarify its existing approach, and nothing more. In contrast, many academic economists argue that policymakers should use forward guidance to intentionally deviate from past behavior in order to provide additional monetary stimulus at the zero lower bound—i.e. to go “lower for longer.” In our view, forward guidance that clarifies an existing framework is more credible, because the central bank will be less likely to change its mind in the future. Forward guidance which intends to deviate from past behavior should be considered less credible, because we cannot be sure that the central bank in the future will actually follow through with the plans laid out in the past (especially when the composition of the policy committee changes over time). The table below summarizes these ideas. The most credible type of forward guidance is one that clarifies the existing policy approach and backs up statements with some type of commitment. The weakest type of forward guidance is a forecast that the central bank will behave in the future differently than it has behaved in the past—a forecasted change in the reaction function. Columbia Management The Fed’s communication for 2014 looks like the strongest type of forward guidance. Standard Taylor Rules would still imply short-term interest rates around zero for most of this year, so there is no reason to think that the Fed will not follow through on its guidance if the economy performs as expected—they are only restating the existing reaction function. In addition, this year’s guidance is backed up by a very strong form of commitment: quantitative easing (QE). Investors know that the Fed will not raise rates while they are still expanding the balance sheet. Plus, public communication from Fed officials suggests low odds that the pace of tapering ($10 billion per meeting) will either speed up or slow down. We can therefore be reasonably confident that QE will continue—and the funds rate will remain at zero—for most of this year. This is the reason why the 6.5% unemployment threshold is now irrelevant: it’s been superseded by the long tapering timeline. Current statements for 2015 and beyond are closer to the weakest type of forward guidance. First, there will be no commitment device in place when QE ends. This means that the committee could behave differently than planned, even if the economy performs in line with expectations. Without a transparent policy rule or ongoing QE, there is little to bind the future Fed to today’s promises. Second, the policy outlook in the Summary of Economic Projections (SEP) differs from past behavior—at least to a degree. Fed communication actually sends mixed signals on this point, which we assume reflects differences of opinion between policymakers. The SEP forecasts show rate hikes beginning only in late 2015 and then proceeding very slowly. Some officials explain this by referencing “headwinds,” while others point to “lower for longer” considerations. For instance, the following segment appeared in the minutes of the October FOMC meeting: “the policy statement could indicate that even after the first increase in the federal funds rate target, the Committee anticipated keeping the rate below its longer-run equilibrium value for some time, as economic headwinds were likely to diminish only slowly. Other factors besides those headwinds were also mentioned as possibly providing a rationale for maintaining a low trajectory for the federal funds rate, including following through on a commitment to support the economy by maintaining more-accommodative policy for longer.” (emphasis added) One could argue that the “headwinds” idea is a way to clarify the reaction function in light of the particular challenges in the post-crisis economy, rather than intentionally follow a different reaction function than in the past (see our earlier take on headwinds here). That being said, we know that Janet Yellen sees the SEP forecasts as a change in the reaction function. She said this in a speech last year: “I view the Committee’s current rate guidance as embodying exactly such a ‘lower for longer’ commitment. In normal times, the FOMC would be expected to tighten monetary policy before unemployment fell as low as 6-1/2 percent.” Thus, the structure of the Fed’s forward guidance means that its statements for anything beyond 2014 should be considered less credible. Funds rate forecasts in the SEP for 2015 and 2016 intentionally deviate from historical behavior—at least in Yellen’s view—and are not backed up by explicit commitments. For this reason, economic fundamentals like the size of the output gap should be more important for forming views about policy rates in these years than the SEP “dots.” Look for the market’s heavy reliance on the SEP forecasts to fade over time. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider / Matthew LynleyAn enterprise cloud-storage company called Box just filed for an initial public offering.  The company's numbers do not look great. It did $124 million in revenue and had a net loss of $168 million. It spent $171 million in marketing and sales. According to CrunchBase, the company has raised $414 million since its founding in 2005, but it has only $109 million in cash on hand.  While all of this sounds bad, there's a small silver lining.  This is an opportunity for you, the public investor, to get in on the ground floor of an up-and-coming technology startup. The risks and rewards are both massive. Lately, tech companies have raised gobs and gobs of money privately from venture capitalists and private equity groups. Then, when they're ready to go public, a lot of the phenomenal growth is already gone.  Look at Facebook: It went from zero to $100 billion before the public had a chance to invest.  With Box, we're getting an old-school IPO. You have a chance to wager your hard-earned dollars on an upstart tech company. Maybe Box is a disaster, or perhaps it's the next big thing. Now that it's going to be a public company, you can vote with your dollars on which it's going to be.  Of course remember: Picking stocks is a sucker's game. But so is buying a lottery ticket, and people do it anyway.  The bigger point is that the IPO floodgates are opening and you don't have to be a mature company to go public.  FREE AppDownload
Most investors are terrible at trading — that is, they're not good at predicting short-term swings in the market. More often than not, investors find themselves buying high and selling low. And when the market starts selling off sharply, investors will panic, sell their own shares, and sit on the sidelines. Unfortunately, some of the biggest one-day upswings in the market occur during these volatile periods. In its 2014 Guide to Retirement, JP Morgan Asset Management illustrates what can happen to investor returns when they miss out on these good days. For instance, if an investor stayed fully invested in the S&amp;P 500 from 1993 to 2013, they would've had a 9.2% annualized return. However, if trading resulted in them missing just the ten best days during that same period, then those annualized returns would collapse to 5.4%. Missing these days do so much damage because those missed gains aren't able to compound during the rest of the investment holding period. "Plan to stay invested," recommends JPM. "Trying to time the market is extremely difficult to do consistently. Market lows often result in emotional decision making. Investing for the long-term while managing volatility can result in a better retirement outcome." JP Morgan Asset Management FREE AppDownload
This summer Brazil will host the 2014 World Cup, but all its citizens are not happy with the way the country is preparing for this massive, global event. They're sharing a gorgeous song to express their discontent. Lets not forget that last summer protesters took to the streets of Brazil for days, demonstrating against crime, corruption, inflation and inequality (to name a few things). The World Cup has sparked its own protests as well. This protest song 'Desculpa Neymar' ('I'm Sorry, Neymar') is an apology to Brazilian soccer player, Neymar. He plays for FC Barcelona, but will be representing Brazil at the World Cup. The singer is apologizing because he says he cannot cheer for Brazil this year. Here are the lyrics (via BuzzFeed's Conz Preti): I’m sorry Neymar,But during this world cup I won’t be cheering for you,I’m tired of watching our people fading slowly on TV shows,In the meantime FIFA worries about standards,We’re guided by thieves that play dirty to win,I’m sorry Neymar, I’m not cheering this time. Parreira I saw,That Tetra [championship] make people so happy,But we won’t be real champions spending over 10 billion to have the world cup in the country,We have beautiful and monumental stadiums,In the meantime schools and hospitals are about to fail,Parreira I saw, an abyss between the two Brazils. Sorry Felipao,When Cafu lifted the World Cup and showed it,Your roots in such a solemn moment which turned Jardim Irene in a portrait of Brazil,The promised spring never came,Life is worth more than a goal,And the improvements where are they?Sorry Felipao, our country didn’t flourish. I know supporter,That my simple and honest opinion,Won’t make you that makes little money and lives poorly,Stop going to the end together with our team,Even without money to pay an expensive ticket,You’ll never stop loving our team wherever they go,I know supporter, it’s you that is right.   The song is being tweeted everywhere. A lot of commenters on the video posted on Brazilian TV channel Terra (video below) say that the song speaks to how they feel about the World Cup. They say that the games were paid for with money siphoned away from government projects meant to fund education, public health, insurance and public transit.  On the other side, some say that World Cup detractors are hypocrites who were excited when Brazil got the opportunity to host the games, but are now complaining about it. What is certain is that Brazilian security forces have intensified their presence in the poor favelas in Rio de Janeiro, where the games are taking place. Vice did a really interesting segment on this on its HBO show called 'The Pacification of Rio'. They argue that the government may be massaging statistics by calling murders "disappearances/missing people." Needless to say, it isn't a pretty picture. FREE AppDownload
Enterprise cloud storage company Box has filed for an IPO.  Here are the five numbers you need to know: In the filing, it says, "we do not expect to be profitable for the foreseeable future." Box does cloud storage much like Dropbox. But, instead of targeting consumers, it targets enterprises.  You can find the S1 here. SEC FREE AppDownload
Just four months into her tenure as General Motors CEO, Mary Barra is facing down the auto giant's biggest crisis since it emerged from bankruptcy in 2009. The company has recently issued recalls affecting more than 3 million vehicles on five different models from several different years. Some analysts say GM's legal liability could run to more than $1 billion, given how much Toyota agreed to pay over its own massive recall. Despite all this, we don't think the scale of the crisis has fully sunk in, so we wanted to pull some figures showing just how big a deal this is.  The Center for Auto Safety has confirmed those numbers. GM has so far acknowledged at least 12 deaths and 34 crashes, according to Reuters.  The company has acknowledged learning as early as 2004 of “at least one incident” when a Chevy Cobalt lost power after its key accidentally came into contact with the steering column, according to the Detroit Free Press. "The truth is they knew they had this recall (coming),” lawyer Shelby Jordan told the Free Press. REUTERS/St Croix Sherriff/HandoutA Wisconsin State Patrol police officer looks through the wreck of a 2005 Chevy Cobalt in St Croix County, Wisconsin in this October 24, 2006 file photo. Megan Phillips, who was the driver of a 2005 Chevrolet Cobalt that crashed in Wisconsin, said that until last month's recall she blamed herself for a 2006 accident in which two teenaged friends were killed when her car left the road and hit a clump of trees.  The Department of Transportation's inspector general is now investigating how the NHTSA handled the GM recall. “N.H.T.S.A. claims it did not do an investigation because it did not see a defect trend,” Clarence Ditlow, executive director of the Center for Auto Safety, wrote in a letter to the agency according to The New York Times. But, he added, “In some instances, single complaints can trigger a recall.”  Its shares are down 14% YTD. UBS warns in a recent note that Toyota's federal settlement of $1.2 billion over a recent recall is likely to serve as precedent for any future action the Justice Department may bring.   GM data by YCharts At 3.1 million vehicles, it puts just outside the top 1o biggest recalls.   turnabout 1973/flickrA Ford Pinto, subject of one of the most infamous recalls in U.S. history. GM has responded to the crisis by creating an entire new office in charge of investigating the , and Barra released a personal video memo outlying her concerns and commitment to getting out in front of the issue. All of the vehicles named in the recall also ceased production several years ago.  Still, it increasingly appears that there was a glitch not just in cars' systems, but in the corporate and regulatory oversight required to ensure these things never happen. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Enrique MarcarianBUENOS AIRES (Reuters) - Argentina will put downward pressure on world food prices by exporting more soy this year, even as growers hedge against the country's dysfunctional financial system by hoarding a bigger chunk of what is expected to be a record high crop. The biggest harvest ever seen on the Pampas farm belt started last week, setting the stage for increased exports from the world's No. 3 soybean supplier. The size of the expected crop increase will at the same time allow growers to stockpile a larger percentage of the crop than last year. Farmers are hanging onto their soybeans to use as a unit of savings preferable to Argentina's anemic peso, which has weakened by 18.2 percent this year. They use beans to barter for everything from seeds to pickup trucks, restricting supply and supporting international soy prices over the last year. "Farmers will sell more volume of soybeans this season. But because the harvest is expected to be so much bigger than it was last year, sales will represent a lower percentage of the overall crop," said Pablo Adreani, head of AgriPAC consultants. He expects sales of 20.75 million metric tons for March through May, or 38 percent of total projected 2013/14 production compared with 22.19 million metric tons in the same three month period last year, which represented 47 percent of Argentina's total 2012/13 soybean harvest. In March-May 2012, Adreani's research shows growers sold 26.47 million metric tons, or 68 percent of 2011/12 production. Despite being a top source of soy and corn used as animal feed as far away as Asia, where an emerging middle class wants more beef and chicken in its diet, Argentina's economy has been pounded down by one of the world's highest inflation rates. The trend of growers hoarding crops to compensate for financial uncertainty has been more than matched however by soy production increases made possible about by Argentina's all-out embrace of yield-bolstering genetic seed technology. BEANS OUTSHINE PESO The Rosario grains exchange expects Argentina's upcoming soy harvest to come in at 54.7 million metric tons versus 48.3 million in 2013. The Argentine government called the 2013 crop at 49.3 million metric tons and has not yet issued a 2014 forecast. Argentina's record high soy crop was 52.7 million metric tons collected in 2010, according to the agriculture ministry. As of March 12, the agriculture ministry says soy exporters along with producers of soyoil and soymeal had purchased 7.1 million metric tons of the beans expected to come in this year, down from 9.4 million metric tons sold by the same point in 2013. The lower forward sales figure can be explained in part by lower international soybean prices. "It will be a very trying year because of the increases in inflation, and with less operating capital available at a higher cost from the banks," said David Hughes, who manages thousands of hectares of farmland in Buenos Aires province. "The only easily tradable currency we have is the soybean. So we will take a lot of care on how and when we sell our crop," Hughes added. He said he agrees with Adreani's forecast that this year's record crop will mean higher export volume, but represent a smaller proportion of the overall harvest versus 2013's crop. SELL AS LITTLE AS POSSIBLE Investors have long clamored for President Cristina Fernandez to tighten fiscal policy in a bid to control inflation and slow the outflow of central bank reserves, which have tumbled 33.7 percent over the last year to $27.2 billion. The peso has weakened 36 percent over the last 12 months to 7.975 per U.S. dollar, while private economists say consumer prices are rising at a rate of more than 30 percent per year. Wall Street hopes Argentina's economic policies will move in a market-friendly direction after Fernandez's second term ends late next year. But with the race to replace her wide open, there is no guarantee of that. Her muted reaction to high inflation has done nothing to increase business confidence. "The government is slowly coming to grips with what has to be done, but there is no sense of urgency. Jumps in the value of the dollar later in the year cannot be ruled out," said Guillermo Nielsen, a Buenos Aires-based economist and former Argentine finance secretary. "So the incentives for not selling the harvest are stronger this year than last. Farmers will sell part of the crop in order to make urgent payments, such as taxes and payroll, that cannot be bartered in beans. But," he added, "the attitude of selling the least amount of the crop possible will continue." (Reporting by Hugh Bronstein; editing by Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonPresident of Greenlight Capital David EinhornGreenlight Capital, the hedge fund run by David Einhorn, has discovered the identity of the anonymous Seeking Alpha blogger that revealed one of the fund's stock positions.  "Greenlight has identified the anonymous blogger and has resolved the matter privately to our satisfaction," the fund said in an emailed statement to Business Insider.  Greenlight Capital has also dropped its court proceeding against Seeking Alpha, ValueWalk's Jacob Wolinsky points out.  "Greenlight dropped the suit of its own accord. We did not at any time disclose the author's identity formally or informally, and at no time were our actions dictated by reaching a deal with Greenlight," a spokesperson for Seeking Alpha said in a statment. "We're happy Greenlight is no longer pursuing the case, and has resolved the issue to its satisfaction." Last month, the hedge fund had filed a court petition requesting that popular stock blogging website Seeking Alpha reveal the identity of an anonymous blogger called "Valuable Insights."  Greenlight alleged that Valuable Insights disclosed the hedge fund's trade secrets and breached confidentiality by revealing his fund's stake in Micron Technology before it was made public. Einhorn publicly revealed the position at a charity hedge fund conference in late November.  What's more is Greenlight said in the court petition the only folks aware of the Micron stake were Greenlight employees, counsel and prime brokers. Those people have a contractual or fiduciary responsibility to keep these investments confidential.  Here's Seeking Alpha's full statement:  Greenlight dropped the suit of its own accord. We did not at any time disclose the author's identity formally or informally, and at no time were our actions dictated by reaching a deal with Greenlight.We're happy Greenlight is no longer pursuing the case, and has resolved the issue to its satisfaction.This is not the first demand we have had to disclose pseudonymous authors' identities; we have yet to disclose author identity in any claim submitted to court.Platforms such as Seeking Alpha are protected by Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, which provides immunity from liability for providers and users of an "interactive computer service" who publish information provided by others. This doesn't stop attempts to file pre-action motions to try and get to specific posters, but so far our experience has been that the claims get shut down or withdrawn.We continue to support third-party posters, and their decision as to whether to publish under real or assumed names. We will continue to step in to the extent we deem reasonable against claims submitted, as we believe in the value that psuedonymity builds for the community. Also, here's Valuable Insight's Seeking Alpha profile:  Seeking Alpha   FREE AppDownload
REUTERSClerks take orders and signal them into the Standard and Poors 500 stock index futures trading pit at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange shortly after the market opened September 1, 1998.The stock market in aggregate didn't do a whole lot today. But high-flyers like biotech tumbled. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
We recently pointed out that starting to save early for retirement is extremely helpful, and also a useful chart showing how much you should have saved at different stages of your career to ensure a comfortable retirement. To show how these ideas work, we figured out how much money you would have to set aside monthly, starting at different ages, and under different rates of return, to end up with $1,000,000 in savings when you are ready to retire at 65. Here is how much you would need to save each month at a 6% annual rate of return, starting at different ages. So if you're 20, and you want to retire a millionaire, you should be socking away $361 per month. If you're starting at 25, that jumps to $499. You can see how as you get older, you need to be saving much, much more: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz Bottom line: It is much better to start saving young. Two things are happening here. First, by starting to save at 20 instead of 40, you have many more individual monthly payments, and can spread out your total principal investment over a longer period of time. Second, and much more importantly, by saving earlier, you can better take advantage of compound interest. If you start saving when you are 20, your first payment of $361.04 will, at 6% return, grow into $5336.16 when you are 65. How much you need to save also depends on  the return rate. This chart shows how much you need to put into your savings account each month for a variety of annual return rates: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz  FREE AppDownload
It may feel like you are saving tons of money every time you use your own SodaStream rather than buying soda drinks from the store.   We did the math and you may be surprised how long it may take you to break even.   Produced by Sara Silverstein.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Jim UrquhartSome of Bitcoin enthusiast Mike Caldwell's coins and paper vouchers, often called "paper wallets", are pictured at his office in this photo illustration in Sandy, Utah, January 31, 2014.By Douwe Miedema WASHINGTON (Reuters) - TeraExchange said on Monday it had constructed a swap based on the bitcoin virtual currency, a step that would bring the emerging payment system under the oversight of U.S. regulators for the first time. The contract, created on behalf of two clients, was a bilateral swap privately negotiated between them. The counterparties had not acted on the agreement, but were expected to do so soon, the company said. The company said it had shown the contract to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which regulates swaps and futures. If transacted by the counterparties, the contract would need to be reported to the agency. Regulators have stepped up their efforts to rein in bitcoin after incidents such as the collapse of Mt. Gox, a Tokyo-based exchange that filed for bankruptcy after losing an estimated $650 million worth of customer bitcoins. Bart Chilton, who stepped down from his position as a member of the CFTC on Friday, told Reuters last week that companies had inquired in the past month about regulations that would govern exchanges for bitcoin derivatives. Ultimately, TeraExchange plans to list the bitcoin swap on its Swap Execution Facility (SEF), a new type of regulated platform that was set up after the credit crisis to make swaps trading more transparent, less risky, and cheaper. The company was given a license to run a SEF last year, but no trading has taken place on the platform yet. The novelty of the bitcoin currency has made it hard to categorize, but trading derivatives such as futures or swaps would subject companies to oversight by the CFTC. (Reporting by Douwe Miedema; editing by Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
Last month Venezuela exploded, as discontent with the Socialist government that has ruled the country for more than a decade reached a boiling point. You can blame food shortages and inflation; you can blame joblessness and corruption. Ultimately, though, these problems have been compounded by the fact that Hugo Chavez is dead, and his party — The United Socialist Party of Venezuela — lacks the legitimacy he gave it in life. Now Chavez's successor, Nicolas Maduro, must deal with country-wide protests, with dissenting mayors in major cities, and the make-shift barricades protestors are building to keep government forces at bay. Thirty-three people have died, and the Venezuelan economy is continuing its downward spiral. REUTERS/Carlos Garcia Rawlins Maduro inherited Venezuela from Hugo Chavez in April 2013. He beat middle-of-the-road opposition politician Henrique Capriles Radonski, with the lowest margin of support in years. The regime, however, made it a point to connect Maduro to his predecessor as much as possible — sometimes bordering on the farcical. "Sometimes I come at night, sometimes I sleep here, often," said Maduro of Chavez's grave site back in September 2013. "You don’t even realize it. The neighbors sometimes realize." He also once said that Chavez appeared to him in the form of a little bird and whispered in his ear. AP Photo By last November the country was suffering from an economic malaise that could not be ignored. Consumer price inflation had climbed to 49% by September; staple products like toilet paper and beans were getting hard to come by. To combat this evil, Maduro requested sweeping powers from the Venezuelan legislature, mostly ruled by his party members. The new powers would allow the president to essentially rule by decree when it came to economic matters. Maduro said the new measures would allow him to "unfold a permanent offensive against the corrupt and their political backers." Capriles, on the other hand, said that he "is seeking once again scapegoats to blame for their own mistakes ... The government is trying to deviate attention from the serious economic crisis that is hurting Venezuela." REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsHenrique Capriles Since then, the economy has only gotten worse. In a recent research report Citi wrote Venezuelan public debt has ballooned to 53.4% of GDP, and estimates GDP will contract by 1% in 2014. As the economy was tail spinning, the Venezuelan legislature was busy basing its budget on inflation targets in the mid 20% range. It also created a "Vice Ministry of Happiness" to figure out how to deal with unrest. Maduro, for his part, was ordering soldiers to take over toilet paper factories and announcing that construction workers had seen the face of Chavez in a subway work site. Election day in December was set on "The Day of Loyalty" commemorating Chavez's leadership. AP Photo Things fell apart on "Youth Day" — the Feb. 12 holiday in which students remember the legacy of South America's colonial liberator, Simon Bolivar. There had been smaller protests before, but it was on this holiday —and in the days after — that the crowds really started pouring into the streets. Reuters "I've had enough," said an angry Maduro. "You can accuse me of what you want, I am obliged to defend democracy and the peace of the people." He told the people that the protests were coming from a "Nazi Fascist" current, and the government started fighting back. People started dying on both sides. AP PhotoA student shot in the head is carried by other protesters inside a police vehicle in Caracas, Venezuela, Wednesday, Feb. 12, 2014. Thousands of Venezuelans opposed to President Nicolas Maduro took to the streets in Caracas in a show of force following two weeks of sometimes violent anti-government protests that have swept across the country. (AP Photo/Alejandro Cegarra) As the protests spread outside of Caracas to more remote parts of the country, the deaths and injuries suffered by the opposition became more high profile. Genesis Carmona, Miss Tourism 2013 for her home state of Carabobo, was shot in the head and died a little more than a week after the protests really took hold. Instagram, orgmisscarabobo New leaders emerged from Feb. 12, as well. Leopoldo Lopez, former mayor of the city of Chacao, became a rallying point for protests. He represented a political view even more to the right than Capriles, and the government put a warrant out for his arrest. On Feb. 18, Lopez gave himself up, said goodbye to his wife Lilian and went to jail. Imágenes para la historia pic.twitter.com/Iyui1naQe4 Reuters Following Lopez, the government arrested several other mayors including the mayor of San Cristobal. It's a Colombian border town where food lines are long, and protesters built barricades to keep out government forces. REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsPeople line up to buy food at a supermarket in San Cristobal, about 410 miles (660 km) southwest of Caracas, February 27, 2014. U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and Pope Francis called on Wednesday for an end to violence in Venezuela that has killed at least 13 people and urged politicians to take the lead in calming the nation's worst unrest in a decade.  According to reports, shoppers at government grocery stores are marked with permanent marker to keep their place in these long lines. Once they get inside stores, though, it's possible that they won't find what they're looking for. Twitter, Friedrich Hayek The leaders of the protest have started appealing to international bodies like the Organization of American States. Opposition politician Maria Corina Machado appealed to the body in Washington last week, but Venezuela's allies — including countries like Ecuador, Argentina, and the Caribbean islands, which receive oil subsidies from the country — voted to take her comments off the record. They also agreed not to debate the situation at all. Now Machado is headed back to a country where she is wanted for treason, and has been stripped of her protections as a legislator. Check out an interview she did with Fusion after her appearance.  The official death toll in all this turmoil officially stands at 34. As a sign that the government is more concerned about the economic situation than it has been in years, it is loosening restrictions on the dollar, which is meant to curb capital flight. Still demonstrators are out on the street even today, demanding the release of opposition politicians. Here they are wearing masks of the faces of incarcerated Mayors.  Experts like Eurasia Group's Ian Bremmer have argued that Venezuela is not Ukraine because of the government's continued control of the military and popularity among working class and poor Venezuelans. But as things get more and more violent, it's unclear how long Maduro can hold on without taking dramatic steps to crush his opposition. And who knows how the opposition will react to that. REUTERS/Carlos Eduardo Ramirez (Anti-government protesters stand in front of a National Guard armoured vehicle during a protest against Nicolas Maduro's government in San Cristobal March 22, 2014. Two Venezuelans died from gunshot wounds during protests against Maduro, witnesses and local media said on Saturday, pushing the death toll from almost two months of anti-government protests to 33.     FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons(Reuters) - Netflix shares slumped more than 7 percent on Monday after a report about a new television streaming product that Comcast and Apple were working on together. Netflix shares fell $31.49 or 7.78 percent to $374.67. The drop came a day after a story that first appeared in the online edition of The Wall Street Journal said Comcast and Apple were in talks about teaming up for a new TV product that stores programming in the cloud and would replace clunky cable boxes in people's homes. Apple and Comcast have declined to comment on the report but a source familiar with the matter told Reuters the discussions were at an early stage and there are a lot of hurdles to be crossed before any agreement is reached. Apple also wants the TV service's Internet traffic to be separate from public Internet traffic and would be looking for special treatment from Comcast's cable pipe to give customers a better experience, the newspaper said. Arris Group Inc, a company that makes set-top boxes for the cable industry and paid Google $2.35 billion for Motorola's cable box unit last April, also saw its shares fall 6 percent on fears that an Apple-Comcast partnership could hurt sales of traditional set-top boxes. (Reporting by Liana B. Baker; Editing by Tom Brown) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstThe sun rises to the east of the U.S. Federal Reserve building in Washington.SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve, whose balance sheet has swollen to more than $4 trillion as the U.S. central bank has worked to push down borrowing costs and boost the economy, probably will not sustain big losses once interest rates start rising, according to research from the San Francisco Fed. There is only a 5 percent chance that the price of the Treasuries held by the Fed will fall below their face value in 2015 and result in capital losses for the central bank, according to the study by the regional Fed bank's head of research, Glenn Rudebusch, and two colleagues. There is also only a 5 percent chance that rising rates would result in the Fed paying out more in interest to banks as part of its eventual monetary tightening than it earns in fixed payments on its securities, the researchers found. "Our analysis shows that the likelihood of significant losses on the Fed's Treasury portfolio or a long cessation of Treasury remittances is very low," they wrote. The research is aimed at addressing rising concern within the central bank that the Fed could face political pressure if capital losses or a rise in interest payments force it to reduce or eliminate the tens of billions of dollars in profits it sends to the Treasury each year. (Reporting by Ann Saphir; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Tiger Woods, Lebron James, Maria Sharapova and David Beckham. These are superstar athletes making a fortune from multi-million dollar endorsement deals. We've compiled the largest individual endorsement deals among professional athletes. Produced by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovA man walks past an information screen on display inside the office of the Moscow Exchange in the capital Moscow March 14, 2014. MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia's economy is barely growing, inflation is rising fast, and capital is pouring out of the country, the Economy Ministry said on Monday, a sign that international tensions around Ukraine are already inflicting severe economic costs. In February Russia's gross domestic product eked out growth of just 0.3 percent year-on-year, down from 0.7 percent in January, Russia's Deputy Economy Minister Andrei Klepach said. Last year the economy grew by just 1.3 percent, far below initial forecasts, but there had been hopes that growth would rebound this year. Instead Russia's economic performance is deteriorating further as the international tensions around Ukraine lead capital to flee Russia. Klepach said that when seasonal and calendar factors are taken into account, February's 0.3 percent was "not bad" and "better than expected." But he added that "it's too soon to talk about a turn-around in economic trends, about a recovery from stagnation." He said that the ministry anticipates GDP growth of "around zero" for the first quarter as a whole. That would make its 2.5 percent growth forecast for 2014 challenging. "There won't be a recession, but there is a problem of stagnation: it's length and depth. Unfortunately the investment slump is continuing. I'm not ready to say how long it will continue," Klepach said. While Russia's economic growth slows, inflation is shooting up. The Economy Ministry expects inflation to reach 6.9-7.0 percent in March, up from 6.2 percent in February. The sharp rise illustrates how a slumping rouble is feeding into higher import prices, as both Russians and foreigners scramble to get out of rouble investments. Klepach said that the Economy Ministry forecasts the net capital outflow during the first quarter at $65-70 billion - and "closer to $70 billion". That compares with an outflow of $62.7 billion during the whole of 2013. He said that Russia's economic indicators have been deteriorating, even though western sanctions against Russia have so far had only a minor economic impact, because cool relations between Russia and the West damage investor confidence. "We considered in the forecast how the general deterioration of our relations with developed countries and world markets is having an influence," he said. "Sanctions so far don't have a significant economic character, but in itself a worsening of relations is a significantly negative factor for economic growth and correspondingly influences the capital outflow." (Writing by Jason Bush; Editing by Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
Gluskin SheffDavid RosenbergOne of the big bullish stories that everyone's waiting to see is the comeback in business investment, or capital expenditures (capex). Economists have long argued that aging equipment and a general pent-up demand for these capital goods will eventually drive a boom in spending. In his morning note today, Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg lays out why he thinks people aren't optimistic enough. CAPEX SET FOR UPSIDE Commercial real estate lending is picking up sharply alongside a boom in bank-wide commercial and industrial credit and an expansion in the nonfinancial corporate paper market. Capex plans in the Philly Fed special question were the highest since 2004. The Fed's Flow of Funds data have shown that capital spending outlays have not exceeded internally generated cash flow in a single quarter this cycle. The financing gap is still hugely negative. The private sector capital stock, at 22 years of age, is the oldest is has been since 1958 and is strongly suggestive of an upgrade cycle (not to mention the fact that America's spending on public infrastructure at a 20-year low!). NFIB spending intentions hit a cycle high. The Fed's Beige Book contained numerous anecdotes of firmer capex in coming quarters. And now I see the confidence index published by the Equipment Leasing and Finance Foundation rose to a two-year high in March. Truck tonnage rose 2.8% in February and the ECRI leading smoothed economic index ticked up last week to a 2.3% annualized pace from 2.1%. Earlier this month, Rosenberg also pointed to what he called the "strongest case for capex." In case you missed it: THE STRONGEST CASE FOR CAPEX The answer lies in CAPU ... in other words, capacity utilization rates. While hardly yet at a peak, at 77% for U.S. manufacturing they are at levels that in the past touched off a moderate capex growth cycle. As the chart below shows, there is a slight lag but a decent 65% historical correlation. History also shows that once 77% is breached in terms of CAPU rates in an up-cycle, capital spending in real terms in the ensuing years averages out to be 0% growth — enough to add an increment 60 basis points to headline GDP trends. Here's Rosenberg's chart: Gluskin Sheff In their U.S. Capital Goods research note last week, Morgan Stanley's Nigel Coe and Nicole DeBlase broke down where capex growth will come from based on their review of 225 companies. "Our 4th iteration of this expanded analysis continues to see 7% CapEx growth in 2014, but flat/down CapEx in Mining, US Utility, Food Retail, Machinery, Telecom and Auto," they wrote. "However, we highlight improved outlooks in Chemical and O&amp;G (as we added more companies) with both of these end markets now looking up double digits and suggesting that the consensus negative opinion on energy investment is either premature or wrong." Check it out. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Joe SkipperFund manager Doug Kass, who runs Seabreeze Partners, writes in a new Street.com column that he hasn't been invited back on CNBC because of comments he made in a New York Post article last August.  Kass, who has been a regular guest on CNBC's shows and other financial TV outlets, explains that he really wanted to be part of Larry Kudlow's upcoming final "Kudlow Report." According to Kass, Kudlow was happy to have him on, but upper management at CNBC stepped in and said no. "Everyone wants to be part of Larry’s last show," a CNBC spokesperson told Business Insider when asked about Kass' story.  Kass claims that this all goes back to the New York Post article that turned out to be an attack on CNBC.  Kass writes that the comments he made in his interview with the Post were a general criticism of the financial media's coverage of Apple. He wasn't aware that the article was going to be focused specifically on CNBC.  Here's Kass' side of the story:  The New York Post's column, however, beginning with the inflammatory title "CNBC Cheerleaders," turned out to a direct attack on CNBC. The column incorporated remarks I had made in a private email to CNBC's Scott Wapner that I did not intend to share with anyone. The reporter created the illusion that my criticism was directed solely at CNBC and failed to disclose in the New York Post column (as I told her explicitly in a telephone call) that I had written similar emails to commentators at Bloomberg and Fox Business Network. Apparently (before the story was published), someone on the CNBC staff forwarded a personal email (without my permission) that I had sent specifically to "Fast Money: Halftime Report's" Scott Wapner (which was CC'd to the other panelists) to the reporter at the New York Post. The thrust of the email was that the excitement related to Apple share purchases -- to jog your memories, Carl Icahn announced an Apple share position of slightly over $1 billion, and the follow-up news was that Lee Cooperman's Omega Advisors purchased 31,000 shares of Apple stock in the prior three-month reporting period -- was not that consequential. In that email I wrote to Scott that Icahn's purchase was de minimis relative to the $450 billion Apple market cap and that in the case of Omega Advisors, the 31,000 purchase represented only a few tenths of 1% of Omega's assets under management. In the email I also suggested that a deeper dive and analysis of the possible impact of the two purchases should have been adopted by CNBC and that the excitement should be put into the proper perspective. (I believe, at the time, Lee separately communicated the limited consequences and importance of Omega's modest purchase directly to Scott as well.) The New York Post only quoted my email to Scott (which wasn't meant to be made public and without my permission) and suggested my criticism was aimed only at CNBC, which was not accurate. (Again, I had sent similar emails about the coverage of the Apple story to Bloomberg and Fox Business Network.) So basically he says it was all a huge misunderstanding. Kass goes on to write that he's extending an olive branch to CNBC.  "If my delivery of criticism is misinterpreted as disrespectful, that is a mistake, or at least, that it was not my intention. We must all recognize that in the heat of the market's battle, it is not uncommon to say or write sharply worded views that can easily be misconstrued (and certainly be misconstrued by competing media platforms)." Read the full Real Money Pro column on TheStreet.com » FREE AppDownload
You would be surprised at the amount of time you can save on your Mac computer with the knowledge of a few keyboard shortcuts. Here are some simple ones that can boost your productivity.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter    
Let’s start here with George Soros, from a speech he delivered in June 2010: “I have developed a rudimentary theory of bubbles along these lines. Every bubble has two components: an underlying trend that prevails in reality and a misconception relating to that trend. When a positive feedback develops between the trend and the misconception, a boom-bust process is set in motion. The process is liable to be tested by negative feedback along the way, and if it is strong enough to survive these tests, both the trend and the misconception will be reinforced.” It’s likely that you’ve been exposed to this weekend’s market conversation / freak-out du jour – “Is biotech a bubble?” If you haven’t yet, you will be, as TV producers scour the financial web for things to make segments about on Monday. Either way, more and more people are going to weigh in – many of them completely unqualified – and they’ll cloud the issue even further. One of the things I’ve tried to do on this blog is cut through the clutter for readers and present them with a good framework with which to think about a given topic. Everyone, myself included, can and will get things wrong in the markets. The goal should be to get less things wrong as time goes on and to avoid getting things wrong for the wrong reasons – easier said than done but a highly attainable goal worthy of pursuit. No one has all the answers, but many people don’t even have the right questions to begin with. I think having the right questions is an underrated starting point. Back to the biotech sector…let’s start with the positives (many of which have been cited by Elliot Turner here): Time-to-market for biotech drugs has been dramatically shortened thanks to technology and the maturation of these companies’ management teams. In addition, new drug FDA approval has exploded – according toBloomberg BusinessWeek, 2013 was “a year of 27 clearances at the FDA that included several under a new ‘breakthrough therapy’ designation prioritizing reviews of promising medicines. That followed a record 2012 in which 39 novel drugs were approved, the most in 15 years.” Also, aging populations mean almost guaranteed growth for the sector’s products while the dwindling R&amp;D efforts and pipelines of traditional pharma companies mean a steady drumbeat of takeovers as far as the eye can see. Okay, we can acknowledge the bull case with a straight face and no fingers crossed behind our backs. It’s legit. “But is it already more than priced in?” is the question. Is the biotech sector in a bubble? Yes. Full stop. Below are the questions I’ve used to arrive at this answer (with some supporting data / links). You can ask them of yourself and possibly come up with a different answer: Is there a kickass origin story for the rally? How it all began: From 2009 through 2011 there was no public market capital for anything even remotely risky and so young biotech companies were forced to sell out to larger drug companies on the private market. This was fine with them as valuations on the private market were actually much better – my friend Adam Feuersteinfrom TheStreet.com explained to me that if a biotech was going public circa 2011, it meant their science wasn’t good enough for an acquisition exit. In the meanwhile, as sluggish global growth persisted, investors began to favors secular growth stories in the stock market – companies that didn’t need GDP growth to accelerate. This favored Big Biotech, your Celgenes and Amgens and the like. Unfortunately, there weren’t enough reputable biotech franchises to go around thanks to a handful of mega-mergers (buyouts of Genzyme, Genentech, Pharmasset, Amylin, Human Genome, Illumina etc) and the aforementioned dearth of public offerings. Institutions took the handful of good-sized biotech stocks that were leftover to all-time highs. Sure, fundamentals are important, but scarcity is even more important when the fever strikes. Have the gains been astronomical?  Yes. The S&amp;P 500's biotech stocks are up more than 400% from the March 2009 bottom versus a gain of roughly 180% for the rest of the market. And this does not even include the hundreds of small- and mid-cap biotechs that have gone up even more. The Nasdaq Biotechnology Index, which does include some of these smaller names, is up 14% year-to-date or a sevenfold return over the broader market. Last year it was up 66% or double the S&amp;P 500's return, which is to say the gains are accelerating in both absolute and relative terms. Are there egregious examples of unbridled enthusiasm for lottery-esque opportunities?  There’s a biotech company called Intercept Pharmaceuticals (ICPT) that announced some positive data from a drug trial in January of this year and promptly exploded by 281%. The stock is now up some 500% year-to-date and every aggressive trader on earth has it on their screen. In addition, they’ve driven up dozens of other similar companies in the hopes of being in “the next ICPT”. Stop me if you’ve heard this one before from other bubbles in other sectors. Actually, don’t stop me, I’m not done. Outrageous gains are not limited to smaller biotech stocks. Gilead Sciences bought out Pharmasset for $11 billion to get their hands on Solvaldi, a hepatitis C drug. Gilead’s stock price has tripled in the less than three years following that acquisition with $85 billion in market value added!  Sovaldi is hitting the market this year and is expected to generate $2.5 billion in sales annually. Awesome – but $85 billion in additional market cap awesome? To be clear, Gilead has tacked on the market cap of Goldman Sachs, Union Pacific or United Health Group in two-and-a-half years. Is capital flowing to the sector like ambrosia and honey from the mythological Horn of Plenty?  This year so far, there have been roughly 50 initial public offerings and half of those have been early-stage biotech companies. The average gain for these new biotech offerings through the middle of March is over 50%. Anyone with a protein compound under a microscope and a clean suit can go public right now. You actually might not even need the compound, just the idea for one. Also, the deal activity is a runaway train. According to PricewaterhouseCoopers, last quarter was one for the ages: M&amp;A in the life sciences sector spiked 24% and 31 companies were bought for a total of $37 billion. Have valuations lost all connection with reality? With a few exceptions, yes – broadly speaking and throughout the sector, they absolutely have. Without getting into the weeds on a case-by-case basis (of course we can always find exceptions), here’s the big picture viaBrendan Conway of Barron’s this weekend: The price-earnings ratio of the SPDR S&amp;P Biotech ETF is a rich 33 times trailing earnings, versus the S&amp;P 500's 17, says Morningstar. But Morningstar removes unprofitable firms from the tally. Add them back in and tally the losses against the prices, and the P/E multiple would be a negative 19, according to ETF.com’s Matt Hougan–if such a thing were possible. I could cite some really extreme examples and then a bull could find some cheaper examples to offset them. So let’s think about the averages here. I’ll acknowledge that, individually, any of the companies I’m lumping in as bubbly could be working on a world-changing drug that more than justifies its current lofty price. Unfortunately, this will not be the case for most or even many of them. Are these extreme changes in valuation wreaking havoc and bringing distortion to other parts of the market?  My friend Jon Krinsky informally crunched the numbers this weekend and shared with me that, since 2012, biotech stocks began a full-scale invasion and colonization of the health care sector. He looked at the percentage of biotech market cap weighting in the health care sector SPDR (XLV) by year and then compared health care stocks with their constituent biotechs: % weighting of XLV that biotech makes up March 2010 – 11.62%March 2011 – 9.6%March 2012 – 10.65%March 2013 – 14.44%March 2014 – 19% Via The Reformed Broker Are we saying crazy s--- to make ourselves feel better about the frenzy? A little, if we’re going to be honest.  Here’s someone referencing Bespoke Investment Group data earlier this month saying it’s not so crazy because biotech hasn’t yet eclipsed the dot com bubble of 2000 or the home building bubble of 2005: the 361% gain in the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index NBI  since hitting a trough — along with the rest of the market — in March 2009, pales in comparison with some other recent bubbles.  MarketWatch For one, the Nasdaq 100 made a leap of 1,118% during the period from December 1994 to March 2000 that included the dot-com bubble. That’s over a period of 1,935 days, only slightly longer than the current 1,822-day biotech rally. There’s at least one more bubble to examine, the note says. The housing runup of the early 2000s brought with it an 835% gain for homebuilders in the S&amp;P 1,500, Bespoke points out. That rally was similar in length to the dot-com bubble, lasting 1,954 days. Dude, really? That’s like saying O.J. Simpson wasn’t so terrible because, while he probably killed his ex-wife and her lover with a knife, at least he didn’t eat them or have sex with their corpses. There are other examples of excuse-making for the sector – too many to cover here. Lots of people are making money and no one wants it to end, so I get it. I’ve been guilty of this kind of rationalization in the past as well. Josh, are you just being a hater? This is the last question I’ll rhetorically ask, and it should always be a question we ask ourselves when discussing market trends. “How much of my reticence to accept the prevailing wisdom is due to my having missed out?” In this case, it is inapplicable. We’ve been invested in the biotech space for years. I’ve been an unabashed biotech bull in public ever since, well, I’ve been in public. Here’s me in May of 2012 calling biotechs a stealth bull market, as one example. Even now we’re highly exposed to the health care sector which is itself laden with these stocks. I’m not hating, just keeping it real. One last thing I will say – yes it’s a bubble, but SFW? Greenspan coined the phrase “Irrational Exuberance” to describe the stock market in 1996 and it took four years and hundreds of percentage points of additional upside before it mattered. What am I, the Bubble Police? Don’t let my calling it what it is affect your investing. If you’re disciplined and think you’re a big boy or girl and know how to get out in time, knock yourself out. If you’re playing small for fun and using “f*** you money” in the sector, go for it, what do I care? But if and when the hot money moves on and these stocks come hurtling back down toward the earth’s atmosphere, don’t be mad if I say “Told ya so.” FREE AppDownload
Andreas Rentz/Getty ImagesRed-hot, high-beta stocks are getting smoked today. While the Dow is off just 0.4%, and the broader S&amp;P is off 0.8%, the NASDAQ is getting walloped to the tune of 1.7%. Everything that was hot is down. The biotech ETF IBB is off over 3%. Twitter is down 5%. Facebook is down nearly 4%. Netflix is off 6%. Tesla is down 4.9%. That's just a small sampling of the overall carnage. Of course there are always stories that people tell when stocks dive. On Friday, when the biotechs were tanking, people were pointing to some complaints from Democrats about high prices for biotechs. Today with Netflix some might point to chatter surrounding Apple's talks with Comcast about a streaming service. But these are just ex post facto attempts to overlay price moves with a narrative. However it seems that the real, broader narrative is a general hissing sound coming from the hottest stocks in the market. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nicholas RobertsVeteran fund manager Jeremy Grantham of GMO recently spoke to Fortune Magazine about the state of markets. In his view, central banks have created an enormous bubble in stocks, by holding rates too low. Grantham has long been skeptical of Fed actions. But the language he uses here is pretty dire: We do think the market is going to go higher because the Fed hasn't ended its game, and it won't stop playing until we are in old-fashioned bubble territory and it bursts, which usually happens at two standard deviations from the market's mean. That would take us to 2,350 on the S&amp;P 500, or roughly 25% from where we are now... ...But to invest our clients' money on the basis of speculation being driven by the Fed's misguided policies doesn't seem like the best thing to do with our clients' money. We invest our clients' money based on our seven-year prediction. And over the next seven years, we think the market will have negative returns. The next bust will be unlike any other, because the Fed and other centrals banks around the world have taken on all this leverage that was out there and put it on their balance sheets. We have never had this before. Assets are overpriced generally. They will be cheap again. That's how we will pay for this. It's going to be very painful for investors. What's more, he explains, Fed actions have actually held back a stronger recovery, explaining that they have failed to boost capital spending while punishing savers. Read the full interview at Fortune » FREE AppDownload
Google ImagesBloomberg has very quietly been building an outstanding data visualization widget that looks at everything from sports to weed to rent to food. Regular BI readers know that one of your favorite topics is popular moving destinations. And according to data pulled from recent U-Haul surveys, San Francisco is the fastest-growing moving destination in America among large cities, having shown near 7% growth in both 2011 and 2012. Other notable nuggets from the list: The rest of the list comprises relatively standard-issue boom towns in the south and west. Check it out: Bloomberg   FREE AppDownload
Sullivan's CoveIf you’re a whisky drinker and bought a bottle of Hobart’s Sullivan’s Cove French Oak Cask single malt in the last six months, you might want to check and see if it’s from barrel 525. If it is, that $100 bottle is now worth more than $1000. Last night in London, the Tasmanian whisky was named the best single malt in the world, beating its more fancied rivals from Scotland, America and Japan. It caps off the best Australian whisky award they received in 2013 with barrel 434 (and again this year) at the prestigious World Whisky Awards. It’s a major coup for the little Hobart distillery which started out 20 years ago as a tourist attraction. At the time, you, ahem, certainly didn’t go there to drink whisky. That turnaround isn’t lost on marketing manager Bert Cason. “We think it’s hilarious that we used to make the worst whisky in the world and now it’s the best,” he told Business Insider. Distiller, manager and part-owner Patrick Maguire deserves a lot of credit for the achievement. “Pat’s obsessive about making the best whisky,” Cason said. Everything is done by hand at Sullivan’s Cove, including the bottling. The whiskies are 12-to-13 years old when bottled and the team hold monthly tastings where they sample 20 to 30 barrels to decide which ones are ready for bottling. It’s a very scientific process, as Cason explains. Sullivan's Cove“Can I see myself drinking this barrel all day?’ is the basic premise,” he said. “It’s been a very good philosophy for us.” They didn’t pick the whisky they thought was the absolute best for the awards when they entered last September. They just grabbed the latest bottling – one of 516 from barrel 525. As a result, just three bottles remain at the distillery. Cason has one at home “half full”. The rest are on shelves at outlets such as Dan Murphy’s, so keep an eye out this weekend. The award is no fluke. A few years back, whisky guru Jim Murray gave Sullivan’s Cove his highest Australian score ever for one of their distillations. One of those bottles now sells for more than $1200 on the whisky market, so you can expect the 525 to be worth even more. Good luck finding one in your bottle shop this weekend, because you’ve scored a real bargain. If you haven’t got one, here’s what the judges said about the Sullivan’s Cove single malt. Toasted almonds, grated nutmeg and some fruit toast on the nose. Burnt almonds, autumn fruits stewed with golden raisins. Light, peppery and intriguing. Seáneen Sullivan Keeping it simple in a very good way. Honey, vanilla and haystacks. All combine with apples and caramel. Jason Thomson Campfire smoke that enriches the malt and wood. A match made in heaven with a smooth buttery feel. Joseph Cassidy Great balance, lovely spices come through with time.  Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook and Twitter This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Danny MckiernanBiotech stocks are in the red, with the iShares Biotechnology Index (IBB) down by 2.6% early in the U.S. trading session. Alexion Pharmaceuticals and Gilead Sciences are the biggest losers in the S&amp;P 500, down 4.2% and 3.7% respectively. This follows Friday's 4.7% sell-off in the IBB. All of this comes as market-watchers continue to debate whether or not the sector is in a bubble. "I don't think it is a bubble," said Rich Bernstein in an email to Business Insider. "It's certainly very speculative, but speculation alone doesn't make a bubble." Reformed Broker Josh Brown, however, point blank believes this is a bubble. "Anyone with a protein compound under a microscope and a clean suit can go public right now," said Brown. According to Renaissance Capital, 37 U.S. biotech firms went public in 2013 and already 24 have gone public through March 20 of this year. Other big losers in the market include past high-flyers like Netflix (-3.3%), Facebook (1.7%), and First Solar (-1.1%). Renaissance Capital FREE AppDownload
Shares of NuSkin are going nuts today following a more than $500,000 fine from a Chinese regulator.  The stock was last trading up more than 26% at about $94 a share. Back in January, NuSkin's stock plummeted after China's State Administration for Industry &amp; Commerce (SAIC)  said it would investigate following a report in "The People's Daily" in China that criticized NuSkin's marketing practices and alleged that it's a pyramid scheme.  NuSkin is a multi-level marketing company that sells anti-aging products. Chinese direct selling laws are very strict.  Today, China's SAIC fined the company $540,000 for misleading consumers and illegal sales, Reuters reported. Meanwhile, Herbalife, another multi-level marketing company that sells weight loss products, is trading higher this morning.  The stock was last trading up more than 6%.   Hedge fund manager Bill Ackman, who is famous for his Herbalife short, has accused the company of violating Chinese direct-selling laws. He believes the company operates as a "pyramid scheme."  Earlier this month, it was revealed that Herbalife is being investigated by the Federal Trade Commission. Since then, Herbalife's stock has declined.  Here's Nu Skin's chart since the beginning of the year:  Yahoo! Finance Here's Herbalife's chart for the past five trading sessions:  Yahoo! Finance    FREE AppDownload
MarkitTable 1.The preliminary results of Markit's monthly U.S. manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index survey point to a larger-than-expected slowdown in the pace of expansion in manufacturing output this month. The report's headline gauge fell to 55.5 from the February survey's 57.1 reading. The consensus forecast of market economists was that the index would fall, but only to 56.5. Table 1 shows a complete breakdown of the PMI's sub-component indices. The output, new orders, new export orders, and employment components all moderated a bit, while the backlogs of work and quantity of purchases components registered larger declines.  "The manufacturing PMI adds to evidence that the sector has shrugged off the weather-related weakness seen earlier the year, with strong demand encouraging firms to expand and hire new staff at a robust pace," said Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, in the release. "The buoyant growth in March rounds off the best quarter for three years, indicating that the sector should provide a robust contribution to GDP in the first quarter. Growth was not as strong as February, but that’s in many respects only to be expected after last month’s numbers had been boosted by the rebound from January’s severe weather. The fact that the output and new orders indices remained so strong in March is very encouraging news that the sector has come through the weather-related soft patch and continues to play an increasingly important role in the economic upturn." Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
AP, Verge Images, Photoshop by Jay YarowNot happening anytime soon.Apple is in talks with Comcast about a new TV-over-Internet service, the Wall Street Journal reports. The service would allow Apple to replace the cable TV set-top box and, thanks to a special deal with Comcast, provide streaming TV services with better performance than most video-streaming services like Netflix can currently offer. Apple wants to control the customer relationship and get a cut of Comcast's subscriber fees. As described, this deal would seem to have almost no chance of being implemented. It's not in Comcast's interests to hand over control of its customer relationships to Apple, and there's no reason it would want to share its subscriber fees. The special performance guarantee, moreover, would likely raise the hackles of net neutrality advocates, who will resent the idea that a huge, rich company can pay to have its video stream flawlessly while poorer providers have to make do with crappy quality. More importantly, the talks reveal that, several years after Steve Jobs told biographer Walter Isaacson that he had "finally cracked" the TV market, Apple is no closer to solving the TV puzzle. Doing what Apple wants to do — offer a simple, single "app-like" interface to all TV content — has obvious appeal for consumers. But the powers-that-be in TV market have way too control, and way too much at stake, to let Apple wrest control of TV consumer relationships and replace them as the TV gatekeeper. Comcast and the TV networks are the farthest thing from stupid, and the idea that they would do deals that they don't have to do — deals that would diminish their power and hasten their own irrelevance — is wishful thinking on the part of both Apple and its shareholders. That's why Apple has been unable to "crack" the TV market thus far, beyond offering shows and movies on iTunes and selling ~10 million Apple TV units. And it's why it will likely be unable to crack the market for many years to come. Internet TV services like Netflix are building great businesses for themselves, and they are nibbling at the TV opportunity around the edges. But they're doing it by offering a win/win for both consumers (more selection) and TV content owners (more money) without needing buy-in from the cable companies. What Apple is trying to do requires buy-in from the cable companies. And because Apple is so clearly a long-term threat to the cable companies, it is very unlikely that the cable companies will voluntarily give Apple a foot in the door. Only when the cable monopoly has really begun to break down, when consumers in each market have lots of ways to get all the TV they want, will Apple be in a position to cut deals like this. And despite constant murmurs about the "death of TV," the truth is that we are still years if not decades from that happening. SEE ALSO: We Finally Figured Out How To Pay Less For Cable TV [VIDEO] FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of Nu Skin is seen at its "experience centre", where customers can sample and purchase the company's products, in BeijingSHANGHAI (Reuters) - China has fined NU Skin Enterprises Inc &lt;NUS.N&gt; more than $500,000 for illegal product sales and misleading local consumers, the country's watchdog said in a statement on Monday, adding it would strengthen regulation of the country's direct sales market. NU Skin sold items outside the permitted range and overstated the potential results from using some of its products, China's State Administration for Industry &amp; Commerce (SAIC) said in a statement on its website, adding some employees had also engaged in unsanctioned sales and misled consumers. Direct sales firms have come under fire in China, with the official People's Daily newspaper saying in January NU Skin had organized "brainwashing" gatherings, prompting SAIC to launch a probe. This dragged down NU Skin's shares, as well as rivals Herbalife Ltd &lt;HLF.N&gt; and USANA Health Science Inc &lt;USNA.N&gt;. NU Skin has been fined $540,000, while six sales staff will also face individual fines totaling $241,000, the U.S. firm said in a written statement. The company has previously said it has taken steps to resolve the matter and said last week it expected to face a fine in China. "The company is already taking steps to correct the issues raised in the SAIC reviews, and is not aware of any other material enforcement investigations currently pending in China," NU Skin said in the statement. The company added it would seek direction from the government about restarting normal business activities in China. It previously suspended promotional meetings and accepting applications from prospective new sales representatives. SAIC will also look to increase regulation of the direct sales sector, an area analysts said was a regulatory grey area in China. This could pose a headache for rivals such as Herbalife, currently under investigation in the United States. "For the next step, SAIC will work with other departments to increase the level of regulation of the direct sales market and sternly investigate and prosecute any illegal behavior in the direct sales sector," the SAIC statement said. Chinese laws allow direct sales under limited conditions, but there are laws banning so-called pyramid selling, when members make more money recruiting new members than selling the actual product. (Reporting by Adam Jourdan; Editing by Kazunori Takada and Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
Credit Suisse will likely loan hedge fund manager Phil Falcone $1 billion to bring his LightSquared telecom venture out of bankruptcy, says Bloomberg. "The Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) unit said it was confident it could arrange the proposed bankruptcy-exit loan as long as LightSquared, a wireless broadband provider, met conditions including obtaining the “cooperation of all parties-at-interest” in the reorganization and “all required regulatory approvals.”   FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogEarlier this year, the bears noted that the DJIA might be following the 1928-1930 Great Crash script. Fortunately, it hasn’t play out that way so far. Now the bears are focusing on 1938-1939, when Hitler invaded Austria, Czechoslovakia, and Poland. The concern is that current geopolitical developments are eerily reminiscent of that period. I noted a week ago that in October 1938, Hitler marched unopposed into Sudetenland a month after Britain and France gave him this territory that was part of Czechoslovakia. The Sudeten Nazi Party had set the stage for this annexation by instigating strikes and riots, which were shown in German newsreels as evidence of Czech atrocities against German-speaking Sudetens. Hitler threatened war unless he was appeased, which he was at the infamous meeting in Munich. Putin seems to be following the same script in the Ukraine. Nevertheless, the S&amp;P 500 rose to a new intra-day record high of 1883 on Friday before closing at 1866. It managed to gain 1.4% for the week, following the previous week’s 2.0% decline. That’s despite last Wednesday’s 0.6% decline in response to Fed Chair Yellen’s off-the-cuff statement that the Fed might start raising interest rates six months after QE is terminated probably by the end of the year. That would mean that rates will start rising around mid-2015. Stocks rebounded 0.6% the next day, Thursday, as investors realized that Yellen’s forward guidance depends on inflation rising back to 2% and the unemployment rate falling probably closer to 5.5%. That might take longer to happen than mid-2015. In any event, the Fed's latest “dot plot” showed that in the latest economic projections of the FOMC’s participants, the federal funds rate is expected to be just 1.0% at the end of 2015, hardly an impediment to higher stock prices. So far, the stock market is continuing to follow a bull market script similar to the bull markets that started in 1982 and in 1990. That’s mostly because forward earnings for the S&amp;P 500/400/600 continue to rise to record highs. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Stock Market’s Script. (1) DOE may or may not move faster on LNG. (2) What do Nova Scotia and Israel have in common? (3) Europe hooked on Russian gas for now. (4) Russia is a big oil producer too. (5) Monitors going to Ukraine. (6) Stocks still following bullish, not bearish, scripts. (7) Forward earnings still moving forward. (8) Forward earnings yield exceeds bond yield driving buybacks. (9) Bull refuses to correct. (10) The Fed’s third mandate. (11) Yellen’s dashboard now includes wages. (12) “Divergent” (+). (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
A Ukrainian oligarch detained could hand over a "treasure trove"of information about gas deals involving the Russian state gas exporter Gazprom, Irina Reznik and Henry Meyer of Bloomberg report. Authorities detained Dmytro Firtash, one of Ukraine's richest men, in Vienna earlier this month. He has been under FBI investigation since 2006. Bloomberg notes that Firtash, 48, has information that could be crucial for U.S. lawmakers seeking harsher sanctions against the inner circle of Russian President Vladimir Putin. A new bill approved by a U.S. Senate panel could widen the scope of sanctions to include any Russian involved in “significant” corruption.  Mikhail Korchemkin, a former analyst for the Soviet Union’s Gas Ministry in Moscow and founder of Malvern, Pennsylvania-based East European Gas Analysis, told Bloomberg that Firtash has information that the U.S. would consider to be evidence of corruption in Gazprom. Firtash, 48, made his estimated $2.3 billion fortune being a key broker of Russia’s gas sales to Ukraine. He owned half of RosUkrEnergo with a partner, which became Ukraine’s sole gas importer in 2006 to 2009 (Gazprom controlled the other half of RosUkrEnergo). “Firtash was very deeply involved in the fine print of Gazprom’s dealings in Ukraine, in the financial transactions,” Korchemkintold Bloomberg. “If Firtash strikes a deal with the FBI and starts to give testimony it could threaten severe consequences for Gazprom managers and the company itself.” FREE AppDownload
WikipediaFor Throwback Thursday, the first day of spring, and just three weeks until income tax returns are due, I offer up this vintage 1948 Federal income tax for 1040. My friend — whose grandfather worked in the steel industry in Youngstown, Ohio — found his old tax return and thought Bankers Anonymous readers would get a kick out of it. I don’t know why I get a kick out of it, but I do. Some things remain the same from those times until now, including incurring a ‘loss’ on rental property. That trick never goes out of style. Rents, however, have gone up considerably since the $210/year for a duplex rate in 1948. I can see on the form that he bought the duplex for $11,000 in 1948, so I guess he didn’t need to make that much in rent. His income as a machinist for the Truscan Steel Company totaled $4,285, and since he’d already had $281.90 withheld, he qualified for a refund of $57.46, according to this return. Hopefully he stayed far away from the 1948 equivalent of an H&amp;R Block refund anticipation loan. The biggest change from then until now — besides the nominal level of prices — is the relative simplicity of the tax form. It looks like he filled this out in about 10 minutes. As I look forward (with dread) to spending hours gathering tax information this coming week, only to pay thousands to my accountants, I wish doing one's taxes were not so complicated. The complication itself leads to suboptimal outcomes. Bankers AnoymousYoungstown, Ohio Tax Form 1948  This article originally appeared at Bankers Anonymous.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Household spending peaks at around age 45 for the average American. This is according to Census data analyzed by JP Morgan Asset Management. As you can see in the chart below, spending in most categories begin to decline after age 45. Future spending needs and habits are important considerations for people planning for retirement. From an economic and policy standpoint, it's critically important to understand evolving spending behavior especially as demographics shift. The most notable of demographic shifts is the aging of America's baby boomers. We usually hear that the burden of America's aging population will come in the form of ballooning entitlement spending like Social Security and Medicare. But this is only part of the story. As America's population ages, expect the older end to spend less and less. And don't forget, consumption accounts for around 70% of GDP. JP Morgan Asset Management
AP Photo/Patrick SemanskPoverty in America is an enormous problem. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, 15 percent of Americans, or 46.5 million people, lived below the poverty line in 2012. And the poor are increasingly isolated across America. As Sean Reardon and Kendra Bischoff have documented, between 1970 and 2009 the proportion of poor families living in poor neighborhoods more than doubled, from 8 to 18 percent. And the trend shows no signs of abating. This increasing concentration of poverty poses a host of problems to communities. Less advantaged communities suffer not just from a lack of economic resources but from everything from higher crime and drop-out rates to higher rates of infant mortality and chronic disease. In his classic The Truly Disadvantaged, William Julius Wilson called attention to the deleterious social effects that go along with the spatial concentration of poverty, which “include the kinds of ecological niches that the residents of these neighborhoods occupy in terms of access to jobs and job networks, availability of marriageable partners, involvement in quality schools, and exposure to conventional role models." But just how segregated are the poor across U.S. metros?  Today I examine the segregation of poverty across America’s metro areas. To get at this, myMartin Prosperity Institute colleague Charlotta Mellander measured the distribution of poverty across the more than 70,000 Census tracts that make up America’s 350-plus U.S. metros for 2010. To calculate the segregation of poverty, she used an index of dissimilarity, developed by sociologists Douglas Massey and Nancy Denton, that compares the distribution of a selected group of people with all other in that location. The more evenly distributed the poor are compared to the rest of the population, the lower the level of segregation. The dissimilarity index ranges from 0 to 1, where 0 reflects no segregation and 1 reflects complete segregation. The MPI’s Zara Matheson mapped the data. •       •       •       •       • The map below charts the extent of the segregation of the poor across U.S. metros. Dark blue shows the places where poor households are the most segregated; light blue shows where they are very segregated; green depicts moderate levels of segregation; and yellow represents lower levels of segregation. Martin Prosperity Institute As the map shows, the metros where the poor are the most segregated are mostly found along the Eastern Seaboard from New England to the Mid-Atlantic states, across the Midwest and the Great Lakes region, and in parts of Texas, Arizona, Nevada, and Colorado. The table below shows the ten largest metros (those with one million or more people) where the poor experience the highest and lowest levels of segregation.  The large metros where the poor are most segregated are in the Midwest and the Northeast. Milwaukee has the highest level, followed by Hartford, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Detroit, New York, Buffalo, Denver, Baltimore, and Memphis. Many of these are Rustbelt metros with large minority populations that have been hit hard by deindustrialization. When medium and smaller-sized metros are taken into account, many of the places with the most concentrated poverty turn out to be college towns, where the town-gown divide seems to be very real. State College, Pennsylvania (home to Penn State), has the highest level of poverty segregation in the country; Ann Arbor (University of Michigan) is fifth; Ames, Iowa (Iowa State) is eighth and New Haven (Yale University) is tenth. Madison, Wisconsin (University of Wisconsin); Boulder, Colorado (University of Colorado); Iowa City, Iowa (University of Iowa); and Champaign-Urbana, Illinois (University of Illinois), all suffer from relatively high levels of poverty segregation as well. Conversely, the large metros where the poor are the least segregated are mainly found in the Sunbelt and the West. Four of the ten least segregated large metros in terms of poverty are located in Florida—Orlando, Tampa, Miami, and Jacksonville. Many of these metros have lower wage service economies, but several are centers of high tech industry and knowledge work, including San Jose in the heart of Silicon Valley, as well as Portland, Oregon; Seattle, and Salt Lake City. The metros where the poor are least segregated are all smaller metros. In fact, there are about 80 smaller and medium-sized metros where the poor are less segregated than the least-segregated large metro. Jacksonville, North Carolina, has the lowest level of poverty segregation in the country, followed by Medford, Oregon; Hinesville-Fort Stewart, Georgia; and Prescott, Arizona. •       •       •       •       • What underlying factors impact how segregated the poor are? To get at this, Mellander ran a basic correlation analysis between the segregation of poverty and key economic, social, and demographic characteristics of metros. As usual, I note that correlation does not equal causation and points only to associations between variables. Density and high real estate values encourage sorting by class and income. The poor face higher levels of segregation in larger, denser metros. The segregation of the poor is closely associated with the density (.54) and slightly less so with size of metros (.43). This may simply be because large metros have greater numbers of very rich and very poor people; density and high real estate values encourage sorting by class and income. The competition for housing is greater, prices tend to be higher; and this may leave the poor with fewer neighborhoods to choose from, leading to more concentrated poverty. The segregation of poverty is more pronounced in more affluent metros, as the index of segregation is positively correlated with three key markers of regional development: average wages (.46), per capita incomes (.42) and economic output per capita (.34). The poor also face greater levels of segregation in more advanced, knowledge-based metros. The segregation of poverty is positively associated with the percent of adults that are college grads (.51), a commonly used indicator of human capital; the share of workers in knowledge, professional and creative jobs (.48); and the concentration of high tech industry (.47). Almost by definition, one would think that the places where the poor are more segregated would be beset with higher levels of economic inequality. But interestingly, Mellander’s analysis finds only a modest relationship between the segregation of poverty and income inequality (with a correlation of .20). In other words, the segregation of poverty is more strongly connected to how affluent metros are on average than to the unequal distribution of incomes. How much money people have seems to matter more than how big the gap is between the rich and the poor. One possible explanation is that people in these more affluent metros have greater means to segregate themselves. Since housing prices typically track incomes, higher prices may well leave poorer residents with fewer options, reinforcing these higher levels of segregation. High housing prices leave poorer residents with fewer options. In America, race clearly overlaps with poverty. But the association between race and the segregation of the poor across America’s metros is much weaker than one might assume, according to Mellander’s analysis. The segregation of poverty is positively associated with the share of the population that is African American (.12) and Asian (.22), but is not significantly associated with the share that is White or Latino. It is useful to point out that our analysis does not consider the long-held connection between race and poverty overall, but rather the connection between race and the segregation of the poor. Even though race and poverty have historically been linked in American cities, the poor are only slightly more or less segregated depending on the overall racial characteristics of metros. Here again, this may indicate that the segregation of the poor is shaped more by the housing and location choices of more affluent groups. •       •       •       •       • Poverty is not just the absence of money. It is geographically concentrated and it brings with it a host of troubling "neighborhood effects." The Harvard sociologist Robert Sampson notes that "the stigmatization heaped on poor neighborhoods and the grinding poverty of its residents are corrosive, leading to … ‘moral cynicism’ and alienation from key institutions, setting up a cycle of decline." NYU’s Patrick Sharkey has similarly found that "neighborhood inequality is multigenerational, something that is passed down from parents to children in the same way that genetic background and financial wealth are transmitted across generations." FREE AppDownload
Societe GeneraleThe HSBC China Flash PMI tumbled to an eight-month low of 48.1 from 48.5 in February. Economists were looking for the index to climb to 48.7. And any reading below 50 signals contraction. Interestingly, markets have held up in the wake of the news. China's Shanghai Composite climbed 0.9% and Hong Kong's Hang Send jumped 1.9%. So, why isn't everyone freaked out about the rapid deceleration in the world's second largest economy? "The HSBC Flash China Manufacturing PMI reading for March suggests that China’s growth momentum continued to slow down," said HSBC's Hongbin Qu. "Weakness is broadly-based with domestic demand softening further. We expect Beijing to launch a series of policy measures to stabilize growth. Likely options include lowering entry barriers for private investment, targeted spending on subways, air-cleaning and public housing, and guiding lending rates lower." The expectation for some sort of policy easing or stimulus was unanimous across Wall Street. Here's Societe Generale's Wei Yao: Given the rapid growth deceleration, policymakers are unlikely to sit still. Actually, there has been some policy fine-tuning. Last week, two real estate developers were permitted to re- finance in the A-share market, the first cases in nearly four years. However, the chance of aggressive policy easing remains low. We expect a combination of modestly easier liquidity conditions and moderately faster infrastructure investment. Here's Barclays' Jian Chang: The government needs to take quick action in view of its growth target of about 7.5%. On 19 March, Premier Li said China will speed up investment and roll out stabilisation measures. The past week saw a series of announcements by the government: NDRC approval of railway projects, local governments to start infrastructure projects, and CSRC approval of equity financing by two developers and announcing a trial program of selling preferred stock. We look for start of more central government-led projects, as well as more investment areas and the service sector being opened up to private capital. We expect the PBoC to maintain easier liquidity conditions in H1 and relax window guidance on bank lending in the near term. "The new leadership has emphasised deregulation and reform to invigorate the economy since taking office last March," said Chang. "But to be sure, the Premier has his 'bottom-lines' as he repeatedly said: to ensure growth in a 'reasonable range' to generate sufficient employment, and timely handling to make sure there are no regional or systemic financial risks." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mohammed DabbousA trader uses his mobile phone behind his desk in front of the Qatar stock exchange board, in Doha February 4, 2014.Dave Lutz of Stifel Nicolaus has a round up of what has traders chattering right now. Good Morning!   Playing catch up from a week off, and I leave you Weds AM to fly to Seattle to meet with Customers.   Market remains quite resilient to Geopolitical factors, as well as a surprisingly hawkish Fed last week as Hilsenrath opines on lower rates for longer despite economic and employment improvements.  US Futures are marked 20bp higher, and remain within 1% of all-time highs.  Markets are red across the board in Europe in average volume, as Germany’s Manufacturing Data comes in light, knocking the € to session lows.   EU Fins are off 1%, and the DAX is down 70bp – Month to date the DAX has underperformed the S&amp;P by almost 5% as investors have run from markets tight to the Ukraine situation.    We are seeing a slight rally in Russian Equities, but Ukraine’s FX is taking out 2014 lows as the G7 gathers in the Netherlands to discuss the conflict.   We had strong markets in Asia, as China’s latest PMI miss sparks dovish hopes – Shanghai gained 1%, but Japan gained almost 2% in heavy volume as the Yen got hit on risk-taking.   Aussie’s market closed green, as China hopes buoyed the Miners – and India’s Sensex hits new Peaks as investors continued to bet on economic revival if Opposition leader Narenda Modi is elected to office. The US 10YY is higher on the session, but remains just under last week’s peaks and the 100dma.   The DXY is approaching 1M highs, making gains against € and Yen – causing a headwind for commodities.   Many eyes are on Copper off very small despite the Chinese PMI Miss – it is barely holding above multi-year lows.   Haven metals are under pressre, with Gold testing 1M lows, and Silver breaking multiple MAs to the downside.  WTI is shrugging off the stronger $, and gaining back towards a $100 test as we watch for impact from the closed shipping channel outside of Houston.   Brent is flat despite continued angst in Ukraine – and energy investors will focus on headlines from the Howard Weil Energy conference today.  We do have a continued bid in the Agriculture complex, with Corn and Wheat taking on over 1% as Ukraine supply concerns mount.    Today we will be headline trading off G7 comments – and we will see the Chicago Fed Nat Activity Index at 8:30, Fed's Stein Speaks at 9, US Manufacturing PMI at 9:45, and the week’s smallest POMO operation at 11. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderHELSINKI (Reuters) - Nokia does not expect to close the sale of its phone business to Microsoft until April as talks with Asian regulators drag on, it said on Monday, fueling speculation it may have to make more concessions to get the deal done. Analysts said the delay meant Nokia, which had expected to close the deal by the end of March, might have to make concessions over the license fees it will charge on patents that will remain with the Finnish firm after the deal is closed. Earlier this month, media reports said Google and Samsung Electronics had asked Chinese regulators to ensure the 5.4 billion euro ($7.4 billion) deal between Microsoft and Nokia would not lead to higher licensing fees. "(The delay) is a bad sign. They have been discussing with authorities for quite a while already, and they still need more time," said Sami Sarkamies, an analyst at Nordea Markets. "The biggest risk is in the upside of their patents. It looks like Nokia will have to make bigger concessions to push the deal through." Nokia shares fell 1.2 percent to 5.22 euros in early Helsinki trade. Nokia has already received approvals for the deal from the European Commission and the U.S. Department of Justice, but some antitrust authorities in Asia are still conducting their reviews, it said in a statement. The Finnish firm said both companies remained committed to the transaction, and Microsoft echoed it expected the deal to close next month. "We are nearing the final stages of our global regulatory approval process," Brad Smith, Microsoft's general counsel, said on the company's website. "Currently we are awaiting approval confirmation in the final markets." Nokia reiterated its tax disputes in India would not have an impact on the deal schedule. The company last week was hit with a new $414 million tax claim by Indian authorities, following a recent Supreme Court decision to order Nokia to give a $571 million guarantee before transferring its Chennai factory to Microsoft. The time needed to close the deal, announced last September, is not exceptional for Microsoft, which took five months to complete its purchase of online chat company Skype in 2011. Without its loss-making handset business, Nokia will in future derive more than 90 percent of its sales from telecom equipment unit Nokia Services and Networks, and will also hold a trove of technology patents as well as a navigation software unit. Nokia is expected to outline its new strategy after the closure of the Microsoft deal. ($1 = 0.7256 Euros) (Additional reporting by Simon Johnson in Stockholm and Bill Rigby in Seattle; Editing by Terje Solsvik and Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
Warren Buffett is known for his ability to find great companies at discount prices. He's also great at sharing his wisdom and advice. But turning these words of wisdom into investment opportunities can be difficult. We've taken some of Buffett’s sage advice and given you the tools to identify investments that would qualify. Here are a few simple metrics that you can look up for any stock to figure out whether it might be good enough for Buffett. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Flickr/plewickiI receive tons of email (evilhrlady@gmail.com) from people asking how to manage workplace situations. While bad employees are just as prevalent as bad bosses, these people are asking about their bosses. If you see yourself in these emails, stop it! This employer doesn't respect talent: I have a puzzling situation at my job that I don't know how to approach. Recently, I was in a role where my job re-evaluated and decided that my function and job level should be higher based on my work. With that being said I was re-leveled to one position higher into a role. If I had applied for that position I would have received a 10 percent raise. I was told since I was already in the role I didn't qualify for the raise.  To me this doesn't make sense. Even though my salary range increased I was shafted from missing an important raise while moving up the stagnant corporate ladder. Do I have anything I can do? This doesn't make sense, but it's pretty common. Oh, look! You're doing a ton more work, and if we had to replace you, we'd have to do it at a higher salary, but we know that finding a new job is a pain in the patootie and so we won't give you a raise. Seriously, this is the message you're sending. Now, I understand the business reasons--it's not like you're made of money. Plus, many companies have salary increases cycles and if this re-leveling took place outside of that, there isn't a pot of money set aside for raises. Give one anyway. If not, you'll lose the respect of this employee. Sure, she may stay longer, but she'll resent the heck out of you, and that's not what you want. I'd encourage her to start looking for a job that will respect her skills and work ethic. This employer discourages open communication: Our company does raises in February. While speaking with my supervisor over the last couple months I mentioned a potential of relocating due to personal reasons within the next year, but never confirmed it would be a definite. As a result, I was not given my pay bump in February because of the POSSIBILITY of me leaving. I can understand where they are coming from, BUT what if I don't leave the company and they are withholding this from me? Are they required to make up what has been withheld from me? Everyone else received their annual increase, but I did not because of the above. I understand this is a lesson learned the hard way, but since there is no proof I will actually be leaving can they do this? On the one hand, why would you want to give more money to someone who has already expressed interest in leaving. On the other hand, wouldn't it be totally awesome if you knew your employee's career plans so that you could plan ahead? Look, people will leave you. Traditionally (and ethically, absent extenuating circumstances), all you get is two week's notice. Is there any professional job where you'd be able to source, interview, select, conduct a background check, negotiate and offer and have that replacement trained and ready to go by the time the two week's notice period is up? No! So, it's to your serious advantage to be supportive of your employees who give you this type of heads up. In fact,  you want to make it clear that you encourage your employees to speak up and that you won't punish them by withholding raises or firing them if they tell you they are thinking about leaving. Guaranteed, this employee will mention to her co-workers what happened, so they'll all think twice before giving their managers a heads up. (And just to answer the original question, the company isn't required to make it up. Raises are optional.) It's not just about saving a few dollars. The employers in both these situations thought they were being so smart in saving a few dollars. By denying raises to two employees, they can pat themselves on the back. Smart moves! Except that they've set up a situation where employees know that they aren't valued. And not just for these two employees--all the employees will feel that way. Remember, turnover is very costly--you can spend 150 percent of the salary just the replace the person--and, you'll have to replace the person at the higher salary that you're withholding from your current employee. And it's not just these two employees that will have negative feelings towards you after the raises are denied. Their coworkers will hear about it and not be happy either. So, over all, these manager's attempts to save a few bucks may backfire in a big, expensive way. Have a workplace dilemma? Send your questions to EvilHRLady@gmail.com. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yannis Behrakis A young man takes photos of his girlfriend next to Ukrainian riot policemen guarding the regional administration building following a pro-Russian rally in central Donetsk March 23, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. China PMI. China PMI fell to an eight-month low of 48.1. That was also short of expectations for 48.7. "The HSBC Flash China Manufacturing PMI reading for March suggests that China’s growth momentum continued to slow down," Hongbin Qu, HSBC China's chief economist said in press release. "Weakness is broadly-based with domestic demand softening further." Softer landing. AFP now says Chinese authorities are likely to begin enacting stimulus measures to tone down any threat of a hard landing. " 'The government needs to take quick action in view of its growth target of about 7.5 percent,' Barclays Capital said in an analysis of the PMI data. Zhang Zhiwei, economist at Nomura International in Hong Kong, expected leaders to cut the amount of funds banks must keep in reserve in the second half of the year -- a step they have used in the past to boost liquidity. He also forecast fiscal policy to turn 'expansionary' in the second quarter to prevent gross domestic product growth from falling below 7.0 percent." France PMI. France's latest flash PMI reading surged to 51.6 from 47.9, a 31-month high. That should be welcome news for President Francois Hollande, whose socialist party was battered in municipal elections this weekend.  Markets. S&amp;P 500 futures are up, while U.S. treasury futures are lower. Markets in Asia ended the day green across the board. European markets were lower. Chicago Fed.  At 8:30 we get the Chicago Fed's index of national activity. Consensus is for a reading of 0.10 versus -0.39 prior.  Flash PMI. At 10 a.m. we get the U.S. flash PMI report. Consensus is for a two tick gain from the prior survey showing 56.7. Hilsenrath. The Wall Street Journal's Jon Hilsenrath this morning provides perspective on the notion Fed Chair Janet Yellen may have alluded to rate increases in last week's testimony. " The Fed, in its official policy statement, said it planned to keep short-term rates below what it sees as appropriate for a normal economy even after the unemployment rate and inflation revert to typical levels... Put another way, the economy can't bear a level of interest rates that looked normal in the past because it has been so deeply scarred by the financial crisis." Apple-Comcast.  Apple is talking to Comcast about using Apple TV as a cable box that streams video, according to a new report from Shalini Ramachandran, Daisuke Wakabayashi, Amol Sharma at the Wall Street Journal. BI's Jay Yarow writes: "Apple appears to have a vision for how to deliver an Internet-based TV service. It would store content in the cloud. It would be live, and on-demand. Presumably, it would have a simple, gorgeous interface that's easy to use. But Apple, even with $146 billion in cash, can't just go out and do this on its own. It has to work with Comcast because Comcast delivers Internet and TV to millions of people in the U.S." JPMorgan in China. A vice-chairman at JP Morgan is stepping down as investigations continue into the bank's hiring practices in Asia. "The probe ... has hurt JPMorgan's business in Asia, causing the bank to pull out of two high profile initial public offerings - Tianhe Chemicals and Everbright Bank." Grubhub Seamless IPO. Shares in the Grubhub Seamless' IPO are expected to be priced at $20-$22.  FREE AppDownload
Peter De Jong/Pool/AFPUS President Barack Obama shakes hands with Dutch Foreign Minister Frans Timmermans after disembarking from Air Force One.US President Barack Obama arrived in the Netherlands on Monday to discuss with six other world leaders how to punish Russia for annexing Ukraine's Crimea region, including possibly excluding Moscow from the G8 club of rich nations. Obama has called an emergency Group of Seven summit in The Hague to discuss what steps to take against Russia over Crimea, with Russian troops on Monday morning seizing another Ukrainian military base on the peninsula. Paratroopers and armored personnel carriers stormed the naval base in Feodosia in the early hours, with vehicles seen leaving the base carrying Ukrainian marines whose hands had been tied. Russia's near-complete takeover of the Crimea, which it views as a reunification, has forced Western leaders to rethink their relationship with Moscow after a post-Cold War period in which they sought to usher Russia into the broader international community. With Russia massing what NATO called a "very sizeable" force on its border with Ukraine, there are fears that President Vladimir Putin is hungry for more Ukrainian territory. The growing crisis is expected to dominate a meeting originally set up to discuss nuclear security. On Monday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov is to meet US Secretary of State John Kerry on the sidelines of the Nuclear Security Summit for what may be their most tense talks to date. It will be their first meeting since Washington imposed financial restrictions on the most powerful members of Putin's inner circle for their decision to resort to force in response to last month's fall of Ukraine's pro-Kremlin regime. - 'No more G8' - Kerry has already warned that Moscow risks losing its coveted place among the G8 over its deployment of troops in Crimea. British Prime Minister David Cameron said leaders from Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States -- minus current G8 chairman Russia -- must discuss the permanent expulsion of Russia from the group, to which it was admitted in 1998 as its reward for choosing a democratic post-Soviet course. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said last week the political conditions were not in place for a G8 to exist, although her Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier later said she had been referring to the June G8 summit in Russia. Ukraine's interim premier, Arseniy Yatsenyuk, said Sunday he had cancelled plans to be in The Hague so he could hold talks with the IMF on a support programme for his crisis-hit country. Ukraine's Western-backed leaders also voiced fears of an imminent Russian invasion of the eastern industrial heartland, three weeks after the Kremlin sent troops into the heavily Russified peninsula before sealing its annexation Friday. -- Mutual defence obligation -- Some other former Communist bloc nations fear for their security in the face of Russian expansionism, and Obama reiterated NATO's solemn obligation to mutual defence. "No one should ever question the commitment of the United States to the security of Europe," he told the Dutch Volkskrant newspaper on Monday, referring to NATO as "the strongest and most effective alliance in human history." He noted that sanctions on the Russian economy would also impact the global economy. "And if Russia continues to escalate the situation, we need to be prepared to impose a greater cost." Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte insisted on Sunday that the G7 meeting would not detract from the aims of the two-day Nuclear Security Summit (NSS), with the G7 talks to wind up on Monday evening. Leaders of 53 countries are gathering for the third bi-annual NSS, a brainchild of Obama, aimed at preventing a terrorist nuclear attack and reducing the world's non-military nuclear materials. World leaders should be free on Tuesday to discuss securing the world's stocks of nuclear material to prevent a group like Al-Qaeda acquiring a nuclear or so-called 'dirty' bomb of conventional explosives wrapped in radioactive material. Nuclear security is central to Obama's political legacy and in 2009 he called nuclear proliferation "one of the greatest threats to international security". The final NSS is planned in Washington in 2016. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Herbalife, which is being investigated by the Federal Trade Commission, earlier this month postponed its annual shareholders' meeting to April 29 to continue discussions with Icahn about new board nominees. Icahn, the company's biggest shareholder with a 16.8 percent stake, has supported Herbalife in its fight against billionaire investor William Ackman. (Reporting by Mridhula Raghavan in Bangalore; Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Wikipedia.orgIn his weekly Sunday night note, Morgan Stanley economist Joachim Fels writes that something weird happened this week: His own clients with whom he had spoken about the economy during the week thought he was sounding "bearish." Fels does not consider himself to be a bear, which led him to this concerning revelation: I do worry that investors may be too complacent about the looming near-term macro risks that I highlighted in my meetings: a sell-off in US Treasuries as predicted by our US rates strategists as the Fed’s forward guidance becomes ‘woolier’ and the US economy rebounds from the cold freeze, a renewed bout of weakness of the double-deficit club economies in EM on the back of this external shock, a period of weaker economic data and policy procrastination in Japan before another round of BoJ easing in 3Q, and more signs of Japanification in the euro area as banks keep deleveraging and the euro pushes higher. In fact, my biggest surprise was that the majority of investors now assume a broad-based QE program by the ECB at some stage later this year as their base case. Most of them were surprised to hear that I thought this was only likely if the euro area was to experience another major debt crisis. In summary, relative to the present consensus amongst investors I’d characterize myself as a near-term pessimist but a long-term optimist. Put differently, I believe there will be near-term pain, but long-term gain. In the very short term, however, have a lovely Sunday! The resilience of Western equity markets has been astounding. Between the Fed, China, Ukraine, and everything else, there are certainly enough pieces out there to make a bear case. And yet, even with stretched valuations, there's been very little that's gotten on anyone's nerves. FREE AppDownload
DONETSK, Ukraine (Reuters) - Even as a new alarm sounds about it massing troops on the Ukrainian border, Russia may have missed its chance to exploit unrest in the Russian-speaking east to seize Ukraine's industrial heartland in the way it took Crimea. A week after violence involving pro-Moscow separatists left three people dead in border cities, the outlines of a consensus have emerged between the new leaders in Kiev and the eastern business oligarchs allied to ousted president Viktor Yanukovich. Cooperation between Kiev and the magnates in Yanukovich's native Donetsk and the wider Donbass coalfield would make it harder for Moscow to present any military intervention as humanitarian help and less likely it would be widely welcomed. It follows a vow by Ukraine's new prime minister to decentralize power to the regions, safeguard Russian language rights and protect industries, a compromise Western diplomats have been pressing for to stop Ukraine breaking up. Shortly after Yanukovich fell, parliament briefly moved to make Ukrainian the sole official language. That, and the inclusion of nationalists in the new government, alarmed Russian-speakers and helped fuel the separatist move in majority ethnic-Russian Crimea. Describing "an understanding between the elites and regional government in the east and the central government", a political source in the Donbass said it included constitutional change to strengthen rights to use Russian as well as decentralization. "This will contribute to unity in the country," he said. Volodymyr Kipen, a political analyst in Donetsk, said Moscow - despite its denials - could yet invade, or more likely promote unrest. But he also said the oligarchs, seeking stability for businesses built on the back of 1990s acquisitions of ex-Soviet state assets, were rallying behind Yanukovich's successors. Noting the failure of pro-Kremlin activists to hold out after a takeover of the regional assembly building early this month that saw Russia's flag flown from the building for nearly a week, he concluded: "The Crimean model has now failed in the Donbass." Weekend rallies demanding union with Russia drew only a few thousand and passed off without incident, despite noisy chants of "Crimea-Donbass-Russia" during a standoff with riot police as people waved Russian flags below the Donetsk governor's office. That protest failed to disrupt a visit by the German foreign minister, who met Ukraine's richest man Rinat Akhmetov and came away praising his pledges to prevent the country breaking up and to cooperate in liberal reforms of a corrupt, failing economy. "We have heard here today the very pressing desire that the new Ukraine should be a united Ukraine and that there should be no breakup," Frank-Walter Steinmeier said after meeting Akhmetov and steel magnate Serhiy Taruta, Donetsk's new governor. He also met Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk and praised the "signal" he sent to easterners in a speech made, significantly, in Russian. Taruta, critical of missteps in Kiev that played a part in the loss of Crimea, told Reuters he expected tough negotiations on sharing power but believed the government which appointed him was moving in the right direction. He felt his own efforts to ensure police were loyal and to stop Russian "provocateurs" coming across the border were curbing unrest. Fear of hardline Ukrainian nationalists in the government is widespread among Russian-speakers in the east, who share the view dispensed by Kremlin-controlled media that there has been a "fascist coup" in the capital. There is also deep anger in Donetsk region, home to 10 percent of Ukraine's 46 million people and producer of 20 percent of its industrial output, that 23 years of post-Soviet independence have left them poor and exploited by a rich elite many see as little more than a mafia. Yet despite that profound discontent, only a minority seem actively to want to break with Ukraine and join Russia. A month ago Steinmeier was in Kiev negotiating an end to bloodshed between Yanukovich's police and protesters. His arrival in the fallen president's power base followed weeks of Western pressure for compromise to prevent Ukraine cracking open along an east-west faultline that could hand its main industries over to Russian President Vladimir Putin. Ukraine plunged into crisis when Yanukovich spurned a free trade pact with the European Union in November, sparking protests on Kiev's Independence Square, known as the Maidan. He later took a financial aid package from Putin but, after the protests turned bloody a month ago, Yanukovich fled to Russia. While threats of a trade war from Russia clearly played a role in Yanukovich's rejection of the EU pact, concern among eastern oligarchs at possible damage to their businesses from removing import duties was also cited by analysts as a factor. Yatseniuk, in his broadcast last Tuesday, said he would avoid a free trade deal for now to protect eastern industry. The premier, an ally of Yanukovich's long-time rival Yulia Tymoshenko who is widely disliked in the east, ran through a shopping list of policies designed to reassure Russian speakers, from ruling out NATO membership, to guaranteeing their language rights and pledging to disarm far-right and other militants. One Western official described it as "everything we had been pleading for" to repair the rift in Ukraine and engage the east. Perhaps most important for the eastern elite, however, was a promise of a constitution offering "decentralization", rather than "federalism" - seen as a recipe for regions breaking away. That was welcomed by Donetsk mayor Oleksander Lukianchenko when he addressed a regional congress of Yanukovich's Party of Regions on Friday. The party, previously a vehicle to assert presidential authority nationwide, was debating its role without its leader and shorn of its status as the "party of power". Distancing the party from calls by some members for a local, Crimea-style referendum on federal autonomy or even secession, Lukianchenko said the party, which opposed federalism while in control in Kiev, supported Kiev's proposed "decentralization". He told Reuters the party wanted regions to have more power over budgets - they already raise substantial direct taxes - and also run services "like the police, courts and prosecutors". Negotiations have yet to start in earnest on a constitution. Ukrainians will first vote for a president on May 25. But the idea of devolving control of the judiciary could be a key part of a post-revolutionary bargain between the rival factions. Yanukovich saw Tymoshenko jailed for corruption after he beat her to the presidency. He is himself now a fugitive from justice, accused of the "mass murder" of Maidan protesters. The eastern oligarchs have reason to be anxious for their assets -and personal freedom - in a backlash against the old guard. Maintaining the influence that civil rights activists say they already enjoy over the police and courts, could be a prize they are seeking in negotiations over decentralization. While some eastern businessmen are guarded in criticism of Russia - possibly out of concern for business ties there, or afraid tanks might roll into Donetsk - many have spoken out against Moscow. Ukrainian unity may be good for profits but also few would relish the curbs Putin imposes on Russian oligarchs. Nonetheless, said analyst Kipen, some in the business elite seem willing to encourage the idea that eastern Ukraine could still be tempted to break way: "They want to play the separatism card as a bargaining chip with Kiev, for their own personal security and for their own interests." Beyond the calculations of the oligarchs, who have managed to dominate Ukrainian electoral politics especially in the east, public opinion in Donetsk is sharply divided. Many of those who took part in pro-Russia rallies cited Russia's stronger economy for wanting to follow Crimea. "We want a referendum on joining Russia," said Anton Sedykh, 27, among a crowd of some 3,000 gathered under a statue of Lenin on Donetsk's Lenin Square, across the road from the gleaming glass office tower where Akhmetov met Steinmeier on Saturday. The company where Sedykh makes windows had not paid him for two months, he said, and he envied higher wages in Russia. After 23 years of independence, he had no faith in Ukraine's economy. Nor was "decentralization" an answer: "It's just playing for time," he said. "It's the oligarchs looking out for themselves." Others at the rally cited cultural or family ties to Russia, nostalgia for Soviet certainties, an admiration for Putin's firm hand or a disdain for Ukrainian speakers in the west. There is also fear of EU free-market ideology and austerity. One poster showed German Chancellor Angela Merkel with a Hitler moustache. For Denys, 35, a composer watching proceedings from across the square, the protesters were wrong to ignore Russia's flaws: "It's not about the economy," he said. "This is a fundamental question of freedom. Russia is a very authoritarian state." His wife Svitlana, 29, said her criticism of Russia was not about ethnicity: "I have a Russian name. We speak Russian and Ukrainian," she said. "But I am a Ukrainian citizen." Similar sentiments were voiced in dozens of conversations in the past week in Donetsk with people in colleges, shops, farms or the steelworks that sprawls into a city dotted by slag heaps and showpiece modern buildings. Factory workers clocking off were united in their fears of war with Russia and of damage to their export business - much of which goes into Russia. "It might be better to be with Russia," said steelworker Ivan, 36. "We can't compete if they open trade with Europe." But few people said their main priority was joining Russia. Opinion poll evidence, from before the crisis came to a head a month ago, suggests core support in the area for Russian rule may be in single figures, although as many as a third of people were recorded as saying they might prefer living as Russians. Alexander Bukalov of the Moscow-based human rights network Memorial said he saw little evidence in his work in Donetsk of Russian-speakers facing discrimination. He saw in the surge in protests since the fall of Yanukovich a "psychological outburst" among people still grappling with the collapse of communism, resentful of oligarchs and alarmed by Russian media reporting. Reports of Moscow's troops massing unsettle people in the east. There is little sign Ukraine's army has moved in strength to the frontier. While some in Donbass say they would be willing to emulate Crimean militias and help Russian troops take over the region, others say they would be ready to fight Moscow's forces. Many analysts doubt a Russian move on the east though many believe Moscow has and will continue to promote militants there, looking for influence or a moment to step in. Signs the Donbass oligarchs are lining up alongside the leadership in Kiev, ensuring police rein in protests, may complicate that. "We're past the worst," reckoned rights activist Bukalov, who thinks Russia has missed its moment. "They should have been quicker. They lost time and people have had time to think." For Oleksy Garan, a political scientist in Kiev, however, Putin was unlikely to leave Ukraine alone, arguing that he did not want an example of a successful revolt on his doorstep: "If the plan to split Ukraine doesn't work - and it seems it hasn't - they will try to complicate life for the central government and press for federalism," he said. "For them, it's important Ukraine does not make a successful transformation on their border. That's what they're afraid of." (Additional reporting by Lina Kushch and Sabine Siebold; Editing by Philippa Fletcher and Peter Graff) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEuropean flags are hung outside the European Commission headquarters in BrusselsLONDON (Reuters) - European Commission proposals due to be published on Thursday on how to fund long-term investments to boost Europe's economies brings the start of a rehabilitation for the image of "shadow banking", the largely unregulated market-based provision of credit which lay at the heart of the financial crisis. The EC plans envisage engineering a fundamental shift in how the continent raises money for investment in infrastructure like roads and technology while at the same time moving away from an over-reliance on banks for fuelling growth in the economy. A core element involves reviving securitization or the bundling of loans into interest-bearing bonds, a market which was fatally wounded by its central role in the financial crisis seven years ago when bonds which packaged up subprime U.S. home loans became untradeable. Now the market for asset backed securities, currently has 650-700 billion euros worth of bonds in circulation, half its pre-crisis size. This shrinkage, coupled with banks being wary of lending as they rebuild their capital buffers, makes it harder than ever to seed economic growth in Europe. In the immediate aftermath of the financial crisis regulators called for a tough crackdown on the $71 trillion global shadow banking sector that also includes debt market repurchase agreements, securities lending, money market investment funds and some hedge funds. But with the worst of the crisis now over, government attention has turned to growth and with it the regulatory mood music has also changed. Policymakers are thinking twice about imposing new rules on one of the few sources of funding that can plug a gap left by retreating banks and the EU plans are a major milestone in this change of tack. "It's a sign that regulators believe one aspect of shadow banking - securitization - is something to be encouraged and not discouraged, but they need to foster private sector involvement," said David Covey, head of strategy for European asset-backed securities at Nomura bank. Last week a top regulator said efforts by global supervisors to revive securitization will be intensified with proposals due soon, a step welcomed by bankers who say clarity on rules is key to encouraging investors to return to the market. "If there is regulatory uncertainty, it's very damaging," Covey said. The EC estimates that a trillion euros is needed in long term finance for transport, energy and telecoms up to 2020 to boost competitiveness and jobs and hopes that by encouraging market-based financing it can reduce the continent's reliance on banks for raising up to 70 percent of funds for the economy. Some European policymakers look to the United States, where markets instead fund about 70 percent of the economy, as a model to emulate. "There is no single action or 'magic bullet' which will revolutionize the financing landscape in one go; rather a range of different responses is required in parallel," the EC said in a draft of the proposals seen by Reuters last month. The European Commission will also publish a separate set of action points to help foster the still tiny crowdfunding sector and fund more start-up businesses. Shadow banking may also get a boost in other ways this week when the 11 euro zone countries that have pledged to reach a deal by May on taxing financial transactions meet. Some of the countries want to exempt two other parts of the shadow banking sector, repurchase agreements and securities lending and borrowing, from the tax, out of fear their inclusion could crimp a source of funding for the economy. The developments in Europe come ahead of leaders of the Group of 20 economies (G20) meeting in November to endorse new rules for shadow banking. A harsh, uniform approach across all sectors has now been ruled out, a senior policymaker involved in the process said. "Shadow banking was an amplifier but not a cause of the financial crisis and we don't want to shut it down," he said. The G20 took tough steps to force banks to hold more capital but a more "humble, proportionate approach" is now envisaged for shadow banking, with a focus on gathering data rather than a masterplan. "Shadow banking is likely to expand and to a large degree that is intended and a good thing. We want to preserve an open, global financial system," the policymaker added. (Editing by Greg Mahlich) FREE AppDownload
Photo by Hannelore Foerster/Getty Images'Concrete Gold' is the best phrase we've heard today. From the morning email of SocGen's Kit Juckes. The most challenging piece in this morning's FT though is the one about Germany's property rush, which is based on concrete gold according to Claire Jones. Sebastien Galy and I have both written about the property boom in Germany before, and it is gathering steam. Frankfurt's population is growing rapidly. I can't help thinking that for Germany, Fed policy has delivered rates that are too low. Indeed, while overall Europe has monetary policy that is far too tight and an excess of savings that will continue to threaten deflation, the overvaluation of the Euro is a bigger problem than the level of rates. So is the de-leveraging of the banking system which prevents those rates being available to most borrowers (outside Frankfurt). The article referred to is here. For Germans these days, some things that do not glitter are gold. A property boom across the biggest cities has been dubbed a betongold – literally concrete gold – rush. In Frankfurt’s well-heeled Westend, Michael Stegerwald has been selling kitchens for two decades. Last year was his most successful yet. The German property boom certainly gives the Bundesbank concerns. And it's a story repeated all over the world (Frankfurt, London, Vancouver etc.). There's been talk about property in premier cities as being a new "reserve concerncy") but "Concrete Gold" or betongold is much niser. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Chinese manufacturing activity contracted in March to its lowest level in eight months, data showed Monday, prompting calls for policymakers to tackle a painful slowdown of growth in the world's number two economy. The data are the latest in a string of weak indicators from Beijing, and economists said measures to inject life back into the Asian powerhouse were probably on the horizon. HSBC's preliminary purchasing managers' index (PMI), which tracks manufacturing activity in China's factories and workshops, fell to 48.1 from a final reading of 48.5 in February, the British bank said in a statement. The figure is down from 49.5 in January and was the worst result since July's 47.7, according to the bank. The final figure is due out on April 1. The index is a closely watched gauge of the health of the Asian economic powerhouse, a key driver of global growth. A reading above 50 indicates growth, while anything below signals contraction. China's National Bureau of Statistics said earlier this month that its own official PMI reading fell to an eight-month low of 50.2 in February. The latest figure "suggests that China’s growth momentum continued to slow down" in March, Qu Hongbin, HSBC's Hong Kong-based chief China economist, said in the statement. "Weakness is broadly based with domestic demand softening further," he added. HSBC expects Chinese authorities to take policy steps to stabilise the economy, with actions including easing barriers to private investment, spending on urban railways, public housing and fighting air pollution, as well as "guiding lending rates lower", Qu said. Other economists also expressed concern, pointing out that the March figure usually benefits from a cyclical boost. "The weakness appears even more pronounced given that there is usually a seasonal rebound after the Chinese New Year holiday," Capital Economics Asia economist Julian Evans-Pritchard said in research note. China's annual week-long lunar new year holiday fell largely in February this year. Nonetheless, Chinese shares closed higher on Monday with the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index rising 0.91 percent, or 18.66 points, to 2,066.28.   - 'Quick action' needed -   The HSBC result came as concerns have been rising over the outlook for China's economy this year on the back of a series of soft announcements. This month the government said industrial production for January-February rose at its slowest pace since 2009, while retail sales grew at their weakest rate in three years. A recent AFP poll of economists saw a median forecast of 7.4 percent economic growth in China this year. The government this month set its annual growth target at 7.5 percent, the same as that set last year. If the final result comes in below that figure it would be the first time in 16 years the objective had not been reached. Premier Li Keqiang said at his annual news conference this month that the economy was set to "confront serious challenges this year". The economy grew 7.7 percent in 2013, the same as in 2012 -- which was the slowest rate since 1999. "The government needs to take quick action in view of its growth target of about 7.5 percent," Barclays Capital said in an analysis of the PMI data. Zhang Zhiwei, economist at Nomura International in Hong Kong, expected leaders to cut the amount of funds banks must keep in reserve in the second half of the year -- a step they have used in the past to boost liquidity. He also forecast fiscal policy to turn "expansionary" in the second quarter to prevent gross domestic product growth from falling below 7.0 percent. Evans-Pritchard, however, said authorities were unlikely to take significant stimulatory action. "Today's weak PMI reading is the latest sign that slowing credit and investment growth are weighing on domestic demand," he wrote. "That said, with no sign of stress in the labour market, the slowdown does not yet appear to warrant a significant stimulus response." Li emphasised at his news conference Beijing has a flexible view of the annual target, saying growth "needs to ensure fairly full employment and needs to help increase people's income". Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  This article originally appeared at Agence France Presse.  Copyright 2014. Follow Agence France Presse on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
For several months, France has been the ugliest big economy in Europe, sinking while everyone else is coming back. So this is nice to see. The Flash PMI report which just came out shows French industry storming back in March. The report, which combines both the manufacturing and service industries, surged from to 51.6 from 47.9 in February. This is a 31-month high. Manufacturing output rose to 52.8, which is a 34-month high. This chart shows the big spike. Markit  The euro briefly spiked on the news, but has since given up those gains. German Flash PMI, meanwhile, has dipped to a 3-month low of 55.0, which is still quite strong. FREE AppDownload
