Economist Nouriel Roubini earned the nickname "Dr. Doom" after correctly predicting the credit crisis and then subsequently forecasting bearish scenarios for economies around the world. More recently, the epicenter of risk has moved to the emerging markets, highlighted by volatility in the Fragile Five: India, Indonesia, Brazil, Turkey, and South Africa. Amid the ongoing turmoil in the emerging markets, Roubini told Business Insider's Joe Weisenthal that we witnessed a "mini perfect storm." "[B]etween Chinese PMI of 50, Argentina letting its currency go, noises coming politically from Ukraine, Turkey, and Thailand … the contagion is not just within emerging markets but also affects advanced economies' equity markets," he said. However, "mini" is the operative word. Like most economists, Roubini doesn't think these emerging-market woes will persist or escalate into something much worse. "[T]he threat of a full-fledged currency, sovereign-debt, and banking crisis remains low, even in the Fragile Five, for several reasons," wrote Roubini in a new piece for Project Syndicate. "All have flexible exchange rates, a large war chest of reserves to shield against a run on their currencies and banks, and fewer currency mismatches (for example, heavy foreign-currency borrowing to finance investment in local-currency assets). Many also have sounder banking systems, while their public and private debt ratios, though rising, are still low, with little risk of insolvency." These hiccups are just a symptom of rapid growth in a developing economy. Standards of living will continue to rise, which means increasing numbers of people will demand more goods and services. And there will need to be a substantial infrastructure buildout to support this. All of this means big rewards for investors willing to stomach the short-term volatility. "Over time, optimism about emerging markets is probably correct," Roubini continued. "Many have sound macroeconomic, financial, and policy fundamentals. Moreover, some of the medium-term fundamentals for most emerging markets, including the fragile ones, remain strong: urbanization, industrialization, catch-up growth from low per capita income, a demographic dividend, the emergence of a more stable middle class, the rise of a consumer society, and the opportunities for faster output gains once structural reforms are implemented." However, "it is not fair to lump all emerging markets into one basket; differentiation is needed," warned Roubini. Indeed, while the long-term outlook is generally bright for the emerging markets, investors should consider the local stories before committing their capital. FREE AppDownload
After the U.S. housing market crashed and the economy spiraled into financial crisis, there were a lot of economists and analysts who warned that the massive "shadow inventory" of homes would keep prices depressed for an extended period of time. The "shadow inventory" consists of homes that were seriously delinquent or foreclosed on, which banks would keep off of the market for fear that the additional supply would cause prices to crumble further. Housing market skeptics argued that banks would return these homes to the market at a pace that would prevent prices from going anywhere. Well, just a few years after the bottom, U.S. home prices are up around 23% since the trough. And this has come as the shadow inventory has tumbled (see chart). "As of December 2013, we estimate that there were about 2.3mn housing units in shadow inventory, down from 2.9mn units in December 2012," wrote Barclays Michael Gapen in his 2014-15 US Housing Market Outlook. The direction of these numbers can only be interpreted as good news. "Falling shadow inventory, along with lean inventories of existing and new homes, supports a better pricing and building environment," continued Gapen. "In other words, despite remaining elevated relative to any previous historical episode, excess housing inventory now casts a smaller shadow over the housing market and our forecast calls for that shadow to diminish further." As for the bad news, the shadow inventory is still around four times bigger than normal levels.  "Shadow inventory fluctuated a bit below 500,000 units in the years immediately prior to the recession, suggesting that about 1.9mn units need to be processed to normalize the housing market," added Gapen. "However, we do not see this as happening over the forecast horizon and, instead, we look for the pace of decline in shadow inventory to slow somewhat in the years ahead. A reduced pace of decline in shadow inventory is, in part, tied to our view that many of the higher-quality properties have likely already been transacted and we see demand from institutional investors as slowing in the years ahead." Gapen's shadow inventory estimate consists of foreclosed homes and mortgages delinquent for 90 days or more. Based on CoreLogic's estimate, the shadow inventory is closer to 1.7 million properties, which according to them is the lowest level since August 2008. CoreLogic's Mark Fleming believes "Healthy market levels of shadow inventory are around 650,000 units, so there is more to be done." The upshot to all of this is that while the shadow inventory remains bloated, it hasn't been some uber price-depressing force in the housing market. FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Bjarke Ingels GroupFor wealthy New Yorkers accustomed to $10+ million urban homes, buying a Bahamas condo for $3 million doesn't seem so bad. At least, that's what Danish architecture firm Bjarke Ingels Group (BIG) and real estate company Douglas Elliman are hoping. They have teamed up on a gorgeous new project called the Honeycomb on the south coast of New Providence, named for its geometric and organic façade. The midrise condominium will face a marina and the ocean, and feature apartments ranging from two bedrooms to seven-bedroom penthouses. The 34-unit complex is a part of a larger resort known as The Albany, a project developed by the Tavistock Group with investors such as Tiger Woods and Ernie Els, and would be the tallest building in the area, according to the press release. “The idea with having Douglas Elliman on board is that the New York buyer hasn’t been addressed,” Horacio LeDon, a senior managing director at Douglas Elliman Development Marketing, told The New York Times. “Wealthy New Yorkers have been going down to the Bahamas for quite some time, and all without any proper marketing. We aim to change that.” Compared to some Manhattan real estate, the condos are relatively cheap, costing roughly $1,600 to $1,700 per square foot after closing costs and other expenditures, according to The Times (that's a range of $3 million to $12.5 million). In Manhattan, square footage can go for many times that price. Each apartment comes with an outdoor private terrace, as well as a pool. Honeycomb will break ground this summer, and opens in the first half of 2016.
MovieClips / YouTube"Nice try, freshmen."On Monday, Janet Yellen will be sworn into office as chair of the Federal Reserve. This is an event that most market participants have been anticipating for around a year. But this doesn't mean the transition won't coincide with some volatility in the markets. Indeed, the past two weeks have seen markets around the world tumble and sink into the red for the year. We're not saying that Janet Yellen is to blame for any of this. However, the economists at UBS remind us that each of the last four Fed chairs experienced the same type of risk-off market moves during the beginning of their tenures. Specifically, gold outperformed stocks. Traditionally, gold has been seen as a safe haven for worried investors while stocks have been the asset class of choice for risk takers. Basically, this means there's a heightened feeling of uncertainty when someone new takes the helm at the Fed. Yes, this is a small sample size. And correlation is not causation. And this correlation is probably a spurious one. Still, it's not nothing. From UBS: UBS FREE AppDownload
Morgan StanleyEconomist Robert Shiller warned all of us of the U.S. housing market bubble before the bubble eventually burst. So, people took notice when Shiller said that some local housing markets in the U.S. were looking "bubbly." He's pointed his finger repeatedly and specifically to Phoenix and Las Vegas where prices have roared back. The credit analysts at Morgan Stanley, however, disagree with these concerns. "While there are clear geographical variations in the pace of recovery, we do not find ‘bubbles’ across a wide range of regional housing markets," wrote analysts led by Vishwanath Tirupattur. They begin their argument by noting that home prices nationally are 19.94% below their peaks. "While we do not suggest that the pre-crisis peaks were not bubbly, the fact that we are almost 20% below levels attained eight years ago tells us that, at least at the national level, it would be hard to categorize the rise in home prices as a bubble," they wrote. This is the framework they use to defend today's hotter metropolitan statistical areas (MSA). "[T]he MSAs that endured the most serious declines in home prices have also rebounded the most. Home prices in MSAs such as Las Vegas, Phoenix and Miami – now regarded as the banner cities for pre-crisis ebullience for housing, recording declines in the 50%+ range – have shown notable rebounds, with price increases in the 30-45% range. Still, they are 35-45% below their pre-crisis peaks. Of the 20 MSAs we look at in Exhibit 1, San Francisco stands out, with a near 50% appreciation in prices since the trough. Still, it is 18.06% below its pre-crisis peak..." "Besides illustrating the non-symmetric nature of arithmetic averages, this helps to show that, even at a more granular level, the bubble talk seems premature, in our view," they wrote. Unfortunately, asset price bubbles never look like bubbles until after they burst. FREE AppDownload
It might not be surprising to learn that the U.S. is the top destination for foreign direct investment (FDI). According to new United Nations data cited by U.S. Trust's Joseph Quinlan, the U.S. accounted for $159 billion of inflows of the global total of $1.46 trillion of flows in 2013. This is down from $168 billion in 2012. "What’s more, notwithstanding last year’s drop, America’s FDI inflows in 2013 were still greater than combined inflows to China and India ($155 billion)," noted Quinlan. "China ranked second in FDI inflows last year, taking the Silver medal, while the Bronze medal goes to Russia thanks to a large one-off investment by a major British oil company in Russia’s economy. India wasn’t even on the same playing field as the U.S. and China." US Trust This came as the U.S. economy accelerated through the year. But, it's important to note that these moves in overseas investment are about much more than short-term economic growth. "[T]he U.S. remains the perennial favorite of foreign multinationals thanks to multiple factors including a large and wealthy population, top-notch universities, a transparent rule of law, an ease of doing business that compares favorably with other nations, world-class innovative capabilities, a relatively young population, deep capital markets, and declining energy costs, to name just a few," added Quinlan. It's interesting to see so much money come into the U.S. Sure, it's the world's largest economy. But there are many places around the world that offer fatter returns. For now, the U.S. should enjoy this position as it means more money for capital investment and R&amp;D. FREE AppDownload
Shopping for a new TV is a daunting process: There are literally dozens of different manufacturers, and hundreds of different models to choose from. That said, it's still possible to find the best TVs -- a few models in particular stand out. Panasonic ZT60The Panasonic ZT60 is the greatest plasma TV ever made. CNet said the ZT60, available in a 60- or 65-inch configuration, was the best-looking TV it had ever seen when it reviewed the television last year. It has everything you'd expect from a high-end TV: 3-D capabilities, a smart TV interface, and touch-based remote. But where it really shines is the picture quality: The ZT60 has the deepest black levels ever seen on a plasma TV, making images truly pop. Unfortunately, plasma TVs have fallen out of favor, and Panasonic ceased plasma TV production late last year. This set has been discontinued, but a few retailers still have it in stock. The 60-inch usually retails for around $3,000. Sony XBR 850ASony (NYSE: SNE) is attempting to spearhead the next great TV revolution: As standard-definition gave way to high-definition television, so Sony wishes to see 4K resolution TVs replace current high-definition sets. Sony's XBR 850A is really the highest quality, affordable 4K TV, running about $3,000 for the 55-inch set. There's also a 65-inch version, but it costs nearly twice as much. Unfortunately, there isn't a lot of 4K content currently out there, meaning that this TV's greatest selling point is hard to take advantage of. If you're thinking of buying it, you'll probably want to pair it with Sony's Ultra HD media player -- a set-top box that connects to the Internet and allows you to download 4K movies. In terms of raw picture quality, it's a step down from the ZT60, but if 4K really takes off, this TV could be the most future-proof on this list. Samsung 8500 seriesSamsung's 8500 series encompasses its high-end plasma sets. Available in 51-, 60- and 64-inch varieties (running from about $1,700 to $,3000), TVs in this series have outstanding picture quality, with excellent black levels and very accurate colors. But what helps Samsung's set stand apart from rival high-end TVs is its numerous features. Samsung's smart TV platform is excellent, perhaps the best in its class, with access to a bevy of apps rival manufacturers lack, notably HBO Go, among others. The 8500 series also features voice and gesture controls, and the ability to link your TV directly to the cable box. If you own a Samsung tablet or smartphone, it's easy to beam your mobile device's picture directly to your TV's screen. It's also "evolution compatible" -- meaning that as Samsung's technology improves, you'll be able to upgrade your TV's features. Vizio E-seriesPerhaps you aren't looking for a top-of-the-line TV to put in your den. Maybe you're on a budget or need a smaller TV for the bedroom. In that case, the Vizio E-Series is your best bet. TVs in Vizio's E-Series range from 24 to 50 inches, with five other sizes in between. Obviously, the picture quality isn't as fantastic as the other TVs on this list, but for the money, it's considered quite good. Like Samsung, Vizio has its own extensive smart TV platform, with access to apps such as Netflix and Amazon.com's Instant Video. Arguably, having those apps built-in is somewhat unimportant on a high-end TV -- when you're shelling out $2,000 to $3,000, purchasing a Roku or an Apple TV set-top box for $99 isn't much. But if you're spending $270 on the 32-inch set, not having to buy that extra Apple TV can make quite a difference in your overall entertainment budget. Samsung KN55S9CDigital Trends said Samsung's KN55S9C was the best-looking TV they've ever seen. It had better be -- at $9,000 it's a very expensive piece of equipment. Rather than use plasma or LED, the KN955S9C is an OLED TV -- a radical new technology that's expected to emerge as the dominant TV type in the coming years. For $9,000, this TV is relatively small (just 55 inches), and oddly enough, it's curved. But it comes with some crazy features -- for example, using what Samsung dubs "Multi View," two people can watch different shows at the same time using 3-D glasses and wireless earbuds. There are very few people who can afford to spend so much on a TV, but if one truly wants the ultimate television on the market, there is no better buy. You know cable's going away. But do you know how to profit? There's $2.2 trillion out there to be had. Currently, cable grabs a big piece of it. That won't last. And when cable falters, three companies are poised to benefit. Click here for their names. Hint: They're not Netflix, Google, and Apple.  Sam Mattera has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends and owns shares of Amazon.com, Apple, Google, and Netflix. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools don't all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew KellyAfter a tenuous defense Friday night, the office of New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie on Saturday blasted The New York Times and former Port Authority official David Wildstein, whose lawyer on Friday said that "evidence exists" implicating Christie in the George Washington Bridge scandal. Christie's camp wrote an email to political allies and friends entitled, "5 Things You Should Know About The Bombshell That’s Not A Bombshell." The email was first reported by Politico's Mike Allen and obtained by Business Insider. The email first attacked The New York Times, which originally obtained the letter from Alan Zegas, Wildstein's attorney, on Friday. The Times changed the lede of its story from saying Wildstein had the evidence to the more passive "evidence exists." "A media firestorm was set off by sloppy reporting from the New York Times and their suggestion that there was actually "evidence" when it was a letter alleging that 'evidence exists,'" Christie's office wrote in the email.  The next four points in the email defended Christie and attacked Wildstein. The email dug into Wildstein's background — including a mention of a time when, as a 16-year-old, he sued over a local school board election. The email also noted that Wildstein has been looking for immunity. His lawyer, Zegas, has said that Wildstein has a "story to tell" if he were granted immunity.  "Bottom line — David Wildstein will do and say anything to save David Wildstein," the email reads. The full email is below: 5 Things You Should Know About The Bombshell That's Not A Bombshell   1. New York Times Bombshell Not A Bombshell. A media firestorm was set off by sloppy reporting from the New York Times and their suggestion that there was actually "evidence" when it was a letter alleging that "evidence exists." Forced to change the lead almost immediately, the Times was roundly criticized, and its editor was forced to issue this extraordinary statement to the Huffington Post:     2.  As he has said repeatedly, Governor Christie had no involvement, knowledge or understanding of the real motives behind David Wildstein's scheme to close lanes on the George Washington Bridge.     3. The Governor first learned lanes at the George Washington Bridge were even closed from press accounts after the fact.  Even then he was under the belief it was a traffic study. He first learned David Wildstein and Bridget Kelly closed lanes for political purposes when it was reported on January 8th.     4. In David Wildstein's past, people and newspaper accounts have described him as "tumultuous" and someone who "made moves that were not productive."             5. David Wildstein has been publicly asking for immunity since the beginning, been held in contempt by the New Jersey legislature for refusing to testify, failed to provide this so-called "evidence" when he was first subpoenaed by the NJ Legislature and is looking for the Port Authority to pay his legal bills.       Bottom line - David Wildstein will do and say anything to save David Wildstein. FREE AppDownload
It may be something symbolic such as a small rate cut or possibly a more substantial move such as a new LTRO program (discussed here), but the European Central Bank will be forced to loosen monetary policy in the near future.  Here are the reasons: 1. Liquidity:  The ECB's (technically the consolidated Eurosystem's) balance sheet is still declining - down 28% since the middle of 2012. Excess reserves of the euro area banks are down nearly 80% over that period. Sober Look  2. Credit:   Private lending in the euro area continues to fall - see chart. 3. Monetary aggregates:   Lack of loan growth has resulted in progressively weaker growth in the broad money supply. Most recent M3 print came in significantly below expectations - see chart. 4. Disinflation:  The euro area's price index growth is at the lowest level since the Great Recession and significantly below the ECB's target. Moreover, the growth rate seems to be deteriorating. Sober Look  Furthermore, this disinflationary trend is not limited to the Eurozone periphery nations. Even Germany is showing signs of a slowdown in its inflation rate. Sober Look   The last time Mario Draghi spoke on the topic, he hinted that this extraordinarily low inflation rate is an aberration. But that explanation is starting to get old. 5. Emerging markets mess: While the ECB officials are denying that EM contagion will spread to the Eurozone (see story), the recent selloff in European equities says otherwise. Knock-on effects are inevitable, given the vulnerability of the Eurozone's recovery combined with the area's significant exports to emerging market nations. Aside from these 5 reasons, the short term rate markets are now reflecting a policy change by the ECB, though the timing remains unclear. The June Euribor futures have spiked - indicating a lower implied Euribor rate - Sober Look Source: Eurex  ... and German short-term government yields fell materially. These are signs of the markets' expectation of lower short-term rates going forward. Sober Look Over the next few meetings we should see a shift by the ECB toward a looser monetary policy. Otherwise the central bank will be toying with deflation risks. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
The Economist Last year the number of smartphones shipped worldwide passed 1 billion for the first time, according to IDC, a research firm. In 2010 the four leading smartphone vendors, Nokia, Research In Motion (now BlackBerry), Apple and Samsung, represented four different operating systems. Nokia has since not only forgone its own operating system but sold its mobile-phones unit to Microsoft. BlackBerry is no longer among the leading makers. Samsung (the biggest supplier of phones using Google's Android operating system) and Apple are both thriving, despite disappointing results in the most recent quarter. But the fastest growth is now in cheaper Android phones, notably in China and India. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Corinne DufkaNelson Mandela speaks to members of the Johannesburgh Stock Exchange, April 22, 1994.Why have some equity markets in the developing world flourished more than others? It’s a pivotal question for investors hoping to stake an early claim to the potential emerging-market (EM) success stories of the next decade.   It is also vital for gaining a better perspective on the recent market turmoil in Turkey, Ukraine and Argentina, which has sparked fears of a sweeping 1990s-like EM crisis. The developing world has become far more diverse over the past decade, and clear distinctions among individual EMs have surfaced. For long-term investors, the need to discriminate has never mattered more. Though the pace of development in emerging countries has varied, decades of academic and on-the-ground research show that the most advanced EM capital markets have typically benefited from the same macroeconomic trends that support sustainable economic growth—namely, high rates of domestic investment spending, contained inflation, fiscal balance and openness to foreign capital. Confidence in the stability of a country’s economic and political conditions makes investors more willing to commit long-term risk capital to companies through stocks and bonds. But while the size and general vigor of an economy are essential building blocks for equity-market progress, they are not necessarily sufficient on their own. After all, Argentina and Nigeria rank among the largest economies in the world, but their market capitalizations are only 9% and 16% of GDP, respectively, compared with the global average of about 65%. Reformist policymaking has also been critical EM countries with the most robust equity markets have taken steps to control public finances, ensure reliable sources of tax revenues, invest in modern trading systems and capabilities, and establish broad institutional reforms—notably, laws that improve and protect the quality of contracts, minority shareholder rights, regulatory/supervisory oversight, and accounting and disclosure standards. Privatization programs have increased the supply of publicly listed companies, while pension reforms and openness to foreign investors have spurred greater demand for equities. The Display below traces the key milestones in South Africa’s journey from frontier to mainstream equity market. The turning point in South Africa’s modern history was, of course, the end of apartheid in 1994, which brought profound changes across every level of society and significantly reduced perceptions of political risk. The Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) is currently the largest stock market in Africa and the 18th largest in the world, despite South Africa’s far less auspicious rankings as 29th largest in terms of nominal GDP and 76th largest in GDP per capita. The country’s equity-market capitalization has increased roughly fivefold since 1994. This growth surge has faltered since 2007, as crisis-induced outflows from developing markets have coincided with the country’s economic slowdown and greater competition from other major stock exchanges battling for global market share. Nonetheless, the JSE’s continuing technological investments have enabled it to remain competitive and to continue to expand. Alliance Bernstein Many developing countries outside of the 12 largest EM nations have the requisite potential for sustainable economic growth. But most of them are dominated by a narrow set of industries and/or don’t have enough companies of sufficient size to attract most institutional investors. Many of these EMs have restrictions on foreign ownership, onerous registration processes and complex trading protocols. In many cases, they present less stable political and macroeconomic settings than do the more established EMs. But changes are afoot. For example, some of these governments have begun to adopt pro-market, pro-business policies in order to promote private investment and ease foreign-ownership restrictions. A number of African countries that are too small to support their own exchanges have recently banded together to form regional bourses and to upgrade trading technologies.   History shows that equity markets in developing countries tend to deepen after improvements in both macroeconomic and microeconomic conditions make them attractive investment destinations. These are the signposts of transition to watch for. Henry D’Auria is Chief Investment Officer of the Emerging Markets Value portfolio at AllianceBernstein Holding L.P. (NYSE: AB). Morgan Harting co-heads the Emerging Markets Multi-Asset portfolio team at AllianceBernstein Holding L.P. (NYSE: AB). This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lisi Niesner The logo of Amazon is pictured on a warehouse in Bad Hersfeld May 14, 2013.The world’s biggest retailer is stumbling. Its genial new boss needs to prove he can push through hard changes WALMART is at an "inflection point". Those words are truer now than when Bill Simon, the head of its American operation, uttered them last October. He was talking about Walmart’s plan for the first time to open more small and medium-sized stores in 2014 than giant "supercentres", and all that would mean. Now another big change looms. On February 1st the company gets a new chief executive, Doug McMillon (pictured), until now the head of its international business. In some respects Mr McMillon looks like a natural choice to manage a behemoth that inspires loathing and loyalty in equal measure. A native of Arkansas, Walmart’s home state, he started out in one of the company’s warehouses, rose as a specialist in merchandising (deciding how goods are displayed and sold in stores) and was head of the Sam’s Club unit, stores where members buy in bulk. Genial and approachable, Mr McMillon may cure the corporate laryngitis that afflicts Walmart when it talks to its 2.2m employees, to its giant customer base (90% of Americans shop there at least once a year) and to critics who say it pays miserly wages and sucks life out of town centres. On January 15th the National Labour Relations Board accused Walmart of sacking and disciplining workers who went on strike in 2012. Walmart says it acted lawfully and claims to promote 160,000 people a year; Mr McMillon’s box-shifting calluses make such claims a bit more convincing. Yet the international business, which he has led since 2009, is not thriving. This year it is expected to account for 28% of sales but just 19% of operating income. Walmart has retrenched in China and Brazil after expanding too fast. Murky policies on foreign investment in retailing have stymied Walmart’s push into India. Walmart is co-operating with investigations into allegations that executives in Mexico bribed officials; the inquiries have been broadened to the company’s operations in India, Brazil and China. Mr McMillon is not to blame for these setbacks, many of which date from before he took over, but neither has he brought about a turnaround. Walmart will open less new floor space in foreign markets this year than originally planned: 14m square feet (1.3m square metres) rather than 20m-22m. His new job brings a new set of headaches. In America Walmart’s same-store sales dropped in 2013, as those of its rivals rose (see chart). Its core customers are shoppers on tight budgets, drawn by Walmart’s promise of "every day low prices". When the government raised payroll taxes and cut food-stamp benefits last year, they suffered most. Their spirits should revive when their incomes do. The EconomistOther problems will prove more stubborn. The core of Walmart’s American business is its 3,275 supercentres, where shoppers can buy almost anything, supposedly more cheaply than anywhere else. Now Amazon makes it even simpler to buy the sort of thing that draws shoppers to Walmart’s big boxes: in particular, electronics and consumables like nappies and detergent. Hardly less menacing to Walmart are dollar stores, which sell household wares at rock-bottom prices and whose branches are closer than supercentres to most shoppers’ homes. Hence Mr Simon’s "inflection". This year Walmart will open 120-150 smaller stores, mainly midsized grocery shops, but just 115 supercentres. Still-smaller "express stores" are to carry Walmart’s banner into city centres, where it is under-represented, and see off pesky dollar stores. Walmart has stepped up its counterattack on Amazon. Walmart.com, where independent merchants sell alongside Walmart’s own offering, more than doubled the number of items for sale, to 5m, in the past year. WalmartLabs in California produces apps that let customers scan items while they shop, and beam the information to automatic tills. There are plans to build five to ten new warehouses to handle online orders. Walmart recently named a chief of e-commerce logistics, a new job. The aim, says Neil Ashe, boss of its online operations, is to match Amazon’s range and its speed of delivery within two years. But it is chasing a fast-moving target. What quickens hearts in Bentonville, Walmart’s headquarters, is the idea of pulling together shops, warehouses, delivery fleets and technology into "market ecosystems" that no one else can match. Back offices will serve multiple stores rather than just one, chopping costs. Supercentres will double as distribution points, dispatching fully laden lorries rather than near-empty ones to smaller stores. Customers will find it wonderfully convenient: a mother who wants to play Scrabble with her children could order the game online and pick it up the same day at a convenience store rather than drive to a supercentre. Where Walmart has tested the ecosystem idea, small stores’ sales of some types of goods rose by 35%, Mr Simon claims. However, Walmart is some way from fusing a new, Amazonian brain onto a bricks-and-mortar body. Its e-commerce operation still runs separately from the main American business: it holds its own stock and has its own buying team. Shipping is thought to cost Walmart nearly twice as much per package as it does Amazon. Walmart’s e-commerce sales are growing fast and reached $10 billion in 2013. But that is still puny compared with Amazon’s $75 billion or so. Mr McMillon will have to push harder. If supercentres are not to become obsolete, they must become "destination stores" where people go to eat and play as well as shop, argues Natalie Berg of Planet Retail, a consulting firm. Despite its recent shifts in strategy, Walmart is still investing too much in supercentres and international expansion, complains Paul Trussell, an analyst at Deutsche Bank. It should focus on smaller stores and online operations, and return more cash to shareholders. Whether Mr McMillon is the right man to do all this is not clear. He knows Walmart well and has the confidence of the Walton family, which holds a majority of the shares. He is a consummate company man. The question is whether he loves it enough to force it to change. Click here to subscribe to The Economist    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim BourgStock picking guru and famed mutual fund manager Peter Lynch.Peter Lynch made a name for himself when he turned Fidelity Investments' tiny Magellan Fund into one of the biggest and most dominant equity mutual funds in history. He quickly became very popular among retail investors. And his book, "One Up on Wall Street: How to Use What You Already Know to Make Money in the Market," is widely considered a classic. Lynch is associated with the phrase "buy what you know," which resonated with the novice investor class. The basic principle was simple: if you invest in the companies you're most familiar with, you're less likely to fail. "Unfortunately, like a lot of conventional wisdom, it’s wrong," writes BlackRock's Russ Koesterich. He identified two big problems with this line of thinking: "While this provided some psychological comfort, it was a seriously flawed strategy, as the relatively small size of the business community led him to over invest in a very narrow list of companies," wrote Koesterich. "In fact, investors who disproportionately favor local investments will struggle to assemble a well-diversified portfolio, taking on unnecessary risk in the process." Diversification reduces portfolio volatility. Diversification is also often associated with limiting potential gains, while having the important benefit of limiting potential losses. But that's a little imprecise. Relative to "buy what you know" investing, diversification can actually boost potential gains by exposing investors to less familiar, high-growth markets. "Getting to that diversified portfolio means embracing other regions and countries, even if they are less familiar and more exotic," wrote Koesterich. "This is just one of the reasons I’ve advocated small positions in frontier markets, despite the exotic nature of the asset class." This is not to say investors should do the opposite and buy what they don't know. Certainly, they should do some homework before committing their precious capital to anything. All this means is that investors shouldn't limit their exposures the regions, goods, and services with which they are most familiar. FREE AppDownload
Many fixed income, currency and equity markets in central and eastern Europe have come under sustained selling pressure in January. There are various reasons for this, but clearly the catalyst has been the start of tapering by the US Federal Reserve, as well as some nervousness among investors about a slowdown in Chinese growth. Below, we outline where we believe the key areas of vulnerability (and strength) lie. Overall, we believe that the heavy January selling will not last for most countries, and emphasise that central and east European markets are in a much stronger position than during previous times of crisis, such as the late 1990s. The first talk of tapering in May 2013-a reduction in the amount of debt securities that the Fed buys each month-caused a sell-off in many emerging markets during the middle of last year. However, for most countries in central and eastern Europe this was reversed in the later part of 2013 (Turkey was an exception). Since the Fed started tapering (it is now buying US$65bn of assets per month, compared with US$85bn per month until December 2013) selling pressure has resumed, and more savagely. This was exacerbated by the release of weak Chinese manufacturing data in January, which increased investor concerns about the growth outlook for the world's second-biggest economy. The Economist Since the global financial crisis of 2008-09, monetary stimulus by many of the world's most influential central banks, and robust Chinese demand, are two of the main factors that have underpinned the global economic recovery. How well assets in emerging markets-including those in central and eastern Europe-deal with the drawdown of the former, and the potential for a lower contribution from the latter, is now clearly at the forefront of investors' minds. Overall, although selling pressure has been quite pronounced, we see a great deal of differentiation in how assets in central and eastern Europe have fared so far, indicating that recent market moves are not reflective of a general dash for the exits on the part of investors. This implies that those with good fundamentals will be rewarded, and creates a powerful incentive for reform in those countries that do not. Several trends have been apparent during the January sell-off: The Economist Based on this, we believe that the main factors driving the uneven impact of tapering are investor perceptions of political risk and policy creditability, as well as (low) interest rates. So far it appears that markets have been fairly indiscriminate in terms of the health of countries' external accounts, fiscal positions, debt loads and economic growth. Examining the countries where the biggest falls have taken place-Turkey, Russia, Hungary and Ukraine-it is not immediately clear why they have been more badly affected than other states. Clearly Turkey's large external deficit and reliance on short-term portfolio inflows and Russia's poor growth outlook are important factors for these countries. In Turkey we estimate that foreign-exchange reserves cover less than 100% of external debt, compared with an average of over 300% for emerging markets as a whole. However, traditional indicators of creditworthiness indicate no clear pattern between the four countries. Of the central and east European countries examined, Russia has the highest foreign-currency reserves/import cover ratio; Russia and Hungary have the largest current-account surpluses; and Russia and Turkey have the lowest external debt ratios. Two important factors are common among most or all of these four countries, however: This is a much more significant issue in these four countries than in the others. Ukraine has seen months of increasingly violent unrest, and we do not rule out an intensification of the conflict between the government and the protesters. Turkey saw significant anti-government protests in 2013, and since mid-December the prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has been engaged in a destabilising power struggle with former allies-supporters of a US-based cleric, Fetullah Gulen, who include influential members of the police, the public prosecution service, the judiciary and the ruling party. For Russia and Hungary there is less chance of large-scale unrest, but there are serious concerns over the politicisation of key institutions. Elevated political risk is linked to policy credibility, particularly regarding the independence of the central bank and monetary policy, which are areas of vulnerability for all four countries. In Turkey, the prolonged delay in raising interest rates (key rates were hiked by 425-550 basis points after a central bank meeting on January 28th, in response to the lira's slide), and the bank's perceived susceptibility to government interference have undermined the credibility of the country's monetary policy framework. In Russia, although monetary policy credibility is greater, we believe that the central bank's willingness to allow the rouble to float more freely has been an important factor driving the sell-off in the currency. The Economist In Hungary, the central bank-which is now headed by Georgy Matolcsy, a close ally of the prime minister, Viktor Orban, and previously the economy minister in the Fidesz government-has cut its main refinancing rate by a cumulative 415 basis points since mid-2012. This has drastically reduced the interest rate premium over the US base rate (as well as the euro and regional peers), reducing the incentive for investors to hold the forint. Monetary easing on such a scale has been made possible by low inflation, although to a significant extent this has been caused by government-mandated energy price cuts (of around 20% in 2013). Core inflation-which strips out energy and food prices-remains well above the central bank's 3% target rate. The sharp sell-off for the forint since mid-January indicates that investors are less willing to tolerate the currency's lower carry premium now that tapering is under way. However, unlike in Turkey, there has been no monetary response, with Mr Matolcsy indicating plans to keep cutting the benchmark rate (this will lead us to revise our view that the weakness of the forint would be limited this year-we had expected concerns over foreign-currency loans to lead the central bank to stop cutting the benchmark rate if serious forint weakness emerged). In Ukraine the fixed peg regime has remained a key tenet of monetary policy, despite weak foreign demand and falling steel prices. This has dampened economic activity, exacerbating the widening of the current-account deficit and leading to a rapid fall in reserves. In both Turkey and Hungary, upcoming elections create further political risk concerns. Hungarians will go to the polls in April, and Turkey has elections in both March and August. A third country suffering from a lack of policy credibility is Croatia, largely because of developments on the fiscal side. We estimate that the budget deficit widened to the equivalent of 6.1% of GDP in 2013, from 3.3% in 2012. The Croatian sovereign was downgraded to BB by Standard &amp; Poor's (S&amp;P), a ratings agency, on January 24th, pushing it further into non-investment grade status. On January 30th the government released new budget plans, laying out how it will cut the deficit to 4.6% of GDP this year, in line with entry into the EU's excessive-deficit procedure (EDP) for countries running fiscal deficits larger than 3% of annual output. However, we do not believe that the measures on the expenditure side are enough to reassure markets that the government is serious about fiscal reform. The Economist There is clearly a potential for the sharp sell-offs of recent days to become self-sustaining. The weakening of assets can trigger stop losses, leading to further selling pressure and the triggering of new stop losses, resulting in more significant falls in emerging-market assets. However, at present this is not our core view. Overall, fundamentals in emerging markets are much better than in previous periods of volatility. Apart from Ukraine, all the countries discussed here have healthy levels of foreign-exchange reserves relative to imports, and none except Turkey and Ukraine have significant current-account deficits. These factors make them much better able to withstand sustained capital outflows. Only Hungary and Croatia have public debt loads close to 60% of GDP (the EU limit), and only Croatia and Ukraine have serious fiscal issues. Moreover, in most countries the monetary and political authorities have significantly more room to take action to stem weakness than in previous bouts of emerging-market crisis. Seasonal trends are also likely to provide support-in Russia the current account should strengthen in the coming months, lending support to the rouble. In addition, there will be some opportunities in the crisis. One obvious point is that the weakness of emerging markets' currencies-where not so long ago the concern was about many of them being too strong-will improve export competitiveness, as well as lifting inflation, a positive for countries that have moved perilously closed to deflation in recent months. Moreover, market pressure may well force fiscal reform in countries where it is required, notably Croatia. One key point for central and eastern Europe is that emerging markets can clearly no longer be seen as a single asset class. Some of the countries examined here-notably the Czech Republic and Poland-are likely to perform more like developed markets as the Fed's monetary stimulus is unwound, whereas others-Turkey, Ukraine and Hungary in particular-continue to demonstrate some of the traditional signs of emerging markets' vulnerability, and may well be in for further currency weakening. Croatia and Russia also look susceptible to further weakness on some measures-the rouble will be less supported by central bank intervention than previously, and investors remain concerned about political risks; while the Croatian government is likely to have to do more on the expenditure side of the fiscal accounts to assuage investor concerns. Tapering was always likely to have an impact, given the scale of the Fed's asset purchases in recent years. However, whereas the past few years have been marked by a strong and fairly indiscriminate compression of global yields, the exit from monetary stimulus by the Fed is likely to see a great deal more differentiation on the part of investors. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Flickr / mrlinsHigh yield, or junk, bonds are about more than just interest rates.In a year when the US Federal Reserve caused jitters over quantitative easing, the US government endured a shutdown and investors shifted focus to equities, it’s no surprise that pure “duration-sensitive” bonds like US Treasuries had negative returns as interest rates spiked. But high yield emerged relatively unscathed, returning over 7% for the year. How is that possible? High yield has almost always come out ahead in rising-rate environments because as interest rates rise, economic conditions generally improve, which is a boon for credit sectors. The result: high yield isn’t as sensitive to rate increases as other bond sectors. Its main risk isn’t rates but weakening credit conditions—and credit fundamentals certainly aren’t weak right now. My colleague Doug Peebles recently discussed the lessons the bond market learned in 2013. What lessons could we take from high yield in 2013? 1)      The midyear sell-off wasn’t a reason to panic. High yield wasn’t immune to the fixed-income sell-off in May and June, falling 5% as many investors jumped ship. But the effect on high yield wasn’t as pronounced, and it recovered in four months. This wasn’t an anomaly—high-yield bonds have experienced drawdowns of more than 5% in eight of the last 20 years (display, below). With the exception of 2007, they recovered all of their losses in less than one year.Alliance Bernstein 2)      Time is on your side. While the “income” component of fixed income is an obvious draw for bond investors, they sometimes forget that yield-curve “roll”—the natural price gain a bond experiences as it moves closer to maturity—can be their friend. This is no exception with high-yield bonds.  Over time, as a bond’s yield declines, its price rises. Although we expect rates to rise, income and roll can act as shock absorbers and could potentially help counteract some of the price impact over time. 3)      High-yield bank loans were expected to beat out high-yield bonds last year—but they didn’t. Last year, investors who were convinced that high-yield bank loans would be the best bet in a rising-rate environment were surprised when high-yield bonds outperformed bank loans and other fixed-income sectors (display, below). This happened because, as mentioned, not only is high yield more immune to rising rates than other types of investments, but narrowing credit spreads and improving credit conditions also helped the sector weather the storm in 2013.Alliance Bernstein Historically, high yield has fared well in withstanding the type of market volatility we saw last year. So, as we move into 2014, we don’t think investors should focus on how rising rates may affect high yield. Instead, we think they should take a more thoughtful approach. This means they should not expect double-digit returns, nor should they reach for yield by buying triple-C bonds. At this point in the credit cycle, when concerns begin to develop disproportionally in lower-rated credits, investors are not getting compensated for taking this type of risk. Instead, investors should accept that single-digit returns are a realistic expectation in 2014. And in a relatively low-rate environment, we don’t think that’s a bad thing. The views expressed herein do not constitute research, investment advice or trade recommendations and do not necessarily represent the views of all AllianceBernstein portfolio-management teams. AllianceBernstein Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom. Gershon Distenfeld is Director of High-Yield Debt at AllianceBernstein (NYSE: AB). This article originally appeared at The Alliance Bernstein Blog.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Since I’ve been traveling for the better part of 6 weeks, I had a fun experiment the other day where I offered free subscriptions to The Idea Farm to the individuals that could replicate his NIPA work from his recent paper and Powerpoint presentations.  Two proactive analysts build the sheet within two days – pretty cool! Siegel’s basic argument is that due to accounting changes Shiller’s CAPE is misleading.  I actually have no problem with his arguments, they make a lot of sense to me.  (Here is a FT article “Don’t put faith in CAPE crusaders“, his white paper here, and Powerpoint here.)  I left his book in Colorado but looking forward to reading his recent updated Stocks for the Long Run, a classic. What I disagree with is his conclusion – (namely he is bullish and argues no overvaluation).  Let’s look at his data and see what they say. The NIPA series basically moves the whole CAPE chart down 3 points.  So replicating his data spits out the following chart and numbers: Mebane Faber Research 1940 – 2013 Shiller CAPE median valuation:  17Shiller CAPE current valuation: 25Over/undervaluation:  47% Siegel NIPA CAPE median valuation:  14Siegel NIPA CAPE current valuation:  17Over/undervaluation:  21% So, looking JUST at the data, it seems the two best friends should agree … the conclusion is the same, stocks are overvalued, just how much is the question… FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
DogecoinThe digital currency that started as a joke is now one of the biggest digital currencies in the world. Dogecoin — which is like Bitcoin but inspired by the absurdist Doge meme — now has a "market cap" of $62 million according to CoinMarketCap.com. When Rob Wile told the story of how Dogecoin came together back in December, the value of all extant Dogecoins were just $8 million. And it's not hard to see why Dogecoin is taking off. The community has done cool things, like help send the Jamaican Bobsled team to the Olympics. The community is also helping send athletes from India to the Sochi games. Meanwhile, the community is incredibly motivated and evangelical, but not in an annoying way. After I tweeted yesterday about the surging value of Doge, a bunch of its fans instantly offered to tip me a bunch (give me some of theirs): @tipdoge tip @TheStalwart 10 #Dogecoin #ToTheMoon @tipdoge tip @TheStalwart 50 doges, thats how we got there buddy @tipdoge tip @TheStalwart 8.0085 doge @tipdoge tip @TheStalwart 20 doge The Doge community isn't likely to become a "mass" thing, but it seems to attract fun people that are into doing cool things. It's not that weird to see why it's taken off so much. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ahmad MasoodA mother directs her daughter to pose for a photo at the venue for the "Beating the Retreat" ceremony in New Delhi January 29, 2014.NEW DELHI (Reuters) - India's top power producer NTPC Ltd said on Saturday it might cut supplies to a company that distributes electricity to parts of New Delhi, something that could plunge the heart of India's capital into darkness. State utility NTPC said distribution company BSES Yamuna Power Ltd, which sells electricity in the central and eastern parts of the city of about 16 million people, must clear its dues or else supplies would be cut from February 11. Citing lower tariffs and a shortfall in revenues, BSES Yamuna Power Ltd, an arm of Reliance Infrastructure Ltd, has already expressed its inability to pay state-run power generation companies. The row could result in an outage of up to 10 hours a day, exacerbating problems for Delhi's newly-elected Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, elected on the promise of cutting electricity tariffs for millions of Delhi's voters. Kejriwal, a former anti-corruption activist, recently asked the state auditor to look into the accounts power distribution companies to see if they are profiteering. The companies have challenged the move in a court. BSES Rajdhani Power Ltd and Tata Power Delhi Distribution Ltd are the other companies that sell electricity to consumers of Delhi. BSES Yamuna Power Ltd on Friday warned the local government of power cuts and Kejriwal responded with a warning of a possible cancellation of its licences. But Delhi's power sector regulator approved a 6-8 percent tariff increase. (Reporting by Mayank Bhardwaj; Editing by Robin Pomeroy) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Host Committee, Trigger MediaQuestlove spins at Host Committee's 'Toast to the Host' party at Marquee For over a year, young New Yorkers have been opening their inboxes to find invitations from their friends to intimate ragers at some of the hottest bars and nightclubs in the city, and it's all thanks to one company: Host Committee. Here's how it works: Say you want to plan a party. Say you have no time. Just head to the Host Committee website and tell them what you want, when you want it, and how many people you want to invite. BAM! You are a host. All you have to do is invite your friends (through e-mail or Facebook), and Host Committee will take care of setting up the rest — the venue, the one-hour open bar, the DJ, the coat check, the door people. It will start around 8 p.m., and you can have the space 'til around 11 p.m. And that's it, you're done. Go back to your regularly scheduled spreadsheet jockeying and Seamless Web ordering. This party-in-a-box concept has caught on like wildfire, especially with young Wall Streeters who have networks of friends willing to throw down $30 for an hour of imbibing at some of the most talked-about spots in the city. Host Committee works with 69 of them. And if you're a host, you get to enjoy your own private table with a bottle of champagne in a bucket of ice — on the venue, because you earned it. Trigger MediaHost Committee is the brainchild of Trigger Media CEO Andy Russell, a smiley, 6'5'' entrepreneur with a come-up story made for the movies. You'd watch this — A NYC kid starts throwing parties in prep school, renting out ballet studios and saving hundreds of his peers from having to spend their Saturday nights loitering on the steps of the Metropolitan Museum. He'd find the right kids at schools across the city, and have them invite their friends, who invited their friends — all of that information was then compiled on a master list of ragers. That's how Russell started out, and when he went off to Cornell, he didn't stop. Every third week he'd use his master list (which eventually had 10,000 names on it) to get kids into clubs when they were empty. It's not like the venues were doing anything, and all they had to do was give Russell an hour-long open bar to get 800 warm, thirsty bodies inside. Russell calls that empty venue and that one-hour open bar "remnant perishable inventory." It's his mantra. "With nightclubs, they were in pain because they had all these fixed costs … That’s why nightclubs can be a flash in the pan. It’s just a tough business," he says. The mantra served him from his internship at Goldman Sachs, to his star analyst position at the now defunct Chemical Bank, working leveraged buyout and acquisition deals under JPMorgan rainmaker Jimmy Lee. "I’m actually the guy who built the discounted cash flow valuation model the bank adopted," said Russell, adding later, "I can do a mean spreadsheet, but I can throw a better party." What Russell found, though, was that the two can go hand in hand (if you're willing to completely give up sleep). While at Chemical Bank, he essentially commandeered some restaurants around the city, using their remnant perishable inventory to turn them into hotspots. But that's nothing compared to what he did next. At the ripe age of 26, he raised $1 million from investors and founded the hottest restaurant/club in New York City in the '90s — Moomba. Moomba was the club where Leonardo DiCaprio set up his home base after Titanic. It was the club that "Saturday Night Live" was parodying in skits starring Cameron Diaz. It was the club that three months into its existence made it onto a Sprint billboard in L.A. that said, "One rate service from Spago to Moomba and everywhere in between." Russell did all this while attending Columbia Business School. Now, everything has an end. And Russell eventually sold Moomba in 1999, paid his investors handsomely and set off around the world before joining venture capital firm East River Ventures. There, he started doing digital media deals that had him meeting with Benjamin Netanyahu in Israel and becoming the youngest partner. And then the tech bubble burst. "All my phantom wealth disappeared fairly overnight, and it was probably the best thing that ever happened because I had to step into the role as CFO/COO of these companies and had to downsize a lot of them." It was also great because he realized that he wanted a mentor, and that mentor would be MTV founder and current president and CEO of Clear Channel Communications, Bob Pittman. Here's part of the email Russell sent Pittman, who was traveling through Asia at the time: Bob… you are the greatest operator I’ve ever seen in my entire life, and whatever you’re doing next I want to do it with you, and if you already have plans for what you’re doing next I can ...be in Bangkok in 24 hours. It was the beginning of a beautiful friendship. Russell joined the team that started Pittman's venture capital firm in 2000. With the $350 million they raised, Russell headed the group that incubated digital media companies like Tasting Table, Zynga, *Daily Candy (which alone returned 53x to its investors), and Thrillist. After that run, Pilot shut down. Host Committee, Trigger MediaIt was time for Russell to build companies on his own. So he did, raising millions from guys like former Morgan Stanley CEO John Mack, Paul Tudor Jones, and Allen and Co. — that's how his current firm, Trigger Media, was born. So far, Trigger has had two companies, and two successes. Men's lifestyle newsletter, Inside Hook, and Host Committee, which is looking to expand into other cities. "The host committee comes together around a charity, or an alumni organization, or around friends, or around dating so everyone in the venue is two degrees of separation," says Russell. He believes that, more than anything, is what makes it so appealing. Using technology to turn you and your friends into VIPs at exclusive clubs doesn't hurt either. "Whether you’re the hottest or you're not the hottest club in town we have remnant perishable inventory," Russell says. "I want to own the night between 8 p.m. and 11 p.m." You should hope he gets what he wants, because if he does, you do too.   *This post has been changed to reflect that Daily Candy returned 53x to its investors, not Pilot Group. FREE AppDownload
Earlier this year, Mathematician Ian Stewart came out with an excellent and deeply researched book titled "In Pursuit of the Unknown: 17 Equations That Changed the World" that takes a look at the most pivotal equations of all time, and puts them in a human, rather than technical context. We asked Professor Stewart why he decided to do this book: "Equations definitely CAN be dull, and they CAN seem complicated, but that’s because they are often presented in a dull and complicated way. I have an advantage over school math teachers: I’m not trying to show you how to do the sums yourself. You can appreciate the beauty and importance of equations without knowing how to solve them..... The intention is to locate them in their cultural and human context, and pull back the veil on their hidden effects on history. Equations are a vital part of our culture. The stories behind them --- the people who discovered/invented them and the periods in which they lived --- are fascinating." This should be particularly relevant to anybody affected by the financial crisis. Click here to see the 17 equations &gt; Black Scholes, a derivative pricing equation and number 17 on this list helped cause it.  From an email exchange with Professor Stewart: "It’s actually a fairly simple equation, mathematically speaking. What caused trouble was the complexity of the system the mathematics was intended to model.... You don’t really need to be a rocket scientist to understand that lending hundreds of billions of dollars to people who have no prospect of ever paying it back is not a great idea...." People took a theoretical equation too seriously, overreached its assumptions, used it to justify poor decisions, and built a trillion dollar house of cards on it. This made the crisis inevitable: "I think that the crisis became inevitable once the financial instruments being traded in gigantic quantities became so complex that no one could understand either their value or the risks they entailed. When markets trade real goods for real money, excesses can only grow to the limits of what is actually out there. When they trade virtual goods (derivatives) for virtual money (leverage), there’s no real-world limit, so the markets can gallop off into Cloud Cuckoo Land." You can buy the full book here. FREE AppDownload
Mike Nudelman/Business Insider Starting a new business is hard. Building a new industry is even harder. Especially when it’s on the other side of the world. For nearly a century, exploration of the Americas had been carried out under royal patronage. Whatever spoils were brought back belonged to the crown. That began to change toward the end of the 16th century, when a group of profit-seekers became convinced of the promise of untold riches waiting to be discovered in what came to be called the new world.  They were called “adventurers.” The term referred not only to those willing to risk their personal safety by setting sail for America, but to those willing to finance such undertakings, investing in fledgling colonies designed to exploit the vast resources available overseas. Today, we would call them venture capitalists. The European settlement of North America, then, was accomplished by a series of start-ups. But as with any wave of firms entering a radically new sector, it took some flameouts and consolidation for what might be called America Inc. to really get off the ground. en.wikipedia.orgSir Walter Raleigh, explorer and smoker, was a favorite of Queen Elizabeth but was later beheaded for his supposed involvement in a conspiracy against King James.As in many new industries, the pioneering players weren't the ones who we necessarily remember today. The first two English adventurers to try to make it in America were Sir Walter Raleigh and his half-brother Sir Humphrey Gilbert. Raleigh is now recalled more for his infamous personal and political life — he was a favorite of Queen Elizabeth, became England’s first chain smoker, and was eventually beheaded. Nor did Gilbert even really care much about America itself. In 1576, a document called “A Discourse of a Discouerie for a New Passage to Cataia” built up evidence that the continent contained a northwest passage to China. The work found its way up to Queen Elizabeth, on whom it made a large impression. In an early example of what we might now call a “request for proposal” or RFP, she put out the word that she was entertaining pitches for expeditions. Two years later, Gilbert applied for and received a license to establish a colony in America. Storms forced back Gilbert's initial attempt to reach the Americas, and it would take another five years before he took another shot at it. His crew eventually made it to Newfoundland in August of 1583, though no attempt was made to form a colony. But against the advice of his crew, Gilbert took a smaller ship home back to England, and was lost at sea. Undeterred, Raleigh lobbied for and received a 1584 charter from Queen Elizabeth to settle the territory England claimed in America, basically the entire East Coast north of modern-day Florida. He was given license to exploit whatever economic opportunities he could find there, and reading the charter one can detect early echoes of the precise, legalistic language often encountered in modern contacts. Raleigh had the go-ahead to “discover, search, find out, and view such remote heathen and barbarous Lands, Countries, and territories … to have, hold, occupy, and enjoy commodities, jurisdictions, royalties, privileges, franchises, and preheminences, thereto or thereabouts.” en.wikipedia.orgVirginea Pars map, including Roanoke Island, drawn by John White during his initial visit in 1585.Raleigh himself never made the journey, but an exploratory expedition sent back strong initial reports: “fish the best of the world…fruites very excellent good…and soile…the most plentiful, sweete and fruitful and wholesome of all the world.” So in 1585, Raleigh, who had by now gotten himself elected to parliament and knighted by Queen Elizabeth, self-funded an expedition to set up a beachhead settlement on Roanoake Island, on the Outer Banks of what is now North Carolina. Despite those glowing early reports, the reality encountered by the settlers on arriving proved more challenging. The local Algonquin tribe was hostile to the newcomers, supplies were inadequate, and the colonists neaerly starved. When Sir Francis Drake, the greatest seaman of his generation, made a surprise call at Roanoake, all the settlers there left with him. Raleigh, meanwhile, was diversifying. He had begun to shift his focus toward developing holdings in Ireland, which he’d helped occupy. And in April of 1587, he was appointed Royal Captain of the Guard, responsible for Queen Elizabeth’s personal safety. Still, he wasn’t quite ready to give up on a North American settlement, outfitting one final expedition there. NEXT: Once a Pirate, Always a Pirate   FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesFormer NFL player Brandon Short left Goldman Sachs to launch his own hedge fund. The Super Bowl is this weekend so we thought we'd highlight some of the biggest football players on Wall Street.   Anyone who plays football professionally knows that they won't be able to play forever. That means they need to have post-football career plans in mind. For some, finance is the perfect fit.  It's cut-throat, super competitive and it takes a lot of discipline to put in all those long hours. So it should come as no surprise that there are a bunch of former football stars working in trading, investment banking and wealth management. We've compiled a list of some of the best football players in finance. (Note: These names are not in any particular order).  Many of these guys played professionally before heading to Wall Street. Others were standouts in college.  Some have even done internships at investment banks during the off-season while still playing in the NFL. One even has a Super Bowl ring! FREE AppDownload
Junior venture companies in Canada are finally seeing a significant lift. In early January, the S&amp;P/TSX Venture Composite Index rose above the 200-day moving average for the first time in three years. The index is also very close to experiencing a golden cross, which is when the shorter-term 50-day moving average crosses above the 200-day moving average. Historically, traders see this cross as extremely bullish. You can see on the chart that there have been few occurrences of golden crosses over the past five years, with one in 2009 and another in 2011. Following these crosses, the index saw a spectacular increase. The Canadian venture index holds 372 micro-capitalization securities that trade on the S&amp;P/TSX exchange. It’s a resources-heavy index, with more than 80 percent of the holdings in the energy and materials sector. Making up the top 10 by weight are energy companies including Africa Oil, Mart Resources, Americas PetroGas and Madalena Energy. Materials stocks such as Atico Mining, Balmoral Resources, Chesapeake Gold, Energold Drilling, Gold Standard Ventures, Rye Patch Gold, and Santacruz Silver Mining are also constituents. These stocks will be familiar to the shareholders of the World Precious Minerals Fund (UNWPX), as they are representative of the fund’s holdings. Historically, we’ve found that these junior mining companies outperformed their larger counterparts.  As resource investors, we’re particularly encouraged by this “golden cross,” but what makes us even more optimistic is further data supporting the cyclical areas of the market. Cyclical companies in sectors such as information technology, industrial, materials, and consumer discretionary tend to sell goods and services beyond the basic needs. These are the goods and services businesses and consumers buy when times are good. So consider the potentially major impact that increased investment spending might have on these companies. After curtailing capital expenditures following the Great Recession, businesses may be in the process of reversing that trend after a prolonged period of under-investing. According to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s newest fund manager survey, which involved 234 participants that manage nearly $700 billion in assets, participants are frustrated with companies that have been hoarding their cash. Comparing the latest results to survey data going back a full decade, a record 58 percent of participants said they wanted corporate cash to be spent on capital investment. Another record 67 percent say that “companies are ‘under-investing,’” says BofA-ML survey data. This is the “most conviction since 2001,” which likely means that the boards of public companies will find it tough to “ignore the massive shift” in sentiment, says Brian Belski of BMO Capital Markets. We’re pleased with this change of opinion, as capital investment helps propel the economy and boosts productivity and profits. Investors also see a potential boost: As companies begin spending their cash on things such as productivity-boosting software and capital equipment, businesses in technology and industrials sectors likely benefit. Take a look at BMO’s chart below, which shows the average annual performance during these cyclical uptrends in capital expenditures. The data goes back to 1970, so it provides tremendous historical support. As you can see, information technology and industrials are among the sectors that benefited the most from capital expenditure growth. During these periods, these stocks climbed an average of about 16 percent. In contrast, telecommunications and utilities have the weakest performance during the uptrends. What’s so appealing about this chart is that these cyclical areas of the market have also been tagged in our Holmes Macro Trends Fund (ACBGX) model as relatively strong sectors. And while information technology, industrials and consumer discretionary have already performed well, we’ve identified fundamentals that suggest these areas of the market will continue rising in value. Belski lists individual stocks that he believes can benefit from the rising capital expenditures. Some of his picks that overlap with our fund’s holdings include Danaher, Flowserve, Wabash National and QUALCOMM. We think that’s especially encouraging data for shareholders of the Holmes Macro Trends Fund. If this increase in capital expenditures materializes, it could stress factories even further, as capacity utilization climbs toward its long-term average. Capacity utilization measures the extent that factories are in use, and currently, manufacturing companies are operating at 79.2 percent of full capacity. The average since 1980 has been 79.4 percent. This rate is significantly different compared to June 2009, when the rate dropped to a record low 66.8 percent. It’s no surprise that manufacturing has been staging a huge comeback following the recession but the chart below illustrates the continuing rising trend since it hit bottom. With the potential uptrend in investment spending coupled with factories cranking out goods at a faster, busier pace, chances are good we’ll see continued growth from cyclical areas of the market, especially in tech and industrials. And if the utilization rate keeps climbing higher, companies won’t be able to increase their output without incurring additional fixed costs to purchase new machinery or build new facilities. That’s bullish for metals and mining companies, such as many of the businesses held in the S&amp;P/TSX Venture Composite Index. Want to read more on global markets? Share your email address and we’ll send you a note the next time Frank Holmes posts to his blog. You can also keep informed by following U.S. Global Investors on Twitter or Facebook. Please consider carefully a fund’s investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses.   For this and other important information, obtain a fund prospectus by visiting www.usfunds.com or by calling 1-800-US-FUNDS (1-800-873-8637).   Read it carefully before investing.  Distributed by U.S. Global Brokerage, Inc. Gold, precious metals, and precious minerals funds may be susceptible to adverse economic, political or regulatory developments due to concentrating in a single theme. The prices of gold, precious metals, and precious minerals are subject to substantial price fluctuations over short periods of time and may be affected by unpredicted international monetary and political policies. We suggest investing no more than 5 percent to 10 percent of your portfolio in these sectors. Past performance does not guarantee future results. All opinions expressed and data provided are subject to change without notice. Some of these opinions may not be appropriate to every investor. The S&amp;P/TSX Venture Composite Index is a broad market indicator for the Canadian venture capital market. The index is market capitalization weighted and, at its inception, included 531 companies. A quarterly revision process is used to remove companies that comprise less than 0.05% of the weight of the index, and add companies whose weight, when included, will be greater than 0.05% of the index. Holdings in the World Precious Minerals and the Holmes Macro Trends funds as a percentage of net assets as of 12/31/13: Africa Oil Corp. 0.0%, Americas PetroGas Inc. 0.0%, Atico Mining Corp. (World Precious Minerals Fund 0.56%), Balmoral Resources Ltd. (World Precious Minerals Fund 0.60%), Mart Resources 0.0%, Madalena Energy 0.0%, Chesapeake Gold Corp. (World Precious Minerals Fund 1.18%), Energold Drilling Corp. (World Precious Minerals Fund 0.46%), Gold Standard Ventures Corp. (World Precious Minerals Fund 0.79%), Rye Patch Gold Corp. (World Precious Minerals Fund 0.64%), Santacruz Silver Mining Ltd. (World Precious Minerals Fund 0.67%), Danaher Corp. (Holmes Macro Trends Fund 0.51%), Flowserve Corp. (Holmes Macro Trends Fund 0.52%), Wabash National Corp. (Holmes Macro Trends Fund 0.66%), QUALCOMM (Holmes Macro Trends Fund 1.57%) FREE AppDownload
Photo by Andrew Burton/Getty ImagesAn American oil man in Williston, North Dakota.Not long ago, the idea of the United States producing more oil than Saudi Arabia seemed like a pipe dream. But then fracking, a technique the energy industry has been using in some capacity since the 1950s, came into its own. Huge advances in hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling over the last decade have coaxed crude oil and natural gas from shale beds once considered impenetrable in the United States. The implications are huge: According to the International Energy Agency, the U.S. could be the largest oil producer in the world as soon as next year. Remarkably, many industry conversations now revolve around exporting – not importing – oil and gas. So-called unconventional shale gas and oil supplies are coming online in both the energy industry’s Texas heartland and as far afield as North Dakota and Pennsylvania. In October, the U.S. was producing 7.8 million barrels of crude oil per day – outpacing imports for the first time since 1995. By 2016, American producers should be cranking out 9.5 million barrels per day, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. American reliance on imported crude oil has been falling since 2008, and net imports are at their lowest level in two decades. But that abundance has created its own challenges. Combined with major efficiency gains, the development of shale gas fields has driven a sharp decline in prices for natural gas, of which the United States is now the world’s largest producer. Prices at the Henry Hub, a key distribution point in Louisiana, averaged $3.63 per million BTUs in 2013 – up 83 cents from 2012, but still far below the $9-plus prices of 2008. While last year’s price bump prompted some exploration and production companies to restart drilling operations they had temporarily shuttered, producers remain wary of oversupply. That raises a question: Could ramped-up U.S. oil production cause domestic crude prices to fall as sharply as natural gas did? As domestic production has increased, the spread between the benchmark U.S. crude price, known as West Texas Intermediate, or WTI, and Brent crude, a global oil benchmark based on production from a cluster of North Sea oilfields, has indeed widened, unsettling domestic oil executives. Starting in 2011, Brent has increasingly traded at a premium to WTI—as of Jan. 21, the spread was $14.66 per barrel. But there is reason to believe that abundant shale oil will not drive a collapse in prices similar to that of natural gas, according to Credit Suisse Head of Global Energy Research Jan Stuart. One of the problems domestic gas producers face is that demand has lagged the ocean of new supply. It is taking time for fertilizer and chemical companies to build new manufacturing facilities that can take advantage of cheap gas inputs, though such factories have begun popping up near the Gulf of Mexico.  And although American producers are eager to sell liquefied natural gas to Europe and Asia, where it can fetch a higher price than in the U.S., it isn’t possible yet. Exporting LNG remains controversial among U.S. politicians, who fear it will push domestic gas prices higher. So far, only one export terminal — being built by Cheniere Energy — has been approved, though the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission is considering others. The shale boom has also largely reversed the geography of natural gas flows, and infrastructure hasn’t kept pace. While the majority of the country’s natural gas used to originate around the Gulf of Mexico, it now comes from shale fields in Ohio, Pennsylvania and New York. New pipelines are mushrooming to carry gas to markets in the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest and New England, but the Northeast is flooded with an oversupply of natural gas in the summer, when frigid buildings no longer need to be heated. That pushes prices down. Existing pipelines built to carry imported and domestic gas north from the Gulf need to be reconfigured to run in both directions, but Credit Suisse analysts say current plans to extend pipeline capacity to the southern half of the country are likely to prove inadequate. For gas producers to decide it is worth their time and money to invest in two-way pipelines, Stuart says, prices of Northeast natural gas will have to keep falling relative to gas at the Henry Hub. Stuart sees that happening over the next three years, particularly in summer, but for now, much of the brand-new shale gas supply tends to get stuck in a saturated market for at least part of the year. Sufficient demand for crude oil, on the other hand, is already in place. The United States has long imported large amounts of crude, and both the infrastructure to refine it into products such as jet fuel and gasoline, and the markets for those end products are well established. If oil refineries currently processing imported crude simply switched to the Made-in-the-USA variety, there would be enough demand to absorb the new supply, Stuart says. Of course, the price would have to be right for them to do so, and that’s where the WTI-Brent spread comes in. At present, that spread has motivated some refiners to start retrofitting their plants. It also helps that the investment required to make the switch is relatively low. Most refiners were built to process medium- and heavy-grade crudes, but American oils are much lighter, and it is cheaper and simpler to retrofit refineries to process lighter crude than the reverse, Stuart said. Stuart says that most oil-exporting countries could easily sell much of the oil they’re currently sending to the U.S. to customers in Europe and Asia. But some may also choose to set prices low enough to compete with domestic producers in order to maintain a toehold in the world’s largest economy. It’s unclear to what extent that will happen, though, as it could become awkward for Gulf State producers to explain why Japanese customers are paying a great deal more for oil than their American counterparts. Credit Suisse analysts don’t believe it is likely that the U.S. will stop refining imported crude oil altogether. Nor is Stuart convinced, as the International Energy Agency has forecasted, that the U.S. will ever become a net exporter, largely because production is expected to decline sometime after 2020. Right now, with the exception of Canada, the U.S. doesn’t export at all. Overseas crude oil shipments are currently prohibited, with a few exceptions, but there has been a push recently on Capitol Hill to change that. And some American oil producers think they have a good case for doing so. Oil production is booming in West Texas, but local refineries in Houston are overburdened, as are the crude-carrying ships to Louisiana. There is a possibility that the U.S. could try to negotiate crude oil exports as part of a trade deal, Stuart says, though that would be a hard sell to an American public wary of anything that seems like it could drive gasoline prices up. In the end, however, the trade balance that matters most to shale oil’s future prices is going to take place on American soil. “The system now is in a transition,” Stuart says. “The key to it all is, can we incentivize U.S. refiners to reject imports and instead accept the growing indigenous supplies? We think so.” It wouldn’t be the first—and probably not the last—time that accepted wisdom about the U.S. energy industry got flipped on its head. FREE AppDownload
Tom Perkins was on Bloomberg TV yesterday afternoon discussing  comments he made in a letter to the editors of the Wall Street Journal over the weekend.  In case you missed it, the letter explained how the 1% are a minority group being attacked by the majority.  And Perkins made a totally inappropriate comparison with the persecution of the Jews during WW2.  Not surprisingly, this set off a firestorm. I understand the point Perkins was making.  But these aren’t the comments that interest me.  Instead, I was intrigued by some comments Perkins made in the Bloomberg TV interview.  At one point, he discussed how he came from the 99% and declared: “i am your classical self-made man, if you will.” I always find comments like this to be a little bizarre.  There’s a certain level of egotism in this idea that anyone is a “self made man”.  As if they’re Robinson Crusoe alone on an island building everything from nothing only to find themselves later surrounded by swarms of people dying to do business with them and praising their past efforts.  Of course, that’s not at all how life works.  We are inherently social creatures residing and evolving within an incredibly interconnected world where our future success relies on the past, present and future successes of many. This is not to say that independent thinking or personal skills do not matter.  Far from it!  But I would echo the thoughts from the latest letter by Howard Marks on luck and skill: “a great many things contribute to success.  Some are our own doing, while many others are beyond our control.  There’s no doubt that hard work, planning and persistence are essential for repeated success…But even the hardest workers and best decision makers among us will fail to succeed consistently without luck.” Marks goes on to explain the role of chance in our lives.  How being born in the USA sets us on a dramatically different path than being born in a third world country.  Or how being born at a particular time can bring a person incredible fortune.   But this only scratches the surface of this myth of the “self made man”. You see, in a monetary world, your success relies on millions of other people believing that you have something useful to offer the world.  In the aggregate, producers need consumers.  And consumers need producers.  There are two sides to every economic transaction and no one gets rich on their own.  And more importantly, in a highly socialized network like the modern monetary system, the structures that make up for success are ultimately built on the backs of millions of people who contribute to the past, present and future foundations of that system.  No one built all of this by themselves. Tom Perkins is not unique here.  He did not build his firm on his own.  He was mentored by geniuses, utilized technologies that were developed by both the private sector and public sector and was fortunate enough to have access to the absolute best education in the world.  And only THEN was he able to leverage all of this into something great.  And don’t get me wrong – I am by no means saying that the success of someone like Tom Perkins is not due to hard work, personal skill and perhaps genius.  It’s just that there’s ALWAYS so much more to the macro story than one person’s micro achievements. The bottom line is  - no one is “self made”.   And people who use this term are almost certainly trying to perpetuate some sort of self aggrandizing myth that makes them feel more comfortable with what is likely fragile ego masquerading as a heroic white knight. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Larry DowningAMERICANS are deeply divided as to whether widening inequality is a problem, let alone what the government should do about it. Some are appalled that Bill Gates has so much money; others say good luck to him. But nearly everyone agrees that declining social mobility is a bad thing. Barack Obama’s state-of-the-union speech on January 28th dwelt on how America’s "ladders of opportunity" were failing (see "Barack Obama: The state of the president"). Paul Ryan and Marco Rubio, two leading Republicans, recently gave speeches decrying social immobility and demanding more effort to ensure poor people who work hard can better their lot. The EconomistJust as the two sides have found something to agree on, however, a new study suggests the conventional wisdom may be wrong. Despite huge increases in inequality, America may be no less mobile a society than it was 40 years ago. The study, by a clutch of economists at Harvard University and the University of California, Berkeley, is far bigger than any previous effort to measure social mobility. The economists crunch numbers from over 40m tax returns of people born between 1971 and 1993 (with all identifying information removed). They focus on mobility between generations and use several ways to measure it, including the correlation of parents’ and children’s income, and the odds that a child born into the bottom fifth of the income distribution will climb all the way up to the top fifth. They find that none of these measures has changed much (see chart). In 1971 a child from the poorest fifth had an 8.4% chance of making it to the top quintile. For a child born in 1986 the odds were 9%. The study confirms previous findings that America’s social mobility is low compared with many European countries. (In Denmark, a poor child has twice as much chance of making it to the top quintile as in America.) But it challenges several smaller recent studies that concluded that America had become less socially mobile. This result has caused a huge stir, not least because it runs counter to public perceptions. A recent Gallup poll found that only 52% of Americans think there is plenty of opportunity for the average Joe to get ahead, down from 81% in 1998. It also jars with other circumstantial evidence. Several studies point to widening gaps between rich and poor in the kinds of factors you would expect to influence mobility, such as the quality of schools or parents’ investment of time and money in their children. Cross-country analyses also suggest there is an inverse relationship between income inequality and social mobility--a phenomenon that has become known as the "Great Gatsby" curve. What is going on? One possibility is that social stratification takes time to become entrenched. In a new book, Gregory Clark, an economic historian at the University of California, Davis, who tracks mobility over hundreds of years by following surnames, reaches far more pessimistic conclusions (see "Social mobility: Have and have not"). Another, sunnier, explanation is that even as income gaps have widened over the past 30 years, other barriers to mobility, such as discrimination against women and blacks, have fallen. Most likely, the answer lies in the nature of America’s inequality, whose main characteristic is the soaring share of overall income going to the top 1% (from 10% in 1980 to 22% in 2012). The correlation between vast wealth accruing to a tiny elite and the ability of people to move between the rest of the rungs of the income ladder may be small--at least for now. Whatever the explanation, it would be unwise to take much comfort from this study. For a start, since the gap between top and bottom has widened, the consequences of an accident of birth have become bigger. Second, if the gains of growth are going mostly to those at the top, that bodes ill for those whose skills are less in demand. Many economists worry that living standards for the non-elite will stagnate for a long time. Third, although social mobility has not changed much over time, it varies widely from place to place. In a second paper, the economists crunch their tax statistics by region. They find that the probability of a child born into the poorest fifth of the population in San Jose, California making it to the top is 12.9%, not much lower than in Denmark. In Charlotte, North Carolina it is 4.4%, far lower than anywhere else in the rich world. This geographic prism also offers some pointers on what influences mobility. The economists found five factors that were correlated with differences in social mobility in different parts of America: residential segregation (whether by income or race); the quality of schooling; family structure (eg, how many children live with only one parent); "social capital" (such as taking part in community groups); and inequality (particularly income gaps among those outside the top 1%). Social mobility is higher in integrated places with good schools, strong families, lots of community spirit and smaller income gaps within the broad middle class. Not a bad agenda for politicians to push, if only they knew how. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Screenshot Via YouTubeArthur Chu has won thousands of dollars on Jeopardy by using game theory.Meet Arthur Chu, Jeopardy's latest and greatest star, who has used Jeopardy game theory to become nightly must-see TV. But his unorthodox methods — though correct by the numbers — have made him a polarizing figure in the Jeopardy community. Arthur first appeared on the show on Tuesday, and has gone on a nice run of three straight wins. Thus far, he's been quick and confident with his answers and has a good brain on his shoulders. But the story is firmly on how he's playing, as his game theory strategies have made for a frustrating television experience for viewers. Those methods have Philly.com calling him a "hero," Mental Floss breaking down the source of his success, and Bar Stool anointing him a "mad genius." Of course, others haven't taken his strategies so kindly, with a mix of real and faux outrage directed at Arthur (guilty!). So what's the controversy all about? Daily Double Searching (Sharon Buck via YouTube).It's Arthur's in-game strategy of searching for the Daily Double that has made him such a target. Typically, contestants choose a single category and progressively move from the lowest amount up to the highest, giving viewers an easy-to-understand escalation of difficulty. But Arthur has his sights solely set on finding those hidden Daily Doubles, which are usually located on the three highest-paying rungs in the categories (the category itself is random). That means, rather than building up in difficulty, he begins at the most difficult questions. Once the two most difficult questions have been taken off the board in one column, he quickly jumps to another category. It's a grating experience for the viewer, who isn't given enough to time to get in a rhythm or fully comprehend the new subject area. And it makes for ugly, scattered boards, like above. However, Wednesday's game showed the benefits of that strategy. Arthur's searching was rewarded with all three of the game's Daily Doubles. Arthur was particularly fond of the "true" Daily Double, wagering all his money the first time (he lost it all) but quickly recovering with a massive wager later on another Daily Double. While most contestants are hesitant to go all-or-nothing, Arthur is happily taking those calculated risks. One Daily Double, in which he wagered just $5, was particularly strange. Arthur's searching landed him a Daily Double in a sports category, a topic he knew nothing about. (Ever the joker, he tweeted he'd rather have sex with his wife than learn about sports). Most contestants will avoid their topics of weakness, but not Arthur. Instead, he wagered just $5 on the sports question, effectively making its specifics irrelevant. Trebek and the audience giggled, and when the question came, Arthur immediately blurted out "I don't know." But that wasn't a waste of a Daily Double, as he kept that question out of the hands of the other contestants. Winning in Jeopardy just means beating the other two, and this strategy made that possible. Aggressive Buzzing Some of the dislike for Arthur is a matter of personal style. Arthur is an incessant buzzer-clicker, who emphatically presses his answering button like there's no tomorrow. Given that he knows almost every answer, he's perpetually smacking on that buzzer in public view. It's pretty annoying, as the Vine to the right shows. He also plays a furiously quick pace, often bowling over Alex Trebek's words to get to the next question. This is also a matter of strategy—the more questions he can get to before the time runs out, the more money he can win—but it isn't the most endearing style of play. Playing for the Tie Due to Arthur's newfangled shenanigans, Wednesday's Jeopardy ended in a rare tie. In Final Jeopardy, the leading contestant typically wagers $1 more than double of the 2nd place contestant. If both answer correctly, then the person in the lead wins by that extra buck. But Arthur did not add the $1, wagering enough so that if he and Carolyn both answered correctly, they would tie. And that's exactly what happened, as both moved on to the next round. He made the same move on Tuesday, as well, though he was the only contestant to answer correctly. "Interesting wager," host Alex Trebek condescended, after the tie. While it seems strange, it's actually the correct move to make, says The Final Wager blog, the brainchild of former Jeopardy winner Keith Williams that breaks down the proper mathematical wagering. Basically, the whole point of the game is to move on to the next round. Whether or not someone joins you is largely irrelevant. In addition, there's a certain mind-game tactic that can make the trailing contestant bet an irrational number. While the numbers stand behind these ideas, Tuesday's tie-targeting move was the first to do so all season, Williams said. "It's really cool to see this happen," he said. In fact, Arthur admitted to Williams that he got the idea from his videos. It's only been three episodes, of course, so it's too early to declare Arthur the next Ken Jennings, who won 74 (!) straight gamesin 2004. But in terms of influence on the game, Arthur looks like a trendsetter of things to come. Hopefully that has more to do with his game theory than with his aggressive button-pressing.    FREE AppDownload
Mark Wilson / Getty House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) speaks to the media while flanked by House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA). CAMBRIDGE, Maryland (Reuters) - Republican lawmakers, hoping to ride the disastrous rollout of President Barack Obama's healthcare law to victory in the November congressional elections, are trying to put internal fights behind them and unify around a proposed Obamacare replacement. During a two-day retreat on Maryland's frozen eastern shore, Republicans in the U.S. House of Representatives also sought to shed the image they acquired during last October's government shutdown as a cantankerous opposition party. The smaller-government Tea Party faction and more moderate "establishment" House Republicans are linking arms around a strategy for the first time since they took control of the chamber in early 2011 - if all goes according to plans hatched during the closed-door retreat 85 miles east of Washington. Republicans have seized on "Obamacare" as a way of turning around their image. Instead of just insisting on its repeal, as they have done nearly 50 times in House votes, House Speaker John Boehner's troops plan to craft legislation to replace Obama's healthcare law that aims to provide health coverage for millions of the uninsured. "I think this is going to be very unifying," said Representative Phil Roe, a Tea Party-backed Republican, obstetrician and chief sponsor of a healthcare reform proposal that could move through the House in coming months. House Majority Leader Eric Cantor's declaration that Republicans would hold a floor vote this year on an alternative to Obamacare was one of the biggest applause lines of the retreat, Roe told Reuters. Maybe it was former Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz, a keynote speaker at the retreat, who gave Republicans the motivation they needed to focus on working as a team. Or maybe it was the lack of an immediate fiscal crisis that made Republicans conclude that they will have to do something to fill out the rest of the year before the November congressional elections. "I think in order to maximize our year, it's important that we show the American people that we're not just the opposition party, we're actually the alternative party," Boehner told reporters at a Thursday press conference. Republican Representative Raul Labrador of Idaho, like Roe a Tea Party favorite, told Reuters the party wants a "positive" and "forward-looking" agenda. "My sense is that party leaders are desperate to improve the party brand name as they move into the midterm election year," said Sarah Binder, a senior fellow at the liberal-leaning Brookings Institution. And that, she said, "entails finding an agenda that Republicans can be for." "This strikes me as strategic, rather than evidence of the mellowing of ideological differences within the party," Binder added. Divisions remain, in particular on immigration reform, but Labrador says many Republicans don't want to debate it this year because their differences would then be on display and possibly hurt the party's chances of taking control of the Senate in November. Hispanics, a fast-growing segment of the U.S. population, voted overwhelming for Obama, a Democrat, in the 2012 presidential election. Some Republicans have expressed concern about hurting their party for years to come by continuing to alienate Hispanics on the immigration issue. Boehner grabbed headlines at the retreat by floating a set of principles for immigration legislation that included legalizing millions of immigrants who either entered the United States illegally or overstayed their visas. But Boehner also told the gathering: "Nothing has been decided (on immigration). We're here to listen," according to Roe. A "free-flow" discussion followed, Roe said. In some ways, it might be easier for House Republicans to find unity in 2014 than it was in 2011, 2012 or 2013. None of their rank-and-file is publicly clamoring for a deficit-reduction showdown or threatening a default on the country's debt - the issues that made the past three years so chaotic in Washington. Instead, Republicans will try to tout their own answer to the country's healthcare problem while knowing that anything they do is unlikely to pass the Democratic-controlled Senate or escape an Obama veto. In the aftermath of October's government shutdown, Washington has seen an unusually smooth operation of government. Major bills - a two-year budget deal, a spending bill to execute the first year of that deal, and a renewal of a massive farm law - have all passed recently without the histrionics that marked the past three years. That does not mean that the Tea Party movement has thrown in the towel and is marching lock-step behind more establishment Republicans like Boehner, or that House Republicans have realigned themselves for the long-term. Republicans "smell victory. It's amazing what the prospect of a good election will do for party unity," said Larry Sabato, who heads University of Virginia's Center for Politics. "Sometimes it's just a papering over the differences until after the election," Sabato said, predicting that there will be plenty of time after November's vote to see party divisions re-emerge. (Additional reporting by David Lawder; Editing by Caren Bohan and Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
Chip Somodevilla / Getty WASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Barack Obama's sixth year in office is starting out as a testament to the power of taking small steps. Frustrated by congressional gridlock, he has turned to the "pen and the phone" to provoke a "year of action" with a flurry of executive orders, directives, meetings and reviews to get his presidency back on track after the difficulties he encountered last year. None of the steps he is taking are going to change the world and indeed, they may be best-remembered collectively as a declaration of Obama's own relevance, an attempt to go over the heads of his Republican opponents in Congress and grab the attention of the people. It is a strategy that Democratic President Bill Clinton used in his 1996 re-election campaign. Humbled by Republicans in 1994 congressional elections, Clinton helped resurrect his presidency with similarly small steps like ordering the Education Department to issue school uniform guidelines to school districts. In Obama's case, he announced in his State of the Union address last Tuesday that he would sign an executive order raising the minimum wage for federal contract workers. But White House officials acknowledged it would apply only to a couple hundred thousand workers, a tiny fraction of the country's workforce. There was an order for the Treasury Department to create a retirement savings program for the middle class, and he told Vice President Joe Biden to review federal job training programs. And using the bully pulpit, Obama met with prominent corporate CEOs to persuade them to take steps to hire the long-term unemployed, whose jobless benefits have expired. SHEDDING THE 'SENSE OF STAGNATION' William Galston, a domestic policy adviser for President Clinton and now a Brookings Institution scholar, said none of Obama's steps have the impact of, for example, Harry Truman's dramatic use of an executive order to ban segregation in the U.S. armed forces in 1948. What Obama's actions are intended to do, he said, is to "dispel the bad memory of the failed first year of his second term when he seemed to be stalled and stalemated at every turn and replace that sense of stagnation with a sense of forward movement." "Clinton's orders were more of a political strategy than a substitute for government strategy. I think at the end of the day the same can be said of what Obama's doing," said Galston. It is no coincidence that Obama has embarked on this strategy with the aid of special adviser John Podesta, who was a champion of executive orders when he worked in the Clinton White House. "I think he's warmed up to it," Podesta said of Obama in an interview with NPR on Tuesday. "And I think you'll see that across a wide range of topics, including retirement security, moving forward on his climate change and energy transformation agenda." White House officials say Obama is not giving up on pushing broad legislation through Congress and in fact they see signs of movement on a long-stalled immigration reform law, which would be a legacy-building achievement of his second term. By ordering the minimum wage raised to $10.10 an hour for federal contract workers, Obama hopes to trigger a broader debate about the need to raise the minimum wage for millions of working Americans, a proposal that Republicans oppose for fear of damaging small-business hiring. White House spokesman Josh Earnest said Obama's meeting with chief executive officers on Friday on hiring the long-term unemployed is not an attempt to circumvent Congress, but rather is the use of a power that lawmakers simply do not have. "There exist executive actions that actually serve to complement legislative action. You can't force, through legislation, business leaders to make a commitment to re-evaluate their hiring practices," he said. Obama, a former senator, has for the most part deferred to Congress and sought legislative approval of his priorities. Last November at an event in San Francisco, he rejected hecklers who urged him to use the power of executive orders to end the deportation of illegal immigrants. "If, in fact, I could solve all these problems without passing them through Congress, then I would do so, but we're also a nation of laws, that's part of our tradition," he said. This year, with control of Congress at stake in November elections, he is adjusting his strategy. Chris Lehane, who was a senior aide to Vice President Al Gore, said the steps Obama is taking are important to satisfying voters who gave the president a second term in 2012. "It gives you a capacity to impose your will, both from a policy perspective on the direction of the country but also from a political perspective, by putting the opposition squarely on the defensive," he said. The orders Obama announced in his big speech did not appear to be of the type that could face legal challenges, despite complaints from some conservatives suggesting he is breaking the law. 'SMALL' IS RELATIVE Obama's use of executive orders has been relatively tame compared with his immediate predecessors. He signed 147 in his first term, compared with George W. Bush's 173, Bill Clinton's 200 and Ronald Reagan's 213. But such record-keeping can miss the point. Presidents use power in a variety of ways beyond simply executive orders. John Woolley, co-director of the American Presidency Project, which collects and analyzes presidential documents, said one of Obama's most significant executive actions, to allow young people who are in the country illegally to avoid deportation, was announced in an order from then-Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano in 2012. "In that case, there was no document that went from the White House to Janet Napolitano that directed her to take that action," Woolley said. While Obama's recent moves may look small, his administration has used executive power in large ways. Last July, Republicans were outraged when the Treasury Department ruled it would delay for a year enforcement of an Affordable Care Act provision requiring businesses with more than 50 employees to provide health coverage to their workers. Lanhee Chen, a Hoover Institution expert who was chief economic adviser to Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney in 2012, said that since the employer mandate was part of Obama's signature healthcare law, "a lot of constitutional scholars would argue" that his action violated the law itself. Romney had vowed to roll back the Obamacare law if he had won the White House. How would he have done it if he had opposition from Democrats in Congress? "We'd have to be pretty forceful in terms of executive action on Obamacare," Chen said. (Additional reporting by Roberta Rampton in Washington; editing by Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
 Beyond the charts and warnings from economists and investors, perhaps the most disturbing commentary on income inequality in America was written by an investment manager in 2011. "In my view, the American dream of striking it rich is merely a well-marketed fantasy that keeps the bottom 99.5% hoping for better and prevents social and political instability," the manager wrote in an email to Professor G. William Domhoff of the University of California at Santa Cruz. The manager, who asked to remain anonymous to protect his relationship with wealthy clients, expresses his frustration with a financial system that is rigged to help the elites at the cost of everyone else. Domhoff posted the letter to his site, alongside his own commentary from more than 60 years of research on income inequality and the power elite. With his permission, we're publishing the full letter here: I sit in an interesting chair in the financial services industry. Our clients largely fall into the top 1%, have a net worth of $5,000,000 or above, and — if working — make over $300,000 per year. My observations on the sources of their wealth and concerns come from my professional and social activities within this group. Work by various economists and tax experts make it indisputable that the top 1% controls a widely disproportionate share of the income and wealth in the United States. When does one enter that top 1%? (I'll use "k" for 1,000 and "M" for 1,000,000 as we usually do when communicating with clients or discussing money; thousands and millions take too much time to say.) Available data isn't exact, but a family enters the top 1% or so today with somewhere around $300k to $400k in pre-tax annual income and over $1.2M in net worth. Compared to the average American family with a pre-tax income in the mid-$50k range and net worth around $120k, this probably seems like a lot of money. But, there are big differences within that top 1%, with the wealth distribution highly skewed towards the top 0.1%. The 99th to 99.5th percentiles largely include physicians, attorneys, upper middle management, and small business people who have done well. Everyone's tax situation is, of course, a little different. On earned income in this group, we can figure somewhere around 25% to 30% of total pre-tax income will go to Federal, State, and Social Security taxes, leaving them with around $250k to $300k post tax. This group makes extensive use of 401-k's, SEP-IRA's, Defined Benefit Plans, and other retirement vehicles, which defer taxes until distribution during retirement. Typical would be yearly contributions in the $50k to $100k range, leaving our elite working group with yearly cash flows of $175k to $250k after taxes, or about $15k to $20k per month. Until recently, most studies just broke out the top 1% as a group. Data on net worth distributions within the top 1% indicate that one enters the top 0.5% with about $1.8M, the top 0.25% with $3.1M, the top 0.10% with $5.5M and the top 0.01% with $24.4M. Wealth distribution is highly skewed towards the top 0.01%, increasing the overall average for this group. The net worth for those in the lower half of the top 1% is usually achieved after decades of education, hard work, saving and investing as a professional or small business person. While an after-tax income of $175k to $250k and net worth in the $1.2M to $1.8M range may seem like a lot of money to most Americans, it doesn't really buy freedom from financial worry or access to the true corridors of power and money. That doesn't become frequent until we reach the top 0.1%. I've had many discussions in the last few years with clients with "only" $5M or under in assets, those in the 99th to 99.9th percentiles, as to whether they have enough money to retire or stay retired. That may sound strange to the 99% not in this group, but generally accepted "safe" retirement distribution rates for a 30 year period are in the 3-5% range, with 4% as the current industry standard. Assuming that the lower end of the top 1% has, say, $1.2M in investment assets, their retirement income will be about $50k per year plus maybe $30k-$40k from Social Security, so let's say $90k per year pre-tax and $75-$80k post-tax if they wish to plan for 30 years of withdrawals. For those with $1.8M in retirement assets, that rises to around $120-150k pretax per year and around $100k after tax. If someone retires with $5M today, roughly the beginning rung for entry into the top 0.1%, they can reasonably expect an income of $240k pretax and around $190k post tax, including Social Security. While income and lifestyle are all relative, an after-tax income between $6.6k and $8.3k per month today will hardly buy the fantasy lifestyles that Americans see on TV and would consider "rich". In many areas in California or the East Coast, this positions one squarely in the hard working upper-middle class, and strict budgeting will be essential. An income of $190k post tax or $15.8k per month will certainly buy a nice lifestyle but is far from rich. And, for those folks who made enough to accumulate this much wealth during their working years, the reduction in income and lifestyle during retirement can be stressful. Plus, watching retirement accounts deplete over time isn't fun, not to mention the ever-fluctuating value of these accounts and the desire of many to leave a substantial inheritance. Our poor lower half of the top 1% lives well but has some financial worries. Since the majority of those in this group actually earned their money from professions and smaller businesses, they generally don't participate in the benefits big money enjoys. Those in the 99th to 99.5th percentile lack access to power. For example, most physicians today are having their incomes reduced by HMO's, PPO's and cost controls from Medicare and insurance companies; the legal profession is suffering from excess capacity, declining demand and global outsourcing; successful small businesses struggle with increasing regulation and taxation. I speak daily with these relative winners in the economic hierarchy and many express frustration. Unlike those in the lower half of the top 1%, those in the top half and, particularly, top 0.1%, can often borrow for almost nothing, keep profits and production overseas, hold personal assets in tax havens, ride out down markets and economies, and influence legislation in the U.S. They have access to the very best in accounting firms, tax and other attorneys, numerous consultants, private wealth managers, a network of other wealthy and powerful friends, lucrative business opportunities, and many other benefits. Most of those in the bottom half of the top 1% lack power and global flexibility and are essentially well-compensated workhorses for the top 0.5%, just like the bottom 99%. In my view, the American dream of striking it rich is merely a well-marketed fantasy that keeps the bottom 99.5% hoping for better and prevents social and political instability. The odds of getting into that top 0.5% are very slim and the door is kept firmly shut by those within it. Membership in this elite group is likely to come from being involved in some aspect of the financial services or banking industry, real estate development involved with those industries, or government contracting. Some hard working and clever physicians and attorneys can acquire as much as $15M-$20M before retirement but they are rare. Those in the top 0.5% have incomes over $500k if working and a net worth over $1.8M if retired. The higher we go up into the top 0.5% the more likely it is that their wealth is in some way tied to the investment industry and borrowed money than from personally selling goods or services or labor as do most in the bottom 99.5%. They are much more likely to have built their net worth from stock options and capital gains in stocks and real estate and private business sales, not from income which is taxed at a much higher rate. These opportunities are largely unavailable to the bottom 99.5%. Recently, I spoke with a younger client who retired from a major investment bank in her early thirties, net worth around $8M. We can estimate that she had to earn somewhere around twice that, or $14M-$16M, in order to keep $8M after taxes and live well along the way, an impressive accomplishment by such an early age. Since I knew she held a critical view of investment banking, I asked if her colleagues talked about or understood how much damage was created in the broader economy from their activities. Her answer was that no one talks about it in public but almost all understood and were unbelievably cynical, hoping to exit the system when they became rich enough. Folks in the top 0.1% come from many backgrounds but it's infrequent to meet one whose wealth wasn't acquired through direct or indirect participation in the financial and banking industries. One of our clients, net worth in the $60M range, built a small company and was acquired with stock from a multi-national. Stock is often called a "paper" asset. Another client, CEO of a medium-cap tech company, retired with a net worth in the $70M range. The bulk of any CEO's wealth comes from stock, not income, and incomes are also very high. Last year, the average S&amp;P 500 CEO made $9M in all forms of compensation. One client runs a division of a major international investment bank, net worth in the $30M range and most of the profits from his division flow directly or indirectly from the public sector, the taxpayer. Another client with a net worth in the $10M range is the ex-wife of a managing director of a major investment bank, while another was able to amass $12M after taxes by her early thirties from stock options as a high level programmer in a successful IT company. The picture is clear; entry into the top 0.5% and, particularly, the top 0.1% is usually the result of some association with the financial industry and its creations. I find it questionable as to whether the majority in this group actually adds value or simply diverts value from the US economy and business into its pockets and the pockets of the uber-wealthy who hire them. They are, of course, doing nothing illegal. I think it's important to emphasize one of the dangers of wealth concentration: irresponsibility about the wider economic consequences of their actions by those at the top. Wall Street created the investment products that produced gross economic imbalances and the 2008 credit crisis. It wasn't the hard-working 99.5%. Average people could only destroy themselves financially, not the economic system. There's plenty of blame to go around, but the collapse was primarily due to the failure of complex mortgage derivatives, CDS credit swaps, cheap Fed money, lax regulation, compromised ratings agencies, government involvement in the mortgage market, the end of the Glass-Steagall Act in 1999, and insufficient bank capital. Only Wall Street could put the economy at risk and it had an excellent reason to do so: profit. It made huge profits in the build-up to the credit crisis and huge profits when it sold itself as "too big to fail" and received massive government and Federal Reserve bailouts. Most of the serious economic damage the U.S. is struggling with today was done by the top 0.1% and they benefited greatly from it. Not surprisingly, Wall Street and the top of corporate America are doing extremely well as of June 2011. For example, in Q1 of 2011, America's top corporations reported 31% profit growth and a 31% reduction in taxes, the latter due to profit outsourcing to low tax rate countries. Somewhere around 40% of the profits in the S&amp;P 500 come from overseas and stay overseas, with about half of these 500 top corporations having their headquarters in tax havens. If the corporations don't repatriate their profits, they pay no U.S. taxes. The year 2010 was a record year for compensation on Wall Street, while corporate CEO compensation rose by over 30%, most Americans struggled. In 2010 a dozen major companies, including GE, Verizon, Boeing, Wells Fargo, and Fed Ex paid US tax rates between -0.7% and -9.2%. Production, employment, profits, and taxes have all been outsourced. Major U.S. corporations are currently lobbying to have another "tax-repatriation" window like that in 2004 where they can bring back corporate profits at a 5.25% tax rate versus the usual 35% US corporate tax rate. Ordinary working citizens with the lowest incomes are taxed at 10%. I could go on and on, but the bottom line is this: A highly complex set of laws and exemptions from laws and taxes has been put in place by those in the uppermost reaches of the U.S. financial system. It allows them to protect and increase their wealth and significantly affect the U.S. political and legislative processes. They have real power and real wealth. Ordinary citizens in the bottom 99.9% are largely not aware of these systems, do not understand how they work, are unlikely to participate in them, and have little likelihood of entering the top 0.5%, much less the top 0.1%. Moreover, those at the very top have no incentive whatsoever for revealing or changing the rules. I am not optimistic. A few blogs and emails have disagreed with the views presented in this article. I'll address two of them here: A New York Times article (Economix, 1/17/12) agrees that the threshold for being in the top 1 per cent in household income is about $380k but states that, based on Fed data, the 1% threshold for net worth is $8.4M. The figure I use is around $1.5M and comes from the IRS. The Fed uses a simple formula based on assets and liabilities at a broad level of analysis with little detail. Using Fed data, about 8% of US households have a net worth exceeding $1M and the median net worth of the top 10% of US families is $1.569M. The IRS uses the estate multiplier technique to calculate the data, a more complex measure based on tax returns, capitalization of earnings power, and other factors. The estate multiplier technique has been around for decades, is more widely used, and in the opinion of many, is the more accurate number. Where the true threshold is located is impossible to determine with accuracy, but my observations in managing money support the lower number or something close to it. One reader opined that my analysis regarding the bottom half and top half of the top 1% is incorrect and that many business people can amass $20M. Based on my experience with at least a thousand high net worth folks over the last couple of decades, I disagree. The folks in the top 0.5% and particularly the top 0.1% are in my experience very likely to have been the recipients of largesse in the investment industry or banking industry, and this includes those at the top of corporations where compensation is tied to options and stock or those who have careers near the top of the banking and investment industry. There are exceptions, of course. Let's make the assumption that someone who has an income in the top 1% would reasonably be expected to retire in the top 1%. Everybody's tax situation is a little different, depending upon the state they live in and the deductions they can make. Someone making $380k gross will likely pay about a third of that in Federal and State taxes, leaving about $250k after taxes. Generally, someone making $380k will want to live fairly well, certainly not at the level of the average dual working couple with an income around $55k. Let's say they spend $150k/year, hardly a high end budget in most of the US. That leaves about $100k per year to invest. It is unlikely that even with investment success they are going to amass $10M or $20M by the end of their careers. This fits my observations working with many physicians in many different specialties, and it is generally getting harder to make money in medicine than in the past. Older physicians are retiring today with around $3M to $8M, with just a few above that. Younger physicians are making between $200k and $400k annually — with a few specialties above that — and their typical annual investment contributions run between $50k and $100k. The bottom line here is that I think it is very difficult to create a net worth in excess of $10M from income alone. Yes, sports stars, entertainers, and some business people do -- but they are rare. Those with a higher net worth tend to acquire most of their net worth from capital gains, not income that has been saved and invested. Large capital gains tend to come when private businesses are acquired by private or public companies with stock or when executives are paid directly by options or stock. Wall Street and the banking industry are frequently involved, either directly or indirectly. FREE AppDownload
