Thomson ReutersA sample of Botox is seen at the Long Island Plastic Surgical Group at the Americana Manhasset luxury shopping destination in ManhassetBy Nadia Damouni and Soyoung Kim NEW YORK (Reuters) - Actavis Plc  plans to approach Allergan Inc  again about a potential merger, as the Botox maker warms up to the possibility of a sale, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday. Allergan, which has repeatedly rejected offers from Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc , would consider a takeover proposal that values the company at above $200 per share, some of these people said. Actavis, which held informal conversations with Allergan in recent months about a possible combination, would like to take a hard look at buying the company and could reach out to its management team as soon as this week to reiterate its interest, one of the sources said. There has been no formal engagement between the two companies yet, the sources said, asking not to be named because the matter is not public. Actavis' new overture would come as Valeant and its partner William Ackman plan to boost their offer by about $15 per share, valuing Allergan at more than $190 per share, according to a separate person familiar with the matter. Valeant had initially intended to announce a higher bid after reporting what it expects to be blow-out earnings on Oct. 20, the person said, adding that the timing and amount of the bump could still change. Allergan, while fighting off Valeant's advances, did not reach out to other alternative buyers and instead focused on identifying opportunities for revenue growth and cost cuts internally. But it is aware of competing interest from other drugmakers, particularly from Actavis, the sources said. The emergence of Actavis as a serious rival suitor adds another twist to the months-long takeover battle between Valeant and Allergan. The Canadian drugmaker's bid already has attracted controversy because it is backed by activist investor Ackman, leading to a legal challenge from Allergan which has accused the two parties of insider trading. Shares of Allergan ended 1.7 percent higher at $186.20 on the New York Stock Exchange after rising more than 3 percent on the news, valuing the company at more than $55 billion. Actavis closed at $243.39 for a market capitalization of roughly $64 billion. Shares of Valeant fell 2.5 percent, putting the value of its existing cash and stock offer for Allergan at $175.94 per share, or $52.8 billion based on shares outstanding. Valeant expects its shares to rise substantially when it announces earnings in the coming weeks, potentially making its newly increased offer worth well above $195 per share and close to $200, one person familiar with the matter said. Analysts have an average price target of around $200 per share for Allergan, with the price ranging from $174 to $240 per share, according to a Thomson Reuters poll of 16 analysts. Representatives for Allergan and Actavis declined to comment. Actavis' continued pursuit of Allergan comes as the takeover target faces a Dec. 18 special shareholder meeting, at which top Allergan investor Ackman's Pershing Square Capital Management hopes to replace a majority of the company's board. Pershing Square has teamed up with Valeant to pursue a takeover of Allergan, and is hoping to install new board members who could be more receptive to a takeover by the Canadian drugmaker. Actavis, which regularly reviews potential acquisitions, considers Allergan as the best opportunity currently and is hoping to engage in friendly discussions, the sources said. Industry executives have said Actavis would be a better cultural fit for Allergan because the companies' respective chief executives, Brent Saunders and David Pyott, believe in focusing on research and development, while Valeant CEO Mike Pearson is known for cost cutting. A large part of Allergan's business is ophthalmology, an area that Saunders is familiar with after serving as CEO of Bausch &amp; Lomb. Valeant acquired Bausch &amp; Lomb last year.  DEFENSIVE ACQUISITION UNLIKELY Valeant and Pershing Square offered to buy Allergan on April 22 but Allergan has said the offer undervalued the company. Since then Allergan has announced cost cuts and said it was looking for acquisitions while trying to persuade shareholders they were better off remaining independent. But the possibility of Allergan making a potentially large acquisition has faced significant opposition from shareholders who feared such a deal would make the company too big and expensive for Valeant. [ID:nL2N0RW19B] Allergan had held on and off discussions with Salix Pharmaceuticals Ltd  about buying the drugmaker for more than $10 billion in cash, people familiar with the matter said previously. A cash takeover would not have required a shareholder vote and could have put Allergan out of Valeant's reach. Those discussions stalled in part because Allergan considered Salix's valuation as high, and while the company continues to look at other deal opportunities, the likelihood of it striking a big acquisition before the Dec. 18 shareholder meeting is low, the sources said.  (Reporting by Soyoung Kim and Nadia Damouni; additional reporting by Caroline Humer; Editing by Richard Chang, Lisa Shumaker and Stephen Coates) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA restaurant promoter wearing a traditional Chinese costume waits for customers, in BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - Growth in China's services sector weakened slightly in September as new business cooled, a private survey showed on Wednesday, reinforcing signs of a slowdown in the world's second-largest economy that could prompt more stimulus measures. The services purchasing managers' index (PMI) compiled by HSBC/Markit pulled back to 53.5 in September from a 17-month high of 54.1 in August. A reading above 50 in PMI surveys indicates an expansion in activity while one below that threshold points to a contraction. A sub-index measuring new business fell to 53.2 in September from a 19-month high of 53.9 in August, but sub-indexes measuring employment and outstanding business both inched up, painting a mixed picture. "Overall, the services sector held up in September, despite the downward pressure seen in the manufacturing sector. We think risks to growth in the near term are still on the downside, and warrant accommodative monetary as well as fiscal policies," said Qu Hongbin, chief China economist at HSBC. An official survey released last week showed that the services sector grew at its slowest pace in eight months in September after new orders shrank for the first time since the 2008 global financial crisis, exposing more weakness in the world's second-largest economy. The services sector made up 46.1 percent of gross domestic product in 2013, surpassing the secondary sector – manufacturing and construction – for the first time, as the government aims to create more jobs and boost domestic consumption. DOWNSIDE RISKS Last week, a pair of surveys showed China's manufacturing sector held up in September but remained subdued in a sign that the economy is still struggling to recover its growth momentum -despite recent policy support. [ID:nL3N0RW0TH] Steps unveiled since April included reserve requirement cuts for selected banks and faster investment in railways and public housing. But much of their broader impact may have been offset by a cooling property market and tighter credit as banks grow more cautious about lending as the economy cools. In a bid to avert a deeper slide in the housing market, China's central bank and banking regulator relaxed lending rules for second-home buyers on Sept. 30 by giving them a 30 percent discount on mortgage rates and cutting their down payment levels to 30 percent from 60-70 percent. "We think the easing lending condition is more impactful compared with unwinding of previous housing purchase restrictions. As such, we expect the systemic risk arising from property sector to be contained," OCBC said in a research note on Wednesday. Other economists are not so sure. A glut of unsold and unoccupied homes and buyers' expectations of further price declines could temper any rebound. The central bank said on Sunday it will use various monetary tools to maintain adequate liquidity and reasonable growth in credit and social financing. Analysts expect more policy measures will be needed to help achieve the government's growth target of around 7.5 percent this year, although any dramatic stimulus looks unlikely as reform-minded top leaders have shown greater tolerance for slower growth. The government is due to release September data on trade, bank lending, investment and factory output in the coming week or so, leading up to third-quarter GDP on Oct. 21 "The upcoming September data release will likely show a tentative improvement in real economic activity, but unlikely be strong enough to prevent full third-quarter growth from falling to 7.1 percent year on year, adding pressure on the government to further intensify policy support," Tao Wang, China economist at USB, said in a note. The economy expanded by 7.5 percent in the second quarter on-year.     (Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Victor Fraile The Australian market fell hard on opening, following Wall Street like a rock. The S&amp;P/ASX 200 was 5,211.50, down 1.37% or 72.50 points after the US S&amp;P500 lost 1.5% to close at 1935.09 points. Ric Spooner, Chief Market Analyst at CMC Markets, says the downward momentum in international markets overnight creates its own imperatives. “The flip side of falling equity markets overnight was a rally in safe haven assets like US bonds and the Japanese Yen,” he says. The IMF’s downgrade to economic forecasts added to the gloom in the market. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn   This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
BOSTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Before hiring star bond fund manager Bill Gross last month, Janus Capital Group Inc Chief Executive Dick Weil took care to check with the bond chief he already had, Gibson Smith. Smith said he has embraced the idea, despite concerns in the industry that Gross may not be enough of a team player. Smith said on Tuesday he plans to stay at Janus, with his team intact, after Weil said continuity was important. Weil "wanted to maintain what we have built and not do anything disruptive," Smith said. "This is good for the Janus fixed-income business and good for Janus as a whole," Smith said of Gross' move in a telephone interview. Smith said he expects to talk about markets with the one-time Pimco leader. But they will be about 1,000 miles apart. The two will operate two distinct business units, with Gross operating out of a Newport Beach, California office, which Smith called "Janus West." Smith works from Janus headquarters in Denver. Pimco is headquartered in Newport Beach. The comments from Smith are among his first since Gross's arrival and could reduce concerns voiced by some investors that the famously outspoken Gross could spark a culture clash at Janus, which emphasizes teamwork over star power. Gross's surprise jump to Janus triggered heavy outflows at Pimco, which he co-founded. Even more money could be pulled from Pimco as pension funds and other large investors review whether to move their money. Pimco said its Total Return fund, which Gross personally managed for 27 years, saw $23.5 billion in withdrawals in September. As of June 30 Janus had $178 billion under management including $31.4 billion in fixed income products. With actively managed equity funds out of favor, Weil has put a new emphasis on bonds, which accounted for just $5.5 billion of company assets in 2008. Janus shares ended regular trading on Tuesday at $14.40, or 30 percent higher than their close on Sept 25, just before the hiring of Gross was announced. Smith said Gross will fit in well, developing macro products distinct from Janus' current bond funds focused on fundamental research. Gross is taking over a young fund, the Janus Global Unconstrained Bond Fund, which Smith called "the perfect product to move to him" as a vehicle for new investors. Meanwhile ideas that once would have gone to the fund will stay within other products managed by Smith's 30-person team. Smith said he expects more volatility as traders speculate on the timing of the Federal Reserve's first interest rate increase. He also worries a dollar rally that began this summer could hurt domestic exporters. He said he has tried to play defense across some funds, such as scaling back exposure to corporate bonds and adding 10-year and 30-year Treasuries and short-dated debt. When it came to adding Gross, Smith said Weil liked the idea. "Dick came to me in a very open, transparent and supportive fashion presenting this as a possibility," Smith said of Weil. "How this will be good for me and my team, he (Weil) has been very consistent on these points," Smith said. (Reporting by Ross Kerber in Boston and Richard Leong in New York; Editing by Diane Craft, Tim McLaughlin and Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
Resumes are flying out of Cisco like so many owls in a Harry Potter movie, sources in the Valley are telling us. A huge reorganization of Cisco's routing and switching engineering business has been going on, affecting up to 25,000 employees. This involves some massive changes for the unit, which generated $21.7 billion in revenue, or 60% of the company's 2014 total revenue from products. The engineering teams are being switched up under engineering chief Pankaj Patel. They are moving from individual teams focused on individual products to two big overarching teams with one group focused on software, the other on hardware. We understand that top managers with the title of "general manager" will be going away, but the people under them, with the title "vice president" and "senior vice president" are not being particularly targeted. So, Cisco isn't totally slicing out middle management. Still, sources tell us a lot of senior people have dusted off their resumes and are looking around. It's a particularly good time for network and infrastructure startups, so Cisco folks are in demand. Back at the company, the object of the re-org is to get rid of all the little product "fiefdoms" that have cropped up under the product/general manager system at Cisco over the years. By putting everyone into two big groups, Cisco hopes people will work together and share more, making the whole company more nimble. The reorg came from the recommendations of two separate consultants, one source told us. But in the short term, multiple sources have also told us that there's a lot of confusion and frustration, particularly around budgets as each manager tries to figure out what funds remain and what are taken away. "This is to be expected with a major reorg," said one source. Cisco hasn't publicly discussed the reorg much. Though it did say that it would be doing another round of layoffs in August. As we previously reported, this was the fourth year in a row that Cisco ended its fiscal year by telling employees to watch for pink slips. Those cuts, though, are expected to be company wide, not just from the switching/routing engineering unit. Cisco execs said Cisco would also be hiring employees in some units. When the dust settles, Cisco expects its workforce to be 8% slimmer, or 6,000 fewer people. Ultimately, though, our sources think this reorg should be good for Cisco. Cisco sent us this statement about the reorg: "We will continue to make the business decisions and bold moves we need to make to secure our leadership position in the market going forward.  Three years ago, we started our transformation and our solid results in Q4 and for FY14 reflect the good progress we have made to date. But we are not done. We are continuing to make the moves to drive more innovation, speed, agility and efficiencies in our business and move from selling boxes to selling solutions, architectures, solutions and outcomes. Earlier this summer, we brought our sales and engineering closer together. For example, the work we are doing in engineering to implement a DevOps and an Agile development model, the work we are doing to integrate our products and services sales teams into one solutions salesforce, and the work we are doing in services extending into new market opportunities. These are big moves that we expect big impact over time for us. It's a different way of doing things that will allow us to be faster and even more responsive to our customers and the market." FREE AppDownload
THRIs the world ready for a Tom Cruise IPO? How about trading shares of Melissa McCarthy for a piece of Ben Affleck? It might not happen this year, but don't be surprised if one day soon, celebrity fandom mixes with market capitalism to produce stock offerings tied to the income of top-earning stars such as Robert Downey Jr., Sandra Bullock or Denzel Washington. According to Buck French, CEO of Fantex, Inc., his company certainly has such designs. Read more Hollywood Salaries Revealed, From Movie Stars to Agents (and Even Their Assistants) Fantex, based in San Francisco, is a recently launched trading exchange where investors can buy and sell interests in real-life people. So far, Fantex has focused on professional athletes, launching IPOs for San Francisco 49ers tight end Vernon Davis and Buffalo Bills quarterback E.J. Manuel. In September, Fantex announced its latest signing — Chicago Bears wide receiver Alshon Jeffery, who will be offering investors a 13 percent stake in his future income from playing contracts, endorsements and other activities related to football. In return, Jeffery will get most of the $7.94 million being raised from the stock offering up front. In focusing first on athletes, Fantex is attempting to capitalize on the fervor around fantasy sports to give "owners" even more rooting interest. But French says he believes the same financial model holds "tremendous potential" for top actors and music superstars who have become brands in their own right and have projectable cash-flow streams to offer. For instance, if a star like Jennifer Lawrence decided to go public using the Fantex model, she would agree to sell Fantex a portion of her future income from acting, endorsements and appearance fees. In exchange for a big check up front, Fantex would collect her earnings, sell the shares to investors and decide when to pay out dividends. Lawrence would keep the authority to make her career choices, meaning the investors would never have a say in whether she returns for the next X-Men sequel. Still, this prospect gathers mixed reactions in Hollywood. See more Robert Downey Jr.'s Life and Career in Pictures Schuyler Moore, a film finance lawyer at Stroock, is optimistic at the idea of generating up-front cash for entertainers and establishing a new vehicle to leverage a star's fan base. "I can almost guarantee it's going to happen," he says. But there are skeptics, such as attorney Ken Hertz, whose clients include Will Smith and Britney Spears. "One problem is this: It creates a relationship with potentially thousands of strangers looking over your client's shoulder, curious about their personal and professional choices," he says. "All the waivers in the world can't make that a good idea." Fantex wouldn't be the first to allow investors to share in entertainer income. In 1997, rocker David Bowie began offering bonds based on his future revenue, with his older recordings used as collateral. But according to attorney Donald Passman, author of All You Need to Know About the Music Business, the "Bowie bonds" model never took off because the high fees and tax payments represented a more expensive option for entertainers than just borrowing from a bank. REUTERS/Yves HermanShould she do it?Fantex also wouldn't be the first to allow fans to treat entertainers like public corporations. Cantor Fitzgerald runs a platform called the Hollywood Stock Exchange that allows users to buy and sell virtual shares of films and celebrities. At its height in 2010, it reported 1.7 million users, and there were plans to begin using real money. Then the government put a stop to it and the hype died down, though it's still quietly in operation, with about 55,000 users. No company has gone quite as far as Fantex. The start-up registers its listings at the SEC and uses Latham &amp; Watkins, a white-shoe law firm, to conduct due diligence on its offerings and prepare prospectuses. French says athletes "remain CEO of their brand," though Fantex is given audit rights to verify income. To French, the biggest difference between athletes and actors is the "lumpiness" of entertainer income, meaning paychecks can vary depending on creative choices or hot and cold streaks. He gives the example of John Travolta as an actor whose career has seesawed unpredictably. That would make projections more challenging — but not impossible. Kleinberg Lange attorney Jill Smith, who previously worked at Dustin Hoffman's production company, says she commends Fantax's entrepreneurial spirit, "but once you get past that highly superficial appeal, I see a lot of problems in this concept: What happens when the actor decides to take a couple of years off to have a family? Go on a year-long humanitarian aid trip? Check in to rehab? Or, perish the thought: retire?" Even if actors signing up with Fantex disclaim any fiduciary duties to investors and don't mind sacrificing secrecy about their pay, a stock market for entertainers raises other issues that would need to be sorted. For example, Greenberg Glusker attorney Andrew Apfelberg expresses concern over "insider trading, given the numerous people who would know that an actor is signed up to do a given project long before the public ever knew." But fans of celebrities might not necessarily care that actors and musicians represent a riskier asset class than, say, U.S. treasury bonds. As for why talent would sign up for an IPO, French argues that there is an upside beyond a quick payday: "We're premised on the idea that if you forge a financial interest linked to the brand, then you have not just investors, but advocates." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gene Blevins Andreessen told Bloomberg that if you started the financial industry today you'd build none of these institutions in the same way, adding that, "To me, it's all about unbundling the banks... Bank regulation tends to backfire, and of late that means consumer lending is getting unbundled." You can read the whole interview with Andreessen here. But on Tuesday afternoon, Andreesseen took to Twitter to add a few more thoughts, firing off 13 straight tweets in one of his internet-famous Tweetstorms. We've collected the whole thing below: 1/Bloomberg Markets was nice enough to publish an interview with me, mostly on finance and banking topics, this week: http://t.co/ZaQPIhqehY  2/Since the interview is correct but abridged, and took place in early April and is just coming out now, I offer a few additional thoughts:  3/Unbundling banks: I think banks are getting unbundled with or without Silicon Valley or Bitcoin--due to market changes + regulation.  4/Any big bank executive will tell you: Over time, ratio between what non-banks can offer vs what banks can offer is steadily increasing.  5/Post-crisis reforms like Dodd Frank are accelerating the unbundling, whether that's what regulators intended or not.  6/But Dodd Frank is double-edged sword: Also makes it harder for new entrants to the core banking system. Banks both protected &amp; restricted.  7/Bitcoin and regulation: Since interview in early April to now, there's been substantial movement by many regulators on Bitcoin.  8/Plenty of current discussions and disputes between market participants and regulators, but overall I think a lot of progress is happening.  9/Finally, much like the Internet 20 years ago, Bitcoin as a technology can and will be adopted by both incumbents &amp; new market entrants.  10/We are seeing a rapidly escalating level of engagement and interest in Bitcoin and cryptocurrency by large financial services companies.  11/The opportunity is clear and present for both big companies and startups to use new technology to improve financial services broadly.  12/Finally (again :-): Since the interview, the other huge earthquake to hit financial services industry is the launch of Apple Pay.  13/Between Apple Pay &amp; Bitcoin, I predict more changes coming in financial services &amp; banking in the next 3 years than in the last 20 years.  Disclosure: Marc Andreessen is an investor in Business Insider. FREE AppDownload
Ivivva on FacebookTeenage girls are increasingly wearing yoga pants instead of jeans.Lululemon's leggings are the hottest thing in teen retail right now.  "Leggings/lululemon" were named as the top fashion trend in Piper Jaffray's semi-annual Taking Stock With Teens survey.  More than a quarter of teen girls surveyed by Piper Jaffray named "Leggings/lululemon" as the top fashion trend. Other trends included crop tops (6%), high-waisted pants and skirts (6%), and Nike shoes (4%).  Piper Jaffray/Taking Stock With Teens Survey Teenagers are increasingly wearing yoga pants instead of jeans, Danielle McCoy, vice president of equity research at Wunderlich Securities, told Business Insider.  "We have seen denim spiraling downward from the premium denim players all the way to the teens, especially with the color trend disappearing," McCoy said. "The entire consumer industry has been shifting towards a more convenient and comfortable way of living."  While other brands like Victoria's Secret Pink and Forever 21 are offering yoga pants, teens see pricey Lululemon as the ultimate aspirational product, according to McCoy. The average pair of yoga pants costs $82.  Lululemon also has a plan to get younger customers hooked on its gear.  Ivivva Athletica, a brand for children and preteens, has been quietly spreading through the U.S. and Canada.  Facebook/Ivivva Avivva's leggings, which cost $64, are cheaper than Lululemon's.  Earlier this year, the brand announced that same-store sales had surged 17%.  FREE AppDownload
ScreenshotSamsung is about to deliver another disappointing quarter thanks to increased competition from other smartphone makers.Samsung dropped some disappointing news to investors Monday night, warning in its third-quarter earnings guidance that profits could be down as much as 60% from a year ago. That's quite a drop, and it could end up being the biggest tumble in Samsung's history. Samsung had a laundry list of reasons for why profits are shrinking, but it's nothing we haven't heard before. The company may sell more smartphones than anyone else, but it's finding itself in the sticky situation of having to drop its prices in order to hang onto that massive market share. That's because other Android phone manufacturers have started making phones that are just as good as Samsung's top-tier devices, but cost hundreds less. Chinese startup Xiaomi is a good example. Its newest phone, the Mi4, only costs about $320, but has specs and features on par with what you can get in Samsung's best phone, the Galaxy S5, which costs at least $600. An Android phone is an Android phone, after all, and it's tough for a manufacturer like Samsung to stick out and offer a unique experience that can't be copied by the dozens of Asian manufacturers pumping out increasingly impressive hardware and selling it at a razor-thin margin. REUTERS/Jason LeeXiaomi CEO Lei Jun shows the company's smartphone sales growth. Meanwhile, Samsung's sales are shrinking. But even as Samsung is drops prices on its best phones (which eats into its profits), it's also not selling as many of its biggest money makers, the high-end devices like the Galaxy S5 and Galaxy Note. And that could only get worse as it competes with Apple's two new iPhones, the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, which have big screens that rival the Galaxy S5 and Galaxy Note.  In short, Samsung is getting attacked from both the high and low ends of the market because its products don't offer a unique or premium experience. Why spend so much for a Samsung Android phone that has the same apps, specs, and features can be found on phones that are half the cost? And why spend so much for a Samsung phone when you can get Apple's excellent ecosystem and hardware design for the same price? Apple has the high end of the smartphone market locked up now. The handful of other Android makers are on their way to collectively lock up the low end. Samsung is the monkey in the middle, and it's showing in its bottom line. Samsung's problem is that its devices aren't innovative enough on the software level to stand out from either Apple or the the other Android makers. Plus, Samsung's attempt at exploring a new product category, wearables, has failed so far. It's launched five smartwatch models in the last year, but they've all received negative reviews and there's no indication they're actually selling. A sixth Samsung watch, which has a built-in cellular data connection and can make calls, will launch later this fall. The good news for Samsung is that its electronics business expands beyond smartphones. Mobile may be its biggest source of profit by a longshot, but its electronics division is incredibly diverse through its TV, appliance, and chips businesses, to name a few. It also pumps billions into research and development, so if Samsung can't land on the next big thing now, it's likely nimble enough to adapt when a new trend does begin to take off. Karyne Levy/Business InsiderSamsung has unveiled six smartwatch models in the last year. None have been big sellers.But for mobile, it's a similar situation other former leaders in mobile like BlackBerry and Nokia faced during their heydays, as the Guardian's Charles Arthur pointed out Tuesday. Those companies failed to innovate or catch onto emerging trends, specifically the iPhone, and it ultimately led to them losing their grip on the industry. Samsung may be in line with the industry now, but it's clearly not differentiating itself enough to compete. FREE AppDownload
Associated PressSisters Abigail, 20, left, and Aridis Guszman, 14, of the Bronx borough of New York, shop during the grand opening of the Material Girl clothing line at Macy's.Piper Jaffray released its semiannual report on teen spending Tuesday.  We dug through the report and pulled out some of the most interesting facts and charts.  Here's a summary: 1. Teens are spending most of their money on clothes and food. Here's a breakdown of teen spending by category: Piper Jaffray2. Teens are spending 20% of their money on food, up from 15% 10 years ago. Meanwhile, their clothing budgets have shrunk. Upper-income teens rank their favorite restaurants in this order: Starbucks, Chipotle, Chick-fil-A, McDonald's and Dunkin' Donuts. Average-income teens favorite chains are Starbucks, McDonald's, McDonald's, Chipotle, Chick-fil-A, and Taco Bell, respectively.   Piper Jaffray3. Teens are still getting most of their money from their parents. This chart shows parental contributions for average- and upper-income teens over the years. Piper Jaffray4. For the first time in the survey's history, T.J. Maxx ranks as one of teens' top 10 favorite brands. Nike remains the top clothing brand for all income levels. American Eagle, Forever 21, Polo Ralph Lauren, and Urban Outfitters also rank among the most popular apparel brands. Top footwear brands for upper-income teens are, in order, Nike, Vans, Converse, Sperry Top-Sider, and Steve Madden. Piper Jaffray5. Brands that are losing popularity among teens include Aeropostale, Abercrombie &amp; Fitch, and Hollister. Here's a graph of the top-cited brands that teen girls said they no longer wear: Piper Jaffray6. On the flip side, brands that are starting to get more popular among teen girls include Brandy Melville, American Eagle, and Free People. Teens boys cited Nike, Ralph Lauren, and Under Armour as up-trending brands. Piper Jaffray7. Teens' favorite websites for shopping are Amazon, Nike, and eBay. Piper Jaffray8. Teen girls said the top fashion trends for fall 2014 include leggings, crop tops and high-waisted pants and skirts. Men cited Nike, "preppy," "tall socks," Vineyard Vines and Chubbies as top trends for fall. 9. Instagram is the most important social network for teens, followed by Twitter, Facebook, and Tumblr, respectively. Piper Jaffray 10. Apple remains the top electronics brand for teens. 67% now own iPhones, up from 61% in the spring, and 73% say that their next phone will be an iPhone. 16% of teens said they are interested in the Apple Watch.  FREE AppDownload
ucumari For years, since the financial crisis, the Fed has used "Quantitative Easing" as a means of easing monetary policy. Quantitative Easing is the process by which the Fed buys government bonds to push down yields, add liquidity to the market, and encourage holders of assets to move into riskier investments. But QE is almost coming to an end. The Fed has been "tapering" its purchases of government bonds (reducing the number it purchases every month), and the purchases are about to cease completely. But suddenly the market is looking wobbly.  The dollar is surging, and the stock market is taking it on the chin. The Dow fell over 270 points on Tuesday, the latest in a series of volatile days. Even more important than stocks is what the market is saying about inflation prospects. This chart shows the market's expectations of inflation over the next five years, and as you can see, it's been diving lately. In fact, it's nearly dropped to levels at which the Fed has done new easing in the past. Falling inflation expectations are cause for worry at the Fed. Bank of America Merrill Lynch But it seems very doubtful that the Fed will go back to the QE well (at least anytime soon). Buying bonds is politically fraught, and there are perhaps unwanted side effects, such as creating a shortage of safe assets out in the market. The Fed is very eager to put the QE era behind it. So what's next? Probably verbal easing. This means using speeches and other official forms of communication to convince the market that the next rate hike won't be coming for a long time. Our Myles Udland reported earlier about the forecast from BofA's Priya Misra: For numerous political and economic reasons, it is highly unlikely the Fed would begin another QE program that includes asset purchases for some time, likely on the order of years, after finishing its current program. But breakevens are indicating that the Fed will have to do something to sate the market's expectations.  Misra writes that the Fed's method to ease in the coming months would most likely happen via "jawboning," or what some have called "verbal easing." Misra writes that this could involve Fed officials refocusing the market's attention on inflation expectations — via charts like the one featured above — and suggest that the Fed could exercise additional patience before raising interest rates. Basically, the Fed would emphasize that it could keep rates, as the popular refrain has gone over the past few years, "lower for longer." What you have to understand is that at any given time the market has a certain expectation for when the Fed will eventually raise rates. If the Fed can persuade the market to recalibrate its expectations, and say move the rate hike prediction back since months, that's a form of monetary easing, without changing any official rate or buying any assets. So watch for the next series of Fed speeches to focus on resetting market expectations about when the first Fed rate hike will come. FREE AppDownload
John Fleenor/NBCFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Financial Advisors Must Be Honest And Meticulous To Protect Themselves From Legal Troubles (Financial Planning) It's pretty rare that clients sue their financial advisors. "About 95% of financial advisors don't even have any customer complaints against them," writes Tom Ajamie, a plaintiff lawyer who represents clients who have sued wealth management firms. But it does happen. As a result, financial advisors should take several steps to ensure that they set up they are best protected against particularly litigious clients. "Set up your business so you follow procedures that make it not only possible to say you are doing the right thing, but also to show that you did the right thing," advised Don Littlefield, a lawyer who defends financial advisors. In other words, advisors should keep meticulous paperwork, document all conversations, and "be willing to share the bad news" not just the good news. Asian Equities Are Ready For A Comeback  (AllianceBernstein) While developed-market equities have been soaring, Asian stocks have been pretty quiet over the past few years. However, AllianceBernstein's Stuart Rae and Rajeev Eyunni argue that now might be time to look at Asian equities because they are primed for a comeback. "...things may be falling into place. Indeed, many Asian markets have made a solid recovery in recent months. But they aren't in full swing yet. Parts of the market are still lagging — unduly, in our view — and those may offer the most attractive investment opportunities as the recovery gains traction. In other words, cheap Asian ex Japan stocks — i.e., those whose earnings power remains underappreciated — may be due for a rebound," Rae and Eyunni write. Specifically, they believe that there is value in individual Asian companies and industries. Additionally, they argue that there is "exceptional opportunity" in Chinese and Taiwanese markets, based on valuation spreads. A Merrill Lynch Brokerage Team Was Ordered To Return $6.6 Million In Signing Bonuses (Financial Advisor Magazine) Two brokers at a Beverly Hills Merrill Lynch office must return over $6.6 million in signing bonuses to Barclays Capital, because they left Barclays after less than four months on the job. Finra ordered Matthew Celenza to pay $5.1 million "representing principal on a note he signed when joining Barclays in March 2012" and approximately $140,000 in interest. His partner, Lawrence DiGioia, was ordered to pay $1.51 million and around $40,000 in interest.  "Big brokerage firms in the United States typically offer signing bonuses to top brokers in the form of loans that are forgiven over a period of time that typically runs about eight years. Barclays cited unjust enrichment, breach of contract, and performance, among other causes, in its claim," according to the report. Favor Longer-Dated Treasury Bonds After The September Jobs Report (BlackRock Blog) Following the strong September jobs report, investors might be wondering what to do with their bond portfolios.  "Favor longer-dated Treasures over those with two- to five-year durations. Looking forward, US interest rates should drift back (at BlackRock, our year-end target for 10-Year Treasury is around 3%), and I continue to be convinced that rates are likely to be led by the front-end of the curve. Of course, the various headline-grabbing geopolitical risks that have come up in recent months may delay this process, but the eventual trajectory of rates is higher," writes BlackRock's Rick Rieder.  As the yield curve flattens further, "the extent of any rate rise should remain modest at the long-tend," writes Rieder. "Therefore, I continue to view longer-dated Treasuries as a potential opportunity, particularly if their yields rise over the coming weeks." The only downside of longer-dated treasury bonds is that they have the potential to exhibit the most volatility and are also the most vulnerable to rising rates. Investors Should Look At Solution Based Funds (Morningstar) Investors should look at solution-based funds, argues Christine Benz, because they "address investor's real needs." One kind of solution fund that she believes investors should consider are small and mid-cap funds, especially the "vehicle type", because it "gives the investor fewer moving parts to deal with." Additionally, these small and mid-cap funds give active managers more flexibility, argues Benz. Funds that are small-cap oriented give managers "latitude to own mid-cap stocks. And it can also reduce tax and transaction costs incurred by that portfolio if the manager isn't having to periodically sell securities because they have outgrown his or her market-cap parameters," she writes. Another type of solution based funds that investors should look at are "inflation fights." These inflation fighting instruments include "Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities (TIPS) in the mix", commodities, and maybe real estate investment trusts (REITs). FREE AppDownload
GM's world headquarters in Detroit.GM world headquarters in Detroit.On Tuesday, Morgan Stanley lead auto analyst Adam Jonas dropped his price target on General Motors to $27 per share from $29. From his note to accompany the downgrade: Jonas is staking out some territory here. Other analysts saw GM's investor presentation last week differently. Citi's Itay Michaeli called it a "defining moment" for sentiment about GM's stock performance, which has been unremarkable in 2014.  Jonas, on the other hand, doesn't think GM is operating in a separate world from Ford, which saw its stock plunge last week after admitting to Wall Street that the company will lose billions this year in Latin America and Europe (the latter due to problems with the Russian economy).  "Ford’s reduced outlook was based on increased macro pressure in Russia, Latin America, FX and quality-related issues. On our calculations, GM’s exposure to each of these factors is at least as great as Ford’s," Jonas wrote. Bottom line is he doesn't think that GM's expectation of 9-10% profit margins by 2016 is realistic (though not impossible).  But there's more. Much of the chatter around Ford has involved the company's ongoing efforts to reduce the number of "platforms" it uses to build its cars (platforms are the basic structures that become the cars we buy — an automaker can use one platform to construct several different vehicle models). There's also been discussion about the risk the company is taking in revamping its bestselling F-150 pickup truck to be lighter in weight. GM is also looking at lightweighting strategies, but at the moment, Ford is getting all the attention, both positive and negative. Jonas points out that GM is also planning to reduce its total number of platforms, but he argues that this kind of thing consumes tons of money. What he calls, with typically artful language, a "crucial industrial metamorphosis" is a process that will pit GM-the-carmaker against GM-the-company-with-shareholders. "What concerns us...is whether shorter-term constituents in the stock market will appreciate the need for GM to expend many billions of up-front capital to execute such important goals that may ostensibly compete for capital return from share buybacks and dividends," he writes. Jonas' downgrade is a reality check for anyone who thinks GM's story could be on the ascent while Ford's is on the decline.       FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonYum Brands just reported third quarter earnings that came in below expectations. The company reported adjusted earnings per share of $0.87. Revenues totaled $3.35 billion. Expectations were for earnings of $0.89 per share on revenue of $3.4 billion. Yum reported third quarter systems sales in its China Division fell 9%, and declined 14% on a same-store basis. Yum said that the July report uncovering improper food handling by one of its former suppliers, Shanghai Husi, continued to weigh on its China sales.   The company said foreign currency translation negatively impacted operating profit by $6 million. Yum Brand also said it sees 2014 earnings growing 6%-10%, saying that, "it is difficult to confidently forecast the exact trajectory of China sales," and the company expects China sales to improve, but still be negative for the fourth quarter. In after hours trade following the report, shares of Yum were down about 0.5%. Yum Brands, which has a significant presence in China, is seen as strong barometer for that economy's consumer.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Benoit TessierStocks fell on Tuesday as each of the major stock indexes fell more than 1% as the IMF cut its global growth forecast for next year and consumer credit balances in the US grew less than expected in August. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. The latest Job Openings And Labor Turnover Survey, or JOLTS report, showed that job openings grew to 4.84 million in August. This was better than the 4.7 million expected by economists and up from 4.67 million in July. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Job openings are rocketing; wage pressures will follow." In last Friday's monthly jobs report, wages were flat month-over-month. 2. The latest report on consumer credit showed that consumer credit balances grew by $13.5 billion in August, less than the $20 billion that was expected and about half of the $26 billion expansion seen in July. Revolving credit balances, typically credit cards, fell by $200 million in August.  3. The IMF issued its latest report on the global economy, cutting its growth expectations for 2015 to 3.8%. The IMF's chief economist Olivier Blanchard identified three main risks to the global economy, including low interest rates, geopolitical risks, and a stalling of the euro area recovery.   4. Markets were lower across the board on Tuesday, and the price of oil fell again, sliding more than 1% to around $89 a barrel.  5. Shares of GT Advanced Technologies, the Apple sapphire supplier that on Monday filed for bankruptcy, at one point more than doubled and closed the day up more than 51%. The stock changed hands nearly 300 million times on Tuesday, almost triple the number of shares outstanding, as the move may have been largely due to stock traders trying to make a quick profit on any small rise or fall in the stock price. After trading near $11 early on Monday, GT Advanced shares closed near $1.35 on Tuesday. 6. Shares of hazmat suit maker Lakeland Industries gained more than 13% on Tuesday after the first case of Ebola contracted outside of West Africe was confirmed in Spain on Monday. Lakeland shares, which last week rose sharply after the first case of Ebola was confirmed in the US, were up as much as 20% at one point on Tuesday. 7. Chimerix gained more than 5% on Tuesday after officials at The Nebraska Medical Center's Biocontainment Unit said that Chimerix's drug brincidofovir would be used to treat an Ebola patient at the hospital.  8. Another stock move related to news that Ebola had been contracted in Europe was the decline in a number of European travel companies, including the parent company of British Airways, Lufthansa, and Carnival Cruises.  9. The Federal Reserve is set to wind down its monthly asset purchases at its policy meeting later this month, but market participants are starting to focus on inflation expectations, which have been steadily declining through the summer and could be indicated a need for the Fed to keep interest rates lower than some might expect.  10. MBIA, the nation's largest bond insurer, was the subject of a major data breach, according to a new report from Brian Krebs at Krebs on Security. "We have been notified that certain information related to clients of MBIA’s asset management subsidiary, Cutwater Asset Management, may have been illegally accessed," MBIA spokesman Kevin Brown told Krebs. "We are conducting a thorough investigation and will take all measures necessary to protect our customers’ data, secure our systems, and preserve evidence for law enforcement." Don't Miss: A Hedge Fund Put Out A Massive Presentation About Why A Wireless Company Is Going To $0 » FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons"Our team has come to the realization that a prosecution of our craft along traditional lines will fade to irrelevance, ultimately ending in extinction," begins the existential note "Death of an Auto Analyst," by Adam Jonas, head of global auto research at Morgan Stanley.  Driverless cars and the end of individual ownership are coming faster than anyone thinks, he says. A great disruption is coming, and the message to his industry is clear: adapt or die. "In the internet of things, the automobile is the ultimate 'thing'. Without embracing the change, we have no future as auto analysts," he writes. Jonas doesn't say exactly when he expects steering wheels to be a thing of the past, but he compares the coming change to the switch from horse-drawn carriages to automobiles. He also sees a world in which everyone rents a car instead of owning one and more tech companies jump into the auto industry.  "We can debate the curvature of the journey, but to us the destination is crystal clear," he says. FREE AppDownload
Matt Cardy/Getty ImagesThe S&amp;P 500 and Dow Jones indexes have hit all-time highs in recent weeks. According to Goldman Sachs' David Kostin, this five-year old bull market has further to run. But even Kostin and his team believe some stocks are trading way above fair value. In his new quarterly chartbook, Kostin lists 40 stocks that are the most overpriced in the market relative to Goldman Sachs analysts' price targets.  Tech companies dominate this list. What follows are the 19 stocks that Kostin says have at least a 15% downside relative to their recent prices. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Pascal LauenerGoldman Sachs Chairman and CEO Lloyd Blankfein The Libyan Investment Authority, a government-managed sovereign wealth fund, is suing Goldman Sachs for $1 billion and claims that the bank "took them for a complete ride," according to a report by the Financial Times. In the lawsuit, LIA claims that Goldman exploited the fund and "encouraged" it to pursue 9 extremely risky and ultimately unsuccessful investments worth over $1 billion in 2008, according to the FT's report. But by 2011, these trades were "worthless." The LIA claims that Goldman took advantage of the LIA's (allegedly) financially illiterate staff in order to make money, and that Goldman seduced its staff with fancy gifts and — for lack of a more politically correct term — bribes. The LIA claims that they "completely trusted Goldman" and believed that its former head of north Africa, Youssef Kabbaj was "their very close friend." Apparently, Kabbaj took the LIA staff members on a "lavish trip to Morocco" that included "heavy drinking and girls." The trip was expensed entirely on Kabbaj's Goldman corporate credit card. And there's much more where this came from, including "expensive nights out" in London. Although it's pretty easy (and trendy) to point fingers at big banks, the whole lawsuit starts to get very messy when you dive deeper into the LIA's own history. First, the timing of the trades in question is interesting. Libya was still under the Gaddafi regime in 2008, and the LIA is government managed. WikimediaSir Howard Davies. Additionally, the LIA's advisory board included Lord Jacob Rothschild, the heir to the famous banking dynasty. So it appears that there was at least one person involved with the LIA who was not financially illiterate. Another member on the LIA's advisory board was Sir Howard Davies, the former director fo the London School of Economics. And he has a bit of a shady history with the Gaddafi regime. Back in 2011, Sir Davies resigned from LES when "an independent report found that £1.5m in donations the university accepted may have been the proceeds of bribes paid to the Gaddafi family by companies seeking 'business favours' from the regime," according to the FT. And remember that "coveted" internship that Goldman dangled in front of the LIA? "Goldman also admits that there were discussions over whether it could accommodate an internship for Haitem Zarti, the brother of Mustafa Mohamed Zarti who was the LIA’s deputy executive director. Mr Zarti was appointed to the LIA at the suggestion of Colonel Gaddafi’s son Saif Al Islam Gaddafi", according to the Financial Times. Goldman admitted "in court documents that it used an internship, training, small gifts, occasional travel and entertainment to cement a “strategic partnership”. However, the bank denies that they "encouraged" the LIA to take part in those transactions. And they stated that the financial transactions in question were "relatively straightforward and easy to understand" and that given better market conditions the LIA would have made major gains. Plus, Goldman says that "key" LIA members "had long careers in international banking", suggesting that the fund's staff was not as illiterate as they claim in their suit. We'll see how it all shakes out. FREE AppDownload
ReutersThree ships carrying liquefied natural gas are sitting in Argentine ports with nowhere to go, and each ship is costing the country $15,000 a day. According to Bloomberg, the country overestimated how much gas it would need during an unseasonably warm winter. Power consumption was down 3.6% this August compared to the same time last year. Lower manufacturing output has also reduced the need for energy. Argentina is a huge importer of liquefied natural gas, but it lacks the storage facilities to hold this excess supply. The suppliers of this natural gas have refused to unload the cargo without full payment anyway after running into issues with that back in January. More frustrating still, the country has its own vast supply of shale gas that has yet to be tapped — it's called Vaca Muerta, and it's the second largest supply in the world. Chevron and Argentina's state run oil company YPF have been contracted to develop the Vaca Muerta, but it won't be up and pumping for another five years. In the meantime, each ship will continue to cost Argentina money — the first has been there since September 23rd, another since the 27th, and the last since the 30th.  This is just another confidence blow to investors, who've watched Argentina go from a country that showed signs of wanting to restore its creditworthiness in the international community, to one in default. In July Argentina was declared in default when it refused to make a Court-ordered payment to a group of American hedge fund creditors. Meanwhile, Central Bank reserves are incredibly low — at around $27 billion. Imports are high, the price of Argentina's commodity exports — like the soybean — have fallen off. Capital flight is rampant and Barclays estimates that by this time next year, the country could have as little as $10 billion in the bank. The President shrilly voiced her concern about all this last week, publicly blaming former Central Bank head Juan Carlos Fabrega for all this trouble. "You blame me for the flight of capital and the rising dollar, that's fine," said Fernandez speaking to Fabrega in the front row of her public speech. "I feel for the dollar losses and not another one should leave the country. Besides that, you continue to have a problem with the economy that I don't have to solve. Just be sure another dollar does not leave the country." Fabrega quit the next day. He was replaced by securities regulator Alejandro Vanoli, who is widely seen as an ally to Economy Minister, Axel Kicillof — an ideologue who was in favor of refusing to negotiate with the American hedge fund creditors. More of Kicillof's men have been appointed to high level positions since then.  There were whispers in Argentine media that Kicillof was gaining power shortly after the default — now we're seeing exactly what that means.  FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Xaume OllerosA model showcases a 8.41 carat pear-shape internally flawless fancy vivid pink diamond at a Sotheby's gallery in Hong Kong on September 18, 2014Hong Kong (AFP) - A flawless fancy vivid pink diamond sold for a record US$17.7 million in Hong Kong late Tuesday, Sotheby's said. The auction house said the internally flawless 8.41-carat stone had been expected to go under the hammer for up to US$15.5 million. Quek Chin Yeow, deputy chairman of Sotheby's Asia, said the pear-shaped stone had "attracted keen competition before fetching a wonderful price of HK$137.88 million (US$17.77 million) and setting a world auction record for a fancy vivid pink diamond". The buyer's identity was not immediately disclosed. Internally flawless clarity is extremely rare in pink diamonds, and the auction house said this, in combination with its "fancy vivid" colour grading, made the stone "amongst the rarest and most desirable of coloured diamonds ever seen at auction". Diamonds in the "fancy vivid" category are considered as having the highest possible concentration of colour. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAllergan CEO Pyott speaks during an interview in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - Actavis Plc &lt;act.n&gt; plans to make a new approach for Allergan Inc &lt;agn.n&gt; about a potential merger, as the Botox maker warms up to the possibility of a sale, said people familiar with the matter. Allergan, which has repeatedly rejected approaches from Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc &lt;vrx.to&gt;, would consider a takeover proposal that values the company at above $200 per share, these people said. Actavis, which held informal conversations with Allergan in recent months about a possible combination, would like to take a hard look at buying the company and could reach out to its management team as soon as this week to reiterate its interest, one of the sources said. There has been no formal engagement between the two companies yet, the sources said, asking not to be named because the matter is not public. Representatives for Allergan and Actavis declined to comment.   (Reporting by Soyoung Kim and Nadia Damouni, additional reporting by Caroline Humer) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Benoit TessierStocks fell on Tuesday as each of the major stock indexes fell more than 1% as the IMF cut its global growth forecast for next year and consumer credit balances in the US grew less than expected in August. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. The latest Job Openings And Labor Turnover Survey, or JOLTS report, showed that job openings grew to 4.84 million in August. This was better than the 4.7 million expected by economists and up from 4.67 million in July. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Job openings are rocketing; wage pressures will follow." In last Friday's monthly jobs report, wages were flat month-over-month. 2. The latest report on consumer credit showed that consumer credit balances grew by $13.5 billion in August, less than the $20 billion that was expected and about half of the $26 billion expansion seen in July. Revolving credit balances, typically credit cards, fell by $200 million in August.  3. The IMF issued its latest report on the global economy, cutting its growth expectations for 2015 to 3.8%. The IMF's chief economist Olivier Blanchard identified three main risks to the global economy, including low interest rates, geopolitical risks, and a stalling of the euro area recovery.   4. Markets were lower across the board on Tuesday, and the price of oil fell again, sliding more than 1% to around $89 a barrel.  5. Shares of GT Advanced Technologies, the Apple sapphire supplier that on Monday filed for bankruptcy, at one point more than doubled and closed the day up more than 51%. The stock changed hands nearly 300 million times on Tuesday, almost triple the number of shares outstanding, as the move may have been largely due to stock traders trying to make a quick profit on any small rise or fall in the stock price. After trading near $11 early on Monday, GT Advanced shares closed near $1.35 on Tuesday. 6. Shares of hazmat suit maker Lakeland Industries gained more than 13% on Tuesday after the first case of Ebola contracted outside of West Africe was confirmed in Spain on Monday. Lakeland shares, which last week rose sharply after the first case of Ebola was confirmed in the US, were up as much as 20% at one point on Tuesday. 7. Chimerix gained more than 5% on Tuesday after officials at The Nebraska Medical Center's Biocontainment Unit said that Chimerix's drug brincidofovir would be used to treat an Ebola patient at the hospital.  8. Another stock move related to news that Ebola had been contracted in Europe was the decline in a number of European travel companies, including the parent company of British Airways, Lufthansa, and Carnival Cruises.  9. The Federal Reserve is set to wind down its monthly asset purchases at its policy meeting later this month, but market participants are starting to focus on inflation expectations, which have been steadily declining through the summer and could be indicated a need for the Fed to keep interest rates lower than some might expect.  10. MBIA, the nation's largest bond insurer, was the subject of a major data breach, according to a new report from Brian Krebs at Krebs on Security. "We have been notified that certain information related to clients of MBIA’s asset management subsidiary, Cutwater Asset Management, may have been illegally accessed," MBIA spokesman Kevin Brown told Krebs. "We are conducting a thorough investigation and will take all measures necessary to protect our customers’ data, secure our systems, and preserve evidence for law enforcement." Don't Miss: A Hedge Fund Put Out A Massive Presentation About Why A Wireless Company Is Going To $0 » FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Chris PotterConsumer credit balances grew by $13.5 billion in August.   The report showed that revolving credit balances, which typically reflects credit card balances, fell by $200 million in August.  Expectations were for consumer balances to expand by $20 billion. In July, consumer credit balances expanded by $26 billion, much larger than what was expected. More to come... FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of Swiss telecom company Swisscom AG is seen at an office building in ZurichBy Sophie Sassard, Pamela Barbaglia and Anjuli Davies LONDON (Reuters) - Telecom operator Swisscom is reviewing the sale of its Italian broadband firm Fastweb, which is worth up to 5 billion euros ($6.28 billion), sources familiar with the situation said. The Swiss majority state-owned firm, which has already rebuffed several takeover approaches from Vodafone for Fastweb, is now working with UBS, Vodafone's long-term adviser, to facilitate a deal, said the sources who could not be named because the matter is private. Swisscom, Fastweb, Vodafone declined to comment; UBS was not immediately available for comment. FREE AppDownload
Oil got crushed again on Tuesday. Crude futures were down about $1.30, or about 1.4%, to $89.05 a barrel on Tuesday, as oil continues its huge slide since the beginning of the month.  Oil first pierced the $90 level last week, which was the first time it had fallen below $90 a barrel in more than a year.  This chart from FinViz shows the decline in oil futures over the last couple of weeks, with oil about $6 a barrel below its peak price right at the end of September. FinViz And here's a longer term chart showing the huge decline oil has seen over the last year, and particularly since the start of the summer. FinViz And while a decline in the price of oil has wide-ranging economic effects, at least for US consumers the decline in oil has begun to show up at the gas pump, as CNBC's Carl Quintanilla tweeted that Missouri has become the first state where the average price of a gallon of gas has fallen below $3.  Missouri becomes 1st state to see AVERAGE price of gas fall below $3. (via @MorganLBrennan) @CNBC  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Barclays sign hangs outside a branch of the bank in the City of LondonBy John McCrank NEW YORK (Reuters) - Barclays PLC on Tuesday urged a New York court to toss the state attorney general's fraud case over how the bank ran its private U.S. trading venue, saying the case oversteps state securities laws and offers no proof any investors were hurt. New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman filed a lawsuit on June 25 accusing the London-based bank of giving an unfair edge to high-frequency traders and lying to other customers about it. It is the highest-profile case in a recent raft of investigations by authorities into the fairness of high-speed, automated trading practices and alternative trading systems, or "dark pools." Barclays said in its court filing that Schneiderman was trying to dramatically expand the powers of a New York statute known as the Martin Act, which aims to protect investors when the purchase, sale, or exchange of a security is misrepresented. It said Schneiderman had conceded in an earlier filing that the lawsuit was based on claims that Barclays had misrepresented how it operated its dark pool rather than about any particular security transaction. "The NYAG's reading of the Martin Act would render the Act virtually unlimited in scope," Barclays said in the filing, a response to Schneiderman's Sept. 16 filing disputing an earlier motion to dismiss the case. Schneiderman spokesman Matt Mittenthal declined comment. Dark pools are used to trade big blocks of shares  anonymously. The market is not informed of the trades until they are completed, minimizing the risk that others will get wind of the trade and move against it. Barclays had promised investors they would be protected from "predatory" and "toxic" trades inside its dark pool. Schneiderman said he had evidence the bank falsified marketing materials and misled big institutional clients in an effort to grow its dark pool to increase revenues and bonuses. The Barclays filing said Schneiderman's arguments were "creating a perception of wrongdoing where none exists," and said that nowhere in the lawsuit does the attorney general allege Barclays' customers failed to get quality executions. It pointed to one example in which the attorney general said Barclays had told clients that no more than 6 percent of trading in its dark pool was "aggressive," while separately telling some high frequency traders that 25 percent of the orders that took liquidity, or bought shares, were "aggressive." Barclays said Schneiderman failed to distinguish the difference between liquidity-taking orders in the later figure, versus all trading activity in the former figure. "This is akin to the NYAG bringing a fraud claim against a grocer who tells one customer that 6 percent of all food he sells are apples, and another customer that 25 percent of all fruit he sells are apples. There is simply no fraud," Barclays said.  (Reporting by John McCrank; additional reporting by Karen Freifeld) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
AP/Sunday AlambaChimerix shares were up as much as 10% on Tuesday after officials at The Nebraska Medical Center's Biocontainment Unit said a patient is being treated with the company's experimental drug brincidofovir.  In a statement, tweeted by CBS News, Biocontainment Uni director Phil Smith said, "After looking at the data on this drug, collaborating with the CDC and FDA and speaking with the patient and his family, we decided this was currently our best option for treatment." Chimerix shares also gained ground on Monday after the company announced that the FDA approved brincidofovir for potential use in Ebola patients.  Following the news that Chimerix's drug was being used to treat patients on Tuesday, Tekmira Pharmaceuticals was down about 4%. Tekmira's TKM-Ebola treatment has been used to treat patients, but supply has been limited.  Also on Tuesday, shares of Lakeland Industries, which makes hazmat suits, were up as much as 20% as a nurse in Spain became the first person outside of West Africa to contract the disease. Here's the full release from Nebraska Medical Center, via CBS News.  CBS News FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGeithner speaks during an event in New YorkBy Aruna Viswanatha WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Former U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner on Tuesday defended the government's rescue of American International Group Inc  in September 2008, saying the action was necessary to prevent the country from plunging into a possible second Great Depression. Geithner's comments came in testimony he provided in the trial of a lawsuit brought by Hank Greenberg, AIG's top executive from 1968 to 2005, who contends the terms of the government $85 billion loan to AIG cheated its shareholders. Greenberg's lawyer, star litigator David Boies, spent much of Tuesday morning introducing emails Geithner wrote and received when he served as president of the New York Federal Reserve in the chaotic days around the initial bailout offer. Many of the emails were sent from other New York Fed officials after midnight, underscoring the round-the-clock effort the government undertook to contain the 2008 financial crisis. Boies also read aloud, in Washington federal court, comments Geithner made in his book about AIG's deteriorating condition and the consequences the company's collapse could have on the broader financial system. "It sounds like you are quoting me," Geithner said on multiple occasions after hearing a passage from Boies, who cited the book with enough frequency that the judge overseeing the case asked if he should go get his own copy at Barnes &amp; Noble . Geithner, who appeared relaxed during his more than three hours on the stand, did attempt to walk back some comments he had made in the past about the AIG bailout, including statements that the insurance company's shareholders had been "effectively wiped out" and that the government had essentially "nationalized" AIG. That was "not the most precise language," he said, to laughter in the courtroom. Geithner is expected to continue his testimony on Tuesday afternoon.  (Reporting by Aruna Viswanatha) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBerkshire Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett listens to a shareholder at the Berkshire-owned Borsheims jewelry store where Buffett was selling jewelry as part of the company annual meeting weekend in OmahaNEW YORK (Reuters) - Warren Buffett, chairman and chief executive of conglomerate Berkshire Hathaway Inc , said on Tuesday that the businesses of big U.S. banks were not as good as they were a few years ago, and that U.S. home-building would pick up. "What was a very profitable business has been turned into a good business if executed well," Buffett said on the largest U.S. banks at Fortune's Most Powerful Women Summit in Laguna Niguel, California.   (Reporting by Sam Forgione) FREE AppDownload
 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						YouTube				 It is well known that Wall Street heads to the Hamptons during the summer, but during the winter the most thrill-seeking of the financial set head to Montana's Yellowstone Club, a 13,600 acre private resort community in the Rocky Mountains. There they can enjoy anything from mountain golf and fly fishing during the summer, to skiing and snow mobiling in the winter. 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						YouTube				 "The golf course there is truly spectacular," said Dynasty Financial Partners CEO Shirl Penney. It should be, as it was designed by professional golfer Tom Weiskopf. To join the Yellowstone Club you have to buy property on the grounds, which can cost anything from $2 million for a lot of property to $26 million for a full ranch. If you don't buy a house, you can stay at the clubhouse. All of this also grants you access to more skiing at neighboring Big Sky Resort and puts you in close proximity to Yellowstone National Park. And while some members may want to enjoy a leisurely hike or go on a snowmobile tour or two, others are looking for something with a bit more of an adrenaline rush. "We've had some pretty extreme athletes here," said Hans Williamson, the club's General Manager.  These are the folks who go careening down black diamond slopes, who consider gladed skiing a form of relaxation. These are the people who leave the property to go on back country adventures with trained guides — starting early in the morning and returning after the sun has set. 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						YouTube				 For them, the Yellowstone Club has a full Outdoor Pursuits program of mountain adventures. Some members even insist on designing their own day trips. "We've had two members ski down to a lake, repel down a waterfall, and then ice climb on the way back up," said  Williamson. In the summer those same adventurers might take a 22-mile trail — mountain biking to the wilderness, then bushwhacking to the base of a mountain, and then taking the 6,000 foot climb up and back. That should get you a little pumped up, no? And then are the competitive ski events mostly led by the Club's ambassador, extreme skiing champion Scot Schmidt.  "We name our king of the mountain with a pretty extreme race," said Williamson. "The race was designed by last year's winner." Of course, it's important to remember that this is a luxury resort, so besides the Wall Street crowd you may see some interesting people with some interesting gear on the slopes. OSBEThe Bellagio, the newest OSBE helmet. That's ideal for the skier or snowboarder who is trying to conquer the mountain while keeping tabs on family members around to resort. Or — in the case of the busy Wall Streeter — it's ideal for keeping tabs on the market.  You'll need to know if it's heading downhill as quickly as you are. FREE AppDownload
Facebook/TheWaldorfChinese investment in foreign commercial real estate is booming.  Hilton Worldwide Holdings just announced it is selling the iconic Waldorf Astoria hotel in Manhattan to the Anbang Insurance Group of China for $1.95 billion. As part of the deal, Hilton has signed on to manage the hotel for the next 100 years and Anbang has committed to major renovations to the building. While on its face the deal seems bizarre, it isn’t that far from being an extension of the boom in luxury residential real estate in Manhattan. Instead of parking money in one luxury Manhattan condo and getting someone to rent it out, Anbang bought a whole city block worth of real estate (some of which can be converted into condos!) and is going to get Hilton to manage it for them (nearly) indefinitely. It has the added bonus of being a trophy property.  Since the Chinese government announced its Go Global policy in 2012, encouraging Chinese companies to invest overseas, there’s been a rush into both residential and commercial properties. The less rosy way to frame it is China is experiencing a huge amount of capital flight, and U.S. real estate is a great place to park money that wealthy Chinese want to keep out of the country. Last year, the Shanghai-based Fosun International Ltd. made a splash when it bought One Chase Manhattan Plaza from JPMorgan for $725 million. Global direct real estate investment volumes were $165 billion in the third quarter — a 4% increase over Q2 and 13% more than the third quarter of 2013 — according to Jones Lang LaSalle. Earlier this year, JLL noted that Chinese buyers purchased $7.6 billion in foreign commercial real estate in 2013, a 125 percent increase from the year before. That number could reach $10 billion in 2014. As for Anbang itself: It’s a relatively minor Chinese insurance company, which has recently also branched into financial services. Bruce Einhorn writes in Businessweek that, “in a market dominated by big, state-owned insurers, Anbang until recently was an extremely minor player. At the end of 2013, its share of life-insurance premiums was 0.1 percent.” It has recently experienced a lot of growth, but still only has 3.6 percent market share in China. According to its English language website, Anbang has assets of 700 billion yuan (about $114 billion). The question that remains unanswered is how Anbang is going to pay for its new property. There’s no word in reports on the deal about financing. Back in July, Andrew Collier, managing director at Orient Capital Research floated the idea that loans from the Chinese shadow banking sector — where a lot of the financing for foreign deals is coming from — could cripple the international property markets if they started going bad. This deal is drawing some comparisons to the $2 billion stake the Mitsubishi Company took in Rockefeller Center back in 1989. The Mitsubishi walked away from the investment in 1995 after the partnerships through which it owned the group of properties filed for bankruptcy protection. While this is the largest U.S. hotel transaction on record, according to the WSJ, the sale price per room (roughly $1.4 million) was actually a lot lower than the $570 million sale of the Plaza to the Indian Sahara group back in 2012, which came out to more than $2 million per room. The Plaza is reportedly on the market again, as of August. * This post has been changed to reflect the fact that Fosun International bought One Chase Manhattan Plaza for $725 million, not $725 billion. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Tom Mihalek (Reuters) - An affiliate of Brookfield Asset Management on Tuesday got court approval to buy Atlantic City, New Jersey's shuttered Revel Casino Hotel for $110 million in cash after a judge rejected complaints the auction for the bankrupt complex was tainted. The losing bidder, Glenn Straub of Florida, objected because he said the auction was unfair. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Gloria Burns in Camden, New Jersey, overruled Straub and rejected his request to run a new auction overseen by an independent trustee.  (Reporting by Tom Hals in Wilmington, Delaware; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/John GressShares of GT Advanced, the Apple supplier that on Monday declared bankruptcy, were up as much as 130% in afternoon trade just one day later.  Shares of GT Advanced closed at $0.80 on Monday afternoon and traded as high as $1.99 on Tuesday.  The action in GT Advanced on Tuesday is likely due to a few things, though none of this really suggests investors think the company is in great shape.  According to data from Google Finance, more than 147 million shares of GT Advanced have changed hands so far on Tuesday, which according to GT's latest quarterly filing with the SEC is more than the roughly 137 million shares that were outstanding as of August 1. This suggests that traders are flipping this thing like crazy trying to time small bottoms and tops in the stock's intraday price. There is also probably a small cadre of investors, though not a huge number, that are betting equity holders of GT Advanced will get something back after the company goes through bankruptcy proceedings.  On Friday the stock was trading at about $11 per share, and so the rough equity value of the company was about $1.6 billion. In bankruptcy court, equity holders are the first to get wiped out, so there is a very real possibility anybody holding common stock in GT Advanced will get nothing. In a note to clients on Tuesday, UBS analyst Stephen Chin wrote that, estimating the company's book value — or roughly the amount of money that would be left for shareholders in a bankruptcy proceeding — at around $100 million, the stock could be worth $0.75.  But that's probably best case. Worst case, you're wiped out as a shareholder, and Raymond James analyst Pavel Molchanov said GT Advanced shares are most likely worthless at this point. And as the folks at StreetInsider noted on Tuesday, stocks on the Nasdaq that initiate bankruptcy proceedings currently maintain their listing for about nine days. After that, the stock will trade under the ticker 'GTATQ,' and it's possible the stock could be de-listed by October 14. So day traders should have their fun while it lasts.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Mario AnzuoniWarren Buffett, CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, during a conversation on leadership and the economy at The Women's Conference 2008 in Long Beach, California, on Oct. 22, 2008. Buffett said, "Hillary is going to run." Furthermore, he added that he's positive she will make it to the White House. "Hillary is going to win," Buffett said, adding, "I will bet money on it, I don't do that easily." Buffett was less willing to predict who might run against Clinton. "Her opponent will be whoever wins the Republican primary and there's going to be a lot of people who want to do it," said Buffett. Clinton, a former first lady, secretary of state, and 2008 presidential candidate, has said she will decide whether to run by the end of this year.  Watch a video of Buffett's comments below.  FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockThere was a massive data breach at MBIA, the nation's largest bond insurer, says security expert Krebs on Security. “We have been notified that certain information related to clients of MBIA’s asset management subsidiary, Cutwater Asset Management, may have been illegally accessed,” MBIA spokesman Kevin Brown told Krebs. “We are conducting a thorough investigation and will take all measures necessary to protect our customers’ data, secure our systems, and preserve evidence for law enforcement.” The amount of information leaked was desribed as "countless." This includes customer account numbers, balances, and other personal data. The compromised website, mbiaweb.com, has since been taken down. For the full story head to Krebs on Security&gt; FREE AppDownload
MN Chan / Getty Images Lakeland Industries, which makes hazmat suits and other industrial protective gear, has seen shares gain more than 40% since the first case of Ebola was confirmed in the US last Tuesday. In afternoon trade on Tuesday, the stock was up nearly 20%. Shares of numerous drugmakers, including Tekmira, BioCryst, and Chimerix, have been rallying as the virus has spread throughout the summer. Each of these companies is working on a cure for Ebola, but to date the most popular experimental treatment for the virus is manufactured by privately held Mapp Pharmaceuticals.  Tekmira's TKM-Ebola has been used to treat at least one patient, but according to the Associated Press, the supply of that drug remains limited.  In contrast, shares of some travel-related companies have been hurt by fears that Ebola will hamper international travel, with numerous European airline and cruise stocks falling after officials confirmed that a nurse in Spain contracted the first case of Ebola outside of West Africa.  Here's a chart showing the recent moves in Lakeland stocks as Ebola news has broken over the past week or so.  Google Finance  FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Bank of AmericaCyndi Hutchins, Bank of America's director of financial gerontology.When one thinks about the types of people that work for a big bank, it's not likely they think of archivists, geologists, historians, or gerontologists. But as it turns out, Bank of America, along with most of its industry peers, now has these types of professionals on staff.  "Bank of America created these roles to ensure we have our finger on the pulse of emerging trends that impact our clients, our business, and the economy in the future," says Michael Sherman, a senior vice president and global staffing executive for Bank of America. He says most banks hire "business people who dabble in demographic data" — but Bank of America is unique in that it brings on demographic and psychographic experts who specialize in reaching specific demographics and really know business. Of course these employees only make up a tiny fraction of the 230,000-person workforce at Bank of America, but they make a big difference, Sherman says. "By being truly immersed in their area of expertise, the individuals in these unique roles at Bank of America provide in-depth insights into market trends, data, behaviors, and expectations that help shape the way we not only interact with these customers, but also ensures that the products and services we offer are tailor-made for their specific needs," he explains. For example, Bank of America's gerontologist — a person who studies the social, biological, and psychological aspects of aging — helps the company intimately understand the societal and psychological issues its aging customers face. "As older generations' financial needs evolve, we want to be at the forefront of offering solutions that meet their changing needs," says Sherman. The geologists at Bank of America — those who study the Earth, the materials of which it is made, and the processes acting upon them — work closely on the firm's environmental initiatives, governance, and policies "to make the world a better place for generations to come," he says. "Bank of America is in the middle of a 10-year initiative with the Harvard University Center for the Environment to develop a Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) Action Plan, and internal geologists are working with engineers, economists, attorneys, and government agencies to address greenhouse gas reduction goals." Meanwhile the bank's historians and archivists manage corporate archives which date back to 1784, and oversee the Bank of America Art Collection, one of the largest corporate collections out there, Sherman explains. "They also manage the 'Museums on Us' program, which provides Bank of America clients free access to 150 museums in the US the first weekend of every month," he says.  By tapping expertise from a wide spectrum of talent, Bank of America says it's able to meet evolving customer needs, all while diversifying its own workforce with a larger variety of backgrounds, skills, and experiences.   FREE AppDownload
Leroy W. Demery Jr.Macau is the world's gambling Mecca — a place that exploded from nothing at the end of the 1990s, to averaging 19% growth for the last decade.  That is nothing short of wild success. But now it seems the island's fortunes are turning. A corruption crackdown and a massive heist have slowed the flow of high-rollers onto the island. Moreover, the Chinese economy is slowing across the board as the government sticks to its commitment to tighten monetary policy. All of this is making it harder for middle class gamblers to spend on games of Baccarat. Wells Fargo analysts expect Macau to post a 20%-23% year over year decline in casino revenue for October. That's worse than the decline in revenue experienced during 2009, while the financial crisis was rocking the globe. All of that said, Macau is still one of the world's most amazing growth stories. It is no small thing that what was once a sleepy Portuguese colony jas turned into the world's gambling center of sin. In the summer of 1980, Leroy W. Demery, Jr., an expert in Asian transportation, visited the country (then still a Portuguese protectorate) and documented his journey.  He posted his copyrighted photo collection to flickr, and with his kind permission we have reproduced the snapshots here. I traveled by overnight ferry from Hong Kong to Macao, spent the day (1980 July 16) in Macao, then returned to Hong Kong by overnight ferry. "Overnight ferry" for a 60 km distance? Yes, one boarded the vessel about 10 p.m. The fare included a bunk in an air-conditioned dormitory - "Spartan" but very comfortable. The vessel sailed after midnight and certainly arrived within 3-4 hours. Passengers were awakened at about 6 a.m., as I remember. Yes, catamarans and jetfoils were much faster, but fares were higher, and the overnight ferry permitted one to save the cost of overnight accommodation. Macao, in 1980, was quiet. Very quiet. It had a distinct "small town" atmosphere that contrasted sharply with the Central District of nearby Hong Kong. Much has changed since then. Remarkably, the land area has nearly doubled, from about 16 square km to nearly 29 square km. Many of the images in this set are certainly "vanished scenes." I regret that do not have a 1980 street map of Macao, and so am not able to locate some of these images. Anyway, read on to take the journey to Old Macau. (Rob Wile contributed to an early version of this report) FREE AppDownload
Kerrisdale CapitalThe hedge fund Kerrisdale Capital says shares of the data communications company Globalstar are worth $0. In a lengthy research report, accompanied by a long slideshow presentation, Kerrisdale argues that Globalstar's $4 billion valuation overstates the company's value by, well, $4 billion.  In its report, Kerrisdale writes that Globalstar is "the fourth-largest player in the slow-growing mobile satellite services market, GSAT uses its constellation of low-Earth-orbit satellites to offer basic mobile voice and data services in remote areas of the planet ... Since emerging from bankruptcy in 2004, it has racked up cumulative operating losses of $463 million, increased its share count by a factor of 13, been de-listed from the NASDAQ in 2012, defaulted on its debt in 2013, and put itself on a path to violate its financial covenants again in the near future." In morning trade on Tuesday, shares of Globalstar were trading near $2.30.  Matt Levine over at Bloomberg View had some thoughts on Kerrisdale's presentation, namely regarding the legality of the fund dropping hints last week about the presentation before it actually made it public. Levine also gets at the similarities between Kerrisdale's ambitions with this presentation and those of Pershing Square's Bill Ackman. You should just read Levine's piece.  But as far as the actual presentation is concerned, Kerrisdale's basic argument is not only that is the financial situation in which Globalstar finds itself a bit precarious, but that the whole business model Globalstar bulls are betting will work isn't going to work. At all. Ever.  At any rate, there is a lot of reading material that goes along with this, and Kerrisdale is hosting a conference call to discuss the position on Tuesday at 1:30 p.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
ReutersRacegoers attend the last day of the Royal Ascot horse racing festival at Ascot, southern England, June 21, 2014. As Baby Boomers age and pass on, we are witnessing what Institute for Private Investors' President Mindy Rosenthal calls "the greatest transfer of wealth... in the history of the world." This can be a tricky dance. Studies show that wealth can be lost as it passes from generation to generation — and now the lion's share of Baby Boomer money will be passed on to Millennials. So what do they think about it? To figure out how the young and soon-to-be super rich think about money, Morgan Stanley Private Wealth and researcher Campden Wealth commissioned a survey and conducted hundreds of interviews with ultra high networth clients aged 18-40.  What they found is that the next generation of rich people is challenging stereotypes about inheritance. "What would really surprise people is just how important it is for this generation to have a job," said Rosenthal, the author of the study. "81% think it's important to have a successful career." And even after they've inherited their money, 68% of the young people surveyed think they'll continue working. A few more stats from the survey:  •  63% of millennials view themselves as stewards of their wealth for future generations, compared with 46% of older siblings.  •  58% view their wealth as a vehicle to help the community (vs. 38% of older inheritors).  •  74% view their wealth as a source of empowerment to pursue what is most important (vs. 54% of older generation). Rosenthal also said that the findings of the survey also challenged the notion that this social media obsessed generation would be happy to manage their money virtually. "When it comes to talking to an advisor... they want to see you in person," she said. All told this is a pretty optimistic view — based on this survey it seems Millennials are more interested in giving back to their communities and being prudent their money. However, it's important to keep in mind that everyone who participated in this survey is a client of Morgan Stanley or Campden already. That means they've already shown an interest in learning  more about their money and preserving it. Basically, these are not the Rich Kids of Beverly Hills we're talking about. They could be another story entirely. FREE AppDownload
Shares of European travel companies were falling on Tuesday after the first case of Ebola was confirmed in Spain on Monday. International Consolidated Airlines, which owns British Airways and Iberia, was down more than 6% in London trading on Tuesday, while London-listed shares of Carnival Cruises were down more than 5% and easyJet was down more than 3%.  Meanwhile, in Frankfurt, shares of Lufthansa were down more than 4%.  On Monday, a nurse in Spain became the first confirmed instance of someone contracting Ebola outside of West Africa.  And in a press conference on Monday, US president Barack Obama said that preventing an outbreak of Ebola in the US will be a, "top national security priority." According to the AP, the total number of deaths from the current outbreak of Ebola is now above 3,400. Here's the chart showing the decline in IAG, easyJet and Carnival shares, which are all significantly underperforming the FTSE 100, which is roughly unchanged. Google Finance (via FastFT) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople queue up outside a Standard Chartered Bank branch before operation hours at the central business district in SingaporeLONDON (Reuters) - Standard Chartered  plans to hire at least 1,000 more staff in Africa in the next couple of years, an increase of more than 10 percent, even as its expansion elsewhere has slowed. Diana Layfield, Standard Chartered's chief executive for Africa, declined to specify where the extra staff would go, but picked out Nigeria, Kenya and Ghana as three of the most attractive markets. "Nigeria has to be close to the top of everybody's list (for expansion) ... it has scale, growth and real dynamism," Layfield said on Tuesday. Nigeria overtook South Africa as the continent's biggest economy this year after a rebasing of its gross domestic product (GDP). "Our opportunity in Africa is constrained by the ability to invest at pace, and that's not just a financial constraint but also a management capacity. So the real challenge is prioritization," Layfield said at a briefing on Africa by the bank. After a decade of expansion that took it to 89,000 staff globally, Standard Chartered has put the brakes on hiring in the last two years after suffering an embarrassing fine for breaching U.S. sanctions, big losses in South Korea and a slowdown in its investment bank. It has about 8,100 staff in Africa and has a significant presence in 15 countries there. Standard Chartered, Barclays  and Citigroup  are the biggest international banks in Africa, but they are facing increasing competition from Asian banks, including Chinese ones. London-based Standard Chartered makes almost all its profits in Asia, the Middle East and Africa. It made a profit of $317 million in Africa in the first six months of this year on income of $878 million, each about 10 percent of the group. Loans to Africa only account for 3 percent of its global total, however. It opened a subsidiary in commodities-rich Angola in January and has said it would like to expand into Mozambique.  (Reporting by Steve Slater; Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Suzanne PlunkettA man walks past ATMs outside an HSBC bank in London on March 13.A criminal gang is using a piece of malware to allow it to steal millions in cash from ATMs around the world without having to use a credit or debit card. The hackers are using a piece of malware called Tyupkin, which once installed on an ATM allows the criminals to steal huge amounts of money by simply entering a series of codes. The malware has so far been detected infecting ATMs in Europe, Latin America, and Asia. The attack was detected by Russian security firm Kaspersky Lab, which was asked by an unnamed financial institution to investigate the cyberattack. There are no details relating to the criminal gang behind the attacks, but Kaspersky Lab says the gang has stolen "millions of dollars" using the Tyupkin malware. "Over the last few years, we have observed a major upswing in ATM attacks using skimming devices and malicious software," said Vicente Diaz, principal security researcher at Kaspersky Lab. "Now we are seeing the natural evolution of this threat with cybercriminals moving up the chain and targeting financial institutions directly. This is done by infecting ATMs themselves or launching direct Advanced Persistent Threat (APT)-style attacks against banks. The Tyupkin malware is an example of the attackers taking advantage of weaknesses in the ATM infrastructure." Kasperksy alerted Interpol to the attacks, and it has informed the affected countries. "Offenders are constantly identifying new ways to evolve their methodologies to commit crimes, and it is essential that we keep law enforcement in our member countries involved and informed about current trends and modus operandi," said Sanjay Virmani, director of the Interpol Digital Crime Centre. Here's how the Tyupkin attack works: FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Brett KigerVisitors to the popular European park dropped 10% in the past two years.Even Mickey Mouse is not exempt from France's financial troubles.  Walt Disney announced on Monday a €1 billion ($1.25 billion) bailout plan to rescue its subsidiary Disneyland Paris, the Financial Times reported. The French theme park is still Europe's top tourist destination, but it has been hit by the financial crisis more than other competitors. To make a profit, the park needs about 15 million visitors a year: there were 14.1 in the past 12 months. Losses are expected in the order of €110 million to €120 million ($138 million to $150 million). The park is burdened by its debt, which is calculated at about €1.75 billion ($2.20 billion) and roughly 15 times its gross average earnings. Speaking with the FT, Mark Stead, the company's financial director, said: “Our Achilles' heel has always been our debt ratio, which compared to our rivals is off the charts.” French labor law and planning regulations also make it difficult to replicate in France the success of the other Disney enterprises. For instance, Disney vastly underestimated the cost of employing French workers in France, according to the journal of the Canadian Center of Science and Education: Before the opening of Euro Disneyland executives had estimated labor cost would be 13% of their revenues. This was another area where the executives were wrong in their assumptions. In 1992 the true figure was 24% and in 1993 it increased to a whopping 40%. These labor cost percentages increased Euro Disneyland's debt. Bleak situations tend to repeat at Disneyland Paris, which injected $1.7 billion in 2012 to partially cover its debt. In its 22-year history so far, the European park rarely made a profit. When it first opened in 1992, critics dubbed the resort a "cultural Chernobyl." In 1994, two years after it opened its doors, it was saved from bankruptcy by a $350 million investment from the Saudi royal family, which now owns 38% of shares, as reported by Arabian Business. In 2010 the resort made headlines by the suicides of two of its chefs, although a direct link to the working conditions in the park's kitchens has never been proved. In addition, most of the visitors' home countries share the same problems: with Italian, French, and Spanish economies all in recession, people are not spending on Goofy and Donald Duck. Between April and June this year, Disneyland Paris sold 12,000 fewer hotel room nights compared with the same period the previous year. Fewer visitors from France and business trips counted for the biggest drop. The European malaise is a stark contrast with the soundness of the American parks in Florida and California, which recorded revenues growth of 10% in the most recent financial year as reported by Disney's latest financial report. Back in France, much is expected from a new Star Wars-themed attraction set to open in 2017, on the 25th birthday of the European operation: may the force be with them. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew KellyA Container Store signage is seen in New York on Nov. 1, 2013.Shares of The Container Store were down more than 19% in early trade Tuesday after the company on Monday night reported same-store sales that fell 0.4% and second-quarter revenue that came in below expectations. On Monday afternoon, the retailer reported revenue of $193.2 million against expectations for $199.2 million, according to analyst estimates from Reuters, as sales on a same-store basis slowed. In the quarter, the company reported adjusted earnings per share of $0.11, which was in-line with expectations. And in its third quarter, the Container Store expects same-store sales to be flat to down low-single digits, with fourth-quarter same-store sales expects to increase by low- to mid-single digits.  In a press release, Container Store CEO Kip Tindell said: "We continue to be encouraged as we move closer to our important fourth quarter where we’ll be comping against last year’s weather, which impacted traffic and sales more than at any time in our history. Historically, over 60 percent of our net income has been derived in the fourth quarter and we expect it to derive approximately 70 percent of our reported net income this year. We’ll continue to maximize every customer interaction while also focusing on the long-term health and growth opportunities of our business, as well as on our beloved employees and culture." Back in July, Tindell said the company, and its retail peers more broadly, were experiencing a "retail funk."  Overall, it's been an ugly year for The Container Store, which went public a little less than a year ago, and in the past six months, shares are down nearly 50%. Here's the ugly chart. Google Finance FREE AppDownload
Foodbeast Trader Joe's in-house products help it stand out.Trader Joe's sells twice as much per square foot as Whole Foods.  Trader Joe's sells a whopping $1,734 per square foot, according to a recent report by the real estate investment firm JLL. In comparison, Whole Foods sells $930 per square foot. Trader Joe's also has an aggressive expansion plan and will open 38 stores in the next year, according to the report.  For years, Whole Foods Market was the dominant name in organic groceries. But the company has recently faced declining sales as more companies offer organic food.  Consumer perception of Trader Joe's is significantly higher than Whole Foods Market, according to a recent YouGov BrandIndex study. Here are a few reasons Trader Joe's is thriving.  Sprew/Wikimedia CommonsThe company thrives despite few frills and marketing. Trader Joe's is cheap. A bag of quinoa is $9.99 at Whole Foods, but $4.99 at Trader Joe's. Meanwhile, gluten-free cheese pizza is $7.49 at Whole Foods vs. $4.99 at Trader Joe's, according to dcist.com. Consumers view Trader Joe's as high-quality but inexpensive.  Meanwhile, Whole Foods is seen as being too expensive. The grocer even earned the nickname "Whole Paycheck." Whole Foods responded by lowering some prices; however, a recent JPMorgan analyst note says the company isn't doing enough to market bargains. This means customers most likely don't realize that Whole Foods is getting cheaper.  JLLTrader Joe's outpaces competitors in sales per square foot and expansion plans. Private-label products. Eighty percent of Trader Joe's products are in-house, meaning that customers can't get them anywhere else and the grocer can sell them at lower prices. The creativity of the in-house products is also important. Some of the most popular products include Chili-Lime Chicken Burgers, Cookie Butter (a cookie-flavored nut butter), and corn and chili salsa.  While Whole Foods has private-label products, it tends to veer more toward basic. The company also sells a wider variety of organic and healthy brands. As Wal-Mart and other grocers begin to stock these products, consumers have less of an incentive to go to Whole Foods.  JLL Research"Fresh format" grocery stores like Whole Foods and Trader Joe's are becoming more popular. Trader Joe's knows its audience. Trader Joe's is focused on product innovation and selling groceries and wine at a cheap price. Because customers know they can get high-quality stuff at a low price, they pack Trader Joe's stores.  Whole Foods has had a harder time differentiating. The company's response to all the competition isn't encouraging, according to a recent Bloomberg Intelligence report.  "New initiatives at the retailer, including online ordering and broadening the produce assortment to include more non-organic items, may push Whole Foods from unique to mainstream as it seeks a broader customer base to defend against direct competitors such as Sprouts grocers such as Kroger," according to Bloomberg.  To stand out, Whole Foods needs to differentiate its products.  Still, the grocery store is better-positioned than traditional supermarkets.  According to the report by JLL, "fresh format" stores including Whole Foods are taking market share from traditional grocers.  FREE AppDownload
ReutersA worker stocks merchandise at the Wal-Mart Superstore in Los Angeles.Wal-Mart Stores Inc. plans to eliminate health insurance coverage for most of its part-time US employees in a move aimed at controlling rising healthcare costs of the nation's largest private employer. Starting Jan. 1, Wal-Mart told The Associated Press, the company will no longer offer health insurance to employees who work less than an average of 30 hours a week. The move, which would affect 30,000 employees, follows similar decisions by Target, Home Depot, and others to eliminate health insurance benefits for part-time employees. "We had to make some tough decisions," Sally Welborn, Wal-Mart's senior vice president of benefits, told The Associated Press. Welborn says the company will use a third-party organization to help part-time workers find insurance alternatives: "We are trying to balance the needs of (workers) as well as the costs of (workers) as well as the cost to Wal-Mart." The announcement comes after Wal-Mart said far more US employees and their families were enrolling in its healthcare plans than it had expected following rollout of the Affordable Care Act. Wal-Mart, which employs about 1.4 million full- and part-time US workers, says about 1.2 million Wal-Mart workers and family members combined now participate in its healthcare plan. That has had an impact on Wal-Mart's bottom line. Wal-Mart now expects the impact of higher healthcare costs to be about $500 million for the current fiscal year, or about $170 million higher than the original estimate of about $330 million that it gave in February. But Wal-Mart is among the last of its peers to cut health insurance for some part-time workers. In 2013, 62 percent of large retail chains didn't offer healthcare benefits to any of their part-time workers, according to Mercer, a global consulting company. That's up from 56 percent in 2009. "Retailers who offer part-time benefits are more of an exception than the rule," says Beth Umland, director of research for health and benefits at Mercer. Wal-Mart has been scaling back eligibility for part-time workers over the past few years, though. In 2011, Wal-Mart said it was cutting backing eligibility of its coverage of part-time workers working less than 24 hours a week. And then in 2013, it announced a threshold of 30 hours or under. Wal-Mart, like most big companies, also is increasing premiums, or out-of-pocket costs that employees pay, to counter rising healthcare costs. Wal-Mart told The Associated Press that it was raising premiums for all of its full-time workers: For a basic plan, of which 40 percent of its workers are enrolled, the premiums will go up to $21.90 per pay period, up from $18.40, starting Jan. 1. Wal-Mart also said that changes in the co-insurance, or the percentage workers pay before coverage kicks in, for the health reimbursement accounts and the health savings accounts would result in the company paying 75 percent of the eligible costs of doctor visits, tests, hospitalization, and other services within the network after employees meet their deductible. That's down from 80 percent. ______________________ Follow Anne D'Innocenzio at http://www.Twitter.com/adinnocenzio Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. If you're a Wal-Mart worker affected by this change, email retail@businessinsider.com.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersItaly's Prime Minister Renzi addresses the United Nations General Assembly in New YorkBy Francesca Landini MILAN (Reuters) - Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi has persuaded European partners to attend a meeting on jobs in Milan on Wednesday but he may struggle to get them to agree to do much more than show up. Originally presented as a summit and later downgraded to a "high-level conference", the encounter is meant to help develop a response to the jobs crisis, especially among the young, that is hitting southern European countries particularly hard. Unemployment in the eurozone is near record levels. Figures for August showed more than 18 million people were out of work or about 11.5 percent of the working population. The figures are particularly high in southern Europe and among young people, of whom about a quarter are unemployed. German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Francois Hollande are both due in Milan but no concrete measures or conclusions are expected from the meeting which comes only weeks before the same EU leaders are due to meet in a full European Council in Brussels. Scheduled to last only three hours, the meeting was confirmed only after much confusion, with a succession of statements from various European capitals announcing first that it had been canceled and then that it was going ahead. Officials said the meeting would be a "stock-taking exercise" to keep up momentum on measures such as the Youth Guarantee Scheme, an EU-wide initiative aimed at helping people under the age of 25 into work. For Renzi, fighting heavy domestic opposition to plans to change some hiring-and-firing rules for workers on permanent contracts, the meeting will provide a platform for his calls for a more expansive interpretation of European Union budget rules to stimulate the stagnant eurozone economy. Italy wants to discuss Europe-wide action to boost investment, to prepare the ground for possible concrete measures to be weighed at the EU summit scheduled in December. But it risks highlighting a split between countries like France and Italy, pressing for budget flexibility, and Germany, which says countries must cut spending and pass reforms. France and Italy have both announced they will not meet their budget goals this year and next, while German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble has made it clear Berlin believes there is not much scope for measures to stimulate demand. Eurozone officials say France's draft 2015 budget, which foresees Paris missing its EU budget promises, is likely to be rejected by the European Commission. A discussion paper circulated ahead of the meeting points to the need to match structural reforms in areas such as wage bargaining and hiring and firing rules with more investment and fiscal measures to stimulate demand. "Recently, Europe has dealt with the causes of the crisis vigorously. It is now necessary to react with equal determination to the effects of the crisis," says the document, a copy of which was seen by Reuters. But there is no indication of how the growing division over budget policy is to be bridged. Facing criticism at home and in Europe that his government has failed to match its ambitious reform promises with action, Renzi is fighting to get the first stage of a long-promised Jobs Act through the Senate in time for Wednesday's meeting. Despite stiff opposition from unions and elements of his own center-left Democratic Party, Renzi wants to water down rules that enable workers on permanent contracts to sue to get their jobs back for wrongful dismissal. Meanwhile, data released on Tuesday has further raised concerns that Europe's largest economy is running out of steam. German industrial output plunged in August at its steepest rate since the height of the financial crisis and the International Monetary Fund cut its German growth forecast.  (Additional reporting by Julia Fioretti and Robin Emmott in Brussels; Writing by James Mackenzie; Editing by Janet Lawrence) FREE AppDownload
Harrison Jacobs/Business Insider"Living the dream" can mean a lot of different things. To some, it's a life spent kicking back on a beach with an endless supply of Mai Tais. To others, it could be traveling all over the world, meeting new people, and experiencing a hundred different cultures. And to others, it is a dream job in which you get paid to do the things you love.  Whatever your concept of "living the dream," we've come up with a list of people who are without a doubt living their dreams (and maybe yours, too).  The 15 people on this list have often taken extraordinary risks and worked hard to build lives that let them do what they always dreamed of, whether that's shooting into space, playing video games all day, or living full-time in the wilderness. FREE AppDownload
Antwerpen R / Flickr, CCMacau watchers were hoping that Golden Week — the Chinese celebration of the formation of the Communist Party and the People's Republic of China — would bring revenue back to world's largest (and struggling) gambling center. But it did not. Wells Fargo estimates that Golden Week gambling revenue was down a massive 33% from last year. Because of that, the bank expects Macau's October gambling revenue to fall 20% to 23% from last year. That's worse than the worst months of 2009, when revenue fell 18%. This is the continuation of a troubling trend for Macau. September saw the worst numbers for Macau gaming revenue since the financial crisis — down 12% to 13%. This summer was the worst for revenue since 2012. As a result, casino companies like Las Vegas Sands were banking on Golden Week to give them a boost. Indeed, hotels across the island were fully booked with families on vacation for the holiday — that was giving analysts one reason to be optimistic. Another reason — a recent story out of China said the government would wind down its corruption campaign against wild, overspending party officials. Casino stocks surged as investors hoped this would bring more high-roller money (the best kind of money) back to the island. But it did not.  The retail customers who came for Golden Week didn't gamble or spend enough to compensate for the lack of high-roller activity. "While visitation to Macau was strong during GW at +14 yr/yr, we believe high­roller visitation continues to trend negatively. Additionally, reports suggest HK retail sales were down as much as 15­50% during GW, with particular weakness in jewelry and watches," Wells Fargo wrote. All of the factors that have been hurting Macau's gaming revenue aren't going away anytime soon. China's economy is slowing down. The government isn't loosening monetary or housing policy despite ugly numbers in sectors across the board — property, industrial production, foreign investment — you name it. In other words, Macau will not be rescued. At least not for the time being. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
ShutterstockJob openings rose  to 4.84 million in August. This is according to the latest Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey, or JOLTS report, at the top of the hour. Expectations were for jobs openings to total 4.7 million, up slight from 4.67 million last month. The report showed that job openings increased in nondurable good manufacturing, health care and social assistance, and in accommodation and food services. Job openings fell in state and local government. This report pegs job openings near a roughly 13-year high. The hiring rate in August fell, however, to 4.6 million from 4.9 million the prior month. The latest JOLTS report also comes on the heels of last Friday's jobs report, which showed the unemployment rate fell to 5.9% as nonfarm payrolls grew by 248,000.  FREE AppDownload
YouTube/SodaStreamSodaStream spokesperson Scarlett Johansson. "We are very disappointed in our recent performance," CEO Daniel Birnbaum said. Management said revenue unexpectedly dropped to $125 million from $144 million a year ago; this was far below analysts' expectation for $154.4 million. Operating earnings were $8.5 million, which compares with analysts' expectations for $17.6 million. "Our US business underperformed due to lower than expected demand for our soda makers and flavors which was the primary driver of the overall shortfall in the third quarter," Birnbaum said. "While we were successful over the last few years in establishing a solid base of repeat users in the US, we have not succeeded in attracting new consumers to our home carbonation system at the rate we believe should be achieved. " Shares of SodaStream were halted shortly after 7 a.m. They resumed trading at 8 a.m. The carbonated beverage machine company has been the subject of buyout rumors for months. In July, Bloomberg reported that the company was in talks with an unnamed investment firm to go private. In September, an Israeli newspaper reported that a British fund was interested in buying the Israel-based company for $40 per share. SODA closed at $27.57 on Monday. Shares of this once loved momentum stock have been on an absolute wild ride. The stock was last down 19.11% trading around $22.30.  Yahoo FinanceSODA ... losing its fizz. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogThere certainly has been no sign of inflationary pressure on wages in US employment reports this year, including the most recent one for September released on Friday. Fears that the tightening labor market will lead to higher labor costs, which will boost price inflation, may be receding as a result. Wage inflation remains subdued at 2%. Previously, I’ve argued that the “cost-push” model of inflation might be flawed. There may be several forces at work keeping a lid on price inflation including globalization, automation and robotics, debt-financed excess capacity, and global secular stagnation, particularly in Japan and the Eurozone. It may be that low price inflation is moderating wage inflation. As I observed last week, inflation-adjusted wages are rising, albeit at a slow pace. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: US Dollar, Inflation, &amp; Earnings. (1) Is there a relationship between the dollar and expected inflation? (2) Fed tracking TIPS yield spread as expected inflation measure, which is falling recently. (3) Anchor aweigh. (4) TIPS measure in US actually reflecting deflationary forces in Japan and Eurozone. (5) There may be a simpler story. (6) Either way, the Fed is likely to normalize monetary policy very gradually. (7) Or else it might be either “one and done” or “none and done.” (8) Low price inflation keeping a lid on wage inflation. (9) Dollar may take center stage during Q3 earnings season. (10) Usually, strong dollar and weak commodity pricing not good for earnings. (11) Focus on overweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Transportation. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
ReutersThe Spanish matador Manuel Diaz "El Cordobes" during a bullfight at The Maestranza bullring in the Andalusian capital of Seville, southern Spain, on April 20, 2013.In the past few days, both the International Monetary Fund and the White House have come down on Wall Street compensation, saying it was a factor in causing the financial crisis. The IMF dedicated much of its recent Global Financial Stability Report to discussing how different compensation structures affect the amount taken by bankers. This isn't a new idea — for years regulators and politicians have been arguing that when bankers are working toward big annual bonuses, they don't think as much about the long-term effects of their actions. From the report: Traditionally, compensation structures for bank executives have been based on operating profitability and stock price performance metrics such as return on equity and book value per share. These metrics are short term and do not account for operational, credit, and liquidity risks. More appropriate performance measures accounting for longer-term risk could include the sensitivity of a bank’s stock to the wider stock market (beta), the credit default swap spread of a bank’s debt, or risk-adjusted economic capital (measured by market capitalization plus total debt minus risk-weighted assets). The IMF recommended that Wall Street tie pay to longer-term performance by forcing institutions to take more ownership of themselves (through stock), and by instituting clawbacks. So if you're a banker, and something you did years before blew up in the bank's face, the bank can take back some of your pay. On Monday, President Barack Obama met with financial regulators and urged them to continue working on capital standards and compensation regulation as a way to curb risk-taking at banks. From the White House: The President acknowledged the collaborative work of the regulators, specifically recognizing their work in finalizing the Volcker Rule, and also urged participants to consider additional ways to prevent excessive risk-taking across the financial system, including as they continue to work on compensation rules and capital standards. The Wall Street Journal reports that no specific new measures were discussed, but it sounds as if the president wants regulators to start working on them. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Thomas Peter German Chancellor Angela Merkel during a news conference after the Saxony local election in September.Germany's growth forecast just got slashed by the International Monetary Fund (IMF): It knocked 0.5 points off its growth forecast for this year, a worse slowdown than the eurozone overall.  A German recession, or at least the shrinking of the country's manufacturing base, suddenly seems possible. The country already recorded a drop in GDP in the second quarter of the year. Here are three major reasons that people are moving in a more bearish direction about Germany: Germany Can't Escape The Eurozone. Germany has been the eurozone's notable outperformer in the past few years, weathering the financial crisis and euro crisis to an impressive degree.  But that doesn't mean it can buck regional trends completely: Eurozone growth is somewhere between low and non-existent, and the currency union's other large economies are Germany's main export partners. Poor domestic demand there will mean a limited market for Germany's firms. The chart below from Oxford Economics shows how little Europe's "recovery" since the recession that ended in 2013 has boosted German exports. Haver, Oxford Economics Germany's Exporters Are Very Exposed To A Slowing Asia. In May, Steen Jakobsen, chief economist at Saxo Bank, explained this on CNBC. At that time, it seemed like an odd thing to say: This is more to do with the global macro picture. I’ve stated for a long time that the slowdown that’s happening, the rebalancing of Asia will have a material impact on German exports as we move to the second half of this year … Germany’s certainly becoming less competitive … Overall I’m concerned about Germany because they were the biggest beneficiaries of the expansion in capital goods in Asia during the crisis. But he’s probably feeling pretty vindicated now: A drop in capital goods production led to August’s collapse, with a shocking 8.8% decline. Asia's current slowdown isn't coming to an end anytime soon. The IMF expects Chinese growth to fall below 7% during the next couple of years, the lowest level since the early 1990s.  An Energy Policy U-Turn Leaves The Country At Risk. German coal use is back at the highest levels in nearly a quarter of a decade, after the country's U-turn on nuclear power.   The Financial Times is calling it "arguably the most ill-judged decision of (Angela Merkel's) eight years in office." The policy change was made after Japan's Fukushima disaster, though Germany is not exactly exposed to tsunamis in the same way. Germany is already a very expensive country for energy use, even by European standards, and the decision makes it more reliant on Russia. "Energy intensive industries in particular have lost confidence in the future of Germany as a business location, " former Deutsche Bank chief economist Thomas Mayer told Reuters.  FREE AppDownload
At its policy meeting at the end of this month, the Federal Reserve is expected to announce the end of its latest quantitative easing program. Ostensibly, this begins the countdown to the Fed's first interest rate hike since 2006, but the market doesn't look quite ready for this.  In a research report on Monday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch's Priya Misra highlighted the following chart of five-year breakevens, which are indicators of future inflation expectations.  Breakevens are calculated by subtracting the yield on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities notes from Treasury bonds of the same duration. The result is what the market thinks inflation levels will be that far out. Bank of America Merrill LynchMisra noted that five-year breakevens "are now approaching levels at which the Fed has typically engaged in easing via asset purchases." The consensus has been, however, that once the Fed concludes its QE program, the countdown clock to the first rate hike begins. But this chart makes it seem like that will not be the case.  For numerous political and economic reasons, it is highly unlikely the Fed would begin another QE program that includes asset purchases for some time, likely on the order of years, after finishing its current program. But breakevens are indicating that the Fed will have to do something to sate the market's expectations.  Misra writes that the Fed's method to ease in the coming months would most likely happen via "jawboning," or what some have called "verbal easing." Misra writes that this could involve Fed officials refocusing the market's attention on inflation expectations — via charts like the one featured above — and suggest that the Fed could exercise additional patience before raising interest rates. Basically, the Fed would emphasize that it could keep rates, as the popular refrain has gone over the past few years, "lower for longer." The Fed has long sought to emphasize that "tapering is not tightening," meaning that just because the Fed isn't actively buying assets doesn't mean it will necessarily raise interest rates.  Currently, the Fed's language says it expects there will be "considerable time" between the end of QE and when it first raises rates, but how long this is remains unclear. Breakevens could hold some clues, however, and they don't make it seem as if rate hikes are coming anytime soon. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesNew York Stock Exchange, October 1929.One inevitable feature of long bull markets is that, toward the end of them, anyone who prematurely voices caution will be viewed and treated as a fool. Today's case in point: John Hussman, the manager of the Hussman Funds. Unlike most stock-market forecasters, Hussman has correctly (if modestly prematurely) predicted the two most recent crashes — the one that began in 2000 and the one that began in 2007. One might think that record would buy him some credibility. Alas, Hussman also made a cautious and therefore incorrect call in the depths of the market crash in 2009. This call caused him to miss the turn and then underperform badly for the five years up to today. And in an industry in which 90 days is a long time, five years is basically forever.  So Hussman is now widely considered an incompetent moron, and the highly detailed analyses that are now prompting him to sound ever-louder warnings about an impending crash are seen as the ravings of a bitter has-been who is too obstinate to realize that his valuation model is broken and the world has forever changed. If the market doesn't crash — if stocks keep rising for the next several years, and the S&amp;P 500 charges from ~2,000 all the way to ~3,000, as one august brokerage firm recently predicted it would — then Hussman will have earned some of the derision that is currently being directed his way. If he proves correct, however, his reputation will be restored, and everyone will start saying he's a genius again. Such is the life of a stock forecaster.  One wise point that Hussman himself made this week, however, is that even those who successfully predict crashes rarely get the timing right — regardless of how history remembers them. For example, everyone remembers the famous prediction the investor Roger Babson made on Sept. 5, 1929, on the eve of the Great Crash. "Sooner or later a crash is coming," Babson said. "And it may be terrific." Stocks tanked immediately, and, three years later, they bottomed nearly 80% below their peak. With a prediction like that, it's not surprising that history has lionized Babson's forecast. What has been forgotten, Hussman observes, is that Babson had been saying the same thing for years. And during those years — the last, glorious years of the Great Bull Market of the 1920s — Babson looked like (and probably was considered) an idiot. In his weekly note this week, which is as frightening as ever, Hussman includes a chart of a few of the times Babson made his crash prediction (yellow arrows). As you can see, he was "dead wrong" for several years. John Hussman For fun, Hussman also includes another assertion made at the peak of the 1920s bull market, one that has become even more emblazoned into market history. That assertion is the one made by the famous economist Irving Fisher, who observed, just after the first lurch of the crash, that "stock prices have reached what looks like a permanently high plateau." Oops. The point is this: Just because everyone is telling you John Hussman is an idiot and that you can therefore safely ignore not only his crash call but, more importantly, the careful logic that he is using to make it, doesn't mean that you should listen to them. Hussman may, of course, be wrong: The future is unknowable. But reputations and performance on Wall Street often have a way of mean-reverting just the way the markets do. And Hussman's reputation and performance has now reached such and extreme that he is long overdue for a correction. So don't be surprised if Mr. Hussman — Dr. Hussman, actually — is someday again considered unusually competent and smart. SEE ALSO: People Don't Like It When I Say Stocks Might "Crash," So I Won't Use That Word, But ... FREE AppDownload
The "Oracle of Omaha" Warren Buffett serenaded Carol Loomis at Fortune's "Most Powerful Women Summit" on Monday evening.  Buffett teamed up with singer-songwriter Paul Anka to create their own version of Frank Sinatra's classic "My Way" as a tribute to Loomis. Loomis, a long-time friend of Buffett and editor for Berkshire Hathaway's annual letters, retired from Fortune this summer after spending 60 years at the publication.  Here's the video:   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersIMF Director Lagarde delivers her speech on the global economy ahead of the fall meetings of the IMF and World Bank at Georgetown University in WashingtonWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The International Monetary Fund cut its global economic growth forecasts for the third time this year on Tuesday, warning of weaker growth in core euro zone countries, Japan and big emerging markets like Brazil. In its flagship World Economic Outlook report, the Washington-based body cut its expectations for global growth to 3.3 percent this year and 3.8 percent next year. The IMF in July had expected economic growth of 3.4 percent in 2014 and 4 percent in 2015. The IMF has now cut its current-year growth forecasts nine out of 12 times in the last three years as it consistently overestimated how quickly richer countries would be able to pull free from high debt and unemployment in the wake of the global financial crisis in 2007-2009. The Fund also lowered its expectations for longer-term potential growth, something its chief economist Olivier Blanchard called "the force from the future" that is already denting growth. "You have these forces from the past, the forces from the anticipated future ... and I think that explains the sequence of revisions that we've had," Blanchard said in an interview. The IMF again urged countries to carry out an array of structural reforms to support the recovery - or risk stagnation. The Fund's gloomy projections will set the stage for the gathering of the world's top economic policymakers in Washington this week, who will meet to discuss how to deal with a flagging global economy as the United States gets ready to end its quantitative easing policies. While richer countries like Britain and the United States are seeing a stronger economic expansion, the IMF downgraded its forecasts for the three biggest economies in the euro zone currency bloc - Germany, France and Italy - and said it was essential richer countries maintain monetary accommodation and low interest rates. It also lowered growth projections for Japan and Brazil, among others. The IMF said potential growth in emerging markets is now 1.5 percentage points lower than what it foresaw in 2011. "There is a risk that the recovery in the euro area could stall, that demand could weaken further, and that low inflation could turn into deflation," Blanchard said in a foreword to the report. "Should such a scenario play out, it would be the major issue confronting the world economy," he said.  Markets have been roiled by the diverging growth prospects in the United States versus the ailing euro zone and a Japan that has dipped back into contraction. The value of the dollar had surged by the end of last week for 12 successive weeks, the longest rally in 40 years. The IMF now sees a 30 percent chance of the euro zone slipping into deflation over the next year, and nearly a 40 percent probability the currency bloc could enter recession. Most of the Western world will likely urge the euro zone to do more to boost growth at the meetings this week, though Germany will caution against letting up on austerity. The IMF warned frothy valuations in financial markets could plunge suddenly once the U.S. Federal Reserve starts raising interest rates next year, as markets may be underpricing risks of diverging monetary policies in advanced economies. "Macroprudential tools are the right instruments to mitigate these risks; whether they are up to the task, however, is an open question," the IMF's Blanchard said. The IMF also warned geopolitical tensions between Russia and Ukraine, and in the Middle East, were increasingly posing risks to the global economy and could shock oil prices and cause wider trade and financial disruptions if conflicts escalate. With loose monetary policy reaching its limits and cash-strapped governments struggling to boost public investment, the IMF urged all countries to pursue structural reforms, such as improving labor market policies, fighting tax evasion and raising infrastructure spending. "The challenge ... is to go beyond the general mantra of 'undertaking structural reforms' to identify both the reforms that are most needed and the reforms that are politically feasible," Blanchard said.  (Reporting by Anna Yukhananov; Editing by Andrea Ricci) FREE AppDownload
Olivier Blanchard, chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, has identified three major risks faced by the global economy. They are, in his words, low interest rates, war, and Europe: 1. "The long period of low interest rates has led to some search for yield, and financial markets may be too complacent about the future ... Macro prudential tools are the right instruments, but one has to worry that they may not be up to the task." In other words, investors have ended up in some pretty risky positions that will hurt them if the interest rate environment changes or if the world sinks back into a full-fledged recession. Here's a chart showing how money going into risky bonds has again surpassed that going into safer vehicles: Citi2. "Geopolitical risks have become more relevant. So far, there is little evidence that Ukraine crisis has had measurable effects beyond the affected countries and their immediate neighbors. Nor has turmoil in the Middle East affected either the level or the volatility of energy prices very much. But, clearly, the risk that they do so in the future is there, and could affect the world economy in a major way." REUTERS/Ako RasheedIslamic State flags flutter on the Mullah Abdullah bridge in southern Kirkuk on Sept. 29. Members of the Kurdish security forces and the Islamic State are holding fort behind sandbags on different ends of the bridge. 3. "The third risk is a stalling of the recovery in the euro area, the risk that demand weakens further, and that low inflation turns into deflation. This is not our baseline, as we believe fundamentals are slowly improving, but, were it to happen, it would clearly be the major issue confronting the world economy." Euro Area GDP 1995-2014: ECB FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEuropean Central Bank President Mario Draghi smiles at the start of a meeting of the European Parliament's Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee in BrusselsBy John O'Donnell and Paul Carrel FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Grappling with an ailing euro zone economy and stagnant prices, the European Central Bank is hoping that help will come from something it cannot control: the value of the euro. As Washington prepares to stopper the supply of cheap money that has been helping it revive the United States, the euro has started to fall steeply against the dollar. And that's just how the ECB likes it. With prices in Europe rising at their slowest in five years and its economy stubbornly dormant, Frankfurt is starting to use similar tactics to those used by the Federal Reserve - pumping cheap money into the system in the hope of awakening it. But those efforts have at best an uncertain outcome. Now, however, the divergence of approach on either side of the Atlantic has presented the euro zone with an alternative that works - a weaker currency. "The one sure-fire way to get things moving is to get the exchange rate down," said RBS economist Richard Barwell. "It's the best antidote to disinflation known to man." A falling euro  would drive up prices by making goods from abroad, whether cars or clothes, more expensive. It would also boost exports, cutting slack as companies work harder to meet demand. That in turn could bring a rise in inflation toward the ECB's target of just under 2 percent - one of the building blocks for economic prosperity. Last month, euro zone inflation slowed to just 0.3 percent. ECB President Mario Draghi has been at pains to stress that the central bank does not have an exchange rate target - eager to avoid antagonizing the United States and other big economies with 'beggar-thy-neighbor' tactics. But last week Draghi dropped a hint that Europe's different position could be beneficial, noting "significant and increasing differences in the monetary policy cycle between major advanced economies."     For financial markets, this amounted to tacit encouragement to push down the euro, already trading close to 2-year lows.  'ALTERNATIVE PATH' Britain provides useful clues as to what might happen next. A sharp drop in sterling's  exchange rate against the dollar just before the financial crisis set in - from above $2.00 in mid-2008 to around $1.35 in early 2009 - fed through quickly. Consumer prices bounced from 1.1 percent in September 2009 to 5.2 percent two years' later - in large part due to the currency effect. That evidence makes many officials in Kaiserstrasse, the Frankfurt address of the ECB, quietly optimistic, given the currency has dropped from nearly $1.40 in May to around $1.26 now. Last month, the ECB published a report exploring "an alternative path for the euro" - a fall in its value to $1.24 by 2016 that is well on the way to becoming reality. That would increase the euro zone's 8.5 trillion euro economy by up to 0.3 percent next year and in 2016, and in turn lift the bloc's price inflation, the ECB's primary benchmark of health, by up to 0.3 percent - doubling the current rate. Some predict an even steeper drop, and implicitly, a greater boost to the economy. Deutsche Bank forecasts that one euro could be worth less than a dollar by late 2017.  SHORT RELIEF However some economists believe any impact in Europe would be short-lived and that, just as in the case of Britain, further measures would be needed before a genuine recovery is possible. "The depreciation of the euro is necessary. But it is not sufficient," says Paul De Grauwe, an economist with the London School of Economics. "We need to do other things, such as start country investment." And while the weakening euro will help exporters selling around the globe, it will do little for trade between the 18 countries in the bloc. "You need internal demand to grow and you have a serious limitation there," said Santiago Carbo-Valverde, a Spanish economist at Britain's Bangor University. "You can sell to China but you need the euro zone." Proof: after Britain's currency tumbled, it discovered more was required to kick-start an economy. London used a funding-for-lending scheme to spur mortgage loans and property prices - but directing one island economy is easier than forging change across the uneasy alliance of 18 countries in the euro zone, a mix of cultures and languages where views on saving and spending contrast sharply from Berlin to Athens. On its own, the ECB has little hope of arresting decline. Draghi has urged governments to reform their economies by paring back taxes or making labor rules more flexible, but his appeals have fallen largely on deaf ears: France recently issued a defiant budget plan that will flout European Union spending limits. Ultimately, then, even a falling euro may not be enough to lift pressure on the ECB to embrace full-blown quantitative easing by buying government bonds. "The falling euro would help but if you step back, currency value change is a zero sum game," said Hung Tran, executive managing director of the Institute of International Finance, a group representing banks and financial groups. "One currency's gain is another currency's loss. It doesn't change the picture of the global economy and one of low growth for Europe."  (Editing by Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload
REUTERSJonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a round up of this morning's trader chatter: Good Morning!   Global growth concerns continue, as German industrial production fell sharply – sparking heightened recession fears.   This, coupled with Japanese Prime Minister Abe warning of the debilitating effects of a weak yen on households and small and midsize companies – has the futures starting today on the back foot.   Smallcaps are off 50bp, as Inflation measures dropping drag the Russell growth names lower.   Ebola concerns continue to weigh on headlines from Spain – hitting IBEX for 1.5% - Transports may suffer as the US looks at fresh screening measures for air travelers.   Miners are helping FTSE outperform (but still off 6bp) after RIO said it rejected a Glencore offer.    Mixed session in Asia, with Hang Seng gaining 50bp on signs the pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong are dwindling.   Nikkei lost 60bp as the GPIF portfolio shift is being delayed, while Aussie closed near unchanged as their Central Bank stayed pat.   South Korea popped 40bp, led by Samsung – whose terrible guidance was a “buy the news” event The US 10YY is off small, despite German yields gaining a few bp.   With falling Inflation metrics in America, keep an eye on that US 2YY – it’s nearing 1M lows as traders get more dovish on Fed policy.   The DXY is higher, bouncing from yesterday’s selloff – causing a bit of a headwind for commodities.   Metals remain mixed, but the Oil complex is back under pressure led by a 60bp drop in Brent despite reports ISIS is now active on the Syrian/Turkish border.   Gasoline futures remain under pressure, but that didn’t help the consumer stocks yesterday.    Scheduled Catalysts today include Treasury Sec Lew speaking at 8:45, at 10 we get JOLTs labor data, at 11 we have a very small POMO.  At 1 there is a 3Y auction, at 2:30 Kocherlakota speaks, and at 3pm we get consumer credit and Fed’s Dudley.   API data for Crude hits after the close, along with a speech from Fed’s Potter. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures were falling on Tuesday, pressured by a second straight day of weak data out of Germany, the euro zone's largest economy. * German industrial output figures for August plunged 4 percent, the biggest fall in 5-1/2 years, a day after industrial orders saw their biggest monthly drop since 2009. * Major U.S. equity indexes fell on Monday with traders wary about the effect of both a strong dollar and economic weakness in Europe on corporate results. * U.S.-traded shares of Rio Tinto  were down 1.7 percent premarket a day after gaining more than 9 percent, after the iron ore producer said it rejected a merger approach from smaller rival Glencore Plc  back in August. * Shares of Agco Corp  were falling 10.8 percent after the company revised its earnings outlook lower, citing lower sales and lower production. Futures snapshot at 7:27 EDT: * S&amp;P 500 e-minis  were falling 7.75 points, or 0.4 percent, with 154,698 contracts changing hands. * Nasdaq 100 e-minis  were down 16 points, or 0.4 percent, in volume of 26,045 contracts. * Dow e-minis  were down 68 points, or 0.4 percent, with 26,069 contracts changing hands  (Reporting by Rodrigo Campos; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Here are quick and easy tips that will help anyone make his or her resume stand out when applying for a job. Produced by Matthew Stuart. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
REUTERS/Fabrizio BenschGerman Chancellor Angela Merkel at CDU headquarters in Berlin on Sept. A second day of weak German data sent European markets into retreat on Tuesday with stocks, the euro, and periphery eurozone government debt all knocked by the mounting evidence of an abrupt slowdown in the bloc's economic engine room. A day after German industrial orders saw their biggest monthly drop since the height of the global financial crisis in 2009, its industrial output figures for August plunged by 4 percent, also the biggest fall in five years. "Industrial production is currently going through a weak phase ... but the current decline is exacerbated by holiday effects," Germany's Economy Ministry said in a statement. "All in all, one should expect weak production for the third quarter as a whole." By contrast, the mining sector was boosted as Rio Tinto rose 5.2 percent after saying it rejected a merger approach from smaller rival Glencore Plc to create a $160 billion mining and trading giant in August. Asian shares had made minor gains overnight, but the weak data saw European bourses jolt lower, led by a 0.7 percent drop on Germany's Dax which has now lost 7.5 percent in the last three weeks. London, Paris, Milan and Madrid all took tumbles, while Italian, Spain, Portuguese and also French government bonds yields rose amid doubts about what a slowing Germany meant for their more fragile economies. Germany's and the eurozone's renewed weakness is part of broader world-wide picture. Apart from the United States, indicators of global growth have slipped sharply over the past few months. Economists at Barclays highlighted on Tuesday that their global manufacturing index was at its lowest level since May, and the IMF is expected to cut back its growth forecasts later. "Over the summer, there has been quite an apparent divergence in the global growth story," said Kerry Craig, a global markets strategist at JPMorgan. "What we are seeing is quite an ugly and uneven recovery. Growth in euro zone has stalled ... and then you have to contrast that with what is going on in the US where we saw the really strong jobs data on Friday." REUTERS/Alex Grimm (GERMANY)A driver reverses a car as a freshly fallen tree blocks the road that leads up to the Feldberg in the Taunus mountain range near Schmitten on Nov. 21, 2008. The euro also weakened slightly after the German data, though with traders still looking for an excuse to take some profits on the dollar's recent surge, the dip was only minor. At the same time, the dollar was struggling versus the yen after Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe raised the negatives as well as positives of a weaker yen for his country's economy. It had been a choppy session but the outcome was that after going as high as 109.25 yen, the dollar was back down at 108.62 yen as Asia trading started to tail off. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan was last up about 0.4 percent, after wobbling between positive and negative territory though the higher yen meant Tokyo's Nikkei ended the day firmly in the red. The dollar's weakness helped, however, bolster recently slumping commodity prices. Brent oil was steady in early London trading at $92.62 a barrel alongside growth-attuned copper , while gold  held above $1,200 an ounce. The Reserve Bank of Australia held its cash rate steady at 2.5 percent at its regular policy review on Tuesday, and said that its currency remains high by historical standards. The Australian dollar erased earlier gains and slipped about 0.3 percent to $0.8738, moving back towards Friday's low of $0.8642 which was its weakest level since July 2010.  (Reporting by Marc Jones; Editing by Tom Heneghan) FREE AppDownload
APA military helicopter flies over a Spanish cargo ship "Luno."LONDON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - BNP Paribas has asked at least three banks to help it clear certain energy transactions in U.S. dollars next year to make sure it can keep its energy trade finance division operating after a ban imposed for violating U.S. sanctions, sources said. The French bank made the requests to JP Morgan Chase and Co, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Citi in July and August, according to sources who asked not to be named because talks are confidential. Four sources with banks and trading houses in Europe and the United States said JP Morgan decided against accepting the request but other sources said talks were still going on. "Discussions are ongoing and the process is moving forward in a constructive way," a source close to negotiations said. BNP Paribas, JPMorgan, BAML and Citi declined to comment. BNP's request to other banks is legally permissible. However, experts say banks may be reluctant to clear for BNP Paribas because they could be opening themselves up to risk or the perception of risk which could hurt their reputations. One said BNP Paribas may be reluctant to give up as much info as the other bank needs to be comfortable processing transactions, for fear of losing clients. A New York banking regulator suspended the French bank from clearing transactions in energy trade finance for the whole of 2015 as part of a punishment for violating U.S. sanctions against Sudan, Cuba and Iran. The suspension also included financial penalties of nearly $9 billion. "Without getting help with the clearing, BNP will simply not be able to operate its energy trade finance division," a source at a trading company which works with BNP said. The energy trade finance business accounted for as much as 5 percent of BNP's revenues in 2006 but was scaled back after the 2008 financial crisis and then again after the U.S. probe. It now only represents 1 percent of overall revenues although still accounts for hundreds of jobs. U.S. dollar typically transactions pass through one of two major clearing systems in New York where large volumes of the main currency for global commodity trades are readily available. Despite the suspension imposed by the New York regulator, the terms of the punishment left the door open for the French bank to pay others to do the job. The suspension of dollar clearing was on business lines that were the central points of wrongdoing,  according to the New York Department of Financial Services. Any bank temporarily taking on clearing on behalf of BNP would be able to charge a high rate for the service and they might also gain new clients if switching back to the French bank in 2016 proved complicated or otherwise less desirable, sources familiar with talks said. Major global banks such as BNP hold dollar accounts with the two main U.S. payment systems - CHIPS and FedWire - so that foreign companies can make or receive payments to or from suppliers in dollars or do transactions with American clients. BNP mainly clears dollars on behalf of its own clients, and not on behalf of other banks. CHIPS is owned by 23 large commercial banks and supervised by the U.S. central bank, the Federal Reserve. FedWire is operated by the Fed.   REDUCED ROLE Commodities exporters, importers and trading houses all rely on bank funding to manage capital intensive international trade flows in areas such as oil, metals or coal. BNP Paribas has been the leader in energy trade finance for decades and trading houses such as Glencore, Trafigura and Mercuria have long relied on the French lender for up to 40 to 50 percent of their credits lines. But that business has been scaled back. BNP Paribas, along with other banks, has pulled back from some lending businesses which are seen by regulators as more risky and therefore require banks to hold more capital in case they encounter problems. Sources at those trading houses said BNP was currently providing around 10-15 percent of their credit lines as banks from the United States to Europe and Australia - such as Citi, and ABN Amro - expanded in trade finance. Spokespeople for Glencore, Trafigura and Mercuria declined to comment. In Europe, dozens of senior managers and BNP's front office staff in energy trade finance left the bank between 2011-2013, according to insiders and trading sources. BNP declined to comment on staffing. Earlier this year BNP exited its role of coordinating mandated lead arranger on Glencore’s $1.275 billion facility. It has stopped new lending to trader Trafigura and is cutting trade finance lending in Africa, according to trading sources. Glencore and Trafigura declined to comment.   (Additional reporting by Maya Nikolayeva and writing by Dmitry Zhdannikov; editing by Anna Willard) FREE AppDownload
Figures released by the Bank of England on Tuesday showed demand for mortgages fell in the third quarter of 2014 after eight consecutive quarters of expansion: Bank of England House prices across the UK have been on a tear for the past three years, rising over 9% on average in the 12 months to the end of March: Bank of England Policymakers had become increasingly worried about the increasing number of higher risk mortgages being taken on in the UK. The possibility that risky mortgage lending might put the UK's economic recovery under threat prompted the Bank of England's Financial Policy Committee (FPC) to request additional powers from the government in October: Bank of England And here's why they're worried — high loan-to-value (LTV) mortgage lending has been rising. Higher LTV mortgages mean that falls in house prices can quickly drive the value of properties below the value of the loans used to buy them, making it harder for banks to recoup losses if borrowers default. Here is the recent uptick in LTVs: Bank of England The news that the housing market may be showing signs of cooling will be reassuring for those who were worried about a concentration of risk in the property sector. In particular, policymakers will be pleased that "lenders also reported that they had become less willing to lend at LTV ratios above 90% for the first time since the question was introduced in 2013." However, the Bank of England warns this may only be a temporary respite with mortgage demand set to increase again in the final three months of the year. FREE AppDownload
Things go from bad to worse at Tesco. The Financial Times reports a fifth executive has been asked to leave the company, which is being investigated by financial authorities after it acknowledged wrongly overstating its profits by £250 million. It is tough to understate how bad things are at UK supermarkets. Questionable accounting. Declining sales. Plummeting stock. An executive arrested for insider trading in a rival's stock. It's awful. Arguably, the rout at Tesco — which includes the possible coming resignation of its chairman — is the good news: The biggest supermarket in Europe, under new CEO Dave Lewis, appears to be moving the fastest to gets its dodgy accounting problems behind it. The other supermarkets appear to have the same questions hanging over their accounts as Tesco does — but they haven't disclosed the financial numbers associated with them. At issue is whether Tesco — and all its rivals — wrongly booked promotional payments and rebates from its vendors as revenue. Tesco seems to have decided that practice was unsustainable, and a new exec has lost his head because of it, the FT says: Britain’s biggest retailer has asked Kevin Grace, commercial director, to step aside as part of the investigation begun two weeks ago. He was asked to step aside on Monday, according to people familiar with the situation. So far, Tesco has asked four directors to move aside. They are Chris Bush, managing director for the UK; Carl Rogberg, who worked with him in Tesco’s business in Thailand and is UK finance director; John Scouler, food commercial director; and Matt Simister, who is responsible for sourcing. And Chairman Richard Broadbent has been telling people he would consider resigning once the investigation is complete, according to The Wall Street Journal. That's not all. Once regulators are done checking Tesco's books there will be investor pressure on the other big UK supermarkets to do the same to theirs. Reuters previously reported that Tesco-type skeletons remain hidden at Sainsbury's, Ocado, and Morrisons: The auditors for all three of Britain's biggest publicly-quoted retailers — Tesco, Sainsbury's and Morrisons — told investors in their most recent annual reports that their businesses faced material risks regarding the reporting of the supplier rebates. Those at the smaller online retailer Ocado did likewise. And a little-noticed statement by the credit-ratings agency Fitch suggested Tesco's problem could require reclassification of €5.6 billion ($7.07 billion) in revenue. Crucially, note that Fitch says all European retailers are not disclosing the issue, while US retailers do. That suggests Tesco may be merely the first in a series of unpleasant dominoes to fall in Europe. Here's Fitch: While European retailers are not obliged to, and do not, disclose contributions to profits from vendor allowances, US retailers often do, and are also subject to more detailed accounting rules. Among the US supermarkets that disclose figures, vendor allowances are equivalent to around 8% of the cost of goods sold, equal to virtually all their profits. If European supermarkets receive similar amounts, vendor allowances for Tesco could be around EUR5.6bn, 81% of operating EBITDAR. This is line with the average percentage of the five retailers we have analyzed in the report. But European use of vendor allowances could differ significantly from the US and could vary greatly among retailers due to factors including different business models, greater ownership of the supply chain or increased reliance on own-brand product sales. The accounting scandal comes at the same time as the major grocery chains' sales are falling. Like-for-like sales dropped 2.8% at Sainsbury's recently, and Morrison's revealed a 7.4% plummet. (And separately, Morrison's former tax chief was charged with insider trading!) You can tell investors hate supermarkets right now. Their suspicion of what else is lurking inside their books has done this damage to the stock prices of Tesco, Sainsbury's, and Morrisons. This is Tesco over the past year: Yahoo This is Sainsbury's: Yahoo And this is Morrisons: Yahoo FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lukas Barth The economic picture out of Germany keeps getting worse. Good morning! Here's what you need to know.  Germany Industrial Production Plunges. German industrial production dropped 4% from July to August, versus an expected decline of 1.5%. This represents the biggest month-on-month drop since 2009. "The German manufacturing sector is in a recession," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen said. Hewlett-Packard Is Splitting In 2. After announcing that the company would separate into two different businesses, the company increased its target layoff to 55,000.  Rio Tinto Rejects Glencore Merger Approach. "Rio Tinto rejected a merger approach from smaller rival Glencore Plc to create a $160 billion mining and trading giant," Reuters' Sonali Paul reported. "Speculation had grown around a Glencore bid for Rio as prices of iron ore, which made up 92% of Rio's first-half profit, have slumped to five-year lows, as the top producers have flooded the market with new supply."  Markets Are Down. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is down 0.59%, France's CAC 40 is down 0.94%, and Germany's DAX is down 0.69%. Asia closed mixed, with Japan's Nikkei down 0.67% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 0.25%. US futures are down, with Dow futures down 66 points, S&amp;P futures down 7.4 points, and Nasdaq futures down 14.25 points.  The Bank of Japan Stays The Course. Despite worrying signs of a slowing economy and the yen trading at a near six-year low, the BoJ decided against further monetary policy easing, predicting a return to moderate growth. UK Factory Output Growth Slows In August. "Output for manufacturing rose a monthly 0.1 percent in August, down from growth of 0.3% in July," Reuters reports. "The Office for National Statistics attributed some of the slowdown to carmakers halting production lines for longer than usual for maintenance." Deutsche Bank In Talks With Regulator To Settle Libor Case. The Wall Street Journal reports that regulators are pushing for a settlement of "hundreds of millions of dollars to resolve rate-rigging allegations." Brussels Targets Amazon’s Luxembourg Tax Deal. The European Commission is set to launch an in-depth probe into Amazon's Luxembourg tax arrangements over serious concerns of improper state aid, according to the FT. The Plunging Russian Ruble Is Hitting Western European Corporations. With the currency now at a record low against the euro and the dollar, companies that bet heavily on the country, including PSA Peugeot Citroen, Henkel AG, and Carlsberg, are starting to suffer. The IMF Will Discuss Its Global Economic Outlook. The Fund will hold a live press conference at 9 a.m. ET on Tuesday to discuss the release of Chapters 1 &amp; 2 of the World Economic Outlook. FREE AppDownload
@RudyHavensteinOutflows from Pimco may be far from over as many investors have yet to decide whether to stick with the Newport Beach, California-based asset manager. Pimco hasn't said how much money has been withdrawn since fund manager Bill Gross quit on Sept. 26 to join Janus Capital. Pimco said its Total Return fund, which Gross had personally managed for 27 years, saw $23.5 billion in withdrawals in September. Morningstar, which analyzes mutual funds and other investments, estimated net outflow from Total Return at $17.9 billion in September, part of $25.5 billion of net outflows across all of Pimco's US open-ended funds in September. The withdrawals come as broker-dealers are holding fewer bonds, reducing the options for fund companies seeking to sell holdings to raise the money to meet redemption demands. That may cause the performance of some funds - including Pimco's - to lag, as spreads among less-liquid instruments creep higher and investors find themselves forced to choose between moving quickly or getting a fair price for debt they're selling. Outflows "will tend to be elevated over the next few months" said Jeff Tjornehoj, head of Americas research at Lipper, a Thomson Reuters company, who said Gross's exit is "the last straw" for some institutional investors. Those "investors are going from the wait-and-see when Bill was there to 'let's accelerate this'" outflow, he said. Morgan Stanley said that the 6 percent drop on Sept. 26 in the share price of Pimco's parent, Munich-based insurer Allianz SE, implied the loss of about $400 billion in assets under management in the wake of Gross' departure. Morgan Stanley didn't say when those withdrawals would occur, nor why investors would pull their assets. Pimco has almost $2 trillion in assets under management. Pimco was already on watch at a number of institutional investors after Gross's surprise resignation, including the $46 billion Teachers' Retirement System of the State of Illinois, the $23.4 billion Texas Municipal Retirement System and the $9.4 billion North Dakota Retirement and Investment Office. Those three pension systems alone have almost $5 billion invested with Pimco, and they're only a small sample of the institutional investors nationwide who've entrusted their money to the company - much of it public funds. Retail investors, too, could move out. Charles Schwab's target-date funds, for example, booted the Pimco Total Return Fund from its approved list last week. This weekend, the new managers of Total Return, which Gross built into the world's largest bond fund with a peak in April 2013 of almost $293 billion in assets, scrambled to soothe clients and analysts. Rivals including DoubleLine Capital and TCW were aggressively courting Pimco clients. Pimco declined to comment. Total Return Fund has gained 3.3 percent this year through the end of September, trailing the performance of 79 percent of its peers, according to Morningstar. The fund is up about 6.6 percent since Jan. 1, 2009, better than 58 percent of its peers, according to Morningstar. To be sure, investors who follow Gross out of Pimco could find themselves losing out in the long run. Dan Ivascyn, Pimco's new CIO, was named 2013 Fixed-Income Fund Manager of the Year by Morningstar for his work on the Pimco Income Fund. REUTERS/Lori SheplerThe headquarters of the investment firm PIMCO in Newport Beach, California. At many pension funds, investment committees meet every other month, or even quarterly. Decisions to shift investments could be months away. In the week ending Wednesday, for example, money market funds saw net inflows of $18.9 billion, according to Lipper — almost twice the $9.5 billion net inflows in the previous week as investors parked former Pimco money in short-term assets to consider future moves. The effect of bond sales can be seen in rising yields. Carl Eichstaedt, a portfolio manager with Western Asset Management, said yields on some Verizon bonds were 10 to 12 basis points wider against US Treasuries on the Friday of Gross's departure. Western funds scooped up some of those bonds, but with an eye on the uncertainty around Pimco, did not rush in. Bond prices fall as yields rise. "It's clear that some hedge funds and long-only money managers have been front-running in anticipation of redemptions" from Pimco after Gross's departure, he said. By last Monday, the average high-grade bond spread had widened about 2 basis points to 119 basis points greater than Treasury bonds — its widest since March, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Master Index. Among high-yield debt, the average spread widened even more, by 11 basis points. "The volatility created by news of Gross's exit from Pimco gave us all a small taste of how fragile this fixed-income market has become because of illiquidity in secondary markets," said Michael Chuang, founder and CEO of electronic trading platform iTBConnect. Broker-dealers could be forced to absorb excess inventory and search for ways to get those securities off their books at a time when banking regulations have driven dealers to hold as few bonds as possible. "Without any doubt, short-term there may be broker-dealers that are suffering a little for this," said Xavier Urpi, director of fixed income at Cutler Investment Group. Many broker-dealers have reduced the inventory they keep on hand. A paper from the US Securities and Exchange Commission earlier this year pointed the finger at fewer proprietary trading desks at broker-dealers and changes in regulatory requirements for capital. Nevertheless, given Pimco's size, the firm is unlikely to be turned away from anyone who wants to keep doing business with it in the future. "When you have such a big player like Pimco come to your door and say they want to sell, you have to take it," Urpi added. "They (broker-dealers) may lose a little point here, but in the long run they have to have that kind of relationship." Investors who wait until year-end to move could find an added squeeze as the holiday season dries up liquidity, said Michael Rosen, the chief investment officer of Angeles Investment Advisors. "If you're going to shift a portfolio, it gets tougher to do in big size as you get closer to the end of year," he noted. The Illinois Teachers' Retirement System has eight different strategies with Pimco, one previously placed on watch, said spokesman David Urbanek. Further additions to the watch list require approval from the board, which next meets Oct. 29. The Illinois system hasn't decided what to do about the almost $2.5 billion it's invested with the bond market giant. "The situation with Pimco is fluid," Urbanek said. (Reporting by Luciana Lopez, Jennifer Ablan, Ross Kerber, Richard Leong, Shankar Ramakrishnan and Jessica Toonkel in New York; Editing by David Gaffen and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
Nobel Foundation The Nobel Prize in physics was awarded to Isamu Akasaki, Hiroshi Amano, and Shuji Nakamura on Tuesday for inventing the blue light-emitting diode (LED), an energy-efficient light source.  "By using blue LEDs, white light can be created in a new way," the Nobel Committee said. "With the advent of LED lamps we now have more long-lasting and more efficient alternatives to older light sources." Akasaki and Amano from the University of Nagoya in Japan worked with Nakamura, an American now at the University of California, to create an LED lamp that emits white light, previously a struggle among scientists.  To get white light you need to combine three colors: red, green, and blue. The red and green LEDs have been around for a while, but not blue. (Obviously, it's not as simple as that: LED's are semiconductors that emit light when voltage is passed through them; getting the materials to emit the right colors of light vastly increases their efficiency). The blue LED was invented just 20 years ago, but it has already had a tremendous benefit on society. LED lamps last a long time and don't use mercury like fluorescent bulbs.  "The LED lamp holds great promise for increasing the quality of life for over 1.5 billion people around the world who lack access to electricity grids: due to low power requirements it can be powered by cheap local solar power," the committee said in a statement.  Nobel FoundationThe evolution of the light bulb. On Monday, John O'Keefe and husband-wife team Edvard and May-Britt Moser split the Nobel Prize in medicine for "their discoveries of cells that constitute a positioning system in the brain." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA just-delivered Amazon box is seen on a counter in Golden, ColoradoBRUSSELS (Reuters) - EU state aid regulators opened an in-depth investigation on Tuesday into Amazon's tax deals with Luxembourg, saying the arrangements could have underestimated the U.S. online retailer's profits and given it an unfair advantage. The European Commission said Luxembourg's 2003 tax ruling for Amazon's local subsidiary Amazon EU Sarl allowed the company to pay a royalty to its parent which reduced its taxable profit and might not be in line with market conditions. It said this could give Amazon an economic advantage by allowing the group to pay less tax than other companies whose profits are allocated in line with market terms. The Commission's probe is the latest against companies benefiting from certain tax practices and against EU government deals which help corporate tax avoidance.   (Reporting by Foo Yun Chee) FREE AppDownload
Paul Drinkwater/NBC via Getty Images There have been reports circulating that Glencore was eyeing off a potential Rio Tinto merger in recent weeks. If the deal was closed it would be the world’s biggest mining company with a huge portfolio of diversified commodities. More on that here. Rio Tinto today confirmed it was approached earlier this year but said “no discussions are taking place”. “The Rio Tinto board, after consultation with its financial and legal advisors, concluded unanimously that a combination was not in the best interests of Rio Tinto’s shareholders,” the company said in a statement to the ASX. The board’s rejection was communicated to Glencore in early August and Rio said there had been no further contact between the two companies on the merger matter. However, Glencore is reportedly still doing the maths on a potential merger next year but there would be some significant hurdles to jump including regulators in London, Australia and China as well as Rio’s management. “The absolute mountain they’d have to climb from a regulation side would be gigantic,” IG Markets analyst Evan Lucas told Business Insider. “They were approached once it doesn’t mean they wouldn’t do it again,” he said, adding he was reluctant to say the deal wouldn’t get up but it would be very unlikely. The Australian Financial Review reported corporate advisory firm Standard Chartered had done some preliminary work on the deal for Glencore. According to a Bloomberg report Glencore had recently “reached out” to Rio’s largest shareholder, Chinese state-owned Chinalco, to test the waters on a deal. Chinalco holds a 9.8% stake in Rio and could be seen as a supportive party on the deal especially after it failed to secure a seat on the miner’s board. The Swiss trading giant has also reportedly been sounding out other Rio shareholders. Glencore has in the past been vocal about a joint venture between the two companies’ coal operations in the NSW Hunter Valley. At the company’s preliminary results presentation in March, Glencore chief Ivan Glasenberg was asked about a possible joint venture between Rio Tinto and Glencore. Rio Tinto owns the Mount Thorley Warkworth coal mine which is adjacent to Glencore’s Bulga operations in the area. “It’s clear, everyone knows it in the Hunter Valley there’s a lot of synergies between us and Rio Tinto in their Hunter Valley assets. There’s a lot to be done. We can get substantial synergies,” he said. “We’re talking to Rio Tinto but it takes time for both sides to assess each other’s assets. But it’s something we look at. We’ve been talking to them for a long time. How far we’ll get and how soon we can reach an agreement, I don’t know. But it’s something that clearly makes a lot of economic sense.” But all this speculation could be a diversion tactic with the AFP reporting “sources said no talks are underway between the two companies, no final decision has been made and any formal approach would not take place this year”. Talks of merger activity sprung up after an analyst note from Berstein Research was circulated last month. The note said that the deal made sense because Rio is the world’s lowest cost iron ore producer and is relatively cheap. “A Rio Tinto-Glencore combination would create market leading positions in iron ore, copper, nickel, zinc and coal as well as significant optionality around a number of lesser metals and minerals,” Bernstein said in a note. “Moreover, it would create the biggest and most diversified mining company on the planet.” Berstein also argued it would be a more aggressive growth strategy for Rio shareholders. “In a combined portfolio there is a sense in which current Rio shareholders would get the best of both worlds. They get both the growth optionality that comes with the Glencore portfolio as well as Glencore’s conversion of the Pilbara into the most prodigious cash machine that the mining world has ever seen,” the note said. The drop of the iron ore price below $100 a tonne has taken Rio’s market value with it, falling 12% this year to about £56 billion ($AU102.7 billion) compared to Glencore’s market cap which has increased by almost the same amount to £45 billion ($AU82.6 billion), Bloomberg said. But the fall of iron ore, by about 40% this year, puts Rio in a weaker negotiation position which means its management would probably reject the deal. Iron ore generates about 80% or Rio’s revenue and its persistent price weakness could make it the right time for Glasenberg to move on a deal with Rio, especially as the commodity weighs on its share price. Bloomberg reported the merged miner would be worth about $185 billion. It also said Rio’s management would be keen to ensure its executives held key roles in any merger situation, unlike what happened when Glencore bought out Xstrata in a $29 billion deal almost two years ago and threw out most of its management team. But according to IG Markets analyst Evan Lucas it could all be a diversion tactic – a case of look over here while they strike a better deal over there. Lucas told Business Insider with iron ore entering ex-growth, especially as China slows, “there’s no doubt” a number of deals will be done over the next three months. “Expansion and production ramp ups will only get you so far,” he said, adding, “which means you’ve got to look for scale.” “I would be certainly interested to see a Fortescue takeover because it’s [an iron ore] pure-play.” Rio shares were trading up 3.61% at $59.67 on the ASX a short time ago. There’s more here. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLogos of Deutsche Bank AG are seen in Tokyo(Reuters) - U.S. and UK regulators are pushing to settle the Deutsche Bank AG Libor case quickly and hope to extract major penalties, although a conclusion is unlikely before 2015, The Wall Street Journal reported, citing unidentified sources. U.S. prosecutors are also discussing plans to force Deutsche Bank to plead guilty to attempting to manipulate Libor, the interest rate benchmark that underpins trillions of dollars in mortgages, derivatives and consumer credit, the New York Times reported separately, citing legal sources. Officials have not made a final decision, the New York Times added. Deutsche Bank is two years into a turnaround plan launched in 2012 that has seen costs fall and operating profit leap, but the threat of further penalties from alleged misconduct has cast a shadow over the share price and management's success claims. The bank's own investigation has not uncovered any evidence of wrongdoing by senior executives, but did find that "certain employees, acting on their own initiative, engaged in conduct that falls short of the bank's standards," the bank said in a statement. The bank originally hoped to clear the decks of legal issues in 2014 but has guided recently that 2015 will likely be the year instead when the majority of investigations are concluded. Regulators are hoping to convince the bank to pay well into the hundreds of millions of dollars, the Journal said. The bank is being investigated by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Justice Department and the UK Financial Conduct Authority, the newspaper added. The bank has set aside 7.8 billion euros ($9.8 billion) in the past two and a half years for fines and settlements and expects to face another 3 billion in costs in 2014. The litigation reserves are weighing on third-quarter earnings, which benefited from strong retail and investment banking activities, sources familiar with the matter said. The bank faces a number of investigations that touch on the U.S. mortgage market, foreign exchange and high-frequency trading. Banks such as BNP Paribas SA and Credit Suisse Group AG paid heavy fines earlier this year for violating the U.S. sanctions. Deutsche Bank shares were down 1.2 percent at 0812 GMT, one of the biggest falls among European banking peers.  (Reporting by Rishika Sadam in Bangalore and Thomas Atkins in Frankfurt; Editing by Leslie Adler and Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
CHIBA Japan (Reuters) - Panasonic Corp's &lt;6752.T&gt; initial investment in Tesla Motors Inc's &lt;tsla.o&gt; battery factory will amount to "tens of billions" of yen, the Japanese company's chief executive said on Tuesday. Chief Executive Kazuhiro Tsuga also told reporters that he did not think the yen's current exchange was "bad," as long as it remained stable. He did not give any more details. California-based electric car maker Tesla has been hammering out the final details of the plant that will produce cheaper and more efficient battery packs for its vehicles. Panasonic has agreed to produce lithium ion cells for battery packs and will fund part of the cost of the plant. (Reporting by Reiji Murai; Editing by Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andres StapffGood morning! European markets are down early Tuesday, following some grim news from Germany’s manufacturers. Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40 is down 0.69% Spain's IBEX is down 0.84% Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.14% Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.68% Germany's DAX is down 0.66%. Asian markets closed mixed. The Nikkei closed down 0.67%, while the Hang Seng closed up 0.25%. U.S. futures are down a little, with Dow futures down 48 points and and S&amp;P futures down 5.6 points.  It's a slow day for data. German industrial production dropped 4% from July to August, versus an expected decline of 1.5%. Industrial production numbers for the UK are out at 4:30 a.m. ET. In the US later, consumer credit change data comes out at 3 p.m. ET, and there are speeches by Fed policymakers Narayana Kocherlakota and Bill Dudley. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Antonio Bronic German industrial production dropped 4% from July to August, versus an expected decline of 1.5%. This is the biggest month-on-month drop in five years. The figure represents a 2.8% drop on the same month last year. Similarly ugly numbers on factory orders released on Monday and the worrying business reports suggest the sector is in decline. We don't yet have a full quarter's data, but Claus Vistesen at Pantheon Macroeconomics is already saying the German manufacturing sector "is in a recession." "The weakness in industrial production has now significantly increased the probability that German GDP failed to grow at all in the third quarter," Chris Scicluna of Daiwa Capital Markets added in a note.  There are factors to consider here: largely the effect of summer holidays in Europe. But even if Germany's industrial growth isn't going rapidly into reverse, it's stalled at best. Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Suzanne Plunkett Professor John O'Keefe at a news conference in London on Monday. Anglo-American O'Keefe and Norwegian couple May-Britt and Edvard Moser won the 2014 Nobel Prize for medicine on Monday for discovering the brain's internal positioning system, helping humans find their way and giving clues to how strokes and Alzheimer's affect the brain. Good morning. Here's what you need to know for Tuesday.  1. Islamic State militants have entered the Syrian town of Kobani on the Turkish border. The Guardian warns that capturing Kobani would "give the group full control of a large stretch of the Turkish-Syrian border." 2. A Spanish nurse has been infected with Ebola after treating two patients in Madrid. She is thought to be the first person to have contracted the virus outside West Africa. 3. US President Barack Obama said the White House was taking an "all-hands-on-deck" approach to preventing an Ebola outbreak in the US. Last week, a man traveling from Liberia was the first patient to receive a diagnosis of the virus while on US soil.  4. Samsung has forecast a 60% drop in third-quarter profits from a year ago. This is the biggest decline in quarterly profits since 2009.  5. South Korean and North Korean patrol boats exchanged fire on a disputed sea border, before the North Korean ship retreated.  6. Hewlett-Packard confirmed Monday that the company would split into two separate businesses. The breakup will lead to massive layoffs. 7. The recipient of the Nobel Prize in physics will be announced on Tuesday from Stockholm. On Monday, the Nobel Prize in medicine was awarded jointly to John O'Keefe and husband-and-wife team Edvard and May-Britt Moser for "their discoveries of cells that constitute a positioning system in the brain." 8. Russian president Vladimir Putin turns 62 on Tuesday.  9. A proposed chapel on the outskirts of Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, took the top award in the seventh annual World Architecture Festival held in Singapore.  10. An extremely rare lunar eclipse, a horizontal eclipse, will be visible to those in Australia, western Asia, islands in the Pacific Ocean, and much of North America on Wednesday, Oct. 8.  And finally ... American conservatives are going nuts over a third-grade textbook math problem that shows students how to subtract using the "counting-up" method rather than the standard "borrow and carry" approach.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Fiat logo is seen on a car during a press preview at the 2013 New York International Auto Show in New YorkMILAN (Reuters) - Italian car maker Fiat &lt;fia.mi&gt; said on Tuesday the merger with its U.S. unit Chrysler will be effective as of Oct. 12 after all conditions for the tie-up to go through were met. Fiat said no creditors had opposed the merger and the amount of money to be paid to shareholders that chose to sell their shares had not exceeded a 500-million euro cap set by the company. Shares in the new holding Fiat Chrysler Automobiles will start trading on the New York Stock Exchange on Oct. 13, Fiat said in a statement.   (Reporting by Valentina Za) FREE AppDownload
Hong Kong is one of the most densely populated areas in the world. Here are some facts about its housing, wealth, and economy that will make you realize its importance to the region. Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
