NEW YORK (Reuters) - Whatever investors are worried about right now, those concerns are not showing up in Wall Street's fear gauge. That scares some. On the other hand, it more than likely means that stocks will keep taking things slow and steady. The CBOE Volatility Index &lt;.VIX&gt;, or VIX, closed on Friday at 11.36, its lowest level since March 2013. That means investors see less risk ahead, particularly with the S&amp;P 500 &lt;.SPX&gt; ending at a record high again on Friday. With the typically slow summer months just ahead and little on the horizon to shake the market from its current course, investors could be looking at even lower VIX levels, some analysts said. "It's not that there's no likelihood of a correction. It's that people don't perceive anything to derail the train at this point," said Andrew Wilkinson, chief market analyst at Interactive Brokers LLC in Greenwich, Connecticut. "So I think people are beginning to wonder: Are we heading back to single-digit volatility?" The S&amp;P 500's record high and the drop in the VIX are not the only signs that fear is not a factor on Wall Street. Volume is down as well. S&amp;P 500 E-mini futures volume was below the 1.52 million daily average of the past year on every day this week except Tuesday. The market's gain has come despite concerns about a slowdown in China and weakness in small-cap names. Typically small-cap stocks lead the market's advance when the U.S. economy is improving. However, the recent selloff in small-cap stocks, which drove the Russell 2000 index &lt;.TOY&gt; briefly into correction territory last week, seems to have slowed. The Russell gained 2.1 percent this week, its biggest weekly bounce in more than a month. The index is less than 7 percent below its record close of 1,208.65 in early March. At the same time, the Dow Jones Transportation Average &lt;.DJT&gt; hit record territory late Friday, nearly breaking above the 8,000 level. "One of the reasons the VIX is so low, we haven't really done anything this year. We haven't moved an awful lot," said J.J. Kinahan, chief derivatives officer of TD Ameritrade in Chicago. For the year, the S&amp;P 500 has gained just 2.8 percent. To be sure, some analysts say the lack of volatility suggests a complacency that could encourage excessive risk-taking. New York Federal Reserve Bank President William Dudley and Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher have both expressed such concerns in recent days. "The lower the VIX, the more overbought the market gets, leaving it vulnerable to some kind of setback," said Donald Selkin, chief market strategist at National Securities in New York. But the lack of volatility is also showing up in the foreign-exchange and commodities markets, according to Bespoke Investment Group analysts. They noted lower implied volatility in options in the foreign-exchange market as well as recent stability in the PowerShares Deutsche Bank Agriculture Index exchange-traded fund &lt;DBA.P&gt;. "If the VIX index is pricing in too little volatility, then why is it wrong to do so?" Bespoke analysts wrote. (Wall St Week Ahead runs every Friday. Questions or comments on this column can be emailed to: caroline.valetkevitch(at)thomsonreuters.com ) (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch; Additional reporting by Ryan Vlastelica; Editing by Jan Paschal) FREE AppDownload
Wedding invitations are cluttering everyone's social calendar right now as we move into prime wedding season. But dressing for summer weddings can be a challenge: You can't wear that tux to your friend's beach wedding or a seersucker suit to a black tie affair. Toby Bateman, the Buying Director at online menswear retailer MR PORTER, answered all of our summer wedding style questions.  For more on how to dress for a summer wedding, you can also check out the wedding style section at MR PORTER. From what to wear at the beach to deciding which tie is best, here is your definitive wedding style guide. MR PORTER All items available through MR PORTER ($90-$1,990) "For a city wedding, I tend to keep my suit choice fairly sober — one that works as a summer business uniform in dark blue or a mid-grey wool that I then freshen up a bit with shoes and accessories," Bateman says. "The shirt should be classic in a crisp white or pale blue poplin and teamed with a smartly polished leather lace up shoe — oxford or derby, not a brogue." "Add a fresh colored plain or neatly patterned tie and a pocket square, neatly folded or with a flourish, to complete the look," he advises. (See how to perfectly fold your pocket square here.) MR PORTER All items available through MR PORTER ($145-$2,345)  "For the country, a pale grey or a pale blue suit would be totally acceptable," Bateman says. "If you’re likely to be standing on someone’s lawn drinking PIMMS, this is your chance to be a bit more liberal with the fabrication of the suit – cotton or linen works and is more softly structured than your business suit." And don't be afraid of pattern in your suit or shirt choice. "Suits can be worn with either a plain shirt or one with a small scale pattern such as a small gingham or floral print," Bateman says. "If you have gone for a patterned shirt or suit then you might want to leave the pocket square at home or choose a subtle option to avoid too many patterns from clashing." "Shoes should be neutral but do not need to be as formal as the lace up worn for the city wedding, so a smart loafer works just as well." MR PORTER All items available through MR PORTER ($85-$340) "Surely if someone is getting married on the beach, anything goes?" Bateman jokes. "Bring out the linen or opt for an unlined suit for a more casual and comfortable option."  "You can also mix the jacket and trousers, ditch the tie, or even adopt a sandal for a more laid-back look." MR PORTER Both items available through MR PORTER (Left: $1,950, Right: $665) "A single breasted jacket – one or two-button – is standard and typically the safest bet for weddings." Bateman says.  "The double-breasted jacket is also fine, but the thing about this style is that the fit is a bit more difficult to pull off," he says. "It should be tailored short in the body and fitted well around the waist, so I would only recommend it for those well-versed about style and fit." MR PORTER Ties available through MR PORTER ($190-$225) "Establish the dress code first — a Windsor knot is best worn with a spread collar for more formal occasions," Bateman explains. "The four-in-hand [standard knot] is best for casual settings." "Bow-ties don’t suit everyone and can sometime come off as cartoonish or a bit Pee Wee Herman, so I typically recommend them for a more formal wedding worn in black for a simple and sleek look," he adds. Still confused? Check out this handy infographic on correct tie proportion, length, and choosing the right knot for your collar. Get a tailor: An ill-fitting suit will ruin your look. Follow the groom's example (and the invitation dress code): If the groom is wearing a tux but the invitation says casual, go for a suit. If he's wearing something more casual like a linen suit, then you should too. Be bold with accessories: Pocket squares, ties, cuff links, tie clips, belts, and shoes can all make an outfit seem more interesting or original. It's the details that count! FREE AppDownload
SEC/flickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. It Is Officially Dangerously Quiet In Markets [The Economist] The Vix has dropped to its lowest since 2007. Bond volatility is creeping closer to the historic lows it reached a year ago. And foreign exchange volatility is back to the lows of 2007. This is all probably bad, says the Economist. "One reason folks on Wall Street are deeply skeptical, if not downright hostile, to the Fed's policies is that they believe volatility is the natural order of things and artificially suppressing it via monetary policy is morally equivalent to price fixing, and more practically, bound to end in tears when the system's natural instability returns. I don't have much sympathy with the moral arguments; all monetary regimes fix the price of something in terms of money: bonds, short-term treasury bills, foreign exchange, gold. But I do worry that by squeezing out short-term volatility, we may be storing up long-term volatility. Hyman Minsky had spent most of the post-war years developing his thesis that stability begets instability, and died, in 1996, before he saw it vindicated with the 'Minsky moment' of 2008."  Summer Stock Doldrums Set In Early [BESPOKE] While there remains plenty of volatility in small cap and momentum stocks, the broader market has set into its usual summer complacency early, Bespoke says. "Over the last three months the spread between the S&amp;P 500’s intraday high and low has been less than 5% (chart below).  To find a three month range where the S&amp;P 500 traded in a narrower range over a three month period, you have to go eight years back all the way to October 2006." Bespoke 'Smart Money' Blows Apple Trade [FORTUNE] Goldman bought 4.8 million Apple puts last quarter. Morgan Stanley, meanwhile, reported that allocation to Apple among the top 100 investors in the stock fell last quarter to 2.0% -- near the low end of its historic range of 1.6% to 4.5%. All of them blew it: recently, Apple shares began a run that put it at a 12-month high of $609.85. Shares are now up 10% on the year.  "Performance headwinds from stock-picking," Goldman  wrote clients, "were compounded by poor market timing." Investment Advisers Are Going Unscrutinized [WSJ] "Only a fraction of SEC-registered investment advisers are examined regularly, and Mr. Gallagher said it is unlikely his agency would receive the resources from Congress to beef up oversight," the Wall Street Journal's Matthias Rieker reports. And the SEC is calling out for assistance. "SEC Commissioner Daniel Gallagher said that help should come from private firms, such as auditing firms, or from self-regulatory organizations like the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority."   FREE AppDownload
Falcon Global CapitalBrett Stapper, the co-founder of Bitcoin investment fund Falcon Global Capital, filed paperwork this week to lobby members of Congress and federal agencies on issues related to the cryptocurrency. Stapper told Business Insider he's interested in educating officials about Bitcoin,  "Our objectives at this point are very simple. In our discussions and debates we have realized that those who oppose Bitcoin don't really oppose it, they simply don't understand it. Our main concern is that our elected officials will pass regulations without being fully educated on the topic which could have a negative impact on the Bitcoin ecosystem," Stapper said.  Stapper also wants to encourage more officials to accept donations in the cryptocurrency. "Our goal is to educate these elected officials and to offer them guidance on how to accept Bitcoin contributions," explained Stapper. "If we can be successful with these efforts, we feel the Bitcoin ecosystem could be greatly impacted. We are making ourselves available to speak with any politician that wishes to understand Bitcoin and the acceptance of Bitcoin contributions." Earlier this year, Stapper made headlines when he offered to purchase the Bitcoins seized by the FBI when it shut down the illicit online marketplace Silk Road.  Stapper isn't the first Bitcoin-focused lobbyist on Capitol Hill. Last month, the lobbying firm Peck Madigan Jones filed paperwork indicating five of its staffers would be working on Bitcoin on behalf of Mastercard. However, its unclear whether Mastercard's lobbyists have a specific stance on Bitcoin. Peck Madigan Jones told The Hill its efforts were dedicated to "gathering information in connection with recent congressional hearings to better understand the policy issues around virtual and anonymous currencies." Stapper seems to be the first unambiguously pro-Bitcoin lobbyist in D.C. He told Business Insider he's interested into converting officials into "supporters" of the cryptocurrency. "We hope that others will eventually join us in this effort. It is an exciting year for Bitcoin and a very important one, we feel having supporters in Government is one of the most crucial and important issues within Bitcoin," Stapper said.       FREE AppDownload
ReutersProtestors clash with police at McDonald's corporate headquarters on Wednesday, May 21.The movement for higher wages in the fast food industry is gaining widespread attention and public support, but it's unlikely to change workers' paychecks any time soon. The most effective labor movements in U.S. history won concessions from employers by unionizing and organizing strikes that shut down entire factories, railroads, and coal mines. By comparison, a two-day protest held at McDonald's headquarters this week caused little more than traffic problems, forcing some corporate employees to work from home for a day.  A global day of strikes one week earlier also failed to interrupt business at the chains they targeted, which included McDonald's, Wendy's, Burger King, and KFC. Protestors claimed a handful of restaurants were forced to shut down for at least several hours, but the companies denied those claims.  "This is a nascent movement," said Tom Juravich, the director of the University of Massachusetts at Amherst's Labor Relations and Research Center. "It has a long way to go in terms of actually making a difference." Fast Food Forward, the union-backed group organizing the protests, is demanding a $15 hourly minimum wage. The minimum wage in the U.S. is currently set at $7.25 an hour. The movement, now about two years old, has been gaining ground.  But "corporate America is incredibly powerful ... and I don't want to be naive and suggest that a few street protests will bring Walmart or McDonald’s down," Juravich said.  American workers have been unionizing and striking for better pay and working conditions since the mid-19th century, as the industrial revolution led to a boom in manufacturing and coal mining jobs. One of first major successful strikes came in October 1902 and involved more than 140,000 unionized coal miners in eastern Pennsylvania. Lasting 163 days, the Anthracite Coal Strike threatened to create an energy crisis. It only ended when the federal government intervened as an arbiter and worked out a deal that gave workers a 10% wage increase — down from their initial demand of 20% — and a nine-hour workday, down from the 10-hour days they were previously working.  Three decades later, General Motors workers inspired similar change in the auto industry through a sit-down strike  — where workers take control of a company facility — at several major manufacturing plants in Flint, Michigan. Until then, auto workers had been fighting unsuccessfully for higher wages and shorter workdays through strikes at various smaller plants. The sit-down strike nearly halted GM's business, dropping its production rate from 53,000 vehicles weekly in December 1936, when the strikes began, to 1,500 vehicles weekly in February of 1937, according to a report by Joshua Hausman, an assistant professor of public policy at the University of Michigan. GM eventually caved and agreed to recognize the United Auto Workers union as the exclusive bargaining agent for its workers, and the UAW moved on to target Chrysler and Ford.  As a result of the UAW's actions, average hourly earnings for auto workers rose 22% to 96 cents between October 1936 and and July 1937, according to Hausman's report.  The coal strike and GM strike were successful because employees unionized and gained leverage over their employers by disrupting production. But fast food workers have tried unsuccessfully to unionize in the past, and with most major fast food chains owning thousands of restaurants across the world, it will be difficult for workers to achieve the same level of disruption. "These jobs have extremely high turnover, so by the time you get around to organizing folks, they’re not on the job anymore," explained Ruth Milkman, a sociology professor at the City University of New York, in a 2012 interview with the New York Times. For now, it appears that fast food workers are going to be in this for the long haul. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/NASA/Carla Cioffi/HandoutMarkets were up ahead of the three-day weekend. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Financial Times economics editor Chris Giles says French economist Thomas Piketty's best-selling "Capitalism in the 21st Century," about rising inequality in the West, contains serious errors that undermine his conclusion that wealth distributions are widening. Giles says there are clear examples of some "fat finger" mistranscriptions and compares the situation to omissions found in Reinhart's and Rogoff's data on debt levels and growth. But while the two Harvard professors' errors seemed to have been unintended, Giles levels a more serious critique: that Piketty actively manipulated his data. His most damning claim: Piketty altered U.K. data to show that wealth distribution there is worse off than it appears to be. Piketty says the share of income going to the top 10% never fell lower than 60%, and since the end of the 1970s has returned to 70%, a level not seen in 70 years. But the data Piketty himself cites shows the top 10% share of wealth is no greater than 50%, and may be as low as 42%. Giles writes: "This appears to be the result of swapping between data sources, not following the source notes, misinterpreting the more recent data and exaggerating increases in wealth inequality." Below is the chart. The right-most portion of Piketty's blue trend line showing the share of wealth owned by the top 10% of Britons ends up well above what's suggested by the data, in red, that Piketty himself cites.  Meanwhile, just one official data point for the top 1% share of wealth aligns with Piketty's blue line. But Giles said the source of that data said it was not suitable for the kind of calculation Piketty is trying to make.  "Prof. Piketty ends his series taking at face value the level of the HMRC data, despite HMRC saying clearly the data is not suited for that purpose, nor is it consistent with the old Inland Revenue Series which Prof. Piketty uses for earlier years. This latter point is also clearly stated in the notes to the source data." Chris Giles/FT In a follow-up video on FT.com, Giles shows another example: Piketty appears to have added random numbers to certain formula to bend the data toward his hypothesis. "A 2 is added because the number wasn't high enough — it didn't seem to fit what he wanted to show in his charts, so he just added 2 to it," Giles says. "There was quite a lot of this sort of thing in his spreadsheets." FT.com In his full response published by the FT, Piketty said the discrepancies were simply adjustments to raw data to smooth them over time and across countries. "I have tried ... to make the most justified choices and arbitrages about data sources and adjustments," he writes. "I have no doubt that my historical data series can be improved and will be improved in the future (this is why I put everything online)." Read Giles' full blow-by-blow account of Piketty's alleged error here » FREE AppDownload
facebook.com/FINALENYCAfter sunset, New York City turns into an adult playground, with raucous nightclubs, hidden late-night eateries, and bars that come to life in the wee hours of the morning.  TripAdvisor recently came out with a new survey that confirms that New York is, in fact, the best city in the world for nightlife.  This is no surprise, considering that the city that never sleeps is home to over 2,500 bars and nightclubs, with more opening up every single month. Travelers also ranked New York as having the best restaurants in the world. New York was not, however, ranked the number one overall city. That title went to Tokyo for its taxi service, public transportation, cleanliness, and helpfulness of the locals. Singapore, Rome, and Dubai also ranked high as traveler favorites. To complete the World City Survey, the travel site surveyed more than 50,000 reviews on either a hotel, restaurant or attraction in the featured cities during 2013. To be included in the results, a city was required to have a minimum of 300 completed responses, with the ranking based on average scores for each question. All analysis was conducted by Brainbox Research.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr / 20after4Sometimes people ask Jon Stein, founder of the digital advising site Betterment.com, why they should allow a computer to manage their investments. His response is simple: Why wouldn't they? Computer algorithms aren't emotional. They're not fearful or greedy. They don't get lazy or take vacations. They don't have conflicts of interest, and they aren't subject to all the irrational behavioral biases that make investing so hard for humans to get right. "We all use algorithms in our daily lives to simplify common tasks — screening spam from our email, requesting directions from home to a restaurant, finding books or music we might enjoy," Stein says. "Now we're applying algorithms to optimize retail investing." Digital advisors tout their ability to make investing simple, easy — and cheap. Some, including Jemstep and SigFig, offer free analysis of your portfolio and suggestions for improving your returns. The sites that actually manage money for you — Betterment, Wealthfront, FutureAdvisor, and now SigFig, which recently added management services — favor ultralow-cost exchange-traded funds and typically charge 0.25% to 0.5% of the amount clients invest with them. That compares with wrap fees of 1% or more at brokerages and many financial planning firms, on top of whatever the investments cost. It's not unusual for brokerage clients to end up paying 2% "all in" — wrap fees plus investment costs — while the total cost at sites like Betterment and Wealthfront is typically under 0.6%. Certified Financial Planner and blogger Michael Kitces, who has closely followed the growth of the digital advisor industry, says the investment management sites "are becoming very sophisticated in their capabilities to effectively execute a core diversified portfolio at a very low cost." "For those who want assistance in constructing a well-diversified portfolio they can set on autopilot — with technology to oversee the key issues of rebalancing and tax-loss harvesting — and not need to worry about it, this new generation of online investing tools provides an appealing new option," says Kitces, a partner in Pinnacle Advisory Group of Columbia, Maryland, who blogs at Nerd's Eye View. A few sites combine the human touch with computerized advice. Personal Capital connects customers with a human advisor and charges a 0.95% wrap fee. LearnVest doesn't manage investments, but clients can access a Certified Financial Planner by phone and email to ask questions. Upfront fees range from $89 for basic budgeting help to $399 for more comprehensive planning, plus a $19 monthly fee. That is likely to be significantly cheaper than the $150 or more per hour many middle-income people would pay for objective, fee-only advice — assuming such advice was available in their area, Kitces says. A digital advisor isn't the best fit for someone who needs face-to-face interaction or who is trying to beat the market, since the algorithms favor investments that try to match market returns. Clients need to understand these sites are all essentially startups — it's not clear which will thrive and which will fail. Money invested with them won't disappear, since it's protected in SIPC-insured accounts, but you may need to find a new brokerage if the digital advisor shuts down. For those willing to take a chance, though, digital advisors now provide an affordable alternative. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Benoit TessierThomas Piketty director of the Paris School of Economics (PSE) attends the inauguration of the school in Paris, February 22, 2007. FT economics editor Chris Giles says he has found serious errors in data used by Thomas Piketty in his best seller "Capitalism in the 21st Century," about growing inequality in the Western world. "Some issues concern sourcing and definitional problems," Giles writes. "Some numbers appear simply to be constructed out of thin air." Correcting for the errors revealed fundamentally different conclusions about rising inequality, Giles said. "Two of Capital in the 21st Century’s central findings – that wealth inequality has begun to rise over the past 30 years and that the US obviously has a more unequal distribution of wealth than Europe – no longer seem to hold," he writes. He continues: For example, once the FT cleaned up and simplified the data, the European numbers do not show any tendency towards rising wealth inequality after 1970. An independent specialist in measuring inequality shared the FT’s concerns. Giles says he noticed the discrepancies while researching an article on UK wealth distribution. While Piketty said the top 10% per cent of British people held 71%, the UK's Office for National Statistics said it was just 44%. The alleged discrepancies are similar to ones that undermined findings of Carmen Reinhart and Ken Rogoff in their study of debt levels and growth, Giles says. Reached by the FT, Piketty responded that he'd used “a very diverse and heterogeneous set of data sources ... [on which] one needs to make a number of adjustments to the raw data sources." They paper has printed Piketty's full response here »  Piketty's findings renewed the focus on growing inequality in recent weeks. If Giles' findings bear out, they could cause that attention to dissipate.    Click here to read Giles' write-up of his findings »   FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin prices climbed 20% this week, briefly hitting a one-month high of $536, as concerns about a crackdown in China on the cryptocurrency eased slightly. In an interview with CoinDesk Monday, the heads of two of China's largest exchanges said they remained optimistic about Bitcoin's future in China, despite a third exchange shutting down this month over what it said was "unprecedented pressure" from the PBOC.  "The People’s Bank of China’s policies would 'bring a period of hardship', but, in the long term, the situation would improve, he predicted, since the government has shown some interest in communicating with bitcoin companies," CoinDesk's Jon Southurst reported Monday.  Prices have since come down a bit to $523. Chart: CoinDesk FREE AppDownload
Economists had been hoping for a spring rebound in the U.S. housing market. While the recent data shows some improvement, it's far from the strength economists had hoped to see.  Recently, NAR chief economist Lawrence Yun said that home sales should have been stronger because of population growth, but that hasn't been the case. Instead, prices have climbed faster because of tight inventory.  "The lack of inventory is a key issue in this recovery cycle," writes Mark Fleming at CoreLogic. There are about 2.3 million existing homes for sale as of April. But there are "even fewer homes for sale that do not suffer from housing obsolescence — properties that are no longer desirable because their characteristics do not match what buyers are looking for in a home," writes Fleming. These include homes that are in locations which are no longer popular or in neighborhoods that lack the amenities people want. This means there are fewer homes that buyers actually want, than the stock for sale within the nearly 2.3 million existing-home inventory.  "Just as shadow inventory is the stock of properties in delinquency or foreclosure that are not yet for sale, these buyers waiting in the wings are the new 'shadow demand,'" writes Fleming. In 2007, there was hardly a difference between the days on market (DOM) for sold homes and the active (existing) inventory. The higher the ratio, the longer the DOM of all homes on the market, compared to DOM for sold homes. This chart shows the rise in housing obsolescence since the financial crisis. While the ratio of DOM for all homes to sold homes is coming down, it's still much higher than 2007 levels. Business Insider/CoreLogic   FREE AppDownload
Camp OrendaNot every Wall Streeter is into spending their summer weekends with sand, surf, and New York City club transplants — i.e. The Hamptons. For those who prefer a more rustic getaway, Camp Orenda in the Adirondacks has become a solid alternative. Yes, there are gorgeous vistas — like Crane Mountain, one of the few mountains in the eastern U.S. that has a natural large lake on top — a river, three-tiered waterfall, and other examples of the upstate New York's natural beauty. But the most important thing about Orenda that it's incredibly luxurious. Think steaming hot showers, tents with gorgeous full beds, and farm-to-table anything (or gluten-free, or kosher, or whatever you need). The point was to create a camping experience for people who can't keep camping gear in their tiny NYC apartment — and that you never have to open your wallet once you get to camp. Some call this concept "glamping" (glamour plus camping), though Orenda founder David Webb dislikes the term. It's a tradition that predates the term by a long time anyway. "If there's ever a true founder of the glamping concept its those old style Robber Barons," said Webb. "They took pride in going into the back country and doing it in style and comfort." Of course, the Robber Barons took about 150 servants with them, and Orenda does it with a staff of about five. They also probably didn't do yoga along with their kayaking, hiking, and archery. Either way, it's working. Last year, The New York Times put Orenda on its 46 places to visit list, and since that time visits to the camp have shot up 300%.   FREE AppDownload
Tim Elmes Group Waterfront EstateSt. Regis Bal Harbour Resort and ResidencesThe chairman and CEO of investment bank Cantor Fitzgerald, Howard Lutnick, recently spent $22.75 million on a pad in the St. Regis Bal Harbour in south Florida, according to The Wall Street Journal. Although it's not completely finished, the massive, 14,000-square-foot condominium was built in 2012 and can hold up to 11 bedrooms and 11 baths. It takes up the entire 25th floor of the Resort and Residences complex, and has 4,000 square feet of terraces with panoramic views of the beach and city. According to the floorplan, the condo also has two elevator entrances, and can have two master bedrooms, a wine gallery and library, 16-seat dining table, media room, and indoor garden. Lutnick will also get five parking spaces. Realtor Tim Elmes of Coldwell Banker told The WSJ that Lutnick bought the property in early May from Yuriy Kosyuk, CEO of the Ukrainian agro-industrial company MHP. The 25th floor apartment was originally divided into five separate units, which Kosyuk bought but never finished by the time he put it on the market for $24.9 million about a year ago.   The St. Regis in Bal Harbour, which is northeast of Miami, has nearly 1,000 feet of ocean frontage. There is also a private gym, pool, "exclusive concierge," and housekeeping. See some of the renderings below: Tim Elmes Group Waterfront EstatesIndoor garden and dining room table Time Elmes Group Waterfront EstatesAnother view showing the living area, bar, and fireplace Tim Elmes Group Waterfront EstatesMaster bedroom Tim Elmes Group Waterfront EstateMaster bathroom Tim Elmes Group Waterfront EstatesAnother bedroom Tim Elmes Group Waterfront EstatesFloorplan FREE AppDownload
Photo courtesy of Brian Kinsella Brian Kinsella, a former U.S. Army captain, speaks at the 2013 Night For Life on board the Intrepid in New York City.Goldman Sachs energy-sector specialist Brian Kinsella, a former U.S. Army captain, has made it his mission to combat the military veteran suicide epidemic ever since he left the service. An estimated 18 to 22 veterans take their own lives every day. That's one veteran suicide every 65 minutes. There are about 8,000 veteran suicide deaths per year. The suicide rate among vets is well above the national average. "As we bring home the last of our soldiers, we must remember that our generation will be judged by the way we take care of our troops coming home," Kinsella told Business Insider. Kinsella, 30, is the CEO and founder of the nonprofit organization Stop Soldier Suicide. He cofounded the organization in 2010 with two other vets who now work in finance — Nick Black (COO), who is the founder and CEO of Victory Social Capital, and Craig Gridelli (CFO), who is about to graduate with his MBA from the University of Chicago Booth School of Business to join Miller Buckfire on the restructuring team. While in the Army, Kinsella served with soldiers who took their own lives. He knew soldiers who had suicidal ideations and many who were struggling with mental-health issues. Photo courtesy of Brian KinsellaKinsella in the Army as a captain. "Within a few months of my first assignment, one of my own soldiers attempted to take her life. Her attempt was unsuccessful and today she is a successfully transitioned veteran, a college graduate, and a proud mother. She found the will to live and her story inspired me," Kinsella said. Kinsella joined Goldman Sachs last year from BNP Paribas. He spent five years in the Army after college and four years on Wall Street.  Working in finance involves 80-hour weeks, but Kinsella still manages to find time to work on Stop Soldier Suicide. "I would say I spend every waking hour of free time on the nonprofit. What suffers the most is sleep and working out," he said. After leaving the office, he'll go home and work from 11 p.m. until 1 a.m. on Stop Soldier Suicide.  "It is definitely full time — whenever I get a chance I am working on the nonprofit," he said. Since its founding, Stop Soldier Suicide has created a national and community-based network of volunteers and partner organizations providing triage and alternative solutions for soldiers, veterans, and military family members. SSS uses social media to raise awareness and create an avenue for folks who need help to reach out through private messaging. When someone reaches out, SSS not only connects that person to a mental-healthcare provider but it also asks questions to try to identify the catalyst or trigger for suicidal ideation. They also continue to do check-ins with those who have been helped. To date, they've been able to help 581 people. Photo courtesy of Brian Kinsella Kinsella puts an SSS pin on World War II veteran Jerry Yellin for his work to end the warrior suicide epidemic. As soldiers return home, Kinsella sees a wave of suicides coming. That's why he wants to ramp up efforts and funding for the nonprofit, but he has competition.  There are over 40,000 veteran-focused nonprofits in the country vying for funding. Kinsella said his team has made an effort to operate a low-overhead business model so they can stay around for decades to come. They have their headquarters in Raleigh, North Carolina, and have one full-time employee. Kinsella and the other cofounders don't accept a salary. Because they work in finance, they're diligent about how they handle money.  Right now, they can't sustain the demand for their services, Kinsella said. They need funding to hire an executive director and set up the 24/7 operations center. On Wednesday, May 28, they'll host A Night For Life fundraiser along with a number of folks on Wall Street on board the Intrepid in Manhattan.  FREE AppDownload
NASDAQFireEye at the Nasdaq Shares of internet security company FireEye (FEYE) topped out at $95.63 on March 5 before falling more than 70%. The stock served as a poster child for the aggressive sell-off in many internet-related momentum stocks. Financial blogger The Fly, who was long shares of FireEye, outlined his complaints with the company's treatment of shareholders in this blog post. We chronicled The Fly's struggles here.  One of The Fly's main complaints was FireEye's secondary offerings of common stock. In early March, FireEye filed to sell about 14 million shares. This offering came right near the top in the share price, which isn't an uncommon move by companies: striking the iron while its hot. But in April, not long after shares of FireEye's security peer Imperva (IMPV) cratered following its earnings report, FireEye offered another 13 million shares. These shares were offered by insiders at Mandiant, a company FireEye acquired in January for $106.5 million. By this second offering, FireEye shares had fallen nearly 50% from their highs, and the company undertook another action that was dilutive to the stock. And while this issuance was in connection with an agreement that was announced two months before the turmoil facing FireEye's stock, this was definitely a shareholder unfriendly move. Further selling ensued. At the time of the second offering, FireEye was trading around $50 per share. Today, it is trading at around $33. But this morning, Barclays published a new research note on FireEye (FEYE), and the firm upgraded the stock to 'Overweight' from 'Equal Weight.'  Barclays said the recent pullback in the stock creates a compelling buying opportunity for long term investors. From Barclays:  FireEye continues to be one of the most disruptive technology names with its differentiated, virtual-machine based approach to security. We believe the recent pullback among high valuation stocks has created a more compelling buying opportunity for long term-investors and as such we are increasing our rating to OW but taking a more conservative approach with our price target and lowering to $40 (from $50), based on a CY15 EV/Sales of 10x. Barclays also notes that FireEye has, "four products and four services either coming to market or potentially being announced over the next few months," and believes the company can position itself to go after the endpoint security market currently dominated by legacy technology. In morning trade, shares of FireEye are up about 3%. Since the beginning of this week, FireEye is up about 20%.  FREE AppDownload
Gov.ukA new report suggests there may be up to 8.6 billion barrels of shale oil underneath southern England.  That would be on top of the potential 1.3 quadrillion cubic feet of shale gas surveyed in the north last year and match some deposit estimates for the U.S.' premier Bakken shale play in North Dakota. There's one catch though: It's not clear how much of the stuff in England's south is recoverable.  In their survey, the U.K.'s Department of Energy and Climate Change write more information is needed to determine how much of the oil-in-place in the Weald region can be extracted. It is still too early to use a more refined methodology, like the USGS’s Technically Recoverable Resource “top-down” estimates, which require production data from wells. In time, the drilling and testing of new wells will give an understanding of achievable, sustained production rates. Earlier this week, we declared the debate in America over whether to continue fracking in the face of the practice's apparent environmental impact been settled.  But it's only just begun in the U.K., which faces skyrocketing energy costs from a host of factors including higher commodity prices, green levies, and uncompetitive markets. A survey last year showed the country was ambivalent on the question, with 68% saying doing so would be good for the economy but 47% fearing fracking would also damage the environment. There is also widespread opposition to annulling a landowner's right of refusal to allow fracking on his or her property.  The Conservative government is doing all it can to placate opposition. It recently announced it was considering paying an average of $1.34 million per community where fracking occurs. That would be in addition to current statutes that allow a $168,000 lump-sum payment to a community when a test well is fracked, plus 1% of any production revenues. FREE AppDownload
15 Central Park WestA duplex condominium at 15 Central Park West sold last week for $48 million, despite clearing about $15 million less than the original asking price, today’s property records show. The 5,610-square-foot apartment spanning the 18th and 19th floors at the Zeckendorfs’ luxury tower sold to an LLC represented by a Chicago law firm, according to records that became public today. The four-bedroom, seven-bath apartment featuring a park-facing terrace, staff room and internal elevator was listed for $62.5 million when it hit the market in October. Listing agent Kyle Blackmon of Brown Harris Stevens could not immediately be reached for comment. The sale marks the second-priciest in the 202-unit building to date, topped only by the $88 million sale of former Citigroup Chairman Sandy Weill’s 6,744-square-foot home in 2012, which set a Manhattan residential record. Blackmon was the listing broker on that deal, as well as the $29 million sale of a 33rd-floor apartment in August. Seller the Ullman Family Partnership bought the apartment that hit public records today for $23.9 million in March 2008, according to city filings. FREE AppDownload
It must've been love, but it's over now. This year has been miserable for hedge funds, especially those with long/short equity strategies. According to research firm Preqin, funds of that type were down an average of 0.24% in April. So that means changes must be made. In its latest Hedge Fund Trend Monitor report, Goldman Sachs has a handy table of stocks hedge funds are dropping to improve their performance. Stocks include Citigroup, GM, Ford, and AIG. Good luck guys. Goldman Sachs, Hedge Fund Trend Monitor FREE AppDownload
UberDreading the drive to the Hamptons this Memorial Day weekend? Uber is looking to make things a little more pleasant. The car service app is offering a flat rate to Hamptons this weekend, and SUV service between Southampton and Montauk over the holiday.  Here's the deal: The flat rates to go to the Hamptons from NYC are $300 for the UberX (seats up to 4), $400 for UberBLACK (seats up to 4) and $500 for UberSUV (seats up to 6).  Once you're in the Hamptons, UberSUVs are available with a $50 minimum fare ($25 base rate and $2.00 per minute, or $6.50 per mile) between Southampton and Montauk.  And though it's markedly more expensive than taking the Long Island Rail Road or the Hampton Jitney bus to the Hamptons, which will cost you around $60 round trip, it's still not bad when you think that is the price for avoiding the madhouse of Penn Station. The company notes that after this weekend, supply in the Hamptons will be limited until the summer officially kicks off.  No word yet on whether the company will one again offer $3,000 helicopter rides out east this summer. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Lucas JacksonMichael Lewis.Longform recently did a great podcast with financial author Michael Lewis, who just released his new book "Flash Boys." There's a section toward the end of the interview where Lewis talks about how he would never have his career path today.  Lewis began his career as a bond salesman at now-defunct firm Salomon Brothers, which was the subject of his first hit book, "Liar's Poker." Lewis left Wall Street for a career as a financial journalist and author. He has written a number of best-selling books. Many of them have been made into films. Longform asked Lewis if he would have become a financial author if he were 30 years younger. Lewis said "probably not." There are two reasons why. One is that it would've been much harder for him to land a  job on Wall Street. He couldn't have stumbled into it, like he did in real life. Furthermore, he notes, the money is so much better today that it would've been impossible for him to leave Wall Street, once he landed that job. Given Michael Lewis' success as a writer, it would've been something of a waste for him to have remained stuck on Wall Street just for money. One can only surmise how many other people are out there, whose true gifts lie elsewhwere, but stay in finance solely for the money.  Here's a transcript from the Longform podcast (emphasis ours):  "Probably not...The reason I say that is if you're taking some version of me that is now 23 years old...So I would have grown up in the world that a 23 year old now is growing up in. In the first place, I probably wouldn't have serendipitously ended up on Wall Street...I would have never have gotten a job. And I probably wouldn't have gotten into Princeton. So I would have had a different trajectory in life probably right from the start...But the competition...has gotten stiffer. So I assume I would be less well positioned for like Wall Street success now at 23 now than when I was at 23. But let's say you adjust me slightly, and my character slightly, so that I got A's in school all the time, and my board scores were perfect, and I was student body president and captain of the football team and so I got to go to Princeton and I worked my way into a position to get a job at Goldman Sachs. The amount of investment I would have put into getting that success would have made it virtually impossible that I would have turned my back on it. The key to my decision to chuck a Wall Street career and go be a writer is that I put almost no effort into getting a Wall Street career. It really landed in my lap. I had this other thing I had put a lot of effort into and really loved which is writing. And I did it all on my own without any help from teachers or anything. I was just trying to freelance and having some success in it. It made it very easy for me to just walk away from it because I hadn't invested anything to get it. You wouldn't be able to do that now. You would have to invested so much to have success on Wall Street. You couldn't imagine walking away. Plus, you add in the numbers. What did they pay me? $225 grand bonus... It was '87, so like $500,000 per year.. But then they'd say 'You'll be making a million bucks in a couple years' kind of thing. Now, that person now would be thinking 'I'll be making $10 million in a couple of years'. And the sums of money have gotten so much greater. I think it would be impossible to make that decision."  Listen to the full podcast here » FREE AppDownload
Jo Marshall/flickrStocks are at all-time highs — and they are likely to go even higher in the next month or two, before "sharply" correcting, according to a new note from Bank of America Merrill Lynch Chief Investment Strategist Michael Hartnett.  "With 56% of the world economy under zero rate policies, $1.8 trillion in central bank liquidity in 2014, and the equity float set to decrease by $565 billion this year, the summer risk remains for a melt-up in stock, credit, and bond prices rather than a melt-down," he writes. Hartnett invokes a notorious phrase last seen in the dot-com-bubble runup. There's been lots of debate about whether this time is different — see this recent David Leonhardt piece in which Robert Shiller tells him that, no, "this time" is usually the same — but Hartnett goes there. "New summer highs in equities are likely to be aided and abetted by 'irrational exuberance' in both credit markets and carry trades. Zero rates continue to induce asset manias." The catalyst to any correction will likely be an acceleration in the Fed's tapering, Hartnett says, although it's still not clear when that acceleration will occur. The Fed just announced it had only just begun the-consideration-of-considering how it should normalize its policies.  "When the end of zero rates is threatened, likely this autumn as unemployment rates drop to uncomfortably low levels, both credit &amp; stock markets should correct sharply," he writes. While BAML's economists still forecast 3% growth for both GDP and U.S. 10-year-note yields for 2014, Hartnett warns that things like the "Japanification of Europe" could cause European investors to further increase their demand for U.S. notes, and that more lackluster housing data could derail U.S. growth. For now, lots of investors have begun increasing cash holdings. That, Hartnett says, "[suggests] the pain trade could be higher stock, credit, and bond prices." FREE AppDownload
Efrem Lukatsky/APViktor Pinchuk, Ukrainian tycoon and philanthropist speaks at a news conference in Kiev, Ukraine.Russian Customs reports this week that imports of steel pipes from Ukraine have dropped by 50% or more, compared to 2013. Steel industry sources in Moscow are predicting the Russian market may have closed to Ukrainian steelmakers, as Gazprom and Rosneft, the largest buyers of pipes, are directed by the Kremlin to buy instead from domestic pipe mills. By contrast, Interpipe, based in Dniepropetrovsk and owned by Victor Pinchuk, is reporting that within two years it expects the current conflict to have blown over. Sales to the Russian market, Pinchuk’s principal income-earner, will recover to the tonnage and revenue levels the company was achieving before July of 2013, according to the latest Interpipe forecast. That is when the Kremlin halted favourable import-quota arrangements for Ukrainian pipes, and imposed penalty import duties. Interpipe was already loss-making before the Russian market began to close. The year-end loss for 2013 has not yet been released by Interpipe. Counting both operating losses and write downs of asset value, industry analysts and traders say this week the loss figure is between $100 and $200 million. “A perfect storm” is the way Interpipe is describing its financial situation to creditors.While Interpipe waits for a recovery on its eastern front, the latest export results for the European Union (EU) reveal that Interpipe’s attempts to increase European sales of its pipes are running into tough competition from French and other trade rivals. Interpipe exports to the EU are unlikely, trade sources claim, to compensate for its losses in the Russian market, as well as in Kazakhstan and Belarus, which belong with Russia to the Eurasian Customs Union. About 30% of Interpipe’s pipe sales went to Russia until last year; about 50% to the combination of Russia, Kazakhstan, and Belarus. US assistance to the Ukrainian economy is too little and maybe too late, Interpipe has been telling industry analysts, to allow significant growth over Interpipe’s results in the US market in 2012 and 2013. John Helmer/Dances With Bears John HelmerDuring 2013 Pinchuk was an advocate of the partnership agreement with the EU, and an outspoken critic of the alternatives proposed by the Kremlin, and by ousted President Victor Yanukovich. Pinchuk, who controls 100% of Interpipe through a Cyprus-based offshore structure, has also financed lobbying against Russia in Washington, Paris, and London. That story can be followed here. Pinchuk’s steel and insurance businesses in Russia have suffered as a consequence. Russian countermeasures have also struck at the confectionery business of Ukrainian president-in-waiting, Petro Poroshenko, and the banking business of Igor Kolomoisky, the acting governor of Dniepropetrovsk. Interpipe generates most of Pinchuk’s income when his creditors allow him to pocket it. Since 2011 the group’s cash flow, trading schemes, and dividends have been covered by restrictions and close supervision of its international bankers, along with the Italian export financing agency, SACE. Last November Interpipe defaulted on a debt repayment to them of $106 million. The company’s current debt has yet to be reported for 2013; it is believed to be just over $1 billion. The banks, led by ING of the Netherlands, Commerzbank of Germany, and Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), are owed more than $543 million; SACE, $156 million. In December Interpipe also defaulted on undertakings to holders of $200 million in Eurobonds; first issued in 2007, their maturity date has been postponed from 2010 to 2017. Interpipe usually produces its draft financial report for the previous year in the month of May. Negotiations with auditors Ernst &amp; Young were protracted last year, and the audited financial statements not released until August. The results estimated for 2013 by industry analysts indicate that revenues fell sharply in the second half of the year, and there was no improvement from the pipe and wheel divisions to lift the first-half earnings figure of $174 million. Only by selling low-value billet steel in western markets was the earnings figure maintained by year’s end. In 2012 Interpipe declared a bottom-line loss of $71.7 million on revenues of $1.8 billion and earnings of $304.6 million. In 2013 revenues and earnings are believed to have dropped by a third. The loss line is projected to have risen correspondingly. “It’s likely to be three digits”, according to one source. “How big the loss to be declared depends on what Ernst &amp; Young agree on the size of the asset impairment.” In the financial reports for 2011 and 2012 revaluation of assets has been greater than impairment and writedown. A Ukrainian industry source claims Pinchuk and Ernst &amp; Young calculate these numbers differently. Since the rebellion against Kiev began in the eastern regions, following Yanukovich’s removal from office on February 21, Interpipe claims there have been no interruptions to work at its Dniepropetrovsk plants. Russian sources say cargo movement has been as usual on the regional railroads bringing in raw materials and taking goods to market; this may be about to change in Donetsk and Lugansk regions, where separatist groups have been enlarging their administrative control. Port operations at Mariupol, Nikolaev, and Odessa are also reportedly normal, though maritime sources claim cargo volumes are down. Interpipe is likely to suffer financially. The collapse of the Ukrainian budget makes unlikely that at least $150 million in value-added tax, collected but not reimbursed, will be repaid. New measures introduced by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) are putting pressure on Interpipe to repay debts of more than $69 million owed to gas supplier, Naftogaz. State-subsidized gas prices are being eliminated, and Interpipe must calculate that this year it should be paying about $450 per thousand cubic metres; that’s two-thirds more than the $268.50 price Yanukovich arranged with the Kremlin and Gazprom last December. The IMF programme released in April also promises to put pressure on Pinchuk’s associated bank, Credit Dnepr, and tighten liquidity for Interpipe. “In the event of capital shortfalls,” the IMF has announced, “the current bank shareholders will be the first line of defense. Capital-deficient banks will be required to submit recapitalization and restructuring plans. The deadlines for compliance are end-December 2014 for the 15 largest banks and end-February 2015 for the 20 next largest banks. Private owners of banks will be asked to make up any capital shortfall through cash injection.” Last autumn, before the November loan default was announced, Pinchuk was reported to be seeking international bank intermediation for the sale of some of his assets. There were no volunteers. Sources close to the company now say Pinchuk may seek support from the incoming president Poroshenko for the merger of some of Interpipe’s assets with other domestic groups. Interpipe’s railway wheel division is one of the assets reported to be on the table. Production there was already contracting by about 10% last year. Dwindling sales to Russia, as well as to the Ukrainian railways, will cut the division’s revenues this year by up to 20%. The Ukrainian candidates with cash and a potential interest in Interpipe – Rinat Akhmetov and Igor Kolomoisky – aren’t friendly: they have been targeted by Pinchuk in a billion-dollar compensation claim in the UK High Court. Other Ukrainian steelmakers, like Sergei Taruta and Konstantin Zhevago, are reluctant to accept Pinchuk as a business partner. Zhevago was speaking of Pinchuk and Kolomoisky when he said recently they shouldn’t be in a London court arguing over the illegal privatization of a Ukrainian iron-ore mine. “The process is incorrect. We can get such a solution that the British court would say that generally the process of privatization was wrong in general. And then Ukrainian lawmakers or the Ukrainian court must make a decision on this matter. What I always lobbied for is transparency and direct sales at auction. I think, let money put people in their places.” Zhevago was implying that if Pinchuk has run out of money, and cannot borrow more, there is no longer a place for him. Interpipe briefed industry analysts on its future prospects on May 20. The company declined to provide details of its presentation or answer questions. This article originally appeared at Dances With Bears. John Helmer is the longest continuously serving foreign correspondent in Russia, and the only western journalist to direct his own bureau independent of single national or commercial ties. Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Noah BergerOSAKA (Reuters) - Panasonic Corp said it expected to become the sole manufacturer in Tesla Motors Inc's planned multibillion-dollar U.S. battery factory, firming up its commitment to the electric car maker's project. The Japanese electronics conglomerate had until this week made only cautious comments about Tesla's plans, for which the carmaker is seeking total investment of around $3 billion in addition to the $2 billion it has pledged to contribute directly. Panasonic does not have a timeframe for a decision on its investment but any expenditure this year would be small, Yoshio Ito, senior managing executive officer and president of the Japanese firm's automotive and industrial division said on Friday. "As we're not anticipating any sudden tenfold increases in demand or anything like that, we think it is right to break it up step-by-step and invest gradually," Ito told reporters at a briefing in Osaka. Demand from the U.S. premium eco-car maker for lithium-ion batteries has been a boon for Panasonic as the Japanese firm seeks to expand its sales of industrial goods to other businesses and reduce its reliance on volatile consumer markets. Ito said the two companies were discussing details of their investment in the new factory and would talk about construction plans. He said Panasonic, which is already Tesla's prime supplier for lithium-ion cells but competes with Samsung SDI Co Ltd for auto batteries, did not expect any rival battery makers to put in a competing bid. However, he said there was a possibility Panasonic would not contribute the majority of the remaining investment even if it became the sole manufacturer at the factory. Tesla Chief Executive Elon Musk told analysts early this month he had expected Panasonic to become the main partner in the project from the outset and expected the two companies to reach an agreement late this year. He said Tesla was talking to other potential investors and that other companies such as suppliers of raw materials would be involved in the project, which is planned to start production in 2017. Musk said Tesla would break ground on one of two planned locations in June. Panasonic signed a contract last October with Tesla to increase its supply to nearly 2 billion battery cells in the four years to 2017, a leap from the roughly 200 million cells it was estimated to have supplied to the U.S. company in the previous two years. Ito also said that Panasonic would spend more than 28 billion yen ($275 million) on auto batteries this year, twice its current budget, with the bulk going towards bumping up domestic production of the small lithium-ion batteries Panasonic supplies to Tesla. Some of the extra spending would be directed to supplying large batteries used by other electric vehicle makers, Ito said. A source with knowledge of the matter said the remainder would be used towards a new zinc battery production facility in India. Panasonic is aiming to be the No. 1 producer of auto batteries by the year ending March 2019, by when it hopes to be making annual revenue of 450 billion yen ($4.43 billion), up from the 130 billion yen it made in the last business year. (Writing by Sophie Knight; Editing by Erica Billingham) FREE AppDownload
Stephen Brashear / Getty ImagesMicrosoft cofounder and chairman Bill Gates, who is consistently ranked as one of the richest people in the world, speaks at the 2013 Microsoft shareholders meeting.If you ask Thomas Corley, being rich has very little to do with luck and everything to do with habits. Corley, who spent five years monitoring and analyzing the daily activities and habits of people both wealthy and living in poverty (233 wealthy and 128 poor, specifically), isolated what he calls "rich habits" — and many of them are simply patterns of thought. "I found in my research that wealthy people are by and large optimists," he says. "They practice gratitude and look at happiness like a habit." Corley, who presents and explains many of his findings in his book "Rich Habits: The Daily Success Habits Of Wealthy Individuals" and on his website, defines "rich people" as those with an annual income of $160,000 or more and a liquid net worth of $3.2 million or more, and "poor people" as those with an annual income of $35,000 or less and a liquid net worth of $5,000 or less. Here are 10 ways Corley found that rich people think differently, based on statements with which they identify. "Daily habits are critical to financial success in life."Rich people who agree: 52%Poor people who agree: 3% Wealthy people think that bad habits create detrimental luck and that good habits create "opportunity luck," meaning they create the opportunities for people to make their own luck. "When I looked at luck," Corley remembers, "a lot of rich people said they were lucky and a lot of poor people said they were unlucky." "The American dream is no longer possible."Rich people who agree: 2%Poor people who agree: 87% "The American Dream is the idea of unlimited potential, that you can make it on your own," says Corley. In his study, the vast majority of rich people believed that wealth is a big part of the American dream (94%), and that the dream is still possible. "Relationships are critical to financial success."Rich people who agree: 88%Poor people who agree: 17% Not only do rich people feel that their relationships are critical to their success, but they put a lot of effort into maintaining them, making a habit of calling up contacts to congratulate them on life events, wish them a happy birthday, or reaching out just to say hello. "When I applied the hello calls and the life event calls to my own life," recalls Corley, "I ended up making another $60,000 as a result." "I love meeting new people."Rich people who agree: 68%Poor people who agree: 11% Hand in hand with valuing relationships comes making new ones. Rich people both love meeting new people and believe that being liked is important to financial success (in fact, it's a whopping 95% that believe in the power of likability, compared to 9% of poor people). "Saving money is critical to financial success."Rich people who agree: 88%Poor people who agree: 52% "Being wealthy is not just making a lot of money," explains Corley. "It's saving a lot, and accumulating wealth. Many of the people I studied aren't wealthy because they made a lot, but because they saved a lot." He's trying to instill what he calls the 80/20 rule in his own children: Save 20% of your income while living on 80%. "I believe in fate."Rich people who agree: 10%Poor people who agree: 90% Poor people are significantly more likely to believe that genetics are important to becoming wealthy, and significantly less likely to believe that they're the cause of their own financial status in life. "Most of the wealthy people I talked to were businesspeople who weren't always wealthy," Corley explains, "but they had this attitude that they could do anything." "Creativity is critical to financial success."Rich people who agree: 75%Poor people who agree: 11% While rich people are more likely to believe that creativity influences success, poor people are more likely to think that being "intellectually gifted" is critical. They're also more likely to believe that wealth is usually accidental. "If you look at my stats, you'll find that a lot of wealthy people were C students," says Corley. "There's more to wealth than just being smart." "I like (or liked) what I do for a living."Rich people who agree: 85%Poor people who agree: 2% "Many of the wealthy in my study loved their job — it's not an accident," says Corley. In fact, 86% of the wealthy worked an average of 50 hours or more per week (compared to 43% of the poor), and 81% say they do more than their job requires (versus 17%). Corley says it's related to the idea of creativity being important to financial success: "These people found a creative pursuit that could turn into monetary value. When you engage in a creative pursuit that can make money, the rewards are often obscene." "Good health is critical to financial success."Rich people who agree: 85%Poor people who agree: 13% "One of the individuals in my study told me 'I can't make money in a hospital bed,'" Corley remembers. "Wealthy people think that being healthy means fewer sick days, which translates into more productivity and more money." "I've taken a risk in search of wealth."Rich people who agree: 63%Poor people who agree: 6% "A lot of the wealthy people in the study were business owners who started their own businesses," Corley explains. "They became successes because they were master self-educators who learned from the school of hard knocks." In fact, 27% of the wealthy people in Corley's study admit they've failed at least once in life or in business, compared with 2% of the poor. "Failure is like scar tissue on the brain," Corley says. "The lessons last forever." FREE AppDownload
APRussian president Vladimir PutinThe markets are higher ahead of the long Memorial Day weekend, and as expected, both volume and the news flow are light. The Dow up up 38 points (0.2%), the S&amp;P is up 3 points (0.2%), and the Nasdaq is up 7 points (0.2%). The big story of the day is Vladimir Putin's appearance on CNBC, during which he called the ouster of Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych a "coup d'état." Putin also said Russia's gas deal with China will enable the country to be a swing gas producer between Europe and Asia.   The biggest stock story of the day is Hewlett-Packard, which last night reported earnings, which were mistakenly released before the bell. The company reported an in-line quarter and announced another huge round of layoffs, with up to 16,000 employees potentially on the chopping block.  In morning trade HP shares are up more than 4%.  Some other stocks that are moving include: FREE AppDownload
Joe Raedle/Getty ImagesNew home sales were up 6.4% to an annualized pace of 433,000 units in April. This missed expectations for a  10.7% month-over-month rise. But the level was above expectations for an annualized pace of 425,000 units. This is because there was a significant upward revision to March's data. Existing home sales were down a more modest 6.9% in March to an annualized pace of 407,000 units. This compares to an initial reading of a 14.5% fall to an annualized pace of 384,000 units the previous month. New home sales now have 5.3 months supply at the current sales pace. "Before the winter, sales were trending at about 450K, so the April reading still leaves activity looking a bit soft," writes Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics. "With the NAHB homebuilder survey still very weak, though, we cannot be confident that May will complete the reversal of the winter hit." On Thursday, we saw existing home sales rise less than expected. As the weather returns to seasonal norms and as mortgage rates have declined in recent months, housing data is expected to improve. FREE AppDownload

YouTube/ Simon FielderCrispin OdeyDealBook has an extensive feature on British hedge fund manager Crispin Odey's palatial chicken coop he's been building on his West England estate. Now get this — Odey's 775 square-foot Palladian-style chicken coop costs about $250,000, the report said. For a chicken house. Incredible! Those hens and roosters are living better than a lot of folks here in the U.S. To put that into perspecitve, Odey's coop costs more than the average home listing price in the following sixteen states—South Dakota, Louisiana, Wisconsin, Alabama, Michigan, Nebraska, Kentucky, Oklahoma, West Virignia, Missouri, Mississippi, Arkansas, Iowa, Indiana, Kansas and Ohio. The hen house is below the average home price in the U.S., which is $334,200.   Odey seems really passionate about his hens and presumably wants the best for them. From DealBook:   He gamely showed photos of the nearly completed structure on his iPhone. “Once I started thinking about what I wanted to have there, it was a Schinkelian temple.” Karl Friedrich Schinkel, he explained, was the architect who worked for the Prussian royal family, “and built almost all of that stuff you come across in Brandenburg and in Berlin.” Mr. Odey pointed to a relief visible along one wall. “I have the chickens and egg having the age-old fight of who came first,” he smiled. “It’s carved in stone,” and there will be a Latin inscription, “Quis primus venit?” Meaning? “Meaning, ‘Who came first?’ ” Check out the renderings below:  Image via Forest of Dean FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
For the third year in a row, gas prices will be within a penny or so of $3.64 a gallon, the AP reports. The impact of the Great American Shale Boom does not directly impact U.S. prices, since gasoline costs are determined on the global market. But the amount of oil that's been brought to market has helped keep global oil prices steady for almost half a decade now, producing a ricochet effect at the pump. Chart via GasBuddy: GasBuddy And here's the national price map. We've previously discussed why prices in California are usually so high: a combination of stricter emissions requirements, taxes, and the state's distance from the country's mid-continent refining center.  GasBuddy FREE AppDownload
Societe GeneraleNew home sales probably jumped by 10.7% month-over-month in April to an annualized pace of 425,000. This is according to Bloomberg survey of economists, who expect a partial rebound from March's stunning 14.5% drop. "Lagged effects from the weather and ongoing supply and affordability issues likely prompted the sharp drop in new home sales in March," said Nomura's Lewis Alexander who sees a 6.8% jump in April sales. Societe Generale's Brian Jones is on the bullish end of those surveyed. He sees sales surging 19.8% to 460,000 "buoyed by improved weather conditions." All of this comes in the wake of a series of disappointing housing market reports. "Low supply and inclement weather appear to have crimped home sales in recent months," said UBS's Kevin Cummins. Whatever the improvement may be, today's new home sales report should probably be taken with a grain of salt. "The new home sales data are highly volatile," warned UBS's Kevin Cummins who sees a 12.0% jump. "Similarly, we would not view a rise in the upcoming report as evidence of a turnaround. Even with the rise we are forecasting, sales essentially would be moving sideways over the past year." The new home sales report will be published at 10:00 a.m. ET. We'll cover it live on BusinessInsider.com. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Alex BrandonWashington Nationals third baseman Ryan Zimmerman, left, and first baseman Adam LaRoche, center, greet Ben Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, before a baseball game against the Miami Marlins at Nationals Park, Friday, Sept. 7, 2012, in Washington.Former Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke wants to succeed Bud Selig as commissioner of Major League Baseball, New York Times reporter Andrew Ross Sorkin said this morning on CNBC's Squawk On The Street.  Sorkin was responding to a New York Times story by Michael S. Schmidt about how Chicago White Sox owner Jerry Reinsdorf is attempting to derail the succession plan Selig has put in place, over fears he will lose his current standing as an influential owner.  "You should all know — it's not in this story — but who wants to be baseball commissioner that's on the list? Who really wants it, that we talk about every day?" Sorkin begins. "The one man who wants the job, who may surprise you, is Ben Bernanke. He's a huge fan of baseball ... In case the search committee is out there." Bernanke is a well-known Washington Nationals fan. He recently received a personal tour of the team's stadium and became friendly with some of the players. According to a 2012 anecdote from Bloomberg's Al Hunt, Bernanke " goes to a bunch of games, in a baseball cap and jeans. You can barely recognize him.” Though it lacks a pro team, South Carolina, where Bernanke grew up, has a significant baseball presence in the form of various amateur teams.  Bernanke is currently in residence at the Brookings institution. A representative said he had no comment. Schmidt's story is a must-read — here's what happens when he reaches Reinsdorf to ask his feelings about Rob Manfred, Selig's current deputy and his presumed successor: "What I have said about Rob is none of your business,” Mr. Reinsdorf said in a telephone interview, interjecting an expletive. Click here to read Schmidt's full story on NYTimes.com » FREE AppDownload
Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty has a new report, and in it she says it's time to buy Apple.  Her reasoning this time: Institutional ownership of Apple as a percentage of total funds is at a historic low. She assumes the smart money is going to rotate back into Apple with the iPhone 6 coming this year, and the iWatch perhaps also coming this year.  Before all of those people get into Apple, Huberty thinks other investors should get in. Apple shares have "upside" thanks to this dynamic.  Here's a chart looking at Apple in proportion to other fund sizes, relative to its historical range, and relative to other tech stocks. Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
YouTube still, Reuters, APLeft to right: Charles, David, and William Koch. Frederick Koch is pictured below.Frederick Koch’s Upper East Side townhouse sits on a quiet street off Fifth Avenue, near the Metropolitan Museum of Art. It is January 2013, and in a little over a week’s time, Frederick’s hard-hat-wearing younger brother will dip a ceremonial shovel into a mound of dirt in front of the museum, officially breaking ground on the David H. Koch Plaza. Frederick, the eldest of the four Koch brothers, has devoted his life to the arts, but it’s David’s name that’s plastered on some of New York’s most prestigious cultural real estate, including the former New York State Theater at Lincoln Center. The world of the Upper East Side elite is a small one, and Frederick and David occasionally bump into each other at galas or charity functions. These short, awkward exchanges (“Oh, hi, Freddie”) are pretty much the extent of their contact. Getty/Ben GabbeFrederick KochUnlike David, who enjoys the status that comes with his high-profile philanthropy, Frederick conducts his life as if almost striving for obscurity. Thanks to the recent infamy achieved by David and Charles Koch through their sprawling political operation, he is now thought of as one of the “other” Koch brothers (along with another brother, Bill). Frederick, 80, is so private about his affairs that during the 1980s, after underwriting the $2.8 million construction of England’s Swan Theatre in Stratford-upon-Avon (in the shell of a fire-ravaged Victorian playhouse), he kept quiet about his gift for several years, as the British press tried to dig up the name of the angel donor. When Frederick’s role was finally revealed, he told the BBC in a rare interview, “Never ask from where I came, nor what is my rank or name.” He was quoting Lohengrin’s warning to Elsa, when the knight comes to her aid in Wagner’s romantic opera. When Elsa later poses the forbidden question, her savior disappears in a boat pulled by a dove. Built of white marble, Frederick’s seven-story neoclassical townhouse is one of a trio commissioned, in the early 1900s, by dime-store magnate Frank Winfield Woolworth, and designed by Charles Pierrepont Henry Gilbert, one of several architects favored by New York’s industrialists during the Gilded Age. Woolworth gave the townhouses to each of his three daughters as wedding gifts. Six East 80th Street, the property Frederick now owns, belonged to the tycoon’s youngest daughter, Jessie. Woolworth was said to have wept on the day he gave Jessie away to James Donahue, the Irish-American scion of a less prominent family that made its money in the fat-rendering business. Donahue was a man of vices—gambling, booze, and young men, in particular—and Woolworth’s doubts about the pairing proved well placed. In 1931, during a luncheon at the couple’s home, the 44-year-old Donahue excused himself from the table and locked himself in the downstairs bathroom. He staggered out a few minutes later exclaiming, “I’ve done it.” Despondent over his finances and recently spurned by a young sailor, Donahue had gulped down seven mercury-bichloride pills. He died within days. Frederick acquired the property for $5 million in 1986, three years after cashing in his stock in the family company, Koch Industries, and in the throes of a frenetic buying spree of historic homes and artwork. Frederick’s longtime architect, Charles T. Young, spent the next decade restoring the townhouse to its former splendor, and in many cases, surpassing it. Frederick spared no expense. He continued a marble balustrade that had ended after the first floor up the staircase and through the remaining six floors of the house. He replaced the crumbling plaster walls with limestone from the quarries of Caen in northwestern France, the kind that would be found in a Parisian townhouse of the French Régence period. In one case, Frederick made structural alterations just to create enough wall space to hang one of the masterpieces of his art collection, widening a pair of stone columns to fit William-Adolphe Bouguereau’s The Abduction of Psyche. RELATED: 10 On-Screen Couples Who Have Also Played Family Members “Sotheby’s for years has been trying to take this away from me,” Frederick says, as he shows me around his home. “And I keep telling them, ‘I can’t move it. It’s part of the architecture of this room.’<U+2009>” Frederick’s office is located in what was James Donahue’s bedroom. Ornate paneling that once adorned the Palace of Versailles lines the walls. A bookcase, as in some murder-mystery thriller, conceals a hidden passageway, designed, Frederick explains, “so that the six servants in this house would not be aware of Mr. Donahue’s comings and goings.” It leads past a row of stained-glass windows inlaid with the initials of the Donahue clan, to what was Jessie Donahue’s bedroom and is now Frederick’s. Not that he actually sleeps there. Frederick spent millions getting every hand-wrought, filigreed detail just right, but he doesn’t actually live in the townhouse. When he’s in New York—and he moves frequently among his collection of homes, which includes Schloss Blühnbach, a palatial hunting lodge just south of Salzburg, Austria, that once belonged to Archduke Franz Ferdinand—he resides at 825 Fifth Avenue. He just entertains the occasional guest at the Woolworth mansion, his private museum. Despite the scale of his wealth and the opulence of his surroundings, Frederick also has a reputation for frugality, sometimes growing testy at his staff, if they add extra postage to letters and packages. He spent lavishly on refurbishing his homes, but he prefers taking the public bus in New York and typically flies commercial. One associate recalls strolling down East 80th Street with Frederick on a sweltering summer afternoon in the mid-1990s. Crossing Fifth Avenue, Frederick noticed a nickel in the middle of the crosswalk; it had been run over so many times that it was embedded in the asphalt. His companion looked on in shock as Frederick took out his keys, stooped down and began trying to pry the coin loose. The multi-millionaire continued to work as the traffic light changed. Traffic bore down and horns blared, but Frederick kept digging, finally dislodging the nickel. “I got it,” he said, holding the coin up with a beatific expression on his face. “I just was dumbfounded,” his companion recalled. (“I never pick up coins in the street,” Frederick responds, “despite this apocryphal account.”) Dressed in a navy blazer, striped shirt, and thin cobalt tie, Frederick moves through the rooms of his home like a curator, his arms folded behind him. “If you pull the carpet back, you’ll see a Versailles parquet,” he says, touring the dining room. He pauses to point out paintings by Alexandre-Evariste Fragonard, Edward Burne-Jones, and Gilbert Stuart; Aubusson carpets; a set of 10 mahogany dining-room chairs that once belonged to financier J. P. Morgan. In one bedroom, he shows off a canopied bed that he calls “the most important piece of furniture in the house.” It belonged to Marie Antoinette, a wedding gift from the mayor of Paris, when she married Louis XVI. “I’m amazed even to this day that I was able to get it out of France. I bought it in Monte Carlo, which may have been the reason.” He is at ease talking at length about every object in the house, and the intricacies of procuring or rehabilitating each of them. But when the topic turns briefly to his brothers, and whether they share his artistic sensibilities, Frederick tenses. “William does—David’s twin brother,” he replies. “He has a wonderful collection of all kinds of things.” Then he changes the subject. It’s no surprise that Frederick isn’t eager to talk about Charles and David. He and younger brother Bill spent nearly 15 years locked in a series of bare-knuckle legal brawls with their brothers, who they accused of cheating them on the 1983 sale of their Koch Industries stock, which together netted them $800 million. (In 1998, a jury deemed Koch Industries had misrepresented a refinery’s productivity in the buyout negotiations, but it also determined that any omissions were not material, so Frederick and Bill could not recoup the massive damages they sought.) Frederick displays one of his most treasured pieces on the top floor, in a sun-drenched, glass-enclosed conservatory that was once Jessie Donahue’s studio. On a pedestal beneath a circular skylight ringed with the signs of the zodiac sits a marble head wearing the headdress of an Egyptian pharaoh. The sculpture dates back to A.D. 130. “That is Antinous,” Frederick explains, “who was the lover of Emperor Hadrian . . . Antinous accompanied Hadrian on a voyage down the Nile and at some point they stopped. Antinous went swimming and drowned in the Nile. The emperor was so grief stricken that he decided to immortalize Antinous and name him god of the Nile—and required people to worship him.” When the Roman Empire fell, Christians destroyed statues and icons depicting Hadrian’s lover. “They very much resented having been ordered to worship the boyfriend of the emperor,” Frederick says. The marble head of Antinous, severed from a larger statue, was discovered in the 18th century in a swamp on the grounds of what was Hadrian’s estate in Tivoli. What attracts Frederick to the objects he collects is not always their aesthetic value, but the hidden tales they tell, which he enjoys recounting with the flair of a raconteur. “Do you know the story of Stanford White?” he inquires, gazing at a painting of the original Madison Square Garden, when it was located at Madison Avenue and 26th Street. White, the arena’s architect, was gunned down in its rooftop restaurant in 1906 by Harry Thaw, the son of a Pittsburgh railroad magnate. Thaw was consumed with jealousy over White’s past liaisons with Evelyn Nesbit, a former showgirl who had been the architect’s mistress before marrying Thaw. “He was obsessed with Stanford White’s previous relationship with Evelyn Nesbit,” Frederick says. “After they married he tormented her by asking her to reveal all the sexual positions that she had enjoyed with Stanford White. All that did was fuel his rage.” Frederick thinks of himself as a writer, and though he never plied this trade professionally, his collection provides an outlet for his natural gift as a storyteller. There was a time, however, when Frederick had his own ambitions of literary and theatrical acclaim. After moving to New York City’s West Village in his late 20s, Frederick had once approached John Mason Brown, an esteemed New York theater critic and author (as well as a fellow Harvard alum) for career advice. Frederick told Brown in a letter that he “hoped to be a playwright before too long and a drama critic much sooner.” But ultimately he never pursued these goals with much vigor, to the intense frustration of his industrious father. Frederick was the outlier among his rough-and-tumble, ultra-competitive brothers. While the three younger brothers took after their father, a John Wayne–like figure who made his first million building oil refineries in Stalin’s Soviet Union, he gravitated toward his mother’s artistic interests. Family patriarch Fred Koch strove to teach his sons the value of hard work, by subjecting them to grueling manual labor around the family’s compound in Wichita, Kansas, and on a handful of ranches he owned. Charles told Fortune magazine in 1997 that during a summer of forced labor on one of the family’s ranches as a teenager, Frederick had had a nervous breakdown, (“I have never had a ‘nervous breakdown,’” Frederick says.) “Father wanted to make all his boys into men and Freddie couldn’t relate to that regime,” Charles told The New York Times’ Leslie Wayne. “Dad didn’t understand and so he was hard on Freddie. He didn’t understand that Freddie wasn’t a lazy kid—he was just different.” When Frederick was in his 20s, it was an open secret among the family’s circle of friends in Wichita that he was gay. “We all knew Freddie was gay,” said someone who spent time with the family and their friends in the 1950s and 1960s. “You know, those things—especially in an environment like Wichita—were almost whispered. It was common knowledge.” Frederick could do little to relate to his father or win his approval. “Freddie was a sophisticate and a man of the world, in addition to the fact that he was gay,” says Koch family friend Nestor Weigand. “It wasn’t something that was easily accepted in those days.” (According to Frederick, he is not gay.) Frederick’s parents sent him away to boarding school at Pembroke Country Day in Kansas City in the eighth grade. He attended high school at Hackley, an elite private school, located in New York’s Hudson Valley, where he was the class valedictorian in 1951. “Freddie sort of segregated himself from the family very early on,” family friend and Wichita real-estate developer George Ablah has said. “I think everyone was more comfortable with that.” According to Bill, “Freddie wanted no part of the family and did his own thing.” During the Koch brothers’ childhood, discussion of Frederick caused noticeable discomfort among his brothers. “They just didn’t want Freddie’s name brought up,” said one family friend. “They knew there was something different about him. You didn’t hear much about Freddie at all . . . It was almost like he wasn’t part of the family.” In the 1960s, mention of Frederick even vanished from one of his father’s bios: “He and Mrs. Koch have three sons,” it read, “Charles, William, and David.” When Fred Koch died in 1967, he left his eldest son out of his will (though he had previously provided for him, with the creation of two trusts). According to court testimony from Charles, their father removed Frederick from his will because he had repeatedly stolen from him in the years before his death “and then lied about it when confronted with the evidence.” Frederick lifted traveler’s checks, cash, and an “air travel card” from their dad, Charles said; he also alleged in court records that his older brother forged his signature on their father’s Brooks Brothers charge account. Charles’s contempt for his bon vivant brother was apparent in court. “Over the years,” he testified, “I had accepted my father’s analysis of Freddie of not really being a whole person, of being a person who was amoral and not capable of true feelings towards other people.” (“I refute all of Charles’s allegations as a calculated campaign of vilification,” Frederick says. “He who would cast aspersions should be beyond reproach.”) Bill Koch told Fortune that Charles once resorted to a homosexual blackmail attempt to force Frederick to sell his shares in their family company, a charge Charles has denied. “Charles’s ‘homosexual blackmail’ to get control of my shares did not succeed for the simple reason that I am not homosexual,” Frederick says. RELATED: 19 Celebrities Married to Normal Folk Frederick was closest with his mother, Mary, with whom he shared a love of fine art, music, and theater. She took pride in her son’s quiet, prolific arts patronage, especially his funding of the Swan Theatre, a name Frederick says he chose “in tribute to Shakespeare, who was sometimes called the Swan of Avon.” In 1986, Mary Koch traveled to England to watch her son appear side by side with the Queen of England at the theater’s opening. During the 1980s, to house his growing collection of Victorian art, which was said to overrun warehouses on both sides of the Atlantic, Frederick is said to have envisioned creating a museum in London akin to New York’s Frick Collection. “Frederick Koch had the eye of a true connoisseur,” said London art dealer Julian Hartnoll, one of the agents Frederick enlisted to do his buying. “He did not follow the flash or the ostentatious preferring the academic, the intellectual, and the byways of art history, literature, and music.” Frederick proposed siting his gallery in historic St. John’s Lodge, a neoclassical villa located in London’s Regent’s Park. But his plans to overhaul the interior led to a protracted standoff with British cultural authorities, during which Frederick threatened to return to America with his collection of 19th-century art, a move one local architectural historian dubbed “crude bluff and blackmail.” The fact that the Brits did not grasp his vision perplexed him. “The lodge is deteriorating rapidly now,” Frederick fumed in the late mid-1980s. “If I don’t take it on, it will probably go to some millionaire Arab.” He wasn't far off the mark. The Sultan of Brunei eventually took it over. Fed up with bureaucratic wrangling and unwanted press attention, Frederick ultimately settled on a secondary location. Sutton Place was situated on more than 700 picturesque acres about a half hour’s drive from central London. A courtier to Henry VIII built the 55,000-square-foot Tudor mansion, in the early 16th century, and it once belonged to the reclusive American oil billionaire John Paul Getty. Through a charitable foundation, Frederick purchased Sutton Place for $12 million from another reclusive American owner: Stanley Seeger, whose fortune, like Frederick’s, derived from an industrial empire. Frederick embarked on an extensive $22 million restoration project. But even before completing it, he baffled the British art world, when he began selling off the Victorian masterpieces he’d spent the previous decade amassing. “It certainly smelled of a person who was over-extended,” said someone who knew him during the 1990s, adding, “It certainly appeared to me that it was going to pay the gardener.” But which one? He owned three other estates that required exorbitant upkeep. (Frederick’s aide-de-camp, John Olsen, denies that the sale of the paintings had anything to do with financial troubles. “There simply was not enough wall space for everything Mr. Koch purchased with the intent of exhibiting at Sutton Place,” he explains.) Finally, in 1999, Frederick put the newly restored home on the market for $40 million. Maintaining the large estate, which had a staff of 20, cost a small fortune, and according to Frederick, he wanted to move on to other projects. “I found that you don’t own the houses, the houses own you,” he says. “They make so many demands on you.” Sutton Place sat on the market until 2005, when a mysterious buyer purchased it through a middleman. Frederick later discovered the new owner was Russian oligarch Alisher Usmanov, now number 40 on Forbes’s list of billionaires. “I got my investment back,” Frederick says with a trace of bitterness. Though he relinquished Sutton Place and, with it, his ambition for a museum dedicated to his art collection, his cultural legacy lives on in other venues. A trove of musical scores, manuscripts, historical documents, and artistic ephemera, much of which was snatched up anonymously from the auction market during the 1980s reappeared in the Frederick R. Koch Collection, now housed in Yale’s Beinecke Library. The collection includes everything from handwritten scores of Mozart, Schubert, and Stravinsky, to letters of W. H. Auden, Charles Baudelaire, and Marcel Proust, from poems by Jean Cocteau and Victor Hugo to manuscript drafts of Henry Miller and Oscar Wilde. “What struck me most was how he knew his collection in the most intricate detail,” said Vincent Giroud, the Beinecke’s former curator of modern books and manuscripts, who worked closely with Frederick to document the collection. “I’ve met a number of collectors who could be wonderful people and very generous, but are not necessarily knowledgeable about what they have. That’s not at all his case.” He added, “He has the mind of a scholar himself in many ways.” RELATED: 5 Actors Who Will Transform Themselves This Year Frederick lowers himself into an armchair in a second-floor sitting room. He has not spoken to the press in more than 25 years, since the British media descended on him like a pack of wolves. Even before that, he refused interviews and stayed conspicuously quiet as his feuding younger brothers savaged one another on the pages of national newspapers and magazines. “Shall we delve into Koch world?” he asks. But first a formality. He unclasps a clear plastic envelope and withdraws a crisp document. “If you would sign this, please.” It’s a contract requiring that “all writing pertaining to Frederick R. Koch, including personal subject matter revealed in research and interviews,” be submitted “for his approval.” No journalist could agree to these terms, and when I explain this, Frederick’s genial demeanor ices over. “My brothers and I,” he warns, “are practiced combatants in the field of public relations.” He shows me out into the January chill. Nearby, excavators are gnawing through concrete, as preliminary construction for the Met’s new David H. Koch Plaza gets under way. This article originally appeared at Vanity Fair.  Copyright 2014. Follow Vanity Fair on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
APSmoke rises from the Slide Fire as it burns up Oak Creek Canyon on Thursday, May 22, 2014, in Sedona, Ariz. The fire has burned approximately 4,800 acresGood morning! Here's what you need to know. REPORT: The Beats Deal Is Indeed On. A source confirmed to TechCrunch today that Apple's Beats deal is in fact happening, and that Apple isn't after their hardware but rather their talent.   Uber Raising $500 million. The company would be valued at more than $12 billion, the Wall Street Journal said. Investors are said to include BlackRock, General Atlantic and Technology Crossover Ventures. Hewlett Packard Is Cutting 16,000 Jobs. The computer giant's earnings were right in-line with forecasts, while revenue came in slightly short." Gap Earnings. The retailer beat earnings forecasts by a penny, and posted revenues higher than consensus. Still, net sales climbed just 1%, and they plan to close 70 stores. Shares were up slightly after hours. Even More GM Recalls Are Likely. Barclays analyst Brian Johnson met with senior management at GM and said the automaker is using new techniques to uncover potential defects, according to CNBC. As a result, "It is possible that GM may issue further recalls for vehicles, which may have already been recalled." GM recalls now total about 5 million vehicles, and the automaker took a $1.3 billion charge in Q1 New Home Sales. The Census releases new home sales data for April at 10 a.m. Consensus is for 420,000, up from 384,000. Pork Shortage. The deadly virus that's swept through U.S. hog stocks last fall has caused cold storage pork reserves to fall by 17% , the USDA said. Lean hog prices are up 36% YTD. Barclays Fined For Gold Deals. The British firm settled charges one of its traders manipulated prices. "It is the first bank to be fined over attempted gold market manipulation, although a source said the Barclays fine was a one-off case and not part of a wider investigation into gold market price rigging," Reuters said.   Weaker Euro. The euro fell against the dollar for the fourth-straight day as German business confidence fell, fueling speculation the European Central Bank will boost stimulus, Bloomberg said. Spanish and Italian bond yields climbed.  Markets. U.S. futures are higher. Markets in Asia were up across the board. Europe markets were higher with the exception of France. Emerging Markets Are Back. Emerging market stocks have rallied back to the pre-taper levels, the FT said, one day on from the rout's first anniversary.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sergei Karpukhin Gazprom Chief Executive Alexei Miller (R) attends the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum 2014 (SPIEF 2014) in St. Petersburg May 23, 2014. ST PETERSBURG, Russia (Reuters) - Russia's landmark deal to supply natural gas to China will affect prices in Europe and have an impact on international liquefied natural gas projects, the chief executive of state-run Gazprom &lt;GAZP.MM&gt; said on Friday. Russia and China signed a 30-year gas supply contract on Wednesday worth a total of more than $400 billion, during a visit by President Vladimir Putin to Shanghai. "Literally a day ago a really historical event took place, an epoch-making event. We, Russia and Gazprom, have discovered the Asian gas market for ourselves," Gazprom Chief Executive Alexei Miller said at the St Petersburg International Economic Forum. "It can be assumed that the signing of the contract will affect gas prices on the European market," he said without giving any details. Miller added that the deal will also have an impact on LNG projects in eastern Africa, Australia and western Canada. Fitch Ratings said on Thursday that the deal "sets a new benchmark for what China is willing to pay for natural gas over longer-term contracts". The deal opens up a huge new market for Gazprom, which generates around 80 percent of its revenue from Europe, where demand is stagnating and profits are falling. "This is the contract, which will influence the whole gas market," Miller said. Neither side disclosed the price in the Russia-China contract, but industry sources said it was between $350 and $380 per 1,000 cubic meters, similar to what most European utilities pay under discounted long-term contracts signed in the last two years. Gazprom has yet to build a pipeline to carry 38 billion cubic meters of gas annually to China from 2018. Russia and China have agreed on a $25 billion prepayment under a supply deal, Alexander Medvedev, chief executive of Gazprom Export, said on Friday. (Reporting by Vladimir Soldatkin; Writing by Lidia Kelly; Editing by Katya Golubkova and Jane Baird) FREE AppDownload
The United States has imposed a number of sanctions on Russia and has taken a stronger and harsher stance than the European Union (EU) simply because Europe would suffer more if it did the same, in our view. The West has held off on true “sectoral” sanctions – applying sanctions to every company in an industry sector. However, should Russia intervene militarily, we would expect that position could change. Sectoral sanctions could cut the Russian economy off from the US dollar-based global financial system, but would be extremely challenging to implement and could cause collateral damage to Western economies, particularly the Eurozone. Sectoral sanctions also could play into Putin’s hands, increasing his control over the oligarchs and their enterprises, resulting in the oligarchs’ moving money outside of Western control, perhaps to China. We could envision an agreement whereby the Ukrainian government agrees to a federal system giving the Russian-speaking areas of the country considerable autonomy. Business on both sides – Ukraine and Russia—should be able to continue despite the conflict. We believe there is considerable trade and investment flow that won’t be interrupted, even with some sanctions. Russia is a major supplier of oil to Germany and the Netherlands in particular, and of natural gas to Western Europe generally. Disruption to energy trade would be in neither side’s interest. It has been our view that Ukraine’s finances, although under pressure, are likely to be supported by the EU, United States and World Bank. There is a possibility of Russia being able to achieve some financial benefits as well, including gas contracts. We have been investing in Russia for a long time, and have found that Russian equities have often presented themselves as potential bargains during various stressful points in time. In our view, this is true even more so today. That said, we believe a steep valuation discount is required in Russia given the current geopolitical risk involved in investing there. We have continued to be interested in long-term opportunities in select companies within Ukraine and Russia and we will continue to monitor the situation. Any future investment decisions that are made in Russia—as in all markets in which we invest—will be made on a bottom-up, stock-by-stock basis resulting from our internal research, which includes an assessment of each stock’s macroeconomic and political risk factors. Our hope is that if there is a resolution of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, it can restore some investor confidence and allow companies to continue doing business in both countries. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his “Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets” blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including “Trading with China,” “The Investor’s Guide to Emerging Markets,” “Mobius on Emerging Markets,” “Passport to Profits,” “Equities—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” “Mutual Funds—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” ”The Little Book of Emerging Markets,” and “Mark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets » FREE AppDownload
CNBCVladimir Putin remains defiant about the popular uprising in Ukraine, saying that ex-President Viktor Yanukovych was willing to fix the crisis in February and his ouster was a "coup d'état." In a live CNBC interview, the Russian president said that "what is happening in Ukraine now is chaos," adding that Ukraine refuses to talk about Russian concerns about business deals with the EU and the possibility that Ukraine will join NATO. Putin vacillated from serious statements to jokes, eliciting clapping and laughs from the crowd at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. Asked about gas in Ukraine, he said that Kiev should pay the $3.5 billion it owes Russia for gas: "Where is the money? Give us our money! That will help the situation." In a speech earlier, the Russian president said the turmoil in Ukraine — where Russian-backed separatists are commandeering about 15% of the country and attacked troops — amounts to "full-scale civil war." Kiev's fledgling government is attempting to hold a presidential election on Sunday, and Russia has questioned the legitimacy of the vote while there's heavy fighting in eastern regions of the country.  Putin accused Ukraine of abusing its position as a transit country for natural gas. He added that EU and U.S. sanctions on Russia will have a "boomerang effect" on the West. "Sanctions will backlash," he said, according to one translation. "I do understand those foreign businessmen concerned with the implications of the sanctions." Asked about criticisms from Barack Obama, Putin said (according to the translator): "Who is he to judge? If he wants to judge people, why doesn't he get a job in a court somewhere." Asked what went wrong with the "reset" with America, he says that "unilateral actions" by the U.S. is what soured relations. On NSA leaker Edward Snowden, who is living in an undisclosed location in Russia: "We do not have any direct relation to this problem. He turned up on our territory because of non-professional actions by the U.S. themselves. ... If they didn't scare anyone, he would have flown to some other country and be sitting in a jail somewhere. ... Mr. Snowden considers that he's a champion of human rights. He's a young man — I don't know how he is going to live further. I'm serious. He is sitting in Russia now. We gave him refuge but he didn't tell us anything." REUTERS/Sergei KarpukhinPutin speaks during a session of the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum 2014 (SPIEF 2014) in St. Petersburg May 23, 2014.  Tone of Putin's speech so far emphasizes turn from West to East, with emphasis on developing Eurasian trading - comes after China gas deal The 30-year gas supply contract, estimated to be worth more than $400 billion, will involve building a massive pipeline that will send natural gas from Russia to China for 30 years. Gazprom The Kremlin's actions in Ukraine include annexing the Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea under the pretext of protecting Russian speakers and abetting sham independence referendums in two regions in the country's east. Prominent people across the globe have compared actions by the former KGB colonel — who has also been fueling rising nationalism at home — to Adolf Hitler in the 1930s. Reuters/Skitch FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEU energy commissioner Oettinger and Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak attend a news conference in BerlinST PETERSBURG, Russia (Reuters) - Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said on Friday that oil majors Royal Dutch Shell and Exxon Mobil have confirmed their commitment to Russia and are eager to continue their work there. "(They're) eager to continue work on projects in Russia," Novak told the St Petersburg International Economic Forum. (Reporting by Vladimir Soldatkin; Writing by Lidia Kelly, editing by William Hardy) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidTraders work at the Barclays Capital kiosk on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange April 26, 2010. LONDON (Reuters) - Barclays Plc &lt;BARC.L&gt; has been fined 26 million pounds ($43.8 million) for control failings over its setting of gold prices, which occurred just a day after the British bank was fined $450 million for rigging Libor interest rates. It is the first bank to be fined over attempted gold market manipulation, although a source said the Barclays fine was a one-off case and not part of a wider investigation into gold market price rigging. It marks another blow to Barclays' attempts to put past problems behind it. The Financial Conduct Authority said there were failings at Barclays from 2004 until 2013, but the key event occurred on June 28, 2012. It banned former Barclays trader Daniel James Plunkett for exploiting weaknesses in the British bank's systems. "A firm's lack of controls and a trader's disregard for a customer's interests have allowed the financial services industry's reputation to be sullied again," said Tracey McDermott, the FCA's director of enforcement and financial crime. "Plunkett's actions came the day after the publication of our Libor and Euribor action against Barclays. The investigation and outcomes in that case meant that the firm, and Plunkett, were clearly on notice of the potential for conflicts of interests around benchmarks," she said. (Reporting by Steve Slater and Huw Jones; Editing by Veronica Brown) FREE AppDownload
@MarkitEconomicsMarkets are mostly higher in Europe. Britain's FTSE is down 0.1%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.1%. Germany's DAX is up 0.2%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.1%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.6%. Germany's IFO Business Climate Index fell to a five-month low of 110.4 in May from 111.2 in April. "The headline numbers from the IFO are still suggestive of robust expansion," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "The business climate and current assessments index both remain close to two-year highs which is positive for growth in the second quarter." Markets in Asia closed higher with Japan's Nikkei up 0.8%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 0.1%, and Australia's S&amp;P/ASX up 0.2%. Today's largely expected to be a quiet one as U.S. traders and investors prepare for the three-day Memorial Day weekend. At 10:00 a.m. ET, we'll get the latest monthly new home sales report. Economists estimate the pace of sales jumped 9.4% to 420,000 in April. "Lagged effects from the weather and ongoing supply and affordability issues likely prompted the sharp drop in new home sales in March," said Nomura economists. "Mortgage applications for home purchases increased in April, but the current sales of single family homes subindex within the survey declined in April, suggesting that there probably was little improvement in new home sales in April." U.S. futures are currently trading higher with Dow futures up 11 points and S&amp;P 500 futures up 1.6 points. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo shows Liu Han smoking a cigarette during a conference in MianyangBEIJING (Reuters) - A Chinese court handed down a death sentence on Friday to a former mining magnate with links to the eldest son of retired security tsar Zhou Yongkang over charges of leading a 36-member gang on a crime spree spanning two decades. Liu Han, the former chairman of unlisted Hanlong Group and once ranked the 230th richest person in China, went on trial in central Hubei province in late March along with other members of what state media termed a "mafia-style" gang. Liu's younger brother, Liu Wei, also known as Liu Yong, was also sentenced to death, according to the microblog account of state broadcaster China Central Television. (Reporting By Megha Rajagopalan) FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoGary Cohn, president and COO of Goldman SachsNEW YORK (Reuters) - Sen. Sherrod Brown, a Democrat from Ohio, and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. President Gary Cohn, who's from Cleveland, are friendly enough that Brown has been known to rib Cohn for abandoning the Cleveland Indians baseball team in favor of the New York Yankees. The two men first met years ago, and Cohn and his family, who are also Democrats, have contributed to Brown's campaigns. They may like each other, but the two men are antagonists in a battle over whether Goldman can maintain its lucrative role in physically trading stuff ranging from aluminum to coal to natural gas to zinc. Brown, 61, has been a critic of the role that banks, particularly Goldman, play in commodities markets, accusing Wall Street of driving up prices for businesses and consumers. Cohn, Goldman's No. 2 executive, met this month with lawmakers including Brown as well as U.S. Federal Reserve officials to explain why a Wall Street bank's presence in the commodities market is actually good for Main Street. The meetings with lawmakers and the Fed, which haven't been previously reported, show how hard Goldman is fighting to hang on to its commodities business. "For more than 30 years, we have been helping our clients manage commodity and other risks and we believe that experience has given us an important perspective on the policy debate under way today," Goldman said in a statement. Goldman reported $902 million in commodities revenues for 2013, up from $492 million the prior year. The bank says those figures, reported in accordance with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules, do not accurately reflect the way it runs its commodities business. Cohn's meetings come after consumers, including beer-can and steel-railings manufacturers, prompted Brown to hold hearings on the subject of banks and physical commodities through a congressional subcommittee he oversees. Brown has also been considering whether to bring bankers in front of the committee to publicly question their role in the raw materials supply chain, sources said. This week, Goldman said it began a process to sell one part of its physical trading operations, a metals warehousing business called Metro International Trade Services, that has been the center of controversy over its influence on consumer prices. The Metro sale announcement follows exits from physical commodities trading businesses by top rivals including Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt;, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;JPM.N&gt;, Barclays PLC &lt;BARC.L&gt; and Deutsche Bank AG &lt;DBKGn.DE-TK&gt;. Though Goldman is selling Metro, it still would like to hold on to other physical commodities assets. The bank is counting on Cohn and other Goldman executives, including Chief Executive Lloyd Blankfein, to persuade regulators and lawmakers not to force its exit. The Metro sale is meant to rid Goldman of a controversial holding and appease regulators, said Kristofer Tremaine, a former commodities trader and founder of a London-based commodity trade finance fund. Goldman wrote in April to the Fed in response to a call for public comment about possible new rules on commodities trading. "The letters we and many others sent to the Fed explain the importance to the economy of managing commodity risk and we feel it is important to continue talking with those in Washington who are open to engaging on the subject," Goldman said in its statement to Reuters. Being in the physical commodities market give banks insight into supply and demand, potentially making trading more profitable. Critics contend that Wall Street's involvement hurts consumers and businesses, because banks can restrict the flow of material through the supply chain to drive prices higher. During their meeting, Cohn, 53, told Brown that the fears are misdirected. In practice, he said, Goldman acts as an important facilitator between buyers and sellers of commodities. Cohn argued that the bank's role as an intermediary - with the ability to maintain inventories, lend money, be patient with debts and provide hedging products - actually helps the economy flourish, sources said. VICTORY FOR BEER It could not be determined whether Cohn discussed the future of the Metro business with Brown in their meeting. Following the announcement, Brown put out a statement celebrating the potential sale. "This is good news for consumers, taxpayers, and manufacturers that depend on aluminum," he said. "Banks should focus on core banking activities rather than owning physical assets like warehouses, pipelines, and tankers. Today's announcement is a victory for beer and soft drink makers and for the safety and soundness of our financial system." Cohn did not respond to requests for comment, and Goldman Sachs declined to make him available for an interview. Metro became the center of controversy after big consumers such as MillerCoors LLC and The Coca-Cola Co &lt;KO.N&gt; accused warehouses and their owners of exploiting London Metal Exchange storage rules to boost rental income, distorting supplies, inflating physical prices of aluminum and costing consumers billions of extra dollars annually. The issue captured public and political attention last year and the Department of Justice and Commodity Futures Trading Commission are looking into the issue. Another congressional panel, the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, which has subpoena power, is also probing banks' role in the commodities market. And the Fed is considering rules that could restrict such activities, or make them less profitable by requiring a capital surcharge on those it deems risky. Wall Street executives say although the Fed has not said what it wants banks to do yet, the regulator has raised the bar on banks explaining why they should be allowed to stay in such businesses. Cohn also met with Fed staff on his recent trip to explain Goldman's position. One source close to Goldman said its outreach efforts to senators such as Brown were important as long as the Fed is "being hauled up in front of Congress." A Fed spokeswoman declined to comment. SOLIDIFY POSITION If Goldman fends off new regulations, it could solidify its position as the leading Wall Street bank in the commodities market. Banks that have announced plans to significantly scale back their commodities trading operations have cited regulatory pressure as well as higher capital requirements that are denting profits. Wall Street banks took in as much as $14 billion in commodities trading revenue in 2008, but that figure declined to just $4.5 billion in 2013, according to data from the consulting firm Coalition. Although Goldman is facing those same pressures, the business is known to have been very profitable for it over the long term. In a January earnings call, Chief Financial Officer Harvey Schwartz described the business as "too important" to its clients to give up. "The real victor in the mass exodus of the major banks from commodity trading will likely be Goldman Sachs," Bernstein Research analyst Brad Hintz said in a recent report. Some rivals expect Goldman to feel compelled to exit physical commodities trading. To be sure, Goldman's ability to stay in commodities trading was grandfathered into the 1999 Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. One senior Wall Street executive whose firm has decided to exit those businesses said it would not be fair to banks that have gotten out in anticipation of new Fed regulations. If Goldman is successful in its push to remain in physical commodities, rivals will see it as proof that the bank - known for its history of senior executives moving to roles in policy and regulation - still enjoys a cozy relationship with the government, the executive said. "Sen. Brown is open to hearing the viewpoints of stakeholders affected by legislation before the Banking Committee," said spokeswoman Meghan Dubyak, in an email. "He hopes that even people he disagrees with will find him knowledgeable, accessible, and open to argument. But anyone the least bit familiar with him knows that he has the same message to all audiences - banks should stick to banking." (Editing by Paritosh Bansal and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThai workers work at a sedan line production at Honda Automobile in Rojana Industrial Park, Ayutthaya provinceBANGKOK (Reuters) - The Thai unit of Honda Motor Co &lt;7267.T&gt; has cut production at its Ayutthaya plant to 60 percent of capacity to reflect weak domestic demand, voicing concerns sales may fall short of its target this year after months of political unrest. Thailand's auto sector, southeast Asia's biggest, is one of the more visible victims of the weakened economy and unrest which culminated on Thursday in army chief General Prayuth Chan-ocha taking control of the government in a coup. The sector has fired more than 30,000 subcontracted workers this year and slashed production, as sales plunge after months of political unrest that threatens to drive some manufacturers offshore. The Japanese carmaker has also decided to delay by between six months and a year the startup of a new $530 million plant from its previously planned April 2015 date, said Pitak Pruittisarikorn, executive vice president at Honda Automobile (Thailand) Co. "We have been worried about the unfavorable conditions since earlier this year, both economic and the political situation," he told reporters on the sidelines of a marketing event. The Ayutthaya plant has an annual capacity of 300,000 vehicles, while the new plant under construction in Prachinburi will have an annual capacity of 120,000 vehicles, he said. The production cut, which involved scrapping overtime shifts, reflects weaker demand and aims to clear unsold stock, Pitak said, adding its inventories were now back to normal. Pitak said Honda's sales in Thailand may miss a target of 160,000 vehicles this year, while overall domestic sales are likely to fall below 1 million vehicles. Domestic auto sales in April dropped 33.2 percent on the year, according to data from the Federation of Thai Industries. Sales fell 7.7 percent to 1.33 million cars in 2013. Domestic sales have declined since the ending in 2012 of a government first-car subsidy scheme, which had boosted sales 81 percent that year. This version of the story corrects domestic sales target in paragraph 8 to 160,000 vehicles. (Writing by Khettiya Jittapong; Editing by Matt Driskill and David Holmes) FREE AppDownload
