ImgurFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Investors Are Throwing Money At One Fund Manager's Inflation Bet (Financial Times)  Michael Aronstein's Mainstay Marketfield fund has been drawing a lot of attention after it quadrupled to $18 billion in the last twelve months. Aronstein thinks inflation is bound to return and markets are missing early signs. And investors have given him a vote of confidence by putting billions on his bet that central banks will wait too long to end their loose monetary policies, reports Stephen Foley at the Financial Times. "They never fail to make that error,” Aronstein told Foley “because they’re structured as bureaucracies and they have to wait until they have enough evidence to convince everybody in the room." The fund has done well because it "protected investors from the worst of the financial crisis," reports Foley, and because "riding a wave of interest in so-called alternative mutual funds, which mimic hedge funds in giving their managers wide latitude to invest as they see fit, including by taking negative bets as well as positive ones – something that is instrumental in surviving a bear market." What Traditional Investors Are Getting Wrong About Hedged Dividend Investing (Sungarden Investment Research) Robert Isbitts at Sungarden Investment thinks he has a strategy to help fight the retirement income crisis facing retirees as they realize the bond market has changed. Isbitts is talking about a strategy based on hedged dividend investing. "That is, we aim to achieve a portfolio income yield of 3% over the S&amp;P 500 (or about 5% yield in today’s market) not with high quality bonds, but via a combination of individual stocks, hedging securities and possibly some income-oriented ETFs." The strategy sparked some criticism from those that stick to more traditional   investment strategies. "We don’t believe that a “moderate risk” investor should stay in the same place all of the time. Market conditions create reasons to tilt one way or the other. In EXTREME cases (2008 decline/2009 rebound) we want to give ourselves the flexibility to go another 15% in either direction, or 20 (in the case of a 2008 scenario) or 80 (in the case of a 2009 scenario)."  "When modern portfolio theorists …rebalance their clients’ accounts, I have seen this is often done AFTER a major change has occurred in the market. So, if stocks lose a ton of money, buy more stocks and sell bonds. BUT, that assumes that 1. the client has stuck around long enough to endure the stock decline (whereas a hedged investor feels pretty comfy) and 2. that moving into bonds at that point is not a suicide mission. Look at the recent market activity (2012-2013): stocks have roared, bonds have petered out and yield very little. Is this about the time that MPTers are rebalancing from stocks to bonds? This sure did work for the last 30 years! But now, from today’s rates? THAT is our point at Sungarden – past is not prologue." This Nerve-Wracking Stock Market Chart Is Getting Scarier (JPMorgan Funds)  In their Q1 presentation on the markets and the economy, David Kelly and the market strategy team at JP Morgan Asset Management, highlight a chart on S&amp;P 500 inflection points. This chart shows the S&amp;P 500 at different inflection points since the late 90s. As valuation are getting more expensive, everyone is guessing at the when the next one will occur. JP Morgan Funds Here's How The Manager Of One Of The World's Biggest Mutual Funds Plans To Invest In 2014 (Fidelity Investments) Despite the run up in stocks, Will Danoff, manager of $108 billion Fidelity Contrafund, sees opportunities in the stock market. In particular he's looking at consumer discretionary and tech stocks. "In the consumer discretionary sector, the fund is focused on companies with strong brands, good business models, and the ability to expand overseas, and companies that are gaining market share and growing earnings." He's a bit cautious about tech stocks considering the role of disruptive technologies in increasing competition and the large number of IPOs we've seen. But again he says, "the fund has favored growing companies with strong brands and sustainable business models, and those companies that have shown evidence they can migrate profitably to the mobile Web world. Google, Amazon, and Facebook have all been very large positions in the fund." FREE AppDownload
Andrew Turner via flickr Creative CommonsRevisiting an old argument about the impact of capitalism INEQUALITY is one of the most controversial attributes of capitalism. Early in the industrial revolution stagnant wages and concentrated wealth led David Ricardo and Karl Marx to question capitalism’s sustainability. Twentieth-century economists lost interest in distributional issues amid the "Great Compression" that followed the second world war. But a modern surge in inequality has new economists wondering, as Marx and Ricardo did, which forces may be stopping the fruits of capitalism from being more widely distributed. "Capital in the Twenty-First Century" by Thomas Piketty, an economist at the Paris School of Economics, is an authoritative guide to the question. Mr Piketty’s book, which was published in French in 2013 and will be released in English in March 2014, self-consciously builds on the work of 19th-century thinkers; his title is an allusion to Marx’s magnum opus. But he possesses an advantage they lacked: two centuries’ worth of hard data. The book suggests that some 20th-century conventional wisdom was badly wrong. Inequality does not appear to ebb as economies mature, as Simon Kuznets, a Nobel-winning economist, argued in the 1950s. Neither should we expect the share of income flowing to capital to stay roughly constant over time: what another economist, Nicholas Kaldor, labelled a key fact of economic growth. Mr Piketty argues there is no reason to think that capitalism will "naturally" reverse rising inequality. The centrepiece of Mr Piketty’s analysis is the ratio of an economy’s capital (or equivalently, its wealth) to its annual output. From 1700 until the first world war, the stock of wealth in Western Europe hovered at around 700% of national income. Over time the composition of wealth changed; agricultural land declined in importance while industrial capital--factories, machinery and intellectual property--gained prominence. Yet wealth held steady at a high level (see chart, first panel). Pre-1914 economies were very unequal. In 1910 the top 10% of European households controlled almost 90% of all wealth. The flow of rents and dividends from capital contributed to high inequality of income; the top 10% captured more than 45% of all income. Mr Piketty’s work suggests there was little sign of any natural decline in inequality on the outbreak of the first world war. The wars and depressions between 1914 and 1950 dragged the wealthy back to earth. Wars brought physical destruction of capital, nationalisation, taxation and inflation, while the Great Depression destroyed fortunes through capital losses and bankruptcy. Yet capital has been rebuilt, and the owners of capital have prospered once more. From the 1970s the ratio of wealth to income has grown along with income inequality, and levels of wealth concentration are approaching those of the pre-war era. Mr Piketty describes these trends through what he calls two "fundamental laws of capitalism". The first explains variations in capital’s share of income (as opposed to the share going to wages). It is a simple accounting identity: at all times, capital’s share is equal to the rate of return on capital multiplied by the total stock of wealth as a share of GDP. The rate of return is the sum of all income flowing to capital--rents, dividends and profits--as a percentage of the value of all capital. The second law is more a rough rule of thumb: over long periods and under the right circumstances the stock of capital, as a percentage of national income, should approach the ratio of the national-savings rate to the economic growth rate. With a savings rate of 8% (roughly that of the American economy) and GDP growth of 2%, wealth should rise to 400% of annual output, for example, while a drop in long-run growth to 1% would push up expected wealth to 800% of GDP. Whether this is a "law" or not, the important point is that a lower growth rate is conducive to higher concentrations of wealth. In Mr Piketty’s narrative, rapid growth--from large productivity gains or a growing population--is a force for economic convergence. Prior wealth casts less of an economic and political shadow over the new income generated each year. And population growth is a critical component of economic growth, accounting for about half of average global GDP growth between 1700 and 2012. America’s breakneck population and GDP growth in the 19th century eroded the power of old fortunes while throwing up a steady supply of new ones. The Economist Tumbling rates of population growth are pushing wealth concentrations back toward Victorian levels, in Mr Piketty’s estimation. The ratio of wealth to income is highest among demographically challenged economies such as Italy and Japan (although both countries have managed to mitigate inequality through redistributive taxes and transfers). Interestingly, Mr Piketty reckons this world, in which the return to capital is persistently higher than growth, is the more "normal" state. In that case, wealth piles up faster than growth in output or incomes. The mid-20th century, when wealth compression combined with extraordinary growth to generate an egalitarian interregnum, was the exception. Sustained rates of return above the rate of growth may sound unrealistic. The more capital there is, the lower the return should be: the millionth industrial robot adds less to production than the hundredth. Yet somewhat surprisingly, the rate of return on capital is remarkably constant over long periods (see chart, second panel). Technology is partly responsible. Innovation, and growth in output per person, creates investment opportunities even when shrinking populations reduce GDP growth to near zero. New technology can also make it easier to substitute machines for human workers. That allows capital to gobble up a larger share of national income, raising its return. Amid a new burst of automation, wealth concentrations and inequality could reach unprecedented heights, putting a modern twist on a very 19th- century problem. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Toru HanaiU.S. automakers closed out 2013 with weak sales figures, reporting a seasonally-adjusted sales rate of 15.6 million units in December when analysts called for 16.0 million. Chrysler and Ford were in the green, but both missed analyst expectations. GM tanked 6.3% when analysts were looking for a 1.5% gain. "An expected post-Christmas surge in [light vehicle] sales fell somewhat short of industry expectations," according to Wards Auto. "Renewed upside was expected in the second half of the month, but overall December sales may show a 5% pullback after jumping 8% in November," Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman wrote clients. Still, some cars were hotter than others. We picked out the 21 best-selling cars in December. FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of DezerIt's no secret that Miami has long been an epicenter of luxury living for celebrities and billionaires. Luxury condo developments are springing up all over the area, and the housing recovery is going strong throughout the state.  The 60-story Porsche Design Tower is no exception, and now it's attracting billionaires at rapid speed.  Though it won't be ready for move-in until 2016, 22 billionaires (2% of the world's total) have purchased units there so far, according to the Atlantic Cities. And they're going fast — 80% of the 132 units are already under contract, representing a whopping $624 million in sales.  Like many of the other luxury condo developments in Miami-Dade County, the Porsche Design Tower has some crazy amenities, including a movie theatre, spa, and plunge pools on almost every balcony. The tower's most distinctive feature, however, is clear from its name. Three car elevators will bring billionaires and their luxury vehicles straight to the door of their condo, allowing them to park their cars in a "sky garage" connected to each unit. The building is a collaboration between South Florida-based Dezer Development and Germany's Porsche Design Group, whose $214 million loan is the largest that's been approved for a major construction project in the Southeast since the recession. In fact, it's nearly 30% larger than the previous largest post-recession construction loan.  The developers provided us with some renderings of the project.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesThe Wall Street Journal's Rob Copeland reports Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss are making their first foray into Wall Street as they back a hedge fund run by a fellow Harvard graduate. The twin brothers already invest in several firms, including a start-up that lets people know when stores are having sales, and a company that raises money for start ups. In 2012, the pair came to a reported $65 million settlement with Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg over claims to the company's copyrights.  The hedge fund, Briarwood Chase, is run by fellow Harvard graduate Aalap Mahadevia. It was already operating out of the Winklevoss Capital offices, and is said to start trading with approximately $60 million this quarter, Copeland reports. By the way, their Bitcoin ETF is not yet operational as it awaits regulatory approval. Click here to read Copeland's full story on WSJ.com » FREE AppDownload
Much of the Western world will require defaults, a savings tax and higher inflation to clear the way for recovery as debt levels reach a 200-year high, according to a new report by the International Monetary Fund. The IMF working paper said debt burdens in developed nations have become extreme by any historical measure and will require a wave of haircuts, either negotiated 1930s-style write-offs or the standard mix of measures used by the IMF in its “toolkit” for emerging market blow-ups. “The size of the problem suggests that restructurings will be needed, for example, in the periphery of Europe, far beyond anything discussed in public to this point,” said the paper, by Harvard professors Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff. The paper said policy elites in the West are still clinging to the illusion that rich countries are different from poorer regions and can therefore chip away at their debts with a blend of austerity cuts, growth, and tinkering (“forbearance”). The presumption is that advanced economies “do not resort to such gimmicks” such as debt restructuring and repression, which would “give up hard-earned credibility” and throw the economy into a “vicious circle”. But the paper says this mantra borders on “collective amnesia” of European and U.S. history, and is built on “overly optimistic” assumptions that risk doing far more damage to credibility in the end. It is causing the crisis to drag on, blocking a lasting solution. “This denial has led to policies that in some cases risk exacerbating the final costs,” it said. While use of debt pooling in the eurozone can reduce the need for restructuring or defaults, it comes at the cost of higher burdens for northern taxpayers. This could drag the EMU core states into a recession and aggravate their own debt and ageing crises. The clear implication of the IMF paper is that Germany and the creditor core would do better to bite the bullet on big write-offs immediately rather than buying time with creeping debt mutualisation. The paper says the Western debt burden is now so big that rich states will need same tonic of debt haircuts, higher inflation and financial repression — defined as an “opaque tax on savers” — as used in countless IMF rescues for emerging markets. “The magnitude of the overall debt problem facing advanced economies today is difficult to overstate. The current central government debt in advanced economies is approaching a two-century high-water mark,” they said. Most advanced states wrote off debt in the 1930s, though in different ways. First World War loans from the U.S. were forgiven when the Hoover Moratorium expired in 1934, giving debt relief worth 24pc of GDP to France, 22pc to Britain and 19pc to Italy. This occurred as part of a bigger shake-up following the collapse of the war reparations regime on Germany under the Versailles Treaty. The U.S. itself imposed haircuts on its own creditors worth 16pc of GDP in April 1933 when it abandoned the Gold Standard. Financial repression can take many forms, including capital controls, interest rate caps or the force-feeding of government debt to captive pension funds and insurance companies. Some of these methods are already in use but not yet on the scale seen in the late 1940s and early 1950s as countries resorted to every trick to tackle their war debts. The policy is essentially a confiscation of savings, partly achieved by pushing up inflation while rigging the system to stop markets taking evasive action. The UK and the U.S. ran negative real interest rates of -2pc to -4pc for several years after the Second World War. Real rates in Italy and Australia were -5pc. Both authors of the paper have worked for the IMF, Prof Rogoff as chief economist. They became famous for their best-selling work on sovereign debt crises over the ages, "This Time is Different: Eight Centuries of Financial Folly." They were later embroiled in controversy over a paper suggesting that growth slows sharply once public debt exceeds 90pc of GDP. Critics say it is unclear whether the higher debt is the problem or whether the causality is the other way around, with slow growth causing the debt ratio to rise to faster. The issue became highly politicised when German finance minister Wolfgang Schauble and EU economics commissioner Olli Rehn began citing the paper to justify eurozone austerity policies, over-stepping its more careful claims. Critics says extreme austerity without offsetting monetary stimulus is the chief reason why debts have been spiralling upwards even faster in parts of Southern Europe. The weaker eurozone states are particularly vulnerable to default because they no longer have their own sovereign currencies, putting them in the same position as emerging countries that borrowed in dollars in the 1980s and 1990s. Even so, nations have defaulted through history even when they do borrow in their own currency.  FREE AppDownload
NOAH, Bloomberg, ReutersAmong Wall Street's 2014 forecasts, Emad Mostaque's clearly stands out.The overwhelming consensus prediction on Wall Street for 2014 is that this will be the year the U.S. economy finally takes off, which should translate to a more gains in the stock market and more pain for holders of gold and U.S. Treasuries. Emad Mostaque, a strategist at NOAH Capital Markets, stands out from this crowd: in his 2014 investment outlook, he predicts basically the exact opposite of everything the consensus thinks will happen this year. Specifically, Mostaque expects U.S. stocks (measured by the S&amp;P 500 index) to fall 15-20% in 2014, gold to rise more than 20% to $1500 an ounce, and the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury note to collapse to 1.5% from current levels around 3.0% as market participants come to realize that "the strength of the U.S. economy has been overstated." The bearish view is predicated on the belief that S&amp;P 500 earnings per share will actually fall in 2014, whereas most on the Street are calling for EPS growth to drive further gains in the index this year after multiple expansion fueled much of 2013's stock market rally. "Last year's stellar returns on anemic EPS growth of 6% (to $106 vs. my $107.5 target), were predominantly through rerating of the index," says Mostaque. "Digging into that EPS figure, one can see further weakness as it would be negative without buybacks and loan-loss reserve releases from financials, which need significant ROE expansion from here." In this environment, Treasuries should be set for a big rally. "I see bonds having a final blow soon on some 'good' data in Q1 before outperforming significantly for the rest of the year, with U.S. 10-year yields resuming their steady path towards our eventual target of 1%," says Mostaque. "Note a drop in real interest rates is bullish gold and, given a deteriorating economic outlook, I would expect to see the barbaric relic hit $1,500 this year." Aside from weak economic dynamics, Mostaque identifies two more reasons why investors may rush back into Treasuries, contrary to consensus expectations. In his outlook, he writes: First, with bonds falling sharply last year (TLT for example down 16%), massively underperforming equities, with US equities up 30-40%, means that real money allocations are hugely skewed.  For example, a 60:40 classical allocation to the SPDR S&amp;P 500 ETF and iShares 20+ Year Treasury Bond ETF at the start of 2013 would now be a 70:30 split, necessitating a significant rebalancing. After a good year in 2013 for equity allocations, risk-averse allocators will be doing exactly that in the first half of this year, particularly with long-term returns from domestic equities looking scary and few daring enough to dive back into the larger, more liquid emerging markets.  Secondly, positioning is dramatically against bond duration, with consensus being that the bull market is over and this is an ideal time to short, with plenty of nice new products to do so hitting the market and raising billions, always a nice contrarian sign.  It’s as if nobody learnt from the Japanese "widow-maker" trade. Click here to read Mostaque's full 2014 outlook » FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsStockmarket investors are more optimistic than the fundamentals warrant EQUITY markets finished 2013 with a bang, with the S&amp;P 500 index delivering a return to investors of more than 30%, once dividends are included. And investors' optimism appeared to be borne out by trends in the American economy, the world's largest, as third-quarter growth figures were revised higher on December 20th to show an annualised gain of 4.1%. Even so, there is something slightly odd about this rosy picture. Economic growth is good for the stockmarket because a healthy economy should boost profits. But the data show that profit growth slowed significantly in the third quarter. Total corporate profits in America grew by $39.2 billion over the three months to September, compared with a $66.8 billion rise in the second quarter; domestic profits rose by $12.7 billion, down from $37.8 billion. As a result, the big gains of 2013 were caused by investors re-rating the equity markets (giving shares a higher valuation) rather than because of the profit fundamentals. Total profits for S&amp;P 500 companies in 2013 are likely to have risen by only 7.7%, a long way short of the gains in the index. Equity investors are always forward-looking, of course, so perhaps their optimism was caused by their views on profits in 2014. That sounds plausible in theory, but the facts are rather different; analysts spent December revising down their profit forecasts. A slowdown in profit growth would hardly be surprising, given that profits are at their highest as a proportion of American GDP since the second world war. But that points to another oddity. On the best long-term measure, the cyclically-adjusted price-earnings ratio (which averages profits over 10 years), American equities trade on a multiple of 25.4, according to Professor Robert Shiller of Yale University, well above the historic average. Why would a higher-than-average p/e ratio be justified? For individual stocks, the answer is clear: rapidly-growing companies trade on a high multiple of current profits because their future profits are expected to grow strongly. But American companies do not fit the template. They are trading on a high multiple at a time when profits are already historically high and growth appears to be slowing. The most common explanation for this discrepancy is that monetary policy is driving the equity market. Holding down both short-term rates and long-term bond yields forces investors out of cash and bonds and into the stockmarket. In 2013 fixed-income mutual funds suffered their first annual outflow since 2004. The only period when the stockmarket faltered in 2013 was during the summer, when the Federal Reserve talked of reducing the scale of its monetary support. By December, when the Fed did actually announce the tapering of its asset purchases, the markets were braced for the bad news. The scale of tapering was also quite modest and the Fed, along with other central banks, made it clear that short-term rates will remain low in 2014. Nevertheless, this only creates another puzzle. Central banks have been pulling out all the stops in monetary-policy terms; not just in the form of quantitative easing but in the low level of interest rates. In the first three centuries of its existence, which saw deflation, depression and world wars, the Bank of England never felt the need to push interest rates as low as they are now. That suggests central bankers are very worried about the economic prospects for their countries. But investors seem convinced that economies can recover and that central banks will keep rates low; either the former are wrong in their optimism or the latter's pessimism is overdone. This dichotomy suggests there is scope for some shocks in 2014: perhaps economic growth will disappoint or central banks may signal that their monetary support will be withdrawn more rapidly than investors currently hope. The equity markets may have got ahead of themselves a bit last year. There is also a threat from another direction. Wall Street seems to have had a much better recovery than Main Street. Asset prices have responded vigorously while real wages have been squeezed. Inequality has been widening (see Free exchange). It is hardly surprising that voters have become discontented, with a surge in support for the populist right in Europe and plenty of partisan bickering in Washington. The combination of an angry electorate and nervous governments may lead to unpredictable policy measures--and an atmosphere that is hardly helpful to either business or investor confidence. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Darren OrnitzA tourist catches snowflakes on her tongue during snow fall in Times Square, Midtown, New York, January 2, 2014Yesterday's big sell-off was met with the most lackluster of rallies. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial. FREE AppDownload
A 2012 Pew Research Center study found that U.S. cities are becoming increasingly segregated by income. A more nuanced picture of this trend can be gathered from a new interactive website from the U.S. Census Bureau that shows median household income, age, education, and other statistics by census tract.  Lower-income households tend to be concentrated closer to the center of the cities, while higher-income households usually make up the outer-ring census tracts surrounding the cities. Pew developed what's called a Residential Income Segregation Index score to determine which cities have the greatest income segregation, with higher RISI scores showing higher income segregation. Below, we have featured maps of ten highly segregated U.S. metropolitan areas, in order of increasing income segregation. The three worst are all located in Texas. U.S. Census Bureau U.S. Census Bureau U.S. Census Bureau U.S. Census Bureau U.S. Census Bureau U.S. Census Bureau U.S. Census Bureau U.S. Census Bureau U.S. Census Bureau FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michaela RehleAccording to Autodata, U.S. auto sales came in at a seasonally-adjusted annualized rate of 15.6 million units in December, which was well below the 16.0 million expected by analysts. Detroit's big three automakers all fell short of expectations. Chrysler reported that sales climbed 5.7% to 161,007 units. This missed analysts expectation for an 8.4% gain. Ford sales increased by just 1.7% to 218,058. Analysts were looking for a 4.3% increase. GM sales unexpectedly tanked, falling 6.3% versus an expected gain of 1.5%. Like GM, Toyota saw its sales unexpectedly fall. Sales declined 1.7% versus expectations for a 3.1% gain. Here are some other December stats that have been reported (via Wards Auto): "After a strong end to November over Black Friday weekend lifted sales for the month to six-year high of 16.3 million units annualized, initial mid-month industry surveys observed some slowing in sales in the first half of December, reflecting the pull forward into November as well as a drag from December winter storm," said Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman before the reports came out. "Renewed upside was expected in the second half of the month, but overall December sales may show a 5% pullback after jumping 8% in November." FREE AppDownload
 REUTERS/Mohammed Jaffer/SnapsIndiaDevyani Khobragade, India's deputy consul general, attends the India Studies Stony Brook University fundraiser event in Long Island, New York, December 8, 2013. A diplomatic row between India and the US escalated after the Indian government announced a series of retaliatory measures against the US in response to the arrest of its deputy consul-general, Devyani Khobragade, in New York. On December 19th India's foreign minister, Salman Khurshid, said that the charges against Ms Khobragade should be withdrawn. Analysis On December 12th law-enforcement agencies in New York reportedly handcuffed Ms Khobragade in public after which she was strip-searched. Ms Khobragade is charged by the US authorities with visa fraud-she is accused of underpaying but over-reporting the salary of her Indian maid on the latter's work-visa form, charges that she has denied. Indian officials claim that Ms Khobragade was kept in a jail with drug addicts before being released on bail. Ms Khobragade's treatment has caused outrage in India-political leaders and officials snubbed a visiting delegation of US congressmen this week, and India has threatened to curtail the privileges extended to US diplomats. Security barricades around the US embassy in the Indian capital, New Delhi, were removed on December 17th, and US diplomats have been asked to surrender for revaluation identity cards that grant special privileges. India has also clamped down on import clearances for the embassy. Moreover, the Indian government has sought the salary details of local Indian staff employed on US diplomatic missions. India also transferred Ms Khobragade to its mission at the UN in New York in a belated bid to boost her diplomatic status. Currently, the US argues that her limited diplomatic immunity does not cover private conduct in violation of US law. The incident marks a rare public spat between two countries that have enjoyed largely positive ties since 2001. Following Indian reprisals, the US secretary of state, John Kerry, sought to douse tensions by expressing "regret" over the incident. It is the third case of alleged mistreatment of Indian diplomats in the US in three years. FREE AppDownload
In his final speech as Fed Chair, Ben Bernanke identifies the No. 1 thing that's caused the economy to be so slow: not enough government spending. He specifically calls fiscal policy "excessively tight." To this list of reasons for the slow recovery--the effects of the financial crisis, problems in the housing and mortgage markets, weaker-than-expected productivity growth, and events in Europe and elsewhere--I would add one more significant factor--namely, fiscal policy. Federal fiscal policy was expansionary in 2009 and 2010. Since that time, however, federal fiscal policy has turned quite restrictive; according to the Congressional Budget Office, tax increases and spending cuts likely lowered output growth in 2013 by as much as 1-1/2 percentage points. In addition, throughout much of the recovery, state and local government budgets have been highly contractionary, reflecting their adjustment to sharply declining tax revenues. To illustrate the extent of fiscal tightness, at the current point in the recovery from the 2001 recession, employment at all levels of government had increased by nearly 600,000 workers; in contrast, in the current recovery, government employment has declined by more than 700,000 jobs, a net difference of more than 1.3 million jobs. There have been corresponding cuts in government investment, in infrastructure for example, as well as increases in taxes and reductions in transfers. Although long-term fiscal sustainability is a critical objective, excessively tight near-term fiscal policies have likely been counterproductive. Most importantly, with fiscal and monetary policy working in opposite directions, the recovery is weaker than it otherwise would be. But the current policy mix is particularly problematic when interest rates are very low, as is the case today. Monetary policy has less room to maneuver when interest rates are close to zero, while expansionary fiscal policy is likely both more effective and less costly in terms of increased debt burden when interest rates are pinned at low levels. A more balanced policy mix might also avoid some of the costs of very low interest rates, such as potential risks to financial stability, without sacrificing jobs and growth. This of course flies right in the face of the GOP argument that government spending is way too high and that fiscal policy is too loose. But the data clearly bears Bernanke out. This chart from the Cleveland Fed shows how the trajectory of spending is so much lower than it has been in previous recoveries. Cleveland Fed And this chart from Calculated Risk shows how government employment is on a much worse trajectory under Obama than it was under past Presidents. Calculated Risk So yes, Bernanke is spot on. Government spending has been very tight, and it's holding back the recovery. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan ErnstU.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke.Outgoing Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke is speaking at the annual AEA/ASSA meeting. In his prepared remarks, he says more transparency would make Fed policy more potent, and that productivity growth in the U.S. has been "disappointing." Below is the full text of Bernanke's speech: The Federal Reserve: Looking Back, Looking Forward Watch Video  In less than a month my term as Fed Chairman will end. Needless to say, my tenure has been eventful--for the Federal Reserve, for the country, and for me personally. I thought it appropriate today to reflect on some accomplishments of the past eight years, as well as some uncompleted tasks. I will briefly cover three areas in my remarks: (1) the Federal Reserve's commitment to transparency and accountability, (2) financial stability and financial reform, and (3) monetary policy. I will close by discussing the prospects for the U.S. and global economies. Transparency and AccountabilityFostering transparency and accountability at the Federal Reserve was one of my principal objectives when I became Chairman in February 2006. I had long advocated increased transparency and, in particular, a more explicit policy framework as ways to make monetary policy more predictable and more effective. Our efforts to enhance transparency and communication have indeed made monetary policy more effective, but, as I'll discuss, these steps have proved important in other spheres as well. When I began my term I expected to build on the monetary policy framework I had inherited from Paul Volcker and Alan Greenspan. My predecessors had solidified the Fed's commitment to low and stable inflation as a foundation of broader economic stability, and they gradually increased the transparency of monetary policy deliberations and plans. For example, Chairman Volcker introduced a money-targeting framework to help guide the Fed's attack on high inflation in the early 1980s, and the practice of issuing a statement after each meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) began under Chairman Greenspan. I believed that a still more transparent approach would make monetary policy even more effective and further strengthen the Fed's institutional credibility. In particular, as an academic I had written favorably about the flexible inflation-targeting approach used by the Bank of England and a number of other central banks. By making public considerable information about policy goals and strategies, together with their economic forecasts, these central banks provided a clear framework to help the public and market participants understand and anticipate policy actions. The provision of numerical goals and policy plans also helped make these central banks more accountable for achieving their stated objectives. I was confident that we could adapt this type of framework to the Federal Reserve's dual mandate to promote both maximum employment and price stability. Indeed, central banks using this framework were already, in practice, often pursuing economic objectives in addition to low and stable inflation--hence the term, "flexible" inflation targeting. Because the financial crisis and its aftermath naturally occupied so much of policymakers' attention, progress toward a more explicit policy framework at the Federal Reserve was slower than I had hoped. Nevertheless, progress was made. In the minutes of its October 2007 meeting, the FOMC introduced its quarterly Summary of Economic Projections (SEP), which included FOMC participants' projections of key macroeconomic variables such as inflation, gross domestic product (GDP) growth, and the unemployment rate.1 Over time, we added long-run projections of inflation, growth, and unemployment, as well as projections of the path of the target federal funds rate consistent with each individual's views of appropriate monetary policy. These additions have better informed the public about participants' views on both the long-run objectives of policy and the path of interest rates most consistent with achieving those objectives. We took another important step in January 2012, when the FOMC issued a statement laying out its longer-run goals and policy strategy.2 The statement established, for the first time, an explicit longer-run goal for inflation of 2 percent, and it pointed to the SEP to provide information about Committee participants' assessments of the longer-run normal unemployment rate, currently between 5.2 and 6 percent. The statement also indicated that the Committee would take a balanced approach to its price stability and employment objectives. We adopted additional measures aimed at clarifying the rationales for our decisions, including my quarterly postmeeting press conference. The increases in policy transparency that were achieved proved valuable during a very difficult period for monetary policy. As it happened, during the crisis and its aftermath the Federal Reserve's transparency and accountability proved critical in a quite different sphere--namely, in supporting the institution's democratic legitimacy. The Federal Reserve, like other central banks, wields powerful tools; democratic accountability requires that the public be able to see how and for what purposes those tools are being used. Transparency is particularly important in a period like the recent one in which the Federal Reserve has been compelled to take unusual and dramatic actions--including the provision of liquidity to a wide range of financial institutions and markets that did not normally have access to the Fed's discount window--to help stabilize the financial system and the economy. What types of transparency are needed to preserve public confidence? At the most basic level, a central bank must be clear and open about its actions and operations, particularly when they involve the deployment of public funds. The Federal Reserve routinely makes public extensive information on all aspects of its activities, and since the crisis it has greatly increased the quantity and detail of its regular reports to the Congress and the public.3 Importantly, contrary to what is sometimes asserted, all of the Fed's financial transactions and operations are subject to regular, intensive audits--by the Government Accountability Office, an independent Inspector General, and a private accounting firm, as well as by our own internal auditors.4 It is a testament to the dedication of the Federal Reserve's management team that these thorough audits have consistently produced assessments of the Fed's accounting and financial controls that most public companies would envy. Transparency and accountability are about more than just opening up the books, however; they also require thoughtful explanations of what we are doing and why. In this regard, our first responsibility is to the Congress, which established the Federal Reserve almost exactly a century ago and determined its structure, objectives, and powers. Federal Reserve Board members, including the Chairman, of course, as well as senior staff, testify frequently before congressional committees on a wide range of topics. When I became Chairman, I anticipated the obligation to appear regularly before the Congress. I had not entirely anticipated, though, that I would spend so much time meeting with legislators outside of hearings--individually and in groups. But I quickly came to realize the importance of these relationships with legislators in keeping open the channels of communication. As part of the Fed's interaction with the Congress, we have also routinely provided staff briefings on request and conducted programs at the Board for the benefit of congressional staff interested in Federal Reserve issues. I likewise maintained regular contact with both the Bush and Obama Administrations, principally through meetings with the Secretary of the Treasury and other economic officials. The crisis and its aftermath, however, raised the need for communication and explanation by the Federal Reserve to a new level. We took extraordinary measures to meet extraordinary economic challenges, and we had to explain those measures to earn the public's support and confidence. Talking only to the Congress and to market participants would not have been enough. The effort to inform the public engaged the whole institution, including both Board members and the staff. As Chairman, I did my part, by appearing on television programs, holding town halls, taking student questions at universities, and visiting a military base to talk to soldiers and their families. The Federal Reserve Banks also played key roles in providing public information in their Districts, through programs, publications, speeches, and other media. The crisis has passed, but I think the Fed's need to educate and explain will only grow. When Paul Volcker first sat in the Chairman's office in 1979, there were no financial news channels on cable TV, no Bloomberg screens, no blogs, no Twitter. Today, news, ideas, and rumors circulate almost instantaneously. The Fed must continue to find ways to navigate this changing environment while providing clear, objective, and reliable information to the public. Financial StabilityFor the U.S. and global economies, the most important event of the past eight years was, of course, the global financial crisis and the deep recession that it triggered. As I have observed on other occasions, the crisis bore a strong family resemblance to a classic financial panic, except that it took place in the complex environment of the 21st century global financial system.5 Likewise, the tools used to fight the panic, though adapted to the modern context, were analogous to those that would have been used a century ago, including liquidity provision by the central bank, liability guarantees, recapitalization, and the provision of assurances and information to the public. The immediate trigger of the crisis, as you know, was a sharp decline in house prices, which reversed a previous run-up that had been fueled by irresponsible mortgage lending and securitization practices. Policymakers at the time, including myself, certainly appreciated that house prices might decline, although we disagreed about how much decline was likely; indeed, prices were already moving down when I took office in 2006. However, to a significant extent, our expectations about the possible macroeconomic effects of house price declines were shaped by the apparent analogy to the bursting of the dot-com bubble a few years earlier. That earlier bust also involved a large reduction in paper wealth but was followed by only a mild recession. In the event, of course, the bursting of the housing bubble helped trigger the most severe financial crisis since the Great Depression. It did so because, unlike the earlier decline in equity prices, it interacted with critical vulnerabilities in the financial system and in government regulation that allowed what were initially moderate aggregate losses to subprime mortgage holders to cascade through the financial system. In the private sector, key vulnerabilities included high levels of leverage, excessive dependence on unstable short-term funding, deficiencies in risk measurement and management, and the use of exotic financial instruments that redistributed risk in nontransparent ways. In the public sector, vulnerabilities included gaps in the regulatory structure that allowed some systemically important firms and markets to escape comprehensive supervision, failures of supervisors to effectively use their existing powers, and insufficient attention to threats to the stability of the system as a whole. The Federal Reserve responded forcefully to the liquidity pressures during the crisis in a manner consistent with the lessons that central banks had learned from financial panics over more than 150 years and summarized in the writings of the 19th century British journalist Walter Bagehot: Lend early and freely to solvent institutions.6 However, the institutional context had changed substantially since Bagehot wrote. The panics of the 19th and early 20th centuries typically involved runs on commercial banks and other depository institutions. Prior to the recent crisis, in contrast, credit extension had progressively migrated outside of traditional banking to so-called shadow banking entities, which relied heavily on short-term wholesale funding that proved vulnerable to runs.7 Accordingly, to help calm the panic, the Federal Reserve provided liquidity not only to commercial banks, but also to other types of financial institutions such as investment banks and money market funds, as well as to key financial markets such as those for commercial paper and asset-backed securities.8 Because funding markets are global in scope and U.S. borrowers depend importantly on foreign lenders, the Federal Reserve also approved currency swap agreements with 14 foreign central banks. Providing liquidity represented only the first step in stabilizing the financial system. Subsequent efforts focused on rebuilding the public's confidence, notably including public guarantees of bank debt by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and of money market funds by the Treasury Department, as well as the injection of public capital into banking institutions. The bank stress test that the Federal Reserve led in the spring of 2009, which included detailed public disclosure of information regarding the solvency of our largest banks, further buttressed confidence in the banking system. The success of the stress-test disclosures, by the way, was yet another example of the benefits of transparency. The subsequent efforts to reform our regulatory framework have been focused on limiting the reemergence of the vulnerabilities that precipitated and exacerbated the crisis. Changes in bank capital regulation under Basel III have significantly increased requirements for loss-absorbing capital at global banking firms--including a surcharge for systemically important institutions and a ceiling on leverage. The Federal Reserve's Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, or CCAR, process, a descendant of the 2009 stress test, requires that large financial institutions maintain sufficient capital to weather extreme shocks, and that they demonstrate that their internal planning processes are effective; in addition, public disclosure of the results facilitates market discipline. The Basel III framework also includes liquidity requirements designed to mitigate excessive reliance by global banks on short-term wholesale funding and to otherwise constrain risks at those banks. Further steps are under way to toughen the oversight of large institutions and to strengthen the financial infrastructure, for example, by requiring central clearing with greater transparency for the trading of most standardized derivatives. Oversight of the shadow banking system also has been strengthened. For example, the new Financial Stability Oversight Council has designated some nonbank firms as systemically important financial institutions, or SIFIs, subject to consolidated supervision by the Federal Reserve. In addition, measures are being undertaken to address the potential instability of short-term wholesale funding markets, including reforms to money market funds and the triparty repo market.9  Of course, in a highly integrated global financial system, no country can effectively implement the financial reforms I have described in isolation. The good news is that similar reforms are being pursued throughout the world, with the full support of the United States and with international bodies such as the Basel Committee and the Financial Stability Board providing coordination. More broadly, the approach to regulation and supervision at the Federal Reserve has evolved to include a substantial macroprudential, or systemic, orientation in addition to the traditional focus on individual institutions. For example, the Federal Reserve created the Office of Financial Stability Policy and Research, which coordinates System efforts to monitor the interaction of financial institutions, financial markets, and economic developments to identify emerging vulnerabilities and systemic risks.10 Enhanced monitoring of this type is especially important as the changes in regulatory structure and financial innovation may lead risks to manifest in new ways or to migrate outside the perimeter of the current regulatory structure. Much progress has been made, but more remains to be done. In addition to completing the efforts I have already mentioned, including the full implementation of new rules and supervisory responsibilities, the agenda still includes further domestic and international cooperation to ensure the effectiveness of mechanisms to allow the orderly resolution of insolvent institutions and thereby increase market discipline on large institutions.11 The evaluation of potential macroprudential tools that might be used to address emerging financial imbalances is another high priority. For example, the new Basel III regulatory capital framework includes a countercyclical capital buffer, which may help build additional resilience within the financial sector during periods of buoyant credit creation. Staff members are investigating the potential of this and other regulatory tools, such as cyclically sensitive loan-to-value requirements for mortgages, to improve financial stability. A number of countries, including both advanced and emerging-market economies, have already deployed such measures, and their experiences should be instructive. Although, in principle, monetary policy can be used to address financial imbalances, the presumption remains that macroprudential tools, together with well-focused traditional regulation and supervision, should serve as the first line of defense against emerging threats to financial stability. However, more remains to be done to better understand how to design and implement more effective macroprudential tools and how these tools interact with monetary policy. Monetary PolicyWhile liquidity provision and other emergency steps were critical to stemming the financial panic, a rapid shift in the stance of monetary policy was necessary to counteract the massive economic blow delivered by the crisis. The FOMC reduced the target federal funds rate from 5-1/4 percent in the summer of 2007 to a range of 0 to 1/4 percent by the end of 2008, a very rapid easing. The federal funds rate has been at its effective lower bound since then. To provide additional monetary policy accommodation despite the constraint imposed by the effective lower bound on interest rates, the Federal Reserve turned to two alternative tools: enhanced forward guidance regarding the likely path of the federal funds rate and large-scale purchases of longer-term securities for the Federal Reserve's portfolio. Other major central banks have responded to developments since 2008 in roughly similar ways. For example, the Bank of England and the Bank of Japan have employed detailed forward guidance and conducted large-scale asset purchases, while the European Central Bank has moved to reduce the perceived risk of sovereign debt, provided banks with substantial liquidity, and offered qualitative guidance regarding the future path of interest rates. With short-term rates near zero, expanded guidance about intentions for future policy has helped to shape market expectations, which in turn has eased financial conditions by putting downward pressure on longer-term interest rates and helped support economic activity. Forward guidance about the short-term interest rate supplements the broader policy framework I described earlier, by providing information about how the Committee expects to achieve its stated policy objectives despite the complications created by the zero lower bound on the policy interest rate and uncertainties about the costs and efficacy of the available policy tools. Beginning with qualitative guidance, the Committee's communication about its anticipated future policy has evolved through several stages. In December 2012, the Committee introduced state-contingent guidance, announcing for the first time that no increase in the federal funds rate target should be anticipated so long as unemployment remained above 6-1/2 percent, inflation between one and two years ahead was projected to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation expectations continued to be well anchored.12 My colleagues and I emphasized that the conditions stated in that guidance were thresholds, not triggers. That is, crossing one of the thresholds would not automatically give rise to an increase in the federal funds rate target; instead, it would signal only that it would be appropriate for the Committee to begin considering, based on a wider range of indicators, whether and when an increase in the target might be warranted. Large-scale asset purchases also provide monetary accommodation by lowering long-term interest rates. Working through the portfolio-balance channel, asset purchases reduce the supply of long-duration assets in the hands of the public, depressing term premiums and thus reducing longer-term yields. At times, the decision to begin or extend an asset-purchase program may also have a signaling effect, to the extent that market participants see that decision as indicative of policymakers' commitment to an accommodative policy stance. However, it is important to recognize that the potential signaling aspect of asset purchases depends on the broader economic and policy context. In particular, the FOMC's decision to modestly reduce the pace of asset purchases at its December meeting did not indicate any diminution of its commitment to maintain a highly accommodative monetary policy for as long as needed; rather, it reflected the progress we have made toward our goal of substantial improvement in the labor market outlook that we set out when we began the current purchase program in September 2012. At its most recent meeting, the Committee reaffirmed and clarified its guidance on rates, stating that it expects to maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate well past the time that the unemployment threshold of 6-1/2 percent is crossed, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal.13  Have these unconventional tools been effective? Skeptics have pointed out that the pace of recovery has been disappointingly slow, with inflation-adjusted GDP growth averaging only slightly higher than a 2 percent annual rate over the past few years and inflation below the Committee's 2 percent longer-term target. However, as I will discuss, the recovery has faced powerful headwinds, suggesting that economic growth might well have been considerably weaker, or even negative, without substantial monetary policy support. For the most part, research supports the conclusion that the combination of forward guidance and large-scale asset purchases has helped promote the recovery. For example, changes in guidance appear to shift interest rate expectations, and the preponderance of studies show that asset purchases push down longer-term interest rates and boost asset prices.14 These changes in financial conditions in turn appear to have provided material support to the economy.15  Once the economy improves sufficiently so that unconventional tools are no longer needed, the Committee will face issues of policy implementation and, ultimately, the design of the policy framework. Large-scale asset purchases have increased the size of our balance sheet and created substantial excess reserves in the banking system. Under the operating procedures used prior to the crisis, the presence of large quantities of excess reserves likely would have impeded the FOMC's ability to raise short-term nominal interest rates when appropriate. However, the Federal Reserve now has effective tools to normalize the stance of policy when conditions warrant, without reliance on asset sales. The interest rate on excess reserves can be raised, which will put upward pressure on short-term rates; in addition, the Federal Reserve will be able to employ other tools, such as fixed-rate overnight reverse repurchase agreements, term deposits, or term repurchase agreements, to drain bank reserves and tighten its control over money market rates if this proves necessary. As a result, at the appropriate time, the FOMC will be able to return to conducting monetary policy primarily through adjustments in the short-term policy rate. It is possible, however, that some specific aspects of the Federal Reserve's operating framework will change; the Committee will be considering this question in the future, taking into account what it learned from its experience with an expanded balance sheet and new tools for managing interest rates. Economic ProspectsIn the remainder of my remarks, I will reflect on the state of the U.S. economic recovery and its prospects. The economy has made considerable progress since the recovery officially began some four and a half years ago. Payroll employment has risen by 7-1/2 million jobs from its trough. Real GDP has grown in 16 of 17 quarters, and the level of real GDP in the third quarter of 2013 was 5-1/2 percent above its pre-recession peak. The unemployment rate has fallen from 10 percent in the fall of 2009 to 7 percent recently. Industrial production and equipment investment have matched or exceeded pre-recession peaks. The banking system has been recapitalized, and the financial system is safer. When the economy was in free fall in late 2008 and early 2009, such improvement was far from certain, as indicated at the time by stock prices that were nearly 60 percent below current levels and very wide credit spreads. Despite this progress, the recovery clearly remains incomplete. At 7 percent, the unemployment rate still is elevated. The number of long-term unemployed remains unusually high, and other measures of labor underutilization, such as the number of people who are working part time for economic reasons, have improved less than the unemployment rate. Labor force participation has continued to decline, and, although some of this decline reflects longer-term trends that were in place prior to the crisis, some of it likely reflects potential workers' discouragement about job prospects. In retrospect, at least, many of the factors that held back the recovery can be identified. Some of these factors were difficult or impossible to anticipate, such as the resurgence in financial volatility associated with the European sovereign debt and banking crisis and the economic effects of natural disasters in Japan and elsewhere. Other factors were more predictable; in particular, we appreciated early on, though perhaps to a lesser extent than we might have, that the boom and bust left severe imbalances that would take time to work off. As Carmen Reinhart and Ken Rogoff noted in their prescient research, economic activity following financial crises tends to be anemic, especially when the preceding economic expansion was accompanied by rapid growth in credit and real estate prices.16 Weak recoveries from financial crises reflect, in part, the process of deleveraging and balance sheet repair: Households pull back on spending to recoup lost wealth and reduce debt burdens, while financial institutions restrict credit to restore capital ratios and reduce the riskiness of their portfolios. In addition to these financial factors, the weakness of the recovery reflects the overbuilding of housing (and, to some extent, commercial real estate) prior to the crisis, together with tight mortgage credit; indeed, recent activity in these areas is especially tepid in comparison to the rapid gains in construction more typically seen in recoveries. Although the Federal Reserve, like other forecasters, has tended to be overoptimistic in its forecasts of real GDP during this recovery, we have also, at times, been too pessimistic in our forecasts of the unemployment rate. For example, over the past year unemployment has declined notably more quickly than we or other forecasters expected, even as GDP growth was moderately lower than expected a year ago. This discrepancy reflects a number of factors, including declines in participation, but an important reason is the slow growth of productivity during this recovery; intuitively, when productivity gains are limited, firms need more workers even if demand is growing slowly. Disappointing productivity growth accordingly must be added to the list of reasons that economic growth has been slower than hoped.17 (Incidentally, the slow pace of productivity gains early in the recovery was not evident until well after the fact because of large data revisions--an illustration of the frustrations of real-time policymaking.) The reasons for weak productivity growth are not entirely clear: It may be a result of the severity of the financial crisis, for example, if tight credit conditions have inhibited innovation, productivity-improving investments, and the formation of new firms; or it may simply reflect slow growth in sales, which have led firms to use capital and labor less intensively, or even mismeasurement. Notably, productivity growth has also flagged in a number of foreign economies that were hard-hit by the financial crisis. Yet another possibility is weak productivity growth reflects longer-term trends largely unrelated to the recession. Obviously, the resolution of the productivity puzzle will be important in shaping our expectations for longer-term growth. To this list of reasons for the slow recovery--the effects of the financial crisis, problems in the housing and mortgage markets, weaker-than-expected productivity growth, and events in Europe and elsewhere--I would add one more significant factor--namely, fiscal policy. Federal fiscal policy was expansionary in 2009 and 2010.18 Since that time, however, federal fiscal policy has turned quite restrictive; according to the Congressional Budget Office, tax increases and spending cuts likely lowered output growth in 2013 by as much as 1-1/2 percentage points. In addition, throughout much of the recovery, state and local government budgets have been highly contractionary, reflecting their adjustment to sharply declining tax revenues. To illustrate the extent of fiscal tightness, at the current point in the recovery from the 2001 recession, employment at all levels of government had increased by nearly 600,000 workers; in contrast, in the current recovery, government employment has declined by more than 700,000 jobs, a net difference of more than 1.3 million jobs. There have been corresponding cuts in government investment, in infrastructure for example, as well as increases in taxes and reductions in transfers. Although long-term fiscal sustainability is a critical objective, excessively tight near-term fiscal policies have likely been counterproductive. Most importantly, with fiscal and monetary policy working in opposite directions, the recovery is weaker than it otherwise would be. But the current policy mix is particularly problematic when interest rates are very low, as is the case today. Monetary policy has less room to maneuver when interest rates are close to zero, while expansionary fiscal policy is likely both more effective and less costly in terms of increased debt burden when interest rates are pinned at low levels. A more balanced policy mix might also avoid some of the costs of very low interest rates, such as potential risks to financial stability, without sacrificing jobs and growth. I have discussed the factors that have held back the recovery, not only to better understand the recent past but also to think about the economy's prospects. The encouraging news is that the headwinds I have mentioned may now be abating. Near-term fiscal policy at the federal level remains restrictive, but the degree of restraint on economic growth seems likely to lessen somewhat in 2014 and even more so in 2015; meanwhile, the budgetary situations of state and local governments have improved, reducing the need for further sharp cuts. The aftereffects of the housing bust also appear to have waned. For example, notwithstanding the effects of somewhat higher mortgage rates, house prices have rebounded, with one consequence being that the number of homeowners with "underwater" mortgages has dropped significantly, as have foreclosures and mortgage delinquencies. Household balance sheets have strengthened considerably, with wealth and income rising and the household debt-service burden at its lowest level in decades. Partly as a result of households' improved finances, lending standards to households are showing signs of easing, though potential mortgage borrowers still face impediments. Businesses, especially larger ones, are also in good financial shape. The combination of financial healing, greater balance in the housing market, less fiscal restraint, and, of course, continued monetary policy accommodation bodes well for U.S. economic growth in coming quarters. But, of course, if the experience of the past few years teaches us anything, it is that we should be cautious in our forecasts. What about the rest of the world? The U.S. recovery appears to be somewhat ahead of those of most other advanced industrial economies; for example, real GDP is still slightly below its pre-recession peak in Japan and remains 2 percent and 3 percent below pre-recession peaks in the United Kingdom and the euro area, respectively. Nevertheless, I see some grounds for cautious optimism abroad as well. As in the United States, central banks in other advanced economies have taken significant steps to strengthen financial systems and to provide policy accommodation. Financial-sector reform is proceeding, and the contractionary effects of tight fiscal policies are waning. Although difficult reforms--such as banking and fiscal reform in Europe and structural reform in Japan--are still in early stages, we have also seen indications of better growth in the advanced economies, which should have positive implications for the United States. Emerging market economies have also grown somewhat more quickly lately after a slowing in the first half of 2013. Although growth prospects for the emerging markets continue to be good, here too the extent and effectiveness of structural reforms, like those currently under way in China and Mexico, will be critical factors. ConclusionLast month we had a ceremony at the Board to commemorate the centennial of the signing of the Federal Reserve Act by President Woodrow Wilson. Over its 100 years of existence, the Fed has faced numerous economic and financial challenges. Certainly the past few years will rank among some of the more difficult for the U.S. economy and for the Fed. The experience has led to important changes at our institution, including new monetary policy tools, enhanced policy communication, a substantial increase in the institutional focus on financial stability and macroprudential policy, and increased transparency. We often speak of the Federal Reserve or other institutions as if they were autonomous actors. Of course, they are not. The Fed is made up of people, working within an organizational structure and with an institutional culture and set of values. I am very proud of my colleagues at the Fed for the hard work and creativity they have brought to bear in addressing the financial and economic crisis, and I think we and they have been well served by a culture that emphasizes objective, expert analysis; professionalism; dedication; and independence from political influence. Whatever the Fed may have achieved in recent years reflects the efforts of many people who are committed, individually and collectively, to pursuing the public interest. Although the Fed undoubtedly will face some difficult challenges in the years ahead, our people and our values make me confident that our institution will meet those challenges successfully. FREE AppDownload
The snowstorm that has hit the Northeast over the past two days is subsiding, but not before it delayed more that 4,000 U.S. flights on Friday alone. According to FlightAware.com, 37% of flights out of New York's LaGuardia Airport have been cancelled today, as have 25% of inbound flights. Flights are being delayed by an average of 25 minutes. Business Insider retail reporter Hayley Peterson is at the airport's Delta terminal right now, and the lines are insane. She says the security line is "at the very least an hour wait, and people are all confused as to where they are supposed to go because Delta has run out of line markers to show people where to stand." Nuts: Hayley Peterson / Business Insider Hayley Peterson / Business Insider Some who aren't in line are trying to get some sleep: REUTERS / Zoran Milich Things aren't much better at JFK International Airport, where Business Insider tech reporter Kyle Russell is in line: Kyle Russell / Business Insider Of course, delays in the Northeast have a ripple effect on the rest of the country. Here's the less crazy scene at Ft. Myers Southwest Florida Airport:  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vivek Prakash Employees walk in the lobby of a Merrill Lynch office building in Singapore September 15, 2008.FOR a firm that transformed the arcane business of investing into common capitalism, Merrill Lynch's 100th anniversary in January 2014 is likely to be a quiet affair. Nestled within Bank of America, Merrill remains a significant firm with a large customer base, but it would be foolish to say that it represents a catalytic populist social movement bent on reshaping society and elevating the role of the individual. And yet that is what it once was, as is evident from "Catching Lightning in a Bottle", a corporate history by Winthrop Smith, the son of a former chief executive of Merrill and a dauphin of sorts until he was pushed aside in 2001 by Stanley O'Neal, who presided over the firm's collapse seven years later. The sheer magnitude of Merrill's fall is hard to take on-board. The book sheds vital light on two eras: the early years that saw the expansion of the firm and of populist finance and on the bleak-post-millennial decade when its confidence and vision collapsed along with much of Wall Street's reputation. Long before Apple was a cool company with a signature outlet in New York's Grand Central Station, Merrill had a kiosk in the middle of the station's concourse. Thousands of people passed through it every day. Many were customers; more were gawkers, seeing in the flicker of posted stock prices the state of American business and, more broadly, America itself. Merrill was often said to have brought Wall Street to Main Street, but that understates its impact, since in the process it enabled individuals to bring their money and ideas to Wall Street. The leading figure of the firm's critical early years was Charles Merrill, a dapper, single-minded and persuasive man who had suffered several early failures, including in professional baseball. He moved to New York in 1907, shortly before the market crashed and work became hard to find. Through a prospective father-in-law he was hired by a textile company. When the romance failed the job ended too, but not before Merrill noticed expanding textile orders from merchants who were looking at a new form of mass retailing. These companies would become important banking clients. In 1914 Charles E. Merrill &amp; Co opened with "Operations Department" painted on the door and no assets beyond ambition. Merrill borrowed $10 to take a household-goods magnate out to lunch and persuade him to swap 20% of his company for $2m in capital that proved almost impossible to raise. Huge returns led to more deals as Merrill found a string of upstart companies to finance, stopping only in 1928 when he became bearish about the markets and turned to building a grocery chain, Safeway. The author's father persuaded him to return to Wall Street in 1940 and create a brokerage firm on the mass-retailing model. "What we need," Merrill wrote in an inaugural statement, is men "who have confidence in the future of their country to sell the people on the idea that shares in American industry are more worthwhile than paper money." Merrill launched a marketing campaign to explain what it did. It published instructions on how to read financial statements. In 1949 an advertisement in San Francisco for "women who'd like to know more about Investments" prompted 30,000 to enroll on an eight-week course. Merrill resisted selling mutual funds because he believed people should control what they owned. It provided advice, not product, and provided it everywhere. Merrill set up tents at agricultural fairs and converted buses into travelling "stockmobiles". A programme that enabled people to invest as little as $40 a month reached its peak in 1958 when the 100,000th investment account was opened by a secretary in the American embassy in Moscow. By the turn of the millennium Merrill had become a global success, but its leadership had fallen into less capable hands than those of Merrill and Mr Smith's father. Inevitable conflicts of interest between brokerage and investment banking were mismanaged. Then, the terrorist attack on September 11th 2001 hit next door. In the ensuing crisis, a decisive new chief executive, Stanley O'Neal, took charge. But he lacked Charlie Merrill's confidence in the future and the personal warmth that motivates salesmen. International operations were dumped, domestic departments peeled back. With a diminished army of brokers, Mr O'Neal sought profits from having Merrill invest directly in high-risk mortgages. Mr Smith provides a wrenching picture of the ensuing multi-billion-dollar crackup. As part of an elegant exit, Mr O'Neal received a $160m package. Wall Street and Main Street were left to suffer. As Mr Smith's book shows, Merrill's success had broad implications. Sadly, so did its travails. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vivek Prakash Employees walk in the lobby of a Merrill Lynch office building in Singapore September 15, 2008.FOR a firm that transformed the arcane business of investing into common capitalism, Merrill Lynch's 100th anniversary in January 2014 is likely to be a quiet affair. Nestled within Bank of America, Merrill remains a significant firm with a large customer base, but it would be foolish to say that it represents a catalytic populist social movement bent on reshaping society and elevating the role of the individual. And yet that is what it once was, as is evident from "Catching Lightning in a Bottle", a corporate history by Winthrop Smith, the son of a former chief executive of Merrill and a dauphin of sorts until he was pushed aside in 2001 by Stanley O'Neal, who presided over the firm's collapse seven years later. The sheer magnitude of Merrill's fall is hard to take on-board. The book sheds vital light on two eras: the early years that saw the expansion of the firm and of populist finance and on the bleak-post-millennial decade when its confidence and vision collapsed along with much of Wall Street's reputation. Long before Apple was a cool company with a signature outlet in New York's Grand Central Station, Merrill had a kiosk in the middle of the station's concourse. Thousands of people passed through it every day. Many were customers; more were gawkers, seeing in the flicker of posted stock prices the state of American business and, more broadly, America itself. Merrill was often said to have brought Wall Street to Main Street, but that understates its impact, since in the process it enabled individuals to bring their money and ideas to Wall Street. The leading figure of the firm's critical early years was Charles Merrill, a dapper, single-minded and persuasive man who had suffered several early failures, including in professional baseball. He moved to New York in 1907, shortly before the market crashed and work became hard to find. Through a prospective father-in-law he was hired by a textile company. When the romance failed the job ended too, but not before Merrill noticed expanding textile orders from merchants who were looking at a new form of mass retailing. These companies would become important banking clients. In 1914 Charles E. Merrill &amp; Co opened with "Operations Department" painted on the door and no assets beyond ambition. Merrill borrowed $10 to take a household-goods magnate out to lunch and persuade him to swap 20% of his company for $2m in capital that proved almost impossible to raise. Huge returns led to more deals as Merrill found a string of upstart companies to finance, stopping only in 1928 when he became bearish about the markets and turned to building a grocery chain, Safeway. The author's father persuaded him to return to Wall Street in 1940 and create a brokerage firm on the mass-retailing model. "What we need," Merrill wrote in an inaugural statement, is men "who have confidence in the future of their country to sell the people on the idea that shares in American industry are more worthwhile than paper money." Merrill launched a marketing campaign to explain what it did. It published instructions on how to read financial statements. In 1949 an advertisement in San Francisco for "women who'd like to know more about Investments" prompted 30,000 to enroll on an eight-week course. Merrill resisted selling mutual funds because he believed people should control what they owned. It provided advice, not product, and provided it everywhere. Merrill set up tents at agricultural fairs and converted buses into travelling "stockmobiles". A programme that enabled people to invest as little as $40 a month reached its peak in 1958 when the 100,000th investment account was opened by a secretary in the American embassy in Moscow. By the turn of the millennium Merrill had become a global success, but its leadership had fallen into less capable hands than those of Merrill and Mr Smith's father. Inevitable conflicts of interest between brokerage and investment banking were mismanaged. Then, the terrorist attack on September 11th 2001 hit next door. In the ensuing crisis, a decisive new chief executive, Stanley O'Neal, took charge. But he lacked Charlie Merrill's confidence in the future and the personal warmth that motivates salesmen. International operations were dumped, domestic departments peeled back. With a diminished army of brokers, Mr O'Neal sought profits from having Merrill invest directly in high-risk mortgages. Mr Smith provides a wrenching picture of the ensuing multi-billion-dollar crackup. As part of an elegant exit, Mr O'Neal received a $160m package. Wall Street and Main Street were left to suffer. As Mr Smith's book shows, Merrill's success had broad implications. Sadly, so did its travails. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
If there were a way to tip them a small amount of money for the service they provide, I definitely would—in the same way that we give a $1 or $2 tip to the valet guy when our vehicle comes back unscathed, a small Bitcoin tip for Twitter's unsung heroes would be a cool thing to do. And now you can. I was playing around earlier today with the remarkably barebones Tippercoin, a free service that authenticates your identity using Twitter's API, allowing any user to seamlessly send a Bitcoin-denominated tip to another person with a Twitter username. It notifies both of you via a public tweet when the funds have been successfully sent (nice bragging rights for the recipient!).  I have around 25,000 followers, so I obviously could only give out a small number of tips on Twitter before running out, but today's experiment yielded intriguing results: 1) People want to receive Bitcoin. 2) I really enjoyed doing it, it felt good to give back to 'Internet strangers' for great content. Although I'm not in a financial position to do something like this on a daily basis, it would be cool if other bitcoiners got into the habit of tipping for great content. For example, one of the people I chose to tip was Tara Stiles, a New York yoga instructor who frequently shares great guided yoga videos for free on YouTube. And I also tipped Laura LaRue, an EDM singer whose work I've enjoyed listening to for free.  If this usage case is widely adopted by others on Twitter, it could provide meaningful additional revenue for independent content creators like Tara and Laura. My tips were small, but multiplied across their thousands of fans, that'd be something significant.  While some others covering digital currency have been drawn to Bitcoin's admittedly fascinating potential to one day replace credit cards and PayPal, I'm more drawn to the usage cases it enables today that simply aren't possible with a credit card or PayPal account—usage cases like today's experiment with social micro-tipping. As you may know, the merchant processing fee schedules for credit card transactions typically make small online tips non-viable. In a year or two, it is easy to see how micro-tipping could be integrated more fully into the social experience. For example, next to the "Like" button on Facebook, there could be a "Tip with Bitcoin" button. As the social value of Likes, Favorites, and Retweets diminishes over time (it's not exciting to get a Like anymore), novelty could be brought back by attaching real money to online praise. A Like you forget about a minute later, but a 0.002 BTC tip? That's real money.  If it leads to further engagement and more content creation, I see no reason why the large social networks shouldn't take the idea Tippercoin pioneered and run with it.  Find me on Twitter and over at http://davidseaman.net. This article originally appeared at David Seaman Online.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsStockmarket investors are more optimistic than the fundamentals warrant EQUITY markets finished 2013 with a bang, with the S&amp;P 500 index delivering a return to investors of more than 30%, once dividends are included. And investors' optimism appeared to be borne out by trends in the American economy, the world's largest, as third-quarter growth figures were revised higher on December 20th to show an annualised gain of 4.1%. Even so, there is something slightly odd about this rosy picture. Economic growth is good for the stockmarket because a healthy economy should boost profits. But the data show that profit growth slowed significantly in the third quarter. Total corporate profits in America grew by $39.2 billion over the three months to September, compared with a $66.8 billion rise in the second quarter; domestic profits rose by $12.7 billion, down from $37.8 billion. As a result, the big gains of 2013 were caused by investors re-rating the equity markets (giving shares a higher valuation) rather than because of the profit fundamentals. Total profits for S&amp;P 500 companies in 2013 are likely to have risen by only 7.7%, a long way short of the gains in the index. Equity investors are always forward-looking, of course, so perhaps their optimism was caused by their views on profits in 2014. That sounds plausible in theory, but the facts are rather different; analysts spent December revising down their profit forecasts. A slowdown in profit growth would hardly be surprising, given that profits are at their highest as a proportion of American GDP since the second world war. But that points to another oddity. On the best long-term measure, the cyclically-adjusted price-earnings ratio (which averages profits over 10 years), American equities trade on a multiple of 25.4, according to Professor Robert Shiller of Yale University, well above the historic average. Why would a higher-than-average p/e ratio be justified? For individual stocks, the answer is clear: rapidly-growing companies trade on a high multiple of current profits because their future profits are expected to grow strongly. But American companies do not fit the template. They are trading on a high multiple at a time when profits are already historically high and growth appears to be slowing. The most common explanation for this discrepancy is that monetary policy is driving the equity market. Holding down both short-term rates and long-term bond yields forces investors out of cash and bonds and into the stockmarket. In 2013 fixed-income mutual funds suffered their first annual outflow since 2004. The only period when the stockmarket faltered in 2013 was during the summer, when the Federal Reserve talked of reducing the scale of its monetary support. By December, when the Fed did actually announce the tapering of its asset purchases, the markets were braced for the bad news. The scale of tapering was also quite modest and the Fed, along with other central banks, made it clear that short-term rates will remain low in 2014. Nevertheless, this only creates another puzzle. Central banks have been pulling out all the stops in monetary-policy terms; not just in the form of quantitative easing but in the low level of interest rates. In the first three centuries of its existence, which saw deflation, depression and world wars, the Bank of England never felt the need to push interest rates as low as they are now. That suggests central bankers are very worried about the economic prospects for their countries. But investors seem convinced that economies can recover and that central banks will keep rates low; either the former are wrong in their optimism or the latter's pessimism is overdone. This dichotomy suggests there is scope for some shocks in 2014: perhaps economic growth will disappoint or central banks may signal that their monetary support will be withdrawn more rapidly than investors currently hope. The equity markets may have got ahead of themselves a bit last year. There is also a threat from another direction. Wall Street seems to have had a much better recovery than Main Street. Asset prices have responded vigorously while real wages have been squeezed. Inequality has been widening (see Free exchange). It is hardly surprising that voters have become discontented, with a surge in support for the populist right in Europe and plenty of partisan bickering in Washington. The combination of an angry electorate and nervous governments may lead to unpredictable policy measures--and an atmosphere that is hardly helpful to either business or investor confidence. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Google FinanceStocks are setting up for another down day after yesterday's big sell-off. After spending much of the morning in the green, the Dow, S&amp;P and Nasdaq are now all in the red. Today's action comes as the big automakers report their December sales. So far, Chrysler, Ford, GM, and Toyota all missed expectations. Analysts had been expecting to see total vehicle sales of 16.00 million units at an annualized rate. "After a strong end to November over Black Friday weekend lifted sales for the month to six-year high of 16.3 million units annualized, initial mid-month industry surveys observed some slowing in sales in the first half of December, reflecting the pull forward into November as well as a drag from December winter storm," said Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman. "Renewed upside was expected in the second half of the month, but overall December sales may show a 5% pullback after jumping 8% in November." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Gene Blevins "From our view at 30,000 feet, it does appear that the pieces are falling in place for stronger business investment in 2014," Morgan Stanley's Ellen Zentner and John Abraham write in a new 11-page note to clients. After a dip in business spending due to the sequester, monthly ISM manufacturing numbers have "accelerated at a pace that historically has been strongly associated with trend changes in the economy's growth trajectory," they write. This bodes well for capex spending and for the U.S. economy at large. Here are the economists' three main reasons why they're bullish on business investment expenditure this year. From Morgan Stanley: The Bureau of Economic Analysis has revised upward its estimate of equipment spending in Q3, and incoming data have handily lifted our tracking estimate for Q4 business investment. The hard data are playing catch-up to the ISM survey, which has turned meaningfully upward following what appears to have been a sequester-induced lull in the spring. Our transportation analysts have noted “material improvement” across all modes of freight transportation, an encouraging sign of investment and industrial activity. They predict that investment in equipment will resume its pace prior to the sequester, increasing by 7.9% in 2014 and 7.0% in 2015. Check out how ISM has gotten back on track: Morgan Stanley FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerFrom the 2013 International I Camping Festival in Mount Wugongshan of Pingxiang.Not all stocks enjoyed 2013's big market rally. But that means many of them are actually poised for a strong first quarter in 2014, according to a new note from Goldman Sachs's research team. "Stocks with low valuation and laggards both tend to perform well during the first quarter," Goldman writes. "We believe stronger growth and lower macro risk will help laggards outperform in 2014." The firm identified 40 stocks that fell behind their peers in 2013 and therefore have "attractive valuation relative to their sectors."  We ranked the stocks by how much they underperformed their sector peers (i.e. return vs. sector). FREE AppDownload
Vanderbilt Owen/YoutubeArthur Laffer is a legend in Washington, having been the leading voice on President Ronald Reagan's hawkish Economic Policy Advisory Board.  His "Laffer Curve," which argued that there are diminishing returns after a certain point of taxation, was taken as gospel. If his views are not quite as frequent a presence in public debate, it's largely because Laffer's pet issues, regulation and taxes, took a back seat during the George W. Bush and Barack Obama administrations.   But Laffer himself still occasionally makes appearances on the public scene. And in June of 2009, he penned an op-ed warning excessive quantitative easing would inevitably lead to higher inflation and interest rates. ...we haven't ever seen anything like this in the U.S. To date what's happened is potentially far more inflationary than were the monetary policies of the 1970s, when the prime interest rate peaked at 21.5% and inflation peaked in the low double digits ...Gold prices went from $35 per ounce to $850 per ounce, and the dollar collapsed on the foreign exchanges. It wasn't a pretty picture. Obviously, nothing like that happened. In an interview with Business Insider from his office in Tennessee, Laffer admitted that he was wrong. The old maxim that dictates increasing the availability of cash through lower interest rates will lead to higher prices, he said, may need to be reexamined.  "Usually when you find the model this far off, you've probably got something wrong with the model, not that the world has changed," he said. "Inflation does not appear to be monetary base driven," he said.  He's not totally comfortable with what the Fed is doing, however. "Ask me whether inflation represents longer-term problem, I think there's a potential there for excess reserves to create problems." But it now seems impossible to predict. "I feel very uncomfortable with respect to looking at inflation," he said. Laffer remains critical of both the bank bailouts and QE, arguing both have held back job creation and the housing market. Left to its own devices, the economy always finds ways to recover, he said. "If you look at [the] 2001-2002 [financial crisis], we barely had a decline in GDP, it corrected itself fairly quickly. The only other time we had intervention was in the 1930s. I think we had a Great Recession, and the reason we had a Great Depression, was because of intervention, not in spite of it." He now predicts Republicans will take over the Senate in 2014 — and in fact has consulted on recent campaigns. Anger over Obamacare, he said, will push them to victory. He drew a parallel between Jimmy Carter's response to the 1970s' energy crisis, which did nothing to alleviate demand for gasoline and President Obama's approach to expanding insurance. "You can't give away healthcare and not expect the system to overuse it," he said. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons Nick Griffin is the leader of the British National Party (BNP), a far right U.K. political party that evolved out of the neo-fascist National Front. Today, on Twitter, he announced that he was bankrupt — but, he added, it would not effect his work as a member of the European Parliament, and he was happy about it: A note for all: Being bankrupt does NOT prevent me being or standing as an MEP. It does free me from financial worries. A good day! If you've noticed a lot of schadenfreude amongst British journalists on Twitter, it might help to understand a little bit of Griffin's backstory. While the BNP strives to present a less radical far right view that the National Front (think of them as a less consequential version of Marine Le Pen's National Front), Griffin has been accused of a variety of prejudiced views, including racism and holocaust denial. As such, Griffin has had to endure a lot on Twitter today: Morally, politically and now financially bankrupt too. Unhappy New Year, odious Nick Griffin Nick Griffin has been declared bankrupt, which is bad news for the English language, as it means he has more time to dedicate to his poetry. Happy New Year, everyone! BNP leader Nick Griffin went bankrupt! http://t.co/UAkfLv9dtt I am now turning the experience to the benefit of hard-up constituents by producing a booklet on dealing with debt. No surrender! FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Fidelity InvestmentsThe stock market had a great run in 2013, with the S&amp;P 500 rising 30%.  But some warn that stocks now look expensive and expect a correction.  Will Danoff — manager of $108 billion Fidelity Contrafund and considered one of the best active managers of all time — says that there are still opportunities in stocks. He sees opportunities in the consumer discretionary and tech sectors. In the consumer discretionary space, he is looking at companies that can tap global consumers: "I have positioned Fidelity® Contrafund® with big commitments to two sectors: consumer discretionary and technology. These sectors have been large and profitable, and therefore tend to be fertile ground for stock picking. In the consumer discretionary sector, the fund is focused on companies with strong brands, good business models, and the ability to expand overseas, and companies that are gaining market share and growing earnings. At the last date of Contrafund's disclosed holdings, top positions in this sector included TJX Companies, the off-price retailer that has more than tripled its earnings per share since 2006; Disney, which has more than doubled EPS since 2006; and Discovery Communications, which has quadrupled earnings in the past five years.* In addition, the fund has very large positions in Starbucks, Nike, and Estee Lauder, all of which have increased EPS by more than 2.5 times in the last seven years.* Danoff is a bit more cautious on technology considering the large number of initial public offerings (IPOs) we've seen and on account of disruptive technologies that makes companies more vulnerable to competition. But again he favors strong brands.: "As in the consumer discretionary sector, the fund has favored growing companies with strong brands and sustainable business models, and those companies that have shown evidence they can migrate profitably to the mobile Web world. Google, Amazon, and Facebook have all been very large positions in the fund.* "...The fund's big commitment to Yahoo differed somewhat from most of its other growth-oriented tech investments. Yahoo has been a cheap turnaround story led by new CEO Marissa Mayer. The company performed well in the past year, as the market realized that its holdings in Yahoo Japan and Alibaba were very valuable, and usage on Yahoo's Web sites grew nicely. "Another large opportunity in technology is in the exploding area of enterprise software. The last big shift in enterprise software came 20 years ago during the move to client-server architecture. Now, corporations are rapidly adopting the software-as-a-service (SaaS) model. With SaaS, corporate customers effectively "rent" the latest software, which is automatically updated so all users are on the latest release and customers can run the software in the SaaS vendor's data centers if they want. Therefore, the SaaS solution is cheaper, more effective, and easier to manage than the old client-server product. As of the last date of disclosure, the fund owned SaaS players such as salesforce.com, Workday, NetSuite, Concur Technologies, and ServiceNow, and does not own any client-server dominated companies such as Oracle or SAP. SaaS valuations are high, but I am confident in the growth outlook." Danoff is however cautious on the energy and telecom sectors. Read the entire interview here » FREE AppDownload
An article in The New York Times' Style section warns that certain clubs around New York City are now enforcing a strict no-photo policy. Nightclubs such as Chinatown's Le Baron, Chelsea's No. 8, the newly opened Sankeys in Midtown West, and even Williamsburg's popular dance club Output are banning photos and videos in an effort to refocus attention on the music instead of Instagram, writes The Times' Billy Gray. This is a truly misguided idea. The purported rationale behind the no-photo policy is that without smartphones constantly in-hand, A-list clientele will feel more comfortable, people will be more willing to let their guard down, and the party will feel more exclusive. But often it's the celebrities themselves who are taking Instagram shots of the raucous partying and posting them on their social media pages. Just glance at Instagram accounts of Rihanna, model Cara Delevingne, and Miley Cyrus to see that some celebrities are not deterred by photo-taking, since they're snapping pictures themselves. Plus, tens of thousands of NYC night owls dress up and go out every Friday and Saturday night (not to mention the occasional Sunday/Monday/Tuesday/Wednesday/Thursday night), and take pictures with their friends. They want to both remember the good times and brag to everyone who wasn't there that they got to see Kanye West in the club. Not all bars and nightclubs are banning photos. Some of New York's most well-known establishments, including 1-OAK, Avenue, and LAVO, all boast plenty of Foursquare check-ins and crazy Instagram and Facebook snapshots. These social networking tools offer free advertising, letting the clubs show off to potential guests. The only no-photo policy that might actually make sense is at Williamsburg's Output, where the city's music fans are said to have found a new home with lots of lights, pumping Electro, and a gigantic dance floor. According to Business Insider reporter Linette Lopez, who visited Output on its opening night, "You do not go to Output to be seen. You go to dance." The major drawback, of course, is if your clientele wants to be both seen and dance all night. Said one disappointed Yelp user, "No photos/videos policy. I really like the idea behind this. Just enjoy the musicians, I get it. But the fact that they strictly ENFORCE this (one reviewer said the bouncers tried to keep him from leaving and force him to delete the photos off his phone) is outrageous. What a joke. Should be a suggestion, nothing more." Here's hoping the city's nightclubs will get the hint and let partiers take selfies with impunity, or at the very least not be so strict with the misguided policy. FREE AppDownload
 There are four basic components of the traditional wine tasting ritual people perform when they order a bottle at a restaurant: sniff the cork, swirl the glass, sniff the wine, and hold the glass up to the light to inspect its contents. "People go through the ritual, but they don't always know why they're doing it," said Union Square Hospitality Group's John Ragan, who is the wine director for Danny Meyer's restaurant empire. "That's not a comfortable exercise." To help people feel less silly when ordering and tasting wine, Ragan is leading a 10-week, restaurant-grade course starting in March curated by USHG and the Institute of Culinary Education. Every Tuesday, guests will get the training servers and sommeliers receive: They'll learn to navigate a wine list and discuss wine, have a chance to Skype with growers, importers and critics around the world, and most importantly, learn to properly taste wine.      Ragan shared some classic wine-tasting "don'ts" with Business Insider. Don't smell the cork: "I would skip the cork and go straight to the wine. The wine's smell will tell you the most about whether it's good or bad," Ragan said. "If you're talking about older wine, the cork tells you how well it's been stored. You want it to be moist, not necessarily seeped in wine, so air hasn't gotten into the bottle. But I've had some fabulous older wines where the wine crept up to the cork. I'd say the cork isn't the most reliable tell."  Don't beat up the wine: "If I order a bottle of wine at a restaurant, I want it to come to my table unopened so I know it's the right vintage," he said. "Once it's opened, you have to remember that wine's been in a bottle for years at a time, kind of like a genie in a bottle. That wine doesn't stand at attention immediately. Swirling opens up the esters and makes the aroma more accessible. But don't shake the wine excessively. Three loose turns should do the trick."   Don't sniff the wine more than once: "Some of the most revered wines smell like earth, something people describe as mushrooms, truffles or leather," Ragan said. "The earthy smells shouldn't overwhelm the fruity smell, and you don't want a dank smell like wet wood, wet cardboard or vinegar. If you think something's wrong with the wine, there probably is. On the first whiff, you can usually tell. Trust your gut."  Don't fret about particles in the wine: "Wine is an agricultural product. It comes from the earth," he said. "When you hold wine up to the light, you really only need to think of the color. For white wine, you don't want a brown, cider color. Oxidation is definitely a flaw. White wine with age will gain a golden tinge. Red wines have more color when they're younger. Older reds should have less pigment and not be cloudy or murky."    Don't worry about lingo: "Don't try to use someone else's language," said Ragan. "Use the language you're comfortable with to explain what the wine smells and tastes like to you. A good restaurant should be able to decode your language and translate that into a good wine." Don't beat around the bush about the price: "Some people point at a wine's price on the list and say, 'Maybe something like this,'" Ragain said. "But it's better to be clear and say, 'I want a great red for $45.' That's game on for me, and most sommeliers like that challenge. If you ask for a midrange wine, a server might interpret that as $75 when a guest is thinking he doesn't want to spend more than $60. Now you're speaking a different language in a bad way."  FREE AppDownload
CNBC's David Faber is reporting that activist investor Carl Icahn is believed to have bought 30-40 million shares of Hertz on swap, and the stock is getting a nice lift. Right now, shares are up 2.6%. The chart below shows that the car rental company's stock has broken out in recent days following December 30 reports that the Hertz board adopted a "poison pill" against a hostile takeover. Hertz said it will issue one preferred share right for each current share at the close of trading on January 9, and initiatives include evaluating potential changes to the company's operating structure. The move came after the company observed unusual and substantial share activity, but was not in response to any specific takeover bid. On December 31, CNBC reported that Dan Loeb's Third Point hedge fund had taken a position in Hertz amounting to less than 5% of the company, and that activist investor Keith Meister's Corvex Capital had also added to his Hertz position and had met with company management a few weeks prior. Needless to say, there's been a lot of interest in this stock in the past few days. Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Every quarter, JP Morgan Funds' David Kelly produces a fantastic presentation on the markets and the economy. And in recent quarters, he has included this chart on S&amp;P 500 inflection points. It tracks the S&amp;P 500 since the 1990s as it made its way through two bubble and two crashes. The third and current rally in this chart always seemed more reasonable as it was accompanied by a cheaper price-earnings ratio and a higher dividend yield. But with the stock market continuing to rally, valuations have gotten richer and are getting closer to levels that preceded the last downturn. The question on everyone's mind is how much higher can we go before we see the next inflection point. JP Morgan Funds
@EricHolthaus A heavy snowstorm and dangerously cold temperatures gripped the northeastern United States on Friday, dumping up to two feet of snow in some places.  Meteorologist Eric Holthaus described the ferocity of the storm system as a "weather bomb," accompanied by a pressure drop of 26 millibars. The lower the pressure, the stronger the winds. From the The Daily Beast:  The particularly intense nor'easter that spawned this blizzard has officially entered 'bomb' territory–a technical meteorological definition meaning a rapid deepening of a low pressure system by more than 24 millibars in 24 hours (also, designed to frighten little children into a lifetime of snowy terror). Our blizzard-y friend achieved this mark with room to spare, intensifying from 1012 millibars Thursday morning to 986 millibars at press time, a mere 20 hours later. So far, that's been enough to produce tropical storm conditions (sustained 39 mph winds or higher) just offshore New Jersey, New York, and New England for much of the overnight hours.  The winter storm that hit the Midwest and Northeast is moving into the Atlantic on Friday, but dangerously cold air is moving behind the system, the National Weather Service said.  Forecasts are calling for record-low temperatures on Tuesday morning due to a mass of cold air sweeping down from the North Pole, according to Holthaus. Climate Central's Andrew Freedman says that the blast of Arctic air, coming from Canada and Greenland, will drop temperatures to 20 to 30 degrees Fahrenheit below normal in huge parts of the nation. Minneapolis, Chicago, Cleveland, St. Louis, Washington, D.C., New York, and Boston will be particularly affected:  Computer model forecasts project low temperatures on Monday night in Washington to drop to near zero, and below zero in Boston and possibly New York City as well. Dayton, Ohio, is likely to see lows from 10-20°F below zero, and parts of Iowa could see temperatures into the minus 30s°F.   According the National Weather Service, the Northern Plains and Upper Midwest will experience some of the coldest temperatures with forecasted lows in the -20s across North Dakota and Minnesota and possible wind chills of -55 degrees Fahrenheit on Saturday night.  The local weather service branch in Minneapolis said that the "upcoming cold air outbreak may challenge several records." Meteorologist Ryan Maue tweeted a cool 6-day GIF of temperature anomalies across the country, starting Friday and into Wednesday. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Over 2,000 U.S. flights have been delayed or cancelled today, and major airports have shut down as a blizzard continues to pummel the Northeast. New York's JFK International Airport stopped operations just after 6 a.m. Friday, due to "zero visibility," according to the Port Authority. It reopened around 10:30 a.m. Due to the bad weather, there is a Traffic Management Program in effect for flights coming into Newark Liberty Airport, the FAA reports. Check with your airline for flight status. Boston's Logan Airport closed overnight, but is now open. Beverly Airport in northeast Massachusetts was closed Thursday afternoon, and should reopen at noon Friday. Nationwide, over 1,900 flights scheduled for today have been cancelled, and nearly 1,000 more are delayed, according to FlightAware.com. Airports in New York, Boston, Chicago, and Philadelphia have been especially hard hit. FlightAware's Misery Map shows how bad things are getting in the Northeast, and how that impacts air travel elsewhere. Here's how it looked at 9:45 a.m. FlightAware.com FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriThe December ISM New York came in at 63.8, down from 69.5 the previous month. The six-month outlook surged to 73.2 in December. We saw the national ISM manufacturing index moderate to 57 in December, from 57.3 in November. Click here for the entire report » FREE AppDownload
CBS via YouTubeU.S. stock markets ended 2013 at an all-time high with better-than-expected economic data acting as a tailwind. But, traders and investors were taken aback when stocks tumbled on Thursday to kick off the new year. "The primary stance of trading desks yesterday was one of puzzlement," said UBS's Art Cashin this morning. "Most traders had expected an upbeat start to the New Year, as we’ve seen each of the last five years.  The markets had a different idea." The Dow fell 135 points at the close of Thursday's trading. There were various factors that may have contributed to the sell-off. China's manufacturing data disappointed and the U.S. dollar strengthened. According to Cashin, some pointed to the Fed and others pointed to tax strategies. While no one is certain about what exactly was behind the sell-off, Cashin was comfortable pointing out a revealing pattern. "One thing seems reasonably evident; the computers were involved in the selling," he said. "The Dow and Nasdaq were both down the same 0.8%.  The S&amp;P was down a nearly identical 0.9%.  Each index has different components and different weightings.  For them to land within an inch of each other suggests rather calibrated selling." "A further post-mortem would appear to be in order," he said. In the wake of yesterday's selling, Citi's Steve Englander believes the Federal Reserve will likely make an effort to bring calm back to the markets. Later today, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke will be among the Fed members speaking at today's AEA/ASSA annual meeting in Philadelphia. "Most likely outcome – reiteration of dovish tapering stance, buying of risk, bond yields back up with equity market gains, USD advances against JPY, commodity currencies, and probably EUR, but more ambiguous response of risk-correlated EM currencies," says Englander. FREE AppDownload
NASA Goddard Photo and Video BOSTON/NEW YORK (Reuters) - A heavy snowstorm and dangerously cold conditions gripped the northeastern United States on Friday, delaying flights, paralyzing road travel and closing schools and government offices across the region. Boston was hardest-hit by the first major winter storm of 2014, getting nearly 14 inches of snow, while some towns north of New England's largest city saw close to two feet of accumulation. See photos from the worst hit parts of Mass. » Snow and cold stretched from the lower Mississippi Valley to the Atlantic coast, with Washington and New York's morning commutes also hampered by several inches (cm) of fresh powder. Meteorologists said the snow would taper off across much of the region by late morning, but dangerously cold conditions were expected to linger into Saturday. The National Weather Service said the mass of Arctic air would drop temperatures to 20 to 30 degrees Fahrenheit (11-17 C) below normal, with record lows possible in some areas on Friday. "Over the next 24 hours we are going to see temperatures like we haven't seen in quite a while," said Peter Judge, a spokesman for the Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency. "Parts of the state are going to see temperatures 20 degrees below zero (F/-29 C) -- not with wind-chill, real temperatures. It's going to be problematic." Washington received more than 2 inches of snow, Baltimore some 3 to 6 inches, Philadelphia roughly 5 inches,Hartford 6 to 10 inches and Boston some 14 inches. Some 1,708 U.S. flights were canceled and 949 were delayed early on Friday, according to FlightAware.com, which tracks air traffic. Newark Liberty International Airport, LaGuardia Airport in New York and Boston Logan International Airportreported the most canceled departures. New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport suspended operations as the city's three major airports prepared hundreds of cots to accommodate stranded travelers. The United Nations in New York and federal courts in New Jersey shut down, and New York public schools andthe City University of New York closed. Schools were also closed in Hoboken and Jersey City, in New Jersey, and in Boston and Providence, Massachusetts. Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy told CNN Friday morning that most schools and colleges in the state were closed. The governors of New York and New Jersey declared states of emergency. 'NOT TOO HAPPY' The storm posed the first major challenge to Bill de Blasio, the newly elected mayor of New York. De Blasio said nearly 2,500 snow plows were on the streets of the biggest U.S. city as of early Friday, with the top accumulations 6.5 inches. De Blasio posted a photo of himself on his Twitter feed, shoveling the walk in front of his Brooklyn brownstone. He urged New Yorkers to stay home, saying, "This has been and remains a dangerous storm." Some New Yorkers grumbled about the city's response. "I'm sure mayor de Blasio is doing what he can, but a lot of the streets haven't been cleared at all and I'm not too happy about that," said Anesha Jones, 26, as she walked through Brooklyn to her job as a bank teller. She added that bus and subway delays added an hour to her regular commute. Others took the storm in stride. "It's winter. It snowed. It happens," said Mark Kulpa as he shoveled a sidewalk outside his Brooklyn workplace. He said the response was better than a Christmas 2010 blizzard, where then-Mayor Michael Bloomberg came under heavy criticism for the city's slow response while he was out of town on vacation. "At least they are out plowing and spreading salt. That's already a step up," Kulpa said. "But really, what can you say in two days and just after a big storm?" New York Governor Mario Cuomo said the storm had little impact on New York City's transportation network, but blizzard-like conditions meant rail service on Long Island would run on weekend schedules. In Massachusetts, 3,338 crews were clearing roads, with 999 working on the heavily hit North Shore district alone, the state Department of Transportation <U+200F>said. In Boston, downtown was sparsely populated, with many workers heeding Governor Deval Patrick's suggestion to stay home and avoid traveling on icy roadways. The heaviest snowfall came north of Boston, where the towns of Boxford and Topsfield, about 24 miles away, each saw close to two feet of accumulation. In Washington, the Office of Personnel Management told hundreds of thousands of federal workers they could work from home or take an unscheduled leave because of the storm. A city worker in Philadelphia was killed after a machine he was using was crushed by a mound of de-icing rock salt, NBC News reported. In Chicago, a man was in critical condition after being pulled out of an icy Lake Michigan by fire fighters. Massachusetts officials were also watching for possible coastal flooding in communities including the wealthy town of Scituate, located about 30 miles south of Boston, and parts of the Cape Cod beach resort areas. Some residents of low-lying areas evacuated their homes overnight ahead of the last high tide, which came at midnight (0500 GMT), Judge said, with more evacuations expected ahead of the next high tide at noon (1700 GMT). (Additional reporting by Ian Simpson in Washington; Editing by Clive McKeef, Alden Bentley and Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
Flickr / MTAPhotosMTA workers clear snow off a Long Island Rail Road platform.A blizzard has slammed into New York City, dumping about five inches of snow on the ground in Manhattan. Officials began preparing for the storm Thursday afternoon, but the transportation network in the region is still running with some delays. Here's what's going on: On the subway system, southbound 6, northbound B, and L trains in both directions are running with delays. The 7 train is not running between Times Square and Grand Central Terminal. To keep trains out of the snow overnight, the MTA stored them on express tracks, so some express lines are not operating. All buses have been equipped with tire chains, and there are delays on several routes. The Staten Island Railroad is running with delays. Metro-North Railroad trains are operating on a Saturday schedule, which provides about 60% of service offered on a weekday. The Long Island Rail Road is also running a weekend schedule, with no service on the West Hempstead Branch, and bus service replacing trains between Greenport and Ronkonkoma. All MTA-operated bridges and tunnels are open. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey has lowered the speed limit to 35 mph on the George Washington Bridge, and to 25 mph on other crossings, including the Goethals Bridge and the Bayonne Bridge. New Jersey Transit is reporting 15-30 minute delays system-wide, and will cross-honor tickets through the end of the day. FREE AppDownload
2013 was a huge year for stocks. The S&amp;P 500 surged 30%. Meanwhile, gold had its first annual loss in a dozen years, tumbling 28%. Citi's Tobias Levkovich thinks the divide between these two asset classes can widen further. "Despite the inverse performance of stocks and gold in the past year, equities look poised to continue outpacing the yellow metal in the years ahead," wrote Levkovich in his January Chart of the Month note. "When the S&amp;P 500 hit its tech bubble driven highs in 2000, its relative gains were more than one standard deviation above average trend and that is not the case now. Indeed, there still appears to be a fair amount of room for the recent relative price pattern to continue as the bounce off of more than one standard deviation below trend has only just begun." Levkovich charted the S&amp;P 500 priced in gold. This ratio most recently bottomed in the fall of 2011, which sent a signal to BI's Joe Weisenthal that the global economic crisis had ended. Citi Research FREE AppDownload
Alex Davies / Business InsiderDETROIT (Reuters) - Jaguar Land Rover is recalling 3,912 Range Rover sport utility vehicles in the United States because the front seat side airbags may not deploy. The SUVs from model years 2013 and 2014 are being recalled because a connector in the airbag system may become disconnected, causing airbags on the driver and passenger sides not to function and increasing the risk of injury in an accident, according to documents filed this week with the U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. There have been no reports of accidents or injuries related to the issue, according to the NHTSA documents. Jaguar Land Rover, which is owned India's Tata Motors, will notify owners and dealers will modify the area around the connector to prevent it from becoming disconnected, according to the NHTSA documents. The recall is expected to begin on January 17. (Reporting by Ben Klayman in Detroit; Editing by Alden Bentley) FREE AppDownload
Milken The Milken Institute is out with a great new report on the top cities for job growth across the country. The organization uses a number of criteria to rank both large and small cities, including job growth, wage growth and high-tech industry growth. Job growth takes into account employment gains during 2013 as well as those made during the previous five years to give a more comprehensive picture of each city's economic status instead of a yearly snapshot. Topping the list for the second year in a row for large cities was Austin, Texas as its technology sector has flourished in recent years. Coming in second was the Provo, Utah metro area with San Francisco finishing third. Columbia, Mo. was the top city for economic growth amongst small cities in 2013, rising nine spots from 2012. Columbus, Ind. was the runner-up. Here are the top 25 performing large cities: Milken Institute And here are the top 10 performing small cities:Milken Institute Check out the full report for a detailed breakdown of all 379 cities. FREE AppDownload
We often hear that the we just went through the greatest recession since the Great Depression. However, the Great Depression wasn't just a little bit worse. Later today at the American Economic Association conference, Harvard professors Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff will be presenting their paper "Recovery from Financial Crises: Evidence from 100 Episodes." Their paper includes this chart showing how much real GDP per capita dropped during various crisis periods.  As you can see, the contraction of the recent credit crisis isn't even close to as bad as the collapse during the Great Depression. Reinhart, Rogoff FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlo AllegriA woman makes a snow angel in the middle of Times Square in New York, January 3, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. FREE AppDownload
You hear a lot about which states are best for business, or are doing the most to attract people. or have the most employment opportunities. For the past few years, Texas and North Dakota have dominated such lists, thanks to low taxes and booming shale oil and gas production  But neither figures in the top-two states with the most net inflows over the past decade, according to Atlas Van Lines, the national moving company. Each year Atlas publishes data showing how many moves were tallied from every state (plush Washington DC), and which ones saw net inflows our outflows of 55% or more, as a percentage of total moves. They've now published 10 years-worth of data, so we can see which has the longest streak of net inbound moves — who's really winning the battle for population gains. One is North Carolina: Atlas The other is Washington DC (which is obviously not technically a state): Atlas If you're wondering if there have been any states that have seen all net outflows, the answer is yes. There are four: AtlasAtlasAtlasAtlas FREE AppDownload
SEATTLE/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Some 31,000 Boeing machinists vote on Friday on a crucial labor contract that affects the location of thousands of jobs and billions of dollars of economic activity. If the workers accept the deal, Boeing Co &lt;BA.N&gt; would build its new 777X jetliner and wings in the Seattle area, where Boeing has built aircraft for more than 90 years. If they reject it, Boeing says it will make the wings and possibly the whole plane, elsewhere, marking a major employment and economic loss for Washington state. Boeing says it has received offers from 22 states interested in hosting a new factory to build the successor to its popular 777 widebody jet. The vote has opened deep rifts between the local International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM), which opposes the contract, and its Washington leadership, which forced a vote on the proposal. It has also revealed cleavages between younger workers open to the deal and older workers dead set against it. In November, two-thirds of machinists voted against a similar offer that would have replaced their traditional defined-benefit pension with a 401(k)-style savings plan, one of two retirement plans the workers receive. The union's national leadership negotiated that deal, which would have extended the contract eight years beyond its current expiration in 2016. But local leaders opposed it, saying the take-aways were too great. Now, the same dynamic is playing out again. Boeing has sweetened the offer with a larger signing bonus and other changes. But the deal still eliminates the pension, and local union leaders have urged members to reject it. "You need to look at the facts of the economic destruction you would live under for the next 11 years," local leaders said in a letter to members. The national leaders say the new offer is $1 billion better than the prior one. "The membership deserves the final say," said R. Thomas Buffenbarger, president of the IAM International, which also has members in Canada. The issue has drawn wide attention as other states bid to win thousands of well-paid jobs and because of the tactics Boeing has used to bargain with its union. Even noted consumer advocate Ralph Nader has weighed in, calling Boeing's tough stance "unseemly," given Chief Executive Jim McNerney's $21 million pay package. "A book could be written about the Boeing company's strategy for externalization of a variety of its costs onto innocent, defenseless people - whether workers or taxpayers," Nader wrote. Beside the pension loss, local union leaders say the language of Boeing's offer does not ensure that machinists will get the work, because it reserves Boeing's right to use lower paid contractors. "I'm very, very skeptical of what Boeing is saying to us," Lester Mullen, a local District 751 council delegate, said on Thursday from the shop floor where he builds Boeing's 777 wings in Everett, Washington. Even if workers approve the contract and Boeing builds the 777X in Washington, Boeing could outsource the work to a vendor. "It doesn't mean we're getting the work. It just means it's going to be built here," he added. Boeing responded this week by saying that it will establish its base for making the 777X's carbon-composite wings in the Puget Sound area, which includes Seattle. "This work will be performed by the mechanics who currently build aluminum wings here in Puget Sound," Alan May, vice president of human resources at Boeing Commercial Airplanes, said in a letter sent to 777 workers. On Thursday, it issued a further statement saying "current mechanics will have the opportunity to be trained for this new composite work" and noting that it would make its 737 MAX jet in the area, and do KC-46 aerial refueling jet and P-8 submarine killer jet production work, "in the Puget Sound and Portland through 2024." The company declined to comment on Nader's letter to McNerney. The divide between the local leaders and their national counterparts is mirrored by divisions over the contract that appear to cleave along age lines. Younger machinists have voiced strong concern that failing to vote for the contract would cost them their jobs as Boeing moves the work elsewhere. The 777X is the last major development on Boeing's books for the next 15 years. If the plane is built elsewhere, it would slowly erode aerospace jobs in Washington, they fear. The average wages is $29 an hour. Many older workers, however, have said the pension is sacred and is worth risking job loss. "There's plenty of aviation work in the world," said Kevin Flynn, an aviation maintenance technician inspector, who has filed a complaint against the national union leaders with the National Labor Relations Board for holding the vote against the wishes of a majority of members. "I'll just have to move to where the work is." The union says 49 percent of machinists are 50 or older, and under the new contract could take their full pensions starting at age 58. Workers 50 and over who want to protect their pensions could potentially sway the vote on Friday. The average age of the Seattle IAM local's members is 46. For the machinists, the age dispute erupted at a rally last month. "Retire and go away!" a young woman shouted at an older worker, saying her family had worked at the company for three generations. A sign attached to her child's stroller said: "This vote affects the smallest IAM members, too!" The older, gray-haired worker shouted back: "Why do you want to sell your pension out?" If past votes are a guide, the pension might not be the only key issue. Last year, Boeing's unionized engineers narrowly approved a less drastic pension change that halted the pension for new hires. Friday's vote also might have relatively low turnout because it comes just after Boeing's airplane factories reopened after their customary closure between the Christmas and New Year's holidays. Since many workers might still be on vacation, the union is allowing them to log on and vote electronically. Paper ballots will be counted at five union halls around the Seattle area and results phoned to local District 751President Tom Wroblewski, who will announce them. The final tally is expected around 9 pm Pacific Time (0500 GMT Saturday). (Reporting By Alwyn Scott. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
JP Morgan FundsWe wrapped up 2013 the U.S. stock markets closing at an all-time high after booking a 30% return for the year. Gold had it's worst year in decades and the 20+ year bull market in bonds showed signs of ending. This all came with the Federal Reserve tapering back its monthly asset purchase program to $75 billion. And this came on the back of improving economic conditions in the U.S. Considering all of this, 2014 promises to be an interesting year in the U.S. and abroad. The emerging markets could be particularly volatile as the year is dotted with political landmines. To help navigate all of these considerations, David Kelly and the market strategy team at JP Morgan Asset Management just released their Q1 presentation on the state of the markets and the economy. Note: Thanks to J.P. Morgan Asset Management for giving us permission to feature this presentation.
REUTERS/Bob StrongGeorge SorosEverything seems to be going fine in the world economy, and people are scratching their heads wondering how it could turn south again. In a new piece up at Project Syndicate, George Soros says to watch China: There are some eerie resemblances with the financial conditions that prevailed in the US in the years preceding the crash of 2008. But there is a significant difference, too. In the US, financial markets tend to dominate politics; in China, the state owns the banks and the bulk of the economy, and the Communist Party controls the state-owned enterprises. Aware of the dangers, the People’s Bank of China took steps starting in 2012 to curb the growth of debt; but when the slowdown started to cause real distress in the economy, the Party asserted its supremacy. In July 2013, the leadership ordered the steel industry to restart the furnaces and the PBOC to ease credit. The economy turned around on a dime. In November, the Third Plenum of the 18th Central Committee announced far-reaching reforms. These developments are largely responsible for the recent improvement in the global outlook. So China could have a meltdown like the US in 2008 or it could drive the entire global economy to new heights. The ultimate conclusion to China's tension — whether it can successfully rebalance its economy away from debt — will have "profound" consequences for the whole world he says. Read Soros' whole column here &gt;  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mario AnzuoniIt's the first Friday of the month, but due to the holiday calendar the January jobs report won't be until Friday. But there's still an important number to watch. From Calculated Risk: "Light vehicle sales for December. The consensus is for light vehicle sales to decrease to 16.0 million SAAR in December (Seasonally Adjusted Annual Rate) from 16.3 million SAAR in November."  Historically, car sales line up nicely with employment, which makes a lot of sense as unemployed people don't buy cars. 2013 shaped up to be a much stronger year for car sales than expected, and the numbers reported by auto companies today will be important to watch. FREE AppDownload
Here's the latest forecast for how much it's going to snow in the New York region. It's from the local branch of the National Weather Service and was tweeted by meteorologist Eric Holthaus: NWS Meanwhile, the Northeast temperature map looks like this: NWS FREE AppDownload
The Sankowski Solar boom - it’s in full force: “2013 was a banner year for clean energy and the U.S. solar industry was no exception. California, the nation’s solar standout, more than doubled its rooftop solar installations last year from 1,000 megawatts (MW) to 2,000 MW. To put this number in perspective, writesBernadette Del Chiaro of the California Solar Energy Industries Association, it took California over 30 years to build the first 1,000 MW of rooftop solar. And California isn’t alone in its rooftop solar surge. “About 200,000 U.S. homes and businesses added rooftop solar in the past two years alone — about 3 gigawatts of power and enough to replace four or five conventionally-sized coal plants,” Bloomberg reported.” I may have just started a minor pissing match on Twitter with a brief comment about energy independence: “I look forward to the time when oil prices collapse under the grip of energy innovation. Hope it happens in my lifetime.” On the one side you’ve got the hard money types who think that fiat money is worthless and that you should just buy hard commodities and hide out in a hole reading scary websites.  And on the other side you’ve got the optimists who think fiat money is just a tool of exchange that can actually help us break away from our dependence on energy through innovation.  I don’t know which side is right in the near-term, but I am not one to bet against humans and their ability to innovate. The energy innovation boom is only just beginning.  Who will win and lose in the next 10 years is beyond my understanding, but it’s exciting to think about all the potential benefits that could arise out of a world where oil is no longer holding so many people hostage in so many ways.  I for one am hopeful that I get to experience that world.  If nothing else, at least I hope to experience it in a solar powered wheel chair. FREE AppDownload
BOSTON (AP) — A blustering post-Christmas snowstorm that has dropped nearly 2 feet of snow just north of Boston, shut down major highways in New York and forced U.S. airlines to cancel thousands of flights nationwide is continuing its bitter cold journey through the Northeast. The brutal weather — which brought plummeting temperatures to some areas that forecasters predicted could see highs just above zero and wind chill readings of minus 10 degrees and colder by early Friday — dumped 21 inches of snow in Boxford, Mass., late Thursday night and 18 inches in parts of western New York near Rochester. In Central Park early Friday, the National Weather Service said just over 3 inches of snow had fallen. The snowfall, frigid cold and stiff winds extended Christmas break for some students while posing the first test for New York City's new mayor and perhaps the last challenge for Boston's outgoing one. U.S. airlines canceled more than 2,300 flights due to snowfall and low visibility. "It's been a tough road," said traveler Heather Krochuk, of Toronto, Canada, inside a Boston hotel Thursday night after her flight home out of Logan International Airport got canceled in what's turned into a 36-hour trip from Seattle, where she spent Christmas with her husband, Ron. But, she said, "we have a place to sleep that isn't the airport." Snow began falling overnight Wednesday in parts of New England and New York state, but the brunt of the storm began late Thursday. The National Weather Service issued a blizzard warning for Cape Cod, coastal areas north and south of Boston and part of Maine as well as New York's Long Island. Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick said state offices that closed early Thursday would remain closed on Friday. He said National Guard members and state police were on standby for any high tide flooding in vulnerable coastal areas, but no mandatory evacuations had been ordered. New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo ordered three major highways in his state, stretching from Long Island to Albany, closed overnight. The highways were expected to reopen at 5 a.m. Friday. As of late Thursday in Connecticut, about 3 inches of snow had fallen in Hartford County, and 3 inches were reported in East Hartford and Simsbury. Parts of New Hampshire had 5.5 inches, and areas of Rhode Island had more than 2. Outreach teams looked to get homeless people off the frigid streets of New York City and Boston. Staff members at the Pine Street Inn were keeping the Boston shelter open 24 hours and said they would turn no one away, even if it meant setting up extra cots in lobbies and other common areas. The heavy weather began rolling in just a day after New York Mayor Bill de Blasio was sworn in to lead the nation's largest city and a few days before Boston Mayor Thomas Menino ends 20 years in office on Monday. De Blasio, who as public advocate in 2010 criticized his predecessor Mayor Michael Bloomberg for his handling of a large snowstorm, dispatched hundreds of plows and salt spreaders on the streets as soon as the snow started falling Thursday night. Forecasters said that while only 3 inches of snow had fallen in Central Park by early Friday, up to 8 inches were still expected in the city. "If you don't need to go out, please don't go out," de Blasio said at a press conference Thursday evening, urging residents to use mass transit. "Stay off the streets, stay out of your cars." Across the region, state and local police were busy responding to accidents and reports of stranded vehicles. Amtrak planned to run trains on all of its Northeast lines on Friday but operate on a modified schedule, spokeswoman Christina Leeds said. As the storm approached, a worker at a suburban Philadelphia salt storage facility was killed when a 100-foot-tall pile of road salt fell and crushed him. Falls Township police said the man was trapped while operating a backhoe. There was no word on what may have caused the accident. Douglass Bibule shopped for rock salt and other supplies at a home improvement store in Watertown, N.Y. "Well, there will be some shoveling that I will have to do and some sanding," he said. "I've got to go home and do some stretching exercises to make sure I don't hurt myself while doing that, and do a little shopping to make sure that we have all the supplies that we need. We need food because we have three older children at home." The snowstorm worked its way east from the Midwest, where it dropped up to a foot of snow on Michigan and more than a foot in parts of Illinois, prompting the cancellation Thursday of hundreds of flights at both Chicago airports. Nearly 17 inches of snow fell in some of Chicago's northern suburbs, and more than 12 inches of snow was recorded at Midway International Airport. ___ Wingfield reported from Boston. Associated Press writers John Christoffersen in New Haven, Conn., Wilson Ring in Montpelier, Vt., Holly Ramer in Concord, N.H., Jim Fitzgerald and Jonathan Lemire in New York City, David Sharp in Portland, Maine, Bruce Shipkowski in Toms River, N.J., Jackie Quinn in Washington, D.C., and Jim Salter in St. Louis, contributed to this report. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
NOAA2014 started with a good selloff on Thursday. So far, today is much quieter. US futures are down just a hair. European stocks are mixed or slightly in the green. China fell 1.2% last night. The big news today is that we're about to get speeches from a spate of Fed heads who will be speaking at a conference in Philly. Their words on the next steps for monetary policy will be especially closely watched. For a fuller preview of what's likely to happen, see here. FREE AppDownload
