Nine or ten dollars an hour? Twelve? Or all the way to $15? For much of the country, significant minimum wage hikes are coming—at least in the areas where they haven’t happened already. Public debate on the issue in many states and cities has been reduced to a disagreement between the forces that want to keep increases to a small amount per hour and folks like Chicago’s “Fight for 15” group and new Seattle Mayor Ed Murray who propose a $15 per hour target. People getting paid more for their work is a heartwarming notion, so it can feel pretty easy to get behind a $15 minimum wage on an emotional level. In terms of a more mathematical analysis, one sees macroeconomic cases made both for and against a high minimum wage: either that putting more money in the pockets of working people will strengthen spending and the economy or that increasing labor costs to business will result in higher unemployment. We can talk macroeconomics all we want, but I believe most of us are going to give or withhold our support for raising the minimum wage based largely on our perceived self-interest. So with that in mind, here’s my self-interest: As a small business owner in the restaurant industry, I think a higher minimum wage is great for my business and me. Make the wage $15 an hour. Make it $20. Make it high enough that dishwashers get paid like office workers. A nonlivable minimum wage amounts to a passing off of costs by the big guys. Here’s why. A higher minimum wage helps reduce the structural advantages large corporations have over small businesses, and that in turn helps create a context where high-quality independent businesses can thrive by overdelivering compared to our better-capitalized, but mediocre, big competitors. When individuals like me start businesses in our communities with the intent of selling quality goods and services, we quickly find that our biggest obstacle is the low prices offered by large corporations. The issue isn’t that those companies are selling the same things we are for less. The issue is that the low-priced commodities sold by superstores, warehouse clubs, and restaurant chains influence our customers’ understanding of what everything costs. For example, the reason it’s hard to sell a really good, locally produced burger in many markets isn’t because the product isn’t worth it; even $10 or $12 for a handcrafted product that includes 6 ounces of grass-fed beef is a steal compared with what you can buy at Applebee’s or Olive Garden for that price. The reason it’s hard to market a high-quality burger is that so many companies sell burgers so cheaply—regardless of how bad they are—that we think a burger “should” cost only $5 or $6. Here’s what rubs me—and many other small business owners—the wrong way about this: The reason these companies are able to sell commodities so cheap while making a profit is by passing off certain costs that we small businesses can’t. For instance, large agriculture businesses can raise their meats in areas with lax environmental and employment regulations, which means, for instance, that many of the costs of producing pork get borne not by Smithfield Foods but by the residents of Tar Heel, N.C. Similarly, megaretailers and other national concerns can inexpensively move goods from remote locations to their stores in trucks whose use of the roads is heavily subsidized by everyone who drives a car. Subtly, a nonlivable minimum wage—and in most areas minimum wage is well below a livable wage—is also a kind of passing off of costs by the big guys. Though their employees work a full-time job, they can’t afford health care, education, quality food, or a healthy routine. That leads to a situation where 52 percent of the families of fast-food workers are enrolled in a public assistance program and the average Walmart employee costs taxpayers $5,815 in subsidies. Now, if the minimum wage were raised high enough, the cost of human resources would have to be borne in full by their employers, large and small. In turn, everyone will have to raise prices—and the prices the big guys charge for their products will be closer to their true costs. A world where items are priced near their true costs is a world that we small businesses already live in. We can’t easily pass many of our expenses onto the taxpayers. We typically lack the resources and scale to make it feasible to move our production far away to cheaper jurisdictions and invest in our own subsidized transportation networks. But if labor becomes a bigger cost for large and small companies alike, the subsidies that benefit large businesses will be less relevant, and us little guys will be competing on a less slanted—though still not level—playing field. A semilevel playing field is good enough for me. Like many small business owners, I know that if the big guys have only some advantages over my team, we can make up the difference in quality, service, and heart. Jay Porter operated San Diego’s farm-to-table restaurant The Linkery for about a decade; his new restaurant, Salsipuedes, will open in North Oakland later this year. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/William HongHSBC China Flash manufacturing PMI climbed to a two-month high of 48.3 in April. This was in line with expectations and above a reading of 48 in March. But a reading below 50 shows that China's manufacturing sector is still in contraction. "Domestic demand showed mild improvement and deflationary pressures eased, but downside risks to growth are still evident as both new export orders and employment contracted," said Hongbin Qu, HSBC chief economist for China, in a press release. "The State Council released new measures to support growth and employment after the release of Q1 GDP. Whilst initial impact will likely be limited, they signaled readiness to do more if necessary. We think more measures may be unveiled in the coming months and the PBoC will keep sufficient liquidity." Here are all the ugly details of the PMI report: Markit EconomicsHere's a look at the trajectory of HSBC manufacturing PMI: Markit Economics/HSBC The employment sub-index is one to watch. Ahead of the release Bloomberg BRIEF economist Tom Orlik tweeted this chart that shows "each drop in output triggers greater fall in factory employment." China PMI shows output and jobs link worsening. Each drop in output triggers greater fall in factory employment pic.twitter.com/Zfy3yPVDiH Policymakers have set a growth target of 7.5% for 2014, and economists expect they have a floor of 7% GDP growth for the year. A disappointing flash PMI number will only add to concerns about a possible hard landing. The flash reading is based on 85%–90% of total PMI survey responses each month. FREE AppDownload
Anthony Devlin - Pool / Getty ImagesThe Duke and Duchess of Cambridge at Uluru yesterday.Good morning, and welcome to what could be a huge day for the Australian dollar. Here’s what you need to know: Markets rise. The sell-off in momentum stocks earlier this month almost seems like a distant memory. After a quiet day’s trade on Easter Monday the rest of the world has come back to work, and the US markets notched up their sixth straight day of gains in the Tuesday session. ASX futures were pointing to the market opening up 22 points today at 5492, so 5500 is within reach today. Hedge fund disclosures. Bill Ackman’s Pershing Square and David Einhorn’s Greenlight Capital disclosed positions to the market overnight. Ackman revealed a 10% stake in Allergan, which he’s planning to take over with Valeant Pharmaceuticals. The stock rose 15%. Einhorn, meanwhile, revealed he’s short Chipotle, and long Conn’s Inc and Sun Edison, which saw gains of 7.5% and 11.6% respectively. Einhorn, in his investor letter, said there was a consensus “we are witnessing our second tech bubble in 15 years”, and that the signs include the rejection of conventional valuation methods and huge IPO debuts “for companies that have done little more than use the right buzzwords and attract the right venture capital”. Regional indicators. There’s plenty to watch for in the Asian session; traders will be hoping the US rally transfers to the region after the Nikkei’s 0.85% fall yesterday. Shanghai shares were up 0.35%, partly in reaction to the Government’s move to free up lending in the rural sector. Today is potentially huge with the release of the “flash” estimate for the HSBC Chinese Manufacturing PMI at 11.45am AEST. Australian inflation. It’s potentially a huge day for the Aussie dollar – and domestic politics – with CPI data out at 11.30am AEST, followed closely by the China flash PMI. The market is expecting a read of 3.2% for Aussie inflation year-on-year, which is beyond the RBA’s comfort zone of 2-3%. Signs that the economy is heating up will invite questions about looming interest rate rises and cause headaches for Treasurer Joe Hockey as we approach the federal Budget in just under three weeks’ time. We’ll have live coverage of the data when it’s released. Cuts to come. Speaking of Hockey, tonight he’ll lay out a time frame for sharing the recommendations of the feared Commission of Audit, the razor gang which is believed to have identified options for sweeping changes to public spending, including axing some programs entirely. It’s ominous that Hockey has to announce he’s planning some announcements, instead of just announcing them. Steel yourselves. Dollar strength theory. One of the dramatic shifts in the Australian economy over the past year has been the rapid rise in mining exports, enabled by the huge levels of capex investment during the mining boom. This has been expected but former HSBC chief economist and RBA board member John Edwards believes that this volume and the related income for the mining companies is behind the continuing strength of the Australian dollar, as the economy transitions from a trade deficit to a surplus. Apple sour. The Cupertino tech giant’s earnings are out at the close of tonight’s trading session in the US. With sales growth tanking and the company slow to roll out new products, BI’s Jay Yarow writes today that it’s time to ask if Tim Cook has seriously mismanaged Apple. Better networking. LinkedIn has two apps that have great capabilities for helping you build and manage your professional network. Here’s how to get the best out of them. Red Devilled. David Moyes has been fired as Manchester United manager, as expected. Playing veteran Ryan Giggs will act as interim manager until the end of the season. The incoming manager will have hundreds of millions of dollars of a transfer budget to work with. Overnight meanwhile, Chelsea secured a 0-0 draw in their away game against Atletico Madrid in the Champions League. Happy birthday to thee. William Shakespeare was born 450 years ago today. Many phrases he coined are still in regular use, including “laid on with a trowel”, “the game is up”, and “world is my oyster”. There are more examples here. Bonus item: GoPro’s ability to give us never-seen-before video footage continues to astound. Here’s what some US Navy pilots put together showing life in the cockpit of a Super Hornet. Whatever your job, it couldn’t be as fun as this. Enjoy:  Have a great day. I’m on Twitter: @colgo This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Many are watching the geopolitical tension between Russia and Ukraine closely. This is because Russia is a major commodities producer in terms of energy, metals and mining, and agriculture, and investors are worried about the impact this could have on the prices of various commodities. Russia produces 13% of global oil output and 14% of global natural gas output. Of course the international community is also considering more sanctions on Russia. "The importance of Russian energy flows to both Russia (via state revenues) and the US and Europe (via potential impacts on growth and inflation) suggest energy-related sanctions are unlikely," writes Max Layton, senior commodities economist at Goldman Sachs. Sanctions on certain metals like platinum, palladium and nickel are also unlikely because these metals "may be difficult to replace in the European and US markets given their large shares of global output." Goldman Sachs FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Lee Jae WonFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. There Are Two Sides To Every Trade Argument (Vanguard Advisors Blog)  Every trade has two sides, writes Steve Utkus a principal and director of the Vanguard Center for Retirement Research. That should teach investors a few key things, like humility: "The person on the other side of the trade, takes an entirely different view of the opportunity than you do." It should also teach them to be skeptical. Utkus also said that this gets to the "heart of the debate over active versus passive investing." "It’s not that active portfolio managers don’t have great ideas for the stocks (or bonds or other assets) they buy or sell. (By the way, this is true whether the active manager is with another firm or managing one of Vanguard’s many active funds.) But in order to create a great track record over time, active managers must be consistently right on hundreds of buying and selling ideas each year—and thousands over a decade. They’re often smart and hardworking. But so are the people on the other side of the trade. As a result, the odds of consistently being right on hundreds or thousands of investment themes is very hard. And that’s before you deduct the higher fees needed to come up with all of these ideas." What Advisors Need To Remember When Clients Want To Retire Out Of State (The Wall Street Journal)  Advisors should do their research and debunk myths for clients looking to retire out of state, writes Richard Kagawa, president of Capital Resources and Insurance Inc, in a new WSJ column. "Taxes are one of the biggest factors--everything from sales, property, and income taxes to cigarette and diesel taxes," he writes.  "There are also cost of living expenditures for things like food and heat that need to be considered, as well as state-by-state anomalies. For instance, I live on the beach. Salt invades everything. It pops through my driveway and ruins the landscaping. It sneaks under the stucco and kills the plants. In Florida, meanwhile, the state bird is the mosquito. You may have a nice pool but you can't enjoy it in the summer unless it's screened-in. These are costs you need to consider." FINRA Sees Uptick In Q1 Arbitration Cases (Investment News)  The number of arbitration cases brought to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) were up to 1,011 in the first quarter, up from 919 last year. This is however down from 1,183 cases in Q1 2012. One of the reasons arbitration cases are believed to rise this year is because of the collapse in Puerto Rico municipal bond funds, reports Mark Schoeff Jr at Investment News. "We'll have to see how the Puerto Rico bond cases play out," Bryan Ward, a partner at Sutherland Asbill &amp; Brennansaid told Schoeff. "A few big wins can be a strong marketing tool for getting more clients." Why Investors Should Stick With Energy Stocks (BlackRock Blog)  The U.S. is awash in oil and expected to overtake Saudi Arabia as the world's largest energy producer soon, writes BlackRock's Russ Koesterich. Yet, the price of Brent Crude is close to multi-year highs, at $100 a barrel. This is for two key reasons. First, the geopolitical tensions in Russia and Ukraine have oil traders worried that an uptick in violence could impact Russian oil production and or exports. Second, "production has been falling in Libya, Nigeria and South Sudan, mostly due to terrorism and political instability," writes Koesterich.  "For some time, I have been advocating an overweight to this sector, and I continue to stand by that position," Koesterich writes. "The sector provides an important feature today: a potential hedge against rising geopolitical risk. Should events in Ukraine continue to deteriorate and lead to an escalating series of sanctions and higher oil prices, I believe energy stocks are likely to continue to outperform the broader market. I expect tensions to remain high and the issue to linger, although an outright invasion of Ukraine by Russia remains less likely." He also thinks cyclical stocks will do better as the global economy recovers and that the energy sector still offers investors a bargain. JIM ROGERS: If You Want To Get Rich You Should Buy Farmland (Interactive Investor) As the global population grows so will demand for food. "If you want to get rich you should be buying farmland. It's the farmers, the producers, who are going to be in the captain's seat when the prices go through the roof," Jim Rogers co-founder of Quantum Fund and chairman of Rogers Holdings told Iain Murray. Of course investors that can't buy a farm can invest in funds that buy farmland.  "Moreover, with certain caveats, it's an asset that you can pass on as a tax-free inheritance. In pure monetary terms, it's an investment that delivers impressive capital gains over the long term, but a relatively unimpressive annual yield of 2% or less," Murray writes. Of course if investors want broader investment in agriculture they can also look at funds that are focused on the food industry. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyEditor's Note: Below is a Q&amp;A with Rob Rennie, Global Head of Market Strategy at Australia's Westpac. This Q&amp;A went out to subscribers of our "10 Things You Need To Know Before The Opening Bell" newsletter on Monday morning. Sign up here to get the newsletter and more of these interviews in your inbox every day. BUSINESS INSIDER: What is the most underreported story in Asian markets? ROB RENNIE: To be perfectly honest I think the most over-reported stories have been the impact of Fed taper and China's supposed 'Lehman moment' on Asia. If you had followed the hype, then you would have been forgiven for thinking that capital flight from Asia was the prevailing theme. Clearly this would have been false - bar a short period of nerves in Feb, the underlying trend has been one of continued equity investment into the region, led by India in March and quickly followed by Korea in April. BI: When it comes to China in particular, what might markets have failed to price in so far? RR: While the financial press has spent a great deal of time writing about China's 'Lehman moment' we have been surprised by the limited move to price this in various asset markets in China. Our financial stress index is based on IMF methodology and is a composite index which attempts to identify periods of financial stress by using high frequency Chinese market based variables. Specifically there are 7 variables in the index - namely bank sector beta, the 'Ted' spread, the yield curve (inverted), corporate bond spread (we use Sovereign CDS here for China), stock returns, time varying stock volatility and time varying exchange rate volatility. Each variable is adjusted by its own mean and standard deviation to reduce the impact on the index of the more volatile variables. The FSI is then constructed as an average of these 7 scores. The chart below notes that while financial stress is rising, it is certainly not suggesting that we are yet anywhere near to 'break-out' or 'Lehman moment' levels for China.  BI: You recently wrote that certain sectors like shipping have proven resilient in the face of flagging Chinese trade. How have they done this? RR: Part of the story has been the very sharp rise in supply coming on stream in Australian iron ore where current growth is best described as 'exponential'. Part of the story is driven by continued expansion in steel production in China helped, in turn, by expectations of front loaded railway investment. Part of the story is Asia showing signs of trading more within Asia as we move towards increased bilateral central bank swap lines/ increased invoicing in local currency and bilateral free trade agreements. While East/ West trade has not improved much, Asia is showing signs of increased trade within the region. China's imports from Asia ex Japan over the last 3 months are up 11% year-over-year, which suggests a solid start to the year and a positive sign in my view. BI: At the same time, you've also said U.S. demand has proven surprisingly weak. Are you "team weather," as we've been saying here, and expect any kind of snapback? RR: I am not really expecting a sharp snap-back in terms of US demand outside of short term weather related story. The key constraint I see for US demand is a constrained household. Gains in U.S. employment have failed to beat population growth meaning household income has only seen negligible growth over the past two years, circa 0.7%yr. It is hard to see a material lift in US demand in this environment, without a material lift in household income. BI: What has been the view from the Pacific region on Yellen so far? RR: There is a keen sense that Yellen communicates well with the market. September last year was seen as a communications debacle. Yellen has been able to deliver two 'tapers' with the prospect of more to come and make it feel as if little has really changed. She has developed a clear knack of delivering bad news in a positive way.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidBill Ackman has been paying a former Herbalife executive to the government and media information on the company's activities, ABC news reports. So far the executive has been paid $80,000. The hedge fund manager has said that he will stop at nothing to see multi-level marketing firm Herbalife's stock go to zero. In December of 2012 he gave a massive presentation about how the company defrauds investors and employees alike, but since then the trade has turned on him. According to ABC's report, Ackman promised the whistle blowing executive, Giovanni Bohorquez, $3.6 million over ten years. They signed an agreement in June 2013. Two months later the New York Times ran a critical article about Herbalife using documents that the company claims were provided by Bohoquez. “Giovanni could not afford to take the company on. We thought his story was important,” Ackman told ABC News. “Being a whistleblower is a very dangerous thing to do if you want to get a job." For the full report, head to ABC News&gt; FREE AppDownload
This beat expectations for Q1 adjusted earnings of $0.84 per share, but missed on top line, with analysts looking for $2.79 billion. Earnings per share were up 24% from a year ago. Q1 China same-store sales were up 9%, missing expectations for a 9.4% rise. This included growth of 11% at KFC and 8% at Pizza Hut Casual Dining. China Division's Q1 sales include just January and February results and includes the Chinese New Year holiday, a peak season for China Division. Yum derives a large part of its revenue from China, so investors watch for clues on the health of the Chinese consumer. Yum's earnings took a hit last quarter after concerns over the bird flu and food safety saw China sales take a hit. "China Division system sales increased 17% and restaurant margins were 23.4%," CEO David Novak said in a press release. "Importantly, KFC results continued to improve with an 11% same-store sales increase in the quarter. We are building off this sales momentum and are encouraged by our recent Menu Revamp, which features the simultaneous launch of 15 exciting products. At Pizza Hut Casual Dining, we had strong performance across every measure." Novak says he expects to open 700 new restaurants in China this year. A breakdown showed that total Pizza Hut same-store sales were down 2%, missing expectations for a 2% rise. KFC saw 1% increase in same-store sales growth, while Taco Bell saw a 1% decline in same-store sales. "We experienced disappointing U.S. results, which were impacted by unusually severe weather," according to Novak. "We have confidence in our plans to drive balance of year improvement and are particularly pleased with the initial results of our recent Taco Bell breakfast launch." On Monday, JPMorgan downgraded Yum to "neutral" from "overweight" with a price target of $80. The analysts said the stock price is "fairly pricing in China recovery." Year-to-date through April 21, Yum repurchased 2.3 million shares totaling $170 million. The stock is up 3.7% after hours. Click here to refresh » FREE AppDownload
GileadGilead Sciences is among the big biotech companies that have seen their shares whipsaw in the recent sell-off in biotech stocks. Some folks declared that the sell-off was proof that the biotech sector had been in a bubble and that the bubble was bursting. However, Gilead Sciences just proved why you can't jump to these sorts of conclusions for this particular industry. According to their just-released earnings announcement, Gilead sold a whopping $2.27 billion worth of its new hepatitis C drug Sovaldi. Not only is that a mind-boggling number for one quarter, but it also crushed analysts' expectations for $1.13 billion in sales. "Despite analysts’ research tools and experience, history suggests new drug forecasting will remain more art than science," said Harlan Sonderling, an analyst for Columbia Management, earlier this month. "Ultimately, analysts must bear in mind the high level of uncertainty and variability not only in drugmakers’ forecasts, but in their own, and the extent to which the analyst may have an 'edge' on consensus forecasts." Goldman SachsInvestors and analyst deal with immense amounts of uncertainty from start to end. Will the biotech startup find a compound? Will that compound make it through drug trials and get approved by the FDA? Will patients take it once the drug gets approved for the market? All of this exposes investors to tremendous amounts of downside. But it also comes with the opportunity of tremendous amounts of upside. According to a recent note from Goldman Sachs, seven big biotech firms (ALXN, AMGN, BIIB, CELG, GILD, REGN, and VRTX) could be generating $32 billion from drugs in their pipelines, which would be on top of a base revenue of $61 billion. They also estimated a potential $9 billion upside. Unfortuntately, while the forecasting errors go in both ways, a recent study from Nature magazine revealed that analysts tend to be overly optimistic, not pessimistic. For now, Gilead investors can be happy that they were betting for upside. Gilead earned $1.48 per share in Q1, absolutely destroying estimates for $0.91. The stock is up 2.5% in after-hours trading. "I don't think it is a bubble," said Rich Bernstein to Business Insider earlier this year. "It's certainly very speculative, but speculation alone doesn't make a bubble." FREE AppDownload
APNEW YORK (Reuters) - AT&amp;T Inc. reported higher quarterly revenue on Tuesday, slightly above Wall Street's expectations, boosted by a promotional offering to bill customers for devices separately from their wireless plans. The No. 2 U.S. mobile provider earned $3.65 billion, or 70 cents per share, in the first quarter, compared with $3.7 billion, or 67 cents per share, in the year-ago quarter. Revenue rose to $32.5 billion from $31.4 billion in the year-ago quarter. (Reporting By Marina Lopes; Editing by Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
YoutubeDorian Nakamoto, the subject of a March Newsweek profile naming him as the creator of Bitcoin, has released a new video in which he once again denies the charge.  The video was uploaded by Andreas M. Antonopoulos, a programmer who also appears in the video. "Thank you very much for your support throughout this ordeal that I’m still fighting," Nakamoto begins. His lawyer has not confirmed whether Nakamoto is pursuing legal action against the publication, and Nakamoto does not explain that comment further. He then holds up a copy of the March issue. "I’m not Satohsi Nakamoto as portrayed as the creator," he says. "My name is Doranin Satoshi Nakamoto, and of course, if I was the real creator I would never use my real name. So from that point of view, I’m sure you guys would know that Satoshi Nakamoto is not me." Nakamoto goes on to express his gratitude for the thousands of dollars worth of Bitcoin raised on his behalf by the Bitcoin community for his , and that he now considers himself a full-fledged Bitcoin Check it out:    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Caetano BarreiraThe stock market is now on a six-day winning streak. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Lucas JacksonMichael LewisEveryone's still a little confused about "Flash Boys," Michael Lewis' new book about the obscure world of high frequency trading. On 60 Minutes and a bunch of other media outlets, Lewis has been arguing to the world that his book shows how the stock market is rigged. And without actually understanding or reading the story, many people on main street were quick to express their outrage. But for those who are looking for an understanding that's slightly better than no understanding, hedge fund manager David Einhorn distills the whole debate in one sentence. "These problems fall into the classic dilemma of concentrated benefit and diffuse harm," wrote Einhorn in his new letter to clients. High frequency traders offer tons of liquidity to the markets which is actually great for investors. But in that process, they're able to skim tiny amounts of money for themselves. It's kind of like what Richard Pryor's character does in "Superman 3." But for the most part, experts seem to agree that high frequency traders may actually be bringing more good than harm. The only people who might be losing out in a material way are large investors like the hedge funds.Einhorn addresses this: Lots of investors lose pennies and as a result don’t care too much about market structure; the firms who have based their business around picking up those pennies care a lot about shaping the structure. To overcome this imbalance of interests, the issue needs attention and discussion so that the many who are losing pennies can organize a response. In this regard, Flash Boys has provided a great service. Although we believe that the abuses identified in Flash Boys don’t significantly impact us, our traders Bruce, John and Alex are incredibly aware of how market structure imperfections can add to our trading costs, and are vigilant about minimizing their impact on the Partnerships. One such countermeasure has been to support a new trading venue called IEX, which was the central focus of Flash Boys. We believe that the best response for any investors that are worried about fast computers taking advantage of them is to ask that their orders be routed to IEX, a company in which we hold a small stake. Lewis recently characterized investors like Einhorn as dumb tourists in a casino. Indeed, we can't help but speculate that some of this sensationalizing has something to do with selling books. "Again, look to interests," said AQR Capital Management's Cliff Asness. "Making mountains out of molehills sells more books than a study of molehills." FREE AppDownload
We're being manipulated all the time by the stuff we see on TV and in magazines, here's how the advertisers do it.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidDavid Einhorn.Hedge-fund manager David Einhorn, who runs Greenlight Capital, says we're seeing another tech bubble, CNBC reported, citing his fund's quarterly investor letter. "Now there is a clear consensus that we are witnessing our second tech bubble in 15 years. What is uncertain is how much further the bubble can expand, and what might pop it," Einhorn wrote in the letter (PDF) posted online by @Levered_Hawkeye. He continued: "In our view the current bubble is an echo of the previous tech bubble, but with fewer large capitalization stocks and much less public enthusiasm. Some indications that we are pretty far along include: In the letter, Einhorn writes that Greenlight is short some "high-flying momentum stocks" and "cool kid" companies that he's dubbed the Bubble Basket. He explains that the basket approach allows him to make each individual short small in an effort to reduce risk.  The short positions weren't disclosed in the letter. However, the consensus on Wall Street continues to be that we are not in a tech bubble. Valuations aren't as high, IPO activity isn't as frenzied, and venture-capital funding isn't exploding as it did a decade ago. Earlier this month, Goldman Sachs put out a note giving six reasons we're not in a tech bubble. Unfortunately, it's only after a bubble bursts that we realize we were in a bubble. Einhorn, famous for his prediction of the Lehman Brothers collapse, also detailed a number of stocks in the letter that he's long as well as some positions he exited during the first quarter of this year.   FREE AppDownload
It does not take a Ph.D. to see that we may be witnessing a big bang in inflation. The popular theory that accelerating price inflation in the U.S. would eventually be detected has gone many years with little evidence. However, signs that inflation has probably bottomed are now showing up everywhere. LPL Financial Now that evidence has emerged that inflation has bottomed, the question is how much prices inflate. All of that quantitative easing (QE), or Federal Reserve (Fed) bond buying from the banks, is potential “energy” to fuel inflation. While thus far it has largely remained in the form of reserves on bank balance sheets, bank lending is finally beginning to reaccelerate—a necessary driver for growth in the money supply. This is an intended outcome for the Fed. The Fed is focused on lifting inflation and sees it as important for achieving sustainable growth. Last week Fed Chair Yellen said: “A persistent bout of very low inflation carries other risks as well. With the federal funds rate currently near its lower limit, lower inflation translates into a higher real value for the federal funds rate, limiting the capacity of monetary policy to support the economy. Further, with longer-term inflation expectations anchored near two percent in recent years, persistent inflation well below this expected value increases the real burden of debt for households and firms, which may put a drag on economic activity.” Or, as Sheldon might put it: Bazinga! LPL FinancialThe early stages of accelerating inflation have historically helped fuel economic growth as consumers begin to expect price increases and may stop delaying purchases. The early stages of inflation picking up have also been good for stocks. Examining periods since 1950, the valuation of the stock market measured by the S&amp;P 500 trailing price-to-earnings ratio (PE) tends to be higher when the Consumer Price Index rises above the current 1.5% [Figure 2]. In fact, S&amp;P 500 PEs tend to be a whole point higher than the current 16.8 when inflation is between 1.5 and 2.5%, a range some signs are pointing for the coming year. Only as inflation rises above 3.5% has it corresponded with lower PEs. This article originally appeared at LPL Financial.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
As the global population grows past seven billion, our cities continue to expand, increasing the need for natural resources while simultaneously decreasing the supply. Google's Earth Engine team created these time-lapse maps to illustrate a few of the trends reshaping the world right now. Google Earth Engine The above image shows development spreading out rapidly in Las Vegas, one of five cities in the U.S. to grow by more than 40% in population from 2000 to 2010. This occurred as a consequence of migration to America's Southwest as well as part of the global movement from rural areas into cities. As of 2010, more than half of all people on earth lived in an urban area. By 2030, six out of every 10 will live in a city, and by 2050, the ratio will increase to seven out of 10 people, according to the World Health Organization. In terms of sheer numbers, the amount of people living in cities will almost double by 2050, increasing from approximately 3.4 billion in 2009 to 6.4 billion — 5.2 billion of whom will live in developing countries. As cities expand, they face problems rounding up enough non-renewable resources like fresh water to support their population. Desert-based Vegas has continually struggled to find enough water, which the city has handled so far through extensive pipelines diverting water from the Colorado River, providing almost 90% of the city's supply. Google Earth Engine Above, you'll see Dubai's coastal region explode in the early part of the 21st century with famous artificial islands, Palm Islands and The World. The Gulf States overall have seen rapid urbanization, fueled by massive oil and gas supplies. The Gulf Cooperation Council, which includes the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Qatar, and Kuwait, saw the population of its member countries more than double from 1990 to 2011, now at 46 million. From 1995 to 2011, their combined GDP per capita more than tripled. And currently, they export about 20 million barrels of oil every day, constituting 24% of total global production, according to the Al-Monitor. But this unprecedented pace of development has lead to problems as well, with fear of financial bubbles and vulnerability to food and water shortages. And then there are the political concerns. "[Gulf States] have some institutions like elected parliaments, semi-elected or nominated advisory councils, local assemblies, municipal councils, political associations, and private media. Yet in no case do any of these institutions shape significant national policies, and when they become too feisty they are usually shut down for a while," writes Rami Khouri, a senior fellow at Harvard's Belfer Center. Google Earth Engine Considered "one of the planet's worst environmental disasters," Kazakhstan's Aral Sea, formerly one of the world's four largest lakes, lost most of its volume by 2012. In the early 1900s, Soviet policymakers decided to irrigate the area, diverting freshwater supply from the lake. That, coupled with local climate changes, drove the problem. While the Aral Sea doesn't provide drinking water, its drying is a staggering example of a much larger problem. Currently, one third of the world's rivers — groundwater for about 3 billion people — are going or gone, according to the World Preservation Foundation. Already, water scarcity hounds 2.7 billion people — nearly 40% of the world's population — for at least one month every year, whether they don't have access to clean water or can't afford it, according to the Water Footprint Network. And one billion, about one-sixth of the world's population, face daily shortages, according to the foundation. By 2025, however, 1.8 billion people will live in countries or regions, mostly in the Middle East and North Africa, with absolute water scarcity, according to the International Water Management Institute. These areas won't have enough water irrigate their fields (threatening their food supply) or for other domestic, industrial, and environmental purposes. Aside from the human toll, the drying of lakes and rivers releases the greenhouse gases carbon dioxide and methane into the air, potentially exacerbating climate change. Because of the water cycle, the world will also face more drought, upping the chances of wildfires, as well. Google Earth Engine From 1984 to 2012, deforestation spread in Brazil at an epic rate. In fact, over the course of the last 50 years, 17% of Amazonian forests have disappeared, mostly due to conversion for cattle ranching, according to the World Wildlife Fund. Forests cover 31% of the planet, and are home to more than 80% of the world's known species . They also provide 1.6 billion people with food, fresh water, clothing, and traditional medicine. But 46 to 58 thousand square miles of forest are lost each year — about the equivalent to 36 football fields every minute, according to the fund. The climate will suffer from these losses, too. Trees suck up the greenhouse gases that coal burning puts out. Burning trees emits greenhouses gasses, too, contributing to about 15% of the global total. Without trees, soil erodes, potentially causing landslides and other catastrophes. The decline of forests, which help to balance the amount of water in the atmosphere with water on land, also alters the water cycle. Google Earth Engine The above GIF shows the proliferation of irrigation in Saudi Arabia. The green circles represent patches of new farming land. While irrigation has been a major global trend, recently, the flow of water stagnating, especially in countries with the most need. With population growing but water availability and undeveloped land for farming decreasing, the productivity of crops will become even more crucial. Since the 80s, increased irrigation has continually lowered the global food price index, according to the International Water Management Institute. In 2005, about 300,000 hectares of land were irrigated. But in Asia, the practice has leveled-off and remains nearly absent in Africa, two areas that desperately need higher crop yields now and in the future. Asia, which houses 70% of the world's irrigated land, could meet one-third of future food requirements by upping irrigation systems and modernizing existing ones. And Africa, with the greatest number of people suffering from water scarcity and hunger, has only 5% of farming land irrigated — the lowest ratio of any country, according to the institute. Google Earth Engine This GIF shows the Columbia Glacier in Alaska melting. Although the glacier advances and retreats, it has lost half of its total thickness and volume since the 1980s, according to NASA. Researchers measure glacial deficits using mass balance, or the difference between the accumulated snow during winter and the subsequent melting in warmer temperatures. A glacier losing more ice during summer than it gained in the winter is considered negative gain. Twenty of the largest glaciers worldwide, from Alaska to the tip of South America to central Europe, are melting, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Between 1980 and 2011, glaciers around the world lost the water equivalent of 15.7 meters. That translates to slicing a roughly 17-meter-thick slab off the top of the average glacier and repeating that exercise worldwide, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association. All of this water has to go somewhere and it often causes flooding, as seen recently in Alaska. The data continues to show increasing ice loss, often considered absolute proof of global warming. Melting in these proportions also causes increases in sea level and flooding of low level areas. These glaciers also release greenhouse gasses that had been trapped in their ice and their loss causes changes to the local and global climate. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike Segar Closely followed hedge-fund manager David Einhorn has sent out Greenlight Capital's quarterly investor letter, and some stocks are going bonkers.  Bloomberg News reports that he revealed a long position in Conns Inc. (CONN). That stock was last trading up about 9% on the Einhorn news. He also disclosed a "large" long position in SunEdison (SUNE), according to Bloomberg News. That stock was last up more than 8%. During the first quarter, Einhorn closed his Chipotle (CMG) short. Shares of Chipotle had soared since Einhorn publicly revealed his short at the Value Investing Congress in October 2012.  Einhorn exited his positions in General Motors (GM), DST Systems (DST), and NCR Corp (NCR). Einhorn writes in the letter that we're witnessing the second tech bubble in 15 years and that he's betting against some "high-flying momentum stocks". We're tracking down the letter. More to come ... Here's a chart of Conns. Inc.  Yahoo! Finance Yahoo! Finance  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Caetano BarreiraThe stock market is now on a six-day winning streak. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
    Nathan Sawaya used to be a lawyer, and now he spends all his time with Legos. Sawaya travels the world showing off his incredible art delicately pieced together in the medium of a child's toy. His latest exhibit has come to New York City. It's called Art of The Brick at Discovery Times Square. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/kevinpohLondon is the most important city in the world for the rich, according to the latest Wealth Report from real estate consulting firm Knight Frank. But it won't hold onto its title for long. According to the report, New York is set to overtake London as the top city for the wealthy in the next decade. And Asian cities like Singapore, Hong Kong, and Shanghai will also become more important over the next 10 years. Knight Frank determined its eighth-annual "global cities" ranking based on four factors: economic activity, political power, quality of life, and influence and power. It also took into account each city's population of ultra-high-net-worth individuals (those with $30 million or more in net assets, excluding their primary residence), and responses from an attitude survey of wealth advisors around the world. "Our results suggest that by 2024 New York should surpass London as its share of the world’s UHNWIs rises and the city becomes increasingly important to Chinese, Russian and even European UHNWIs," the Knight Frank report concludes. The chart below shows which cities were most important last year and this year, and the forecasted ranking for 2024. Knight Frank The report also notes an impending "power struggle" among Asia's top cities. "One of the key differences, however, between Asia and Europe and North America is Asia’s lack of a single dominant city," the report says. "This is why we are now seeing the power struggle ... with Singapore, Hong Kong, Shanghai and even Beijing all contenders for the title of future leading Asian city." Hong Kong will eventually overtake Singapore because "the dominance of China is unavoidable and Hong Kong’s unofficial role as the portal between its big brother and the rest of the world will ensure the growing dominance of the city over the next decade," Knight Frank concludes. Knight Frank also identified the five most important cities in each region of the globe, as well as five future "hotspots." Sao Paulo leads the "hotspot" ranking, as its population of ultra-wealthy individuals is set to rise in the next decade.Knight Frank FREE AppDownload
 We gave our Person of the Year award for 2013 to Satoshi Nakamoto, the pseudonymous creator of Bitcoin. We know some of you laughed.  If you did, you may want to read on. It's becoming increasingly clear that Satoshi's creation has the potential to change how much of commerce itself works, and for reasons not even many Bitcoin fans realize. By many accounts, Satoshi came up with a real-world solution to a longstanding computer science paradox known as the double-spend problem, or the Byzantine General's problem (the professor who named it explains why he did so here). The challenge is how to send and receive money online without the need for a trusted third party, such as PayPal, ensuring that the same digital credit standing in for the amount being exchanged isn't being spent twice.  In the real world, this problem gets avoided with cash, which is quite difficult to counterfeit. In practice, digital counterfeiting is much easier.  Satoshi's solution was what has become known as the blockchain: a ledger of all transactions owned and monitored by everyone but ultimately controlled by none. It's like a giant interactive spreadsheet everyone has access to and updates to confirm each digital credit is unique.  It is this technology that programmers are now working to deploy for uses that go far beyond Bitcoin. Satoshi does not appear to have been looking to solve this problem when he created Bitcoin. But his design for the blockchain, which he spelled out in his 2008 Bitcoin spec paper (PDF), has profound implications. "For the first time, two people can exchange a piece of digital property, without any prior relationship, and in a secure way, over the Internet," Jeff Garzik, one of Bitcoin's core developers (now employed by payment processor BitPay) told Business Insider. "As a computer scientist, and in computer science in general, when you talked about building distributed systems, there tended to be a purely theoretical view about how computers would talk to each other, how to keep them coordinated. Satoshi and the blockchain really solved that problem in an elegant and unexpected way. "I don't think the computer science community has really caught up yet," Garzik said. The breakthrough means that, theoretically, any act of commerce on the Web can be decentralized and stripped of a controlling authority.  Perhaps the most straightforward example of a post-Bitcoin service using Satoshi's blockchain is Proof of Existence. Created by Manuel Araoz, a 25-year-old developer in Argentina, the site allows you to upload a file to certify that you had custody of it at a given time. Neither its contents nor your own personal information are ever revealed — rather, all the data in the document gets digested into an encrypted number. Proof of Existence is built on top of the Bitcoin blockchain (there's a 0.005 BTC fee), so the thousands of computers on that network have now collectively verified your file. Proof Of Existence A slightly more politicized application of the blockchain is a project called Namecoin.  Currently, the international nonprofit ICANN governs nearly all top-level Web address domains such as ".com."  But three years ago, engineers developed Namecoin, which serves as a new domain-name system for registering Web addresses that end in ".bit." In this case, instead of ICANN controlling the domain name system, you and all the other people in the Namecoin system control the domain names.  Again, blockchain technology makes it so that something that previously required a centralized authority can now be managed via community.  At this point, payment processors like Western Union probably have the most to fear from blockchain competition, according to Gil Luria, a managing director at Wedbush Securities covering financial technology. You may have heard this before, but Luria explained why the blockchain is the true threat: Most processors use hub-and-spoke models, he said, which are able to charge fees for crossing jurisdictions, and for smaller transaction amounts. Decentralizing and distributing the network gets rid of all that. "It’s a much more competitive business model," Luria told us by phone. "Instead of paying 5% to 10% in fees to Western Union, you're going to be 2% to 3%, possibly even less. Rob Wile/Paul Baran A startup called Ripple represents the most active threat to the mega-processors. (We profiled Ripple, and the group that created it, last month.) Computers all familiar with each other on Ripple's network mutually agree on changes to its blockchain (Ripple calls it a "ledger"). This allows transactions to be processed instantly and without a third party. It's even faster than the Bitcoin network, because everyone using the Ripple ledger gets their own copy of the whole ledger, in contrast with the nodes on the Bitcoin network all sharing a single one.  The blockchain is even stalking credit-card companies. In an interview in Goldman Sachs' note on Bitcoin last March, Fred Ehrsam, the CEO of mega-Bitcoin payment processor Coinbase, observed that a Bitcoin-like payment network would solve the problem of having your credit-card info stored with a big-box retailer like Target. Even sending money through Venmo, the app that lets you text your friends for picking up dinner that one time, still takes five days to clear. Of course, it's possible the existing financial behemoths could adopt their own blockchain technologies. In the same Goldman note, Goldman information technology services analyst Roman Leal writes that, "just as a flurry of new entrants — such as Square, Groupon, and PayPal — encouraged payment networks and payment processors to develop a mobile payments strategy, we expect traditional payment players to develop digital currency strategies."  Two groups, BitShares and Ethereum, are hoping to blockchain-ify ... everything. BitShares founder and CEO Daniel Larimer has his eye on stock exchanges, voting, music distribution, and so on. He calls such futuristic entities distributed autonomous corporations. To use the music example, Larimer envisions artists having the ability to issue shares in their own songs, encouraging fans to spread the tune far and wide to increase returns.  "We give power to shareholders without centralizing in any way, because we’ve eliminated the barriers to entry for starting a company," Larimer told us at the recent Inside Bitcoins conference. (Incidentally, he said having a conference called Inside Bitcoins was akin to having a conference called Inside AltaVista.)  There are, of course, loads of technological and regulatory hurdles that must still be overcome for all of this to materialize. And there are plenty of things that could be reset on a blockchain. But investors don't seem too concerned: Marc Andreessen (who invests in Business Insider) and Fred Wilson are betting big in this space. In a recent blog post, Wilson equated the breakthrough blockchain represents to the Web browser and social media. He refers to this moment as the blockchain cycle: Our 2004 fund was built during social. Our 2008 fund was built during social and the emergence of mobile. Our 2012 fund was built during the mobile downturn. And our 2014 fund will be built during the blockchain cycle. I am looking forward to it. "I think we see every week now somewhere between one and three entrepreneurs come in with blockchain ideas," Andreessen Horowitz's Chris Dixon told Business Insider. "There's definitely some momentum behind it." We'll leave you with an extremely futuristic example of how the blockchain could be deployed.  In a talk given last fall at the Turing festival, Mike Hearn, a former Google employee who quit his job to work full-time on Bitcoin, laid out this scenario: A 20-something Scottish girl named Jen wants to meet up with her friends downtown. She doesn't own a car — no one does in the future — so she dials up a cab through a network Hearn calls TradeNet.   YoutubeMike Hearn at the Turing Festival.Jen's request acts as a request-for-bid on TradeNet, and all the robot cabs available start automatically posting offers, like on an exchange. Jen's node then ranks the bids and presents them to Jen based on criteria including price but also things like whether she's used that cab before and what other people have said about it. All of this is done on a distributed blockchain system, so no centralized taxi company needs to manage the orders. The blockchain, by the way, will have improved that recommendation process, Hearn says. Currently, many recommendation systems at places like Yelp or Seamless say they use your social network to help you choose services. In practice, they end up producing what amounts to spam reviews, since it's unlikely a friend you trust will have reviewed the same service you're looking into. Hearn says cryptography — without which Bitcoin couldn't exist — has helped reduce spam by providing more authoritative, useful authentication. In this future scenario, the roads on which Jen is driving will have also become autonomous actors, doing trades with the car on TradeNet. They can submit bids to the car about how much they're going to charge to use them. If she's in a hurry, Jen can choose a road that's a bit more expensive but which will allow her to get into the city faster.   Awesome, right?  "This is possible because of Bitcoin," Hearn says. "Bitcoin has no intermediaries, therefore there's really nothing to stop a computer from just connecting to the Internet and taking part all by itself. All you need to do to instantiate a Bitcoin wallet is generate a large random number."   Hearn gives other examples of where the TradeNet could be deployed, like buying fruit and vegetables, or units of computation time if you're buying clouds services. Any transactions that are fast, lightweight, and commoditized — which the current system Hearn says is bad at — could be done so much better on the Blockchain. The entirety of Hearn's talk is pretty amazing, and we recommend you watch it. With a handful of exceptions, like Proof of Existence, it's too early to see fully functional applications of blockchain technology. Ripple, for instance, is still courting financial institutions that would benefit from using its payment rail. Bitcoin's main developers are still figuring out ways to tweak its protocol without bringing down the entire network. And of course there remain a host of outstanding regulatory issues that will need to get sorted out before massive expansion of these proposed services can occur. The blockchain helps end the debate about what Bitcoin is. There's been discussion about whether Bitcoin is a currency, a commodity, or a technological protocol. There are good arguments for each categorization, but each is unsatisfying in some way. Now we know why this debate is so unsatisfying. Bitcoin represents a novel form of organization — a blockchain-based entity — that's not quite like anything seen before it.   FREE AppDownload
McDonald's customer traffic problem is getting worse. The company reported disappointing first quarter earnings Tuesday, due in large part to a 1.7% decline in comparable sales in the U.S. McDonald's attributed the results to "challenging industry dynamics" and bad weather, which depressed customer traffic. Globally, McDonald's comparable guest visits were down 3.1% in the first quarter, compared to a 1.9% decline during the same period a year earlier, according to the company's latest SEC filing.  That's a drastic change from just four years ago, when the company was seeing nearly 5% growth in customer traffic annually. Growth has been slowing ever since. Here's a look at McDonald's troubling customer traffic trends since 2010. Business Insider/McDonald'sIn response to the first quarter results, McDonald's CEO Don Thompson said the company is going to work on improving the customers' relationship with the brand. "In the near term, we are prioritizing our efforts around those elements of the restaurant experience that are most impactful—offering the best food and beverage options and delivering outstanding service," he said in a statement Tuesday. "We are intent on pursuing initiatives that will strengthen our relationship with our customers to reignite our business momentum." McDonald's troubles are representative of a broader problem in the fast food industry, as consumer demand grows for healthier meal options. Guest counts at fast food restaurants were flat last year compared to a year earlier, while fast casual chains — such as Chipotle and Panera — saw 8% average growth in traffic, according to The NPD Group. FREE AppDownload
Andrew H. Walker/GettyIt's finally spring, and it's time to celebrate. Since there's nothing like sipping champagne as you gaze at the glittering New York skyline, we've rounded up the top NYC rooftop bars to try this season.  From the lush enchanted garden at Gallow Green to the sleek outdoor lounge at The Empire Hotel, click through to find your new favorite drinking spot! Click here to see the best rooftop bars in New York City &gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
U.S. Special Operations Command recently built a new website to promote its vision of elite commandos outfitted in futuristic battle suits that have become so popular in Hollywood blockbusters. Military leaders have called it the Iron Man suit, but the website's description makes it clear that any of the high-tech ensembles worn in movies like "Man of Steel," "Pacific Rim" and "Starship Troopers" would be welcome prototypes for the Tactical Assault Light Operators Suit (TALOS) effort. "The broad goals are to provide operators with lighter, more efficient full-body ballistics protection and beyond-optimal human performance," TALOS Team officials said. "Antennas and computers embedded into TALOS will increase the wearer's situational awareness by providing user-friendly and real-time battlefield information." "Integrated heaters and coolers will regulate the temperature inside the suit. Embedded sensors will monitor the operator's core body temperature, skin temperature, heart rate, body position and hydration levels. In the event that the operator is wounded, the suit could feasibly start administering the first life-saving oxygen or hemorrhage controls." SOCOM Commander Adm. William McRaven said he wants to see portions of a prototype in two months and the first "independently operational combat suit prototype" delivered by July 2018. The tone of the TALOS website is confident enough to quicken the pulse and kindle the imagination. But the ambitious scope and accelerated pace of TALOS has triggered skepticism from defense industry experts who doubt SOCOM has the money or the expertise needed to perfect this sophisticated battle rattle that currently exists only in big-screen sci-fi flicks. The TALOS team plans on partnering with industry and academia to help overcome some of the financial hurdles involved with developing such complex, multi-component technology. SOCOM intends to funnel $80 million into research and development over the first four years. This figure has defense-industry officials scratching their heads. "To do it right, they need about a billion dollars," said an experienced industry official who works for a large defense firm. He asked that his name not be used for this story. "Twenty million dollars a year in an R&amp;D budget -- you couldn't even develop a pencil on that." This may sound overly cynical, but it's fairly accurate in terms of the U.S. Army's track record for developing smart-soldier technology. The service is now equipping combat units with a secure, smartphone device -- known as Nett Warrior -- that allows a leader to track subordinates' locations in relation to his own position via icons on a digital map. The unit leaders can view satellite imagery and even send text messages. The technology has seen combat and given leaders a precise view of their tactical environment, empowering units to operate more decisively than ever before. But the program's success did not come easily. Land Warrior, the first generation of this computerized command-and-control ensemble, was plagued by failure. From its launch in 1996, the Army spent $500 million on three major contract awards before the system's reliability problems with solved in 2006. Officials in the science-and-technology community maintain that the technology needed for TALOS is achievable but not before the 2026 timeframe, according to an Army official with knowledge of the TALOS program.  TALOS program officials are hoping to convince defense companies to invest in the effort. For starters, industry engineers have been invited to participate in the 2014 TALOS Rapid Prototyping Session, a 60-day event to develop a full TALOS design including a Level 3 drawing package and engineering analysis, according to a March 26 SOCOM solicitation on www.fbo.gov. The event is scheduled to focus on the following TALOS areas: It began April 14 and will run until June 13. It is unclear how many firms are attending, but companies are hesitant to spend their money after watching the Pentagon kill major programs such as the Army's Ground Combat Vehicle as a way of coping with mandatory defense spending cuts under sequestration. "Industry has stockholders. No one wants to spend a dime," the industry official said. To be fair, SOCOM has successfully developed many pieces of high-quality battlefield gear, innovations that have trickled down to conventional combat units. But Special Forces engineers have never tackled this complex of an endeavor before, experts said. All of the TALOS components can work perfectly, but it won't mean anything unless they are all designed to work together. "It all works great until you start pushing it on this kid and his right shoulder is a quarter inch lower than his left shoulder and the sensor is rubbing his shoulder raw," the defense industry officials said. SOCOM officials said that several of the technologies needed for TALOS are already showing great promise. But light-weight, low-bulk power generation -- a key component needed for the program's success -- is not currently a reality, experts said.  "It doesn't exist," the industry official said. "Until there is a true technological breakthrough -- and you can put an Arc reactor on a kid's chest with unlimited electrical energy -- you have a problem." FREE AppDownload
There are many ways to track U.S. economic activity. Billionaire Warren Buffett likes to follow railroad traffic. However, rail isn't the only means by which goods get transported around the country. In fact, you could argue that trucking is a much more sensitive to the economy. The Bureau of Transportation statistics runs the Commodity Flows Survey every five years (most recently in 2012), tracking what kinds of goods are shipped around the country and how they get from place to place. We took a look at how shipping breaks down among the different types of transportation. Trucking dominates freight movement by total dollar value of all goods shipped, with just over $10 trillion out of the total $13,625,059 worth of goods moved around the country: Bureau of Transportation Statistics Trucks also account for most of the total weight of goods shipped, with rail in a distant second: Bureau of Transportation StatisticsHowever, trucks aren't moving things super far. The average distance traveled by a truck shipment was just 216 miles, about a quarter of the distance traveled by rail and water shipments, and far shorter than the average air shipment:Bureau of Transportation StatisticsSo,  if you're shipping something in bulk way across the country, you're probably shipping it on a train or a boat. This relationship is stark when combining together weight and distance into a statistic called "ton-miles", measuring how far and how large shipments are. Here, rail is king: Bureau of Transportation StatisticsThis shows that, even though the dollar value and weight of goods shipped by train is much lower than that of goods moved by trucks, things shipped by rail are going much further than things shipped by trucks. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiExisting home sales fell 0.2% in March, to an annualized pace of 4.59 million units. Economists polled by Bloomberg were looking for a decline to 4.56 million units. The pace of sales is the slowest since July 2012. This compares with a 0.4% decline to an annualized pace of 4.60 million units the previous month. Existing home sales were down 7.5% from a  year ago. The median existing-home price in March was up 7.9% on the year to $198,500. Pending home sales, considered a leading indicator for future existing home sales, unexpectedly fell in February and have been trending down for some time. "With mortgage applications looking more or less level in recent months - accounting for the usual Feb/Mar seasonal adjustment chaos - we are hopeful that any further decline in sales in Q2 will be marginal," said Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macroeconomics.  "Though we continue to worry that the market is very vulnerable in H2 if the broader economy picks up and drives Treasury yields higher, as we expect." But there is hope yet. "With ongoing job creation and some weather delayed shopping activity, home sales should pick up, especially if inventory continues to improve and mortgage interest rates rise only modestly," said Lawrence Yun NAR chief economist in a press release. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSThe Richmond Fed's regional manufacturing activity survey is out, and the feedback looks good. The headline index jumped to 7 in April from -7 in March. This was much stronger than the 2 level forecasted by economists. From the Richmond Fed: Shipments and the volume of new orders increased. Employment rose, while wages advanced at a slower rate. The average workweek was unchanged from a month ago. Manufacturers looked for stronger business conditions during the next six months, although expectations were below last month’s outlook. Compared to last month’s outlook, survey participants anticipated somewhat slower growth in shipments, new orders, and capacity utilization. Manufacturers also looked for slower growth in employment and wages. In addition, expectations were for little change in the average workweek. They predicted vendor lead times would edge up at about the same pace as March’s outlook. Current prices of raw materials and finished goods rose at a slower pace in April compared to last month. Manufacturers expected faster growth in prices paid and prices received over the next six months, although their outlook was below last month’s predictions. Everyone's been watching for information that would confirm that any slowdown in during the winter was related to weather. Below is a breakdown of the subindexes. Richmond Fed FREE AppDownload
One of the most important questions in economics is whether or not wage pressure is starting to rise. If it is starting to rise, then that could be a signal that the Fed will soon feel pressure to tighten policy. If wage pressure is not going anywhere, then the Fed can remain "easy" for a long time. So how do economists feel about the wage question? These two charts — which just came out today — make it very clear. The first is from Bank of America, and it states that average hourly wage growth is sluggish, in their words. (Via Steve Feiss) BofA On the flipside, here's Deutsche Bank's Torsten Slok on how wages are shooting up! Deutsche Bank Glad that's cleared up. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons We recently gave you a list of 25 trends that would be making people billions. Most of the phenomena will end up benefiting everyone. But if you fancied yourself as someone who could be turned into a billionaire, you were arguably cheating — these were things everyone has already figured out. The real challenge, and the greater value and more lucrative pursuit, would be to come up with the solutions to problems that have befuddled engineers for decades or more. We thought of 10 of them: Digital devices have become so small that it can be cumbersome to plug them into a power source. Longer-lasting batteries? Nope — Apple iPod God Tony Fadell says pursuing greater efficiency in batteries is a trap. The key is to find ways of squeezing more efficiency out of the devices' other parts — and stealing power from what's around you. University of Washington engineers, among others, are at work on harvesting existing TV and cellular transmissions and turning them into a power source. "This novel technique enables ubiquitous communication where devices can communicate among themselves at unprecedented scales and in locations that were previously inaccessible," they say. Everyone agrees this is a priority. But there appear to be a hard way and an easier way to achieve it. The former involves lots of expensive regulatory clearance and installations. The latter, currently spearheaded by Google, is called Project Loon. The company plans to send renewables-powered balloons to the edge of space to create an Internet network in remote parts of the world. "We believe it's possible to create a ring of balloons that fly around the globe on the stratospheric winds and provide Internet access to the earth below," they say. Whoa.  TED/Screenshot There are two ways to reduce the cost of raw solar power. One is to have a super-cheap photovoltaic cell, with the tradeoff off that it's inefficient. Of course, more efficient cells cost more to make. So everyone is racing to find a material or process that eliminates the tradeoffs. We may be close: Australian researchers say they've achieved commercial-scale efficiency with a set of dirt-cheap materials first experimented with a century ago but never considered for this use: perovskites. The scientists say they could help cut solar costs by 75% to as low as 10 cents a watt. The technology was recently the subject of a cover story in Wired, which said carbon capture and storage "may be more important — though much less publicized — than any renewable-energy technology for decades to come," since it would allow the world to keep burning its most abundant fuel source. But it goes on to note that "developing reliable, large-scale CCS facilities will be time-consuming, unglamorous, and breathtakingly costly."  While this isn't a problem that touches the average consumer directly, the fees paid by financial institutions to wire funds overseas can eventually filter down. Remittances, too, while not over burdensome, would be much cheaper if they were sent over a decentralized or distributed network free from network, acquiring or interchange fees (see the chart below). This, of course, is the problem Bitcoin and Bitcoin-like technologies, like Ripple, are looking to address.  The holy grail of modern society, and another that may prove impossible. But there may yet be a way: In 2012, scientists at UCLA say they'd genetically engineered mice brains to a key compound that craves fats. The results, according to The Week, "These mice lived in a 'hypermetabolic state,' burning fat calories far more efficiently than normal mice, study researcher Daniele Piomelli said in a statement. They were 'resistant to obesity,' staying thin despite a high-fat diet without exercise. They even had normal blood pressure, and showed no increased risk of heart disease or diabetes." Water shortages continue to make the list of the world's most pressing issues. This year's crippling drought in California further drove the point home. But desalination plants have proved way too expensive and inefficient to build. But earlier this year, Business Insider's Dina Spector profiled the company behind a kind of solar-powered desalination process that uses uses half the total energy — most of it coming from solar — of the best competing thermal (fossil) methods, and  one-fifth the electricity of reverse osmosis technology. If something like this doesn't pan out, we'll have to keep relying on massive conservation efforts — which basically means we've already lost. WaterFXA parabolic trough collects energy from the sun. The heat is used to evaporate clean water from the salty agricultural drainage water of irrigated crops. A new book about the San Andreas Fault frames the issue like this: "the world community of seismologists remains divided — at times, vehemently — over the issue of whether it will ever be possible to predict earthquakes. It’s a question that’s been raised again as the network of faults in Southern California has awakened with seismic activity in recent months. It is a complex problem. And, to date, no one has yet predicted an earthquake." Meanwhile the number of billion-dollar meteorological events climbs inexorably higher. Scientific American Wired has said 2012 was the year passwords broke. Hackers have, through brute force, so far been able to break through practically every firewall ever invented. There must be a better way. And engineers are working on them. Google, for instance, continues to search for ways to turn your smartphone or some other device into a computer "car key," Another involves what was once thought the holy grail of cryptography, called obfuscation, which masks the inner workings of a computer program. It's happening. Google — yes, it has appeared several times on this list, but that's because it's interested, and it can — just hired biophysicist Cynthia Kenyon from UCSF to join its Project Calico antiaging team. Her experiments have produced roundworm as old as the equivalent of 80 human years but looks and acts the equivalent of 40. Google admits it's a moonshot, but it's proved pretty decent at those.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Baz Ratner A woman is silhouetted in a first aid tent outside the regional government building in Donetsk, eastern Ukraine.Victor Pinchuk is either the greatest of patriots among the oligarchs of eastern Ukraine for having promoted an alliance with the European Union and the US presidential campaign of Hillary Clinton. Or else he’s made a colossal miscalculation, sacrificing his Interpipe steel combine for no market benefit, not even relief for debts of more than $1.3 billion. He’s not the only eastern Ukrainian oligarch to suffer from the transition government’s agreements with Brussels and Washington last month. The European Union’s Ukrainian trade assistance programme, released on March 11, refused to extend benefits to the major mining and metals businesses to the east of Kiev; for the details, click here. Likewise, the programme of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) which followed on March 27, has introduced devaluation of the hryvnia, gas and electricity price increases to “full cost recovery”, a hike in state rail tariffs, and a stop to rigged state procurement for steel products: these measures all inflate the cost line of the oligarch balance-sheets at the same time as closure of the Russian market and lack of alternative markets have already depressed their revenue line.Hryvnia earnings will fail to grow as fast as revalued dollar and Euro-denominated debts, so covenant and loan defaults will multiply, say analysts at European banks with exposure to the Ukrainian oligarchs’ debts. Audits promised by the IMF of the oligarch-owned banks – Bank Credit Dnepr (Pinchuk), PrivatBank (Igor Kolomoisky), First Ukrainian International Bank (Rinat Akhmetov) – are expected to put additional pressure on their owners to stump up the cash to recapitalize them. The capacity of this trio, and other eastern Ukrainian oligarchs, to keep their businesses solvent is now held hostage by the terms of the Geneva agreement of April 17. If neither Pravy Sektor nor the pro-Russian groups agree to lay down their arms, halt drive-by and sniper killings, and restore municipal and regional authority; if no presidential election can be conducted in a month’s time for the voters of the region – if at last Russian forces are deployed to re-establish law and order because the Kiev regime cannot, then Pinchuk, Kolomoisky, Akhmetov and the others are likely, according to Ukrainian sources, to lose the power to keep their assets and incomes. “The eastern oligarchs,” says a US source close to their businesses, “can’t gain influence with Kiev and the US Government unless they crack down on the locals. If they do, they will be Russian targets. They can’t advance. They can’t retreat. They can only disappear from the reckoning that’s coming. It’s already happened to Pinchuk. It’s going to happen to Akhmetov, then Kolomoisky.” This too is the private assessment of European bankers to whom they owe money. According to a Luxembourg source, “most likely there are no hedges to manage currency risk, so when the US dollar debt is translated into hryvnia, debt will jump, causing an extraordinary loss for the P&amp;L [profit and loss line]. The big question is whether external auditors will permit revaluation of the assets, thus compensating for the jump in debt.” The writing is also on the Kremlin wall, as President Vladimir Putin made obvious in his April 17 television presentation. The warning he mentioned twice. “Instead of starting a dialogue with these people, Kiev appointed new governors – oligarchs and billionaires – to these regions. People are suspicious of oligarchs as it is. They believe that they earned their riches by exploiting people and embezzling public property, and these oligarchs have been appointed to head their regions. This only added to the public discontent. People chose their own leaders, but what did the new government do to them? They were thrown into prison….” Kolomoisky, the acting governor of Dniepropetrovsk region appointed by Kiev on March 2, has claimed he is paying out of his own pocket to put fuel in Ukrainian armoured vehicles advancing on Slavyansk, Kramatorsk, and other towns. He has also advertised cash bounties for the capture or killing of pro-Russian targets in Dniepropetrovsk. He attacked Putin verbally in his first press conference as governor. Putin retaliated against the Russian operations of PrivatBank. Pinchuk took cover. The Ukrainian press has reported that Pinchuk was offered the post of governor of the Zaporozhia region, bordering Dniepropetrovsk to the south, Donetsk to the west. He reportedly refused: “becoming governor in a region which I have no knowledge of and where people don’t know me would not be useful I believe.” According to Pinchuk’s philanthropic foundation, he ought to have been well-known in Zaporozhia, at least among expectant mothers, because he has donated funds to equip a maternity hospital. According to a spokesman for Pinchuk, Financial Times reporter Roman Olearchyk, Akhmetov is “double-dealing”. “People close to [Akhmetov] claim any crackdown on separatism is the government’s responsibility. They add that many people imagine Mr Akhmetov wields more influence than he really does.” Pinchuk, according to anotherFinancial Times reporter, “has had a good revolution… The unrest has given the oligarchs a further opportunity to shake off once-shady reputations and present themselves as concerned business leaders and reputable partners for investors from European and US markets. The most vocal voice coming from the oligarchs throughout the protests, in condemning the authorities’ brutality, was that of metals magnate Pinchuk.” Pinchuk’s Interpipe is based at Dniepropetrovsk. Between October and December of 2013, the enterprise defaulted on its international loans, as well as its Eurobond agreements. Since March of 2013, Pinchuk has been suing Kolomoisky and Gennady Bogolyubov in the UK High Court for an iron-ore mine at Krivoi Rog, near Dnieptropetrovsk; the mine is now owned by Akhmetov. That case can be followed here. London sources say they are expecting Kolomoisky to ask the court to order Pinchuk to deposit funds in court custody as security for costs, in case he loses. A challenge to Pinchuk’s recent appointment of the law firm Hogan Lovells is also expected by the sources on grounds similar to those which led to a court ruling on January 31, obliging Pinchuk’s lawyers, White &amp; Case, to resign for conflict of interest. If the court rules against Pinchuk again, the combination represents a likely cost to Pinchuk of more than £40 million, and may oblige him to withdraw for lack of the means to continue litigating. Pinchuk’s investment in politically influential friendships – Bill and Hillary Clinton in New York and Washington, Tony Blair in London, and ex-president Alexander Kwasniewski in Warsaw – has attracted negative media publicity in those cities. Hillary Clinton is vulnerable to unanswered questions about the money she, her husband and daughter Chelsea have taken from Pinchuk. The upshot is that in the present situation in Kiev, these Pinchuk friends have been reluctant to make public endorsements for him. The problem for the Clintons, as well as for Blair, is that once the government of President Victor Yanukovich was ousted on the night of February 21, replaced by US and UK-endorsed political figures, Pinchuk’s usefulness as a promoter of the new premier, Arseny Yatseniuk, was at an end. On the other hand, Pinchuk’s ties to former President Leonid Kuchma, his father-in-law, have become an even greater embarrassment and risk for the Clinton campaign for president. In Poland, according to a Warsaw source and to published reports, without financing from Pinchuk, Amicus Europae ( “Friend of Europe” in low Church Latin), the foundation Kwasniewski set up after he left office would not have been able operate. This Polish television report claims that in 2006 892,822 zlotys (about $300,000) was donated by Pinchuk to Kwasniewski to promote the Ukraine’s attachment to the EU. This is confirmed by a financial report of the Pinchuk Foundation for 2006. In 2007, according to the Pinchuk Foundation, it donated another $400,000. In 2008 the sum was $300,000. One million dollars, altogether. Since then Amicus Europae has disappeared from Pinchuk’s donation lists, but not Kwasniewski. Since 2010 he has been the chairman of the board for Pinchuk’s Yalta European Strategy (YES). In that role, according to the YES website, Kwasniewski has been voted “Top Lobbyist for Ukraine in the World.” Kwasniewski was also responsible for lobbying Pinchuk to the current Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk. On a visit to Kiev on March 27 sponsored by YES, Kwasniewski said: “we met with leaders of the government; parliament and political camps to explore how YES can best support Ukraine in these extraordinary times.” If Kwasniewski was lobbying for Pinchuk’s interests, a noticeable outcome has yet to materialize. This article originally appeared at Dances With Bears. John Helmer is the longest continuously serving foreign correspondent in Russia, and the only western journalist to direct his own bureau independent of single national or commercial ties. Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsMcDonald's just reported first-quarter earnings of $1.21 per share, missing analysts' expectations for $1.24. This was on net revenue of $6.70 billion, a hair below the $6.72 billion expected. Comparable-store sales worldwide climbed 0.5% year over year. Here's a regional breakdown: The U.S. is obviously the laggard, missing analysts' expectation for a 1.4% drop. Management also warned that March comp sales fell 0.6% in the U.S., much worse than the 0.2% decline expected. "By leveraging a deeper understanding of what our customers want with the power of our business model, our investments in restaurant capabilities and modernization, and our hard-earned competitive advantages, we will grow McDonald's business and deliver enduring profitable growth over the long term," said CEO Don Thompson. "As we begin the second quarter, global comparable sales for the month of April are expected to be modestly positive." "Looking forward, McDonald's is focused on stabilizing key priority markets including the U.S., Germany, Australia and Japan," said management. Taco Bell recently entered the U.S. breakfast market, which may be putting pressure on McDonald's sales. FREE AppDownload
Excel pivot tables are incredible tools that allow you to analyze large data sets many different ways in seconds. Produced by Sara Silverstein.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Masaharu HatanoTraders jostle to a trading counter at the Tokyo Stock Exchange February 1, 1994.Dave Lutz of Stifel, Nicolaus has the top topics about which traders are talking today: Good Morning!  The SPX is on a 5day winning streak, longest since October – right now US Futures are higher, led by a 20bp pop in Nasdaq stocks – Tuesday’s have been a bulls friend - of the 15 Tuesdays so far this year, the S&amp;P 500 has only been down twice - If you had invested in the S&amp;P 500 only on Tuesdays so far this year, you would be up 8.7% YTD!.   Markets are upbeat over in Europe, as the market seems to digest the occasional “firefight” in the Ukraine – but we keep an eye on Russia’s Market, the Micex is off 60bp right now.   It’s Early, but $75B worth of Healthcare deals overnight has the IBB marked up almost 1%.   The FTSE HC/Biotech Index is up 6% right now (Was closed Fri/Mon) – In Asia, the Shanghai gained 30bp, but concerns remain about the slew of IPOs announced – The Nikkei lost about 1% despite headlines from Nippon Life and the GPIF reshuffle – Aussie gained 40bp, but the Miners all closed solidly in the red as Metal prices deteriorate.   Earnings remains a focus, with 50% of the ITB and IBB reporting this week – Overnight focus was on NFLX leaping almost 10% - today we have BK, CMCSA, CP, ITW, JNS, LMT, MCD, RF, SPG, TRV, and XRX are all pre-open while AMGN, DFS, GILD, ILMN, ISRG, JNPR, T, and YUM all report post-closeYesterday, The US index of leading indicators hit its highest since November – a sign the worst of the winter weather impact on the economy is over - The 10YY is off small ahead of a 2Y auction expected to post the highest auction yield in 2years later today.   We have a bid in both € and Yen, pressing the Dollar lower, causing a tailwind for commodities – Platinum continues to bounce on Russia Sanction angst – while Silver and Gold are bouncing from multi-week/month lows.   The Crude complex is in the red - WTI coming off a 7week high into API Inventories tonight.  Your best performing commodity YTD is Coffee, and it is up 3% this AM on weather concerns (El Nino headlines everywhere), adding to the 75% 2014 gain.  Scheduled Catalysts today include FHFA House Price Index for Feb at 9, Existing Home Sales for March, Richmond Fed, and Euro-Zone Consumer Confidence at 10, a very small POMO at 11, Former Fed Chairman Bernanke Speaks at the Economic Club at 11:45, and 1pm brings the Auction of $32 Bln 2-Year Notes. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bernadett SzaboA man throws water on a woman as part of traditional Easter celebrations in Holloko, east of Budapest, April 21, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Novartis deals. Swiss drug giant Novartis has essentially swapped its vaccine business, worth $7.1 billion plus royalties, for the rights to GSK's oncology products, for which it paid $14.5 billion. Reuters says Novartis is trying to simplify its business.  Allergan and Ackman. The Wall Street Journal reported Bill Ackman's Pershing Square and drug developer Valeant have made a bid for the maker of Botox, Allergan. Allergan said they have yet to receive a offer and has had no discussions with either Valeant or Pershing Square. Airbnb NYC purge. Airbnb removed thousands of New York listings after state attorney general Eric Schneiderman filed an affidavit suggesting many may be violating tenancy laws. Netflix earnings. Netflix shares were up 7% after-hours after posting solid earnings and subscriber numbers. The firm announced price increases for new subscribers, though this won't kick in immediately. "This is a pretty smart idea since it encourages current customers to stay on Netflix, while also grabbing more money from new customers," BI's Jay Yarow wrote. "It also nudges people to sign up for Netflix now before it's too late." Platinum miner negotiations. Platinum producers in South Africa will meet with the leaders of the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union in an effort to end a 13-week long labor strike. Platinum is a key material used in catalytic converters. China IPO pipeline. China posted draft IPO prospectuses for 18 firms Monday, bringing the total number of potential issuers up to 46. State media estimating they could raise as much as 22.6 billion yuan ($3.6 billion) from investors. Housing data. Two key datapoints today for housing. First up at 9 a.m. is the FHFA home price index, which is expected to have slowed to 0.3% from 0.5%. Then at 10 a.m. we get existing home sales, also expected to have slowed to a seasonal annually adjusted rate of 4.56 million from 4.6 million. Richmond Fed. Also at 10 a.m. we get Richmond Fed data for April. Analysts expect a reading of zero compared with -7 in March.  Earnings. McDonald's and Yum! brands both announce today. We also get Amgen, AT&amp;T, BNY Mellon, and Lockheed Martin. Markets. Stocks were drifting higher in Europe and the U.S., led by Germany's Deutsche Boerse at 1.3%. The Nikkei fell 0.85%. Coffee futures are now up 86% on the year as droughts in Brazil drag on.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adrees LatifA Chipotle Mexican restaurant in midtown Manhattan, New York.Job growth has been weak and wages have gone nowhere since the great recession. But surprisingly, we've seen corporate profits recover swiftly and surge to record highs. The labor-market story and the corporate-profit story are very closely related. Simply put, the American consumer has been getting squeezed to line the pockets of corporate America and its investors. However, we're now seeing more evidence that businesses will attempt to bolster their profits by raising prices on their customers. Chipotle and Netflix recently announced that they would soon be raising the prices of their goods and services. Up front, most consumers may not even notice the price hikes because they're so small. But their capacity to spend will get squeezed. And ultimately, without a jump in hiring or wages, this could all backfire on corporate America in the form of crumbling sales and collapsing profits. Fattening profit margins have enabled corporate America to deliver record earnings amid modest revenue growth. Much of these profit margin gains have come from companies cutting costs (for example, laying off workers) and improving efficiencies (like making workers produce more stuff with little or no pay raise). But these actions have limits. And corporate America is scrambling to do what it can to maintain or further boost its profit margins in order to, one, blunt the effects of inflation, two, maintain earnings growth, and, three, please investors. But what do you do when you can't cut costs anymore? We recently got two examples of price hikes that anyone in America should notice: What does it all mean? On the surface, it is a few dollars and cents. And in the long run, some of these price hikes will be offset for the consumer elsewhere. For example, a more efficient car will help save on gas. But experts agree that, in aggregate, prices will rise. Unfortunately wage growth has largely been stagnant, which means something will eventually have to give. "Consumer spending is around all-time highs as a share of U.S. GDP, while labour income is at multidecade lows," said Gerard Minack of Minack Advisors. "This has been wonderful for corporates: consumer spending boosts revenue, while labour costs are the corporate sector's largest single cost. Rising consumer spending and falling wage share of GDP is great for profit margins." "Now, however, further wage weakness threatens to suffocate the U.S. consumer," he added. It might take regulatory changes. It might take tax hikes. It might take a massive destabilizing protest. But eventually, something will have to get corporations to channel some of that money back to consumers or else they risk feeling pain on their top lines. The good news is that expectations for wage growth are rising. We'll just have to see if that materializes. Business Insider, Minack Advisors   FREE AppDownload
The Russell P/E is significantly higher than the S&amp;P 600’s current reading of about 18 because it includes more stocks of companies that either have no earnings or are losing money. Yet investors are willing to pay high prices for them, expecting that they will eventually have great earnings. These great expectations more often than not end very badly once these companies actually start earning money. When they do so, it becomes obvious how dangerously overvalued these stocks are, especially if growth expectations turn more realistic and less fanciful. By the way, while the forward P/E of the S&amp;P 500 was 15.5 during March, the median forward P/E was 16.6. This indicates that the larger-cap stocks are more fairly valued in the S&amp;P 500 than the smaller-cap ones in this universe of LargeCaps. Back during 1999, the reverse was true. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Bubbles &amp; Clouds. (1) Bubbles now and then. (2) Small stocks are more inflated than large ones. (3) Russell 2000 forward P/E at 24 thanks to lots of small companies with no earnings. (4) S&amp;P 500 also has some high-priced industries. (5) Is the Cloud a bubble? (6) Defensive sectors are no bargains. (7) No national real estate bubble yet, but competition to make risky home loans is heating up. (8) European peripheral bonds rally like the worst is over. (9) Are ETFs the next weapon of mass financial destruction? (10) “Captain America” (-). (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersStriking miners gather outside Lonmin's headquarters in JohannesburgJOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - Chief executives of the world's top platinum producers were to again meet the leaders of the AMCU union on Tuesday for wage talks in a bid to find an agreement to end the longest and most costly strike on South Africa's mines in living memory. "They will be meeting this morning but at an undisclosed location," said a spokeswoman for the producers. Around 70,000 members of the hardline Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) downed tools 13 weeks ago at Anglo American Platinum, Impala Platinum and Lonmin. Initially demanding an immediate doubling of the basic wage - the salary before various allowances are added such as housing - for entry-level workers to 12,500 rand ($1,200) a month, AMCU has since said it would accept annual increases of around 30 percent that would reach this goal in three years' time. The producers' latest offer, made last Thursday, was for wage hikes of up to 10 percent and other increases which would take the minimum pay package - the basic wage including the allowances - to 12,500 rand a month by July 2017. "That is as much as we can reasonably afford at this time," Implats spokesman Johan Theron told Reuters. The companies have been struggling to maintain margins in the face of steeply rising costs on one hand and stubbornly depressed prices on the other for the precious metal used to build emissions-capping catalytic converters in automobiles. Tuesday's talks were being facilitated by the country's department of labor but there has been little political intervention to resolve the dispute even though it is a headache for President Jacob Zuma and the ruling ANC with a general election looming May 7. PRICE WOES Exacerbating the industry's woes is the muted price reaction to the stoppage despite its scale, with around 40 percent of global platinum production idled at the moment, according to estimates by Thomson Reuters' GFMS. Traders have bet there are adequate above-ground stocks and demand remains far from robust in key markets such as Europe, where diesel engines which require high platinum content in converters are favored. The metal's spot price is currently fetching about 1,408.00 an ounce, around three percent lower than it was on the eve of the walk out which began on January 23. At the same time, the producers' viability is being shaken by the strike. The producers have lost 14.2 billion rand ($1.35 billion) to date and counting since it began, according to an industry web site which constantly updates the tally (http://www.platinumwagenegotiations.co.za/). This state of affairs is seen hastening a painful restructuring in the sector which could see thousands of jobs cut and more platinum taken out of production, with much of the focus on Amplats' operations around the mining town of Rustenburg northwest of Johannesburg. Workers have lost around 6.3 billion rand in wages so far and their resolve could be weakening as they go their third consecutive month without a pay check. Mineworkers in South Africa on average support eight dependants. This fuels their wage demands but also makes it hard for their households to go for long without their income. AMCU shop steward Siphamandla Makhanya told Reuters as far as the union was concerned, the employers' latest package was "not the final offer" and so it did not immediately plan to take it to members for a vote. ($1 = 10.4977 South African Rand) (Additional reporting by Zandi Shabalala; Editing by Louise Heavens) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersInvestors look at computer screens showing stock information at a brokerage house in ShanghaiSHANGHAI (Reuters) - China's regulator posted draft initial public offering (IPO) prospectuses for 18 Chinese firms on Monday, bringing the total number of potential issuers up to 46, with state media estimating they could raise as much as 22.6 billion yuan ($3.6 billion) from investors. The anticipated resumption follows a two-month flurry of IPOs in January and February this year, after regulators let the IPO market go dark for 14 months beginning in 2014, which some said was an attempt to boost sagging mainland stock indexes. The CSRC released draft prospectuses for 28 companies on Saturday. The official China Securities Journal said that 23.9 billion yuan worth of capital exited the domestic stock market on Monday as some Chinese investors became concerned that new IPOs would divert funds from existing shares. "The flight of main stock investment funds amid a sharp fall of the main index means that damage to the market by the resumption of IPOs cannot be overestimated," the newspaper said. The CSI300 Index &lt;.CSI300&gt;, which tracks the largest tickers in Shanghai and Shenzhen, has lost 1.69 percent since Friday, when media first reported the resumption of applications. &lt;.SS&gt; But uncertainty about how many of these prospective companies will be allowed to actually list, and how soon, appears to have blunted the impact of the announcement on stock markets, and investment bankers have expressed uncertainty as to how hot the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) will let the IPO market actually get in 2014. Some analysts have predicted the mainland IPO market could hit 250 billion yuan in 2014. None of the 46 firms has been approved to launch IPOs yet, but the CSRC is expected to review these applications in May and permit the resumption of IPOs within the month, local analysts have forecast. IPOs paused in March as the CSRC ordered companies and underwriters to update application materials, including applicants' 2013 annual results. In reaction to the new rules, and possibly to signs that the CSRC was cracking down on pricing misbehavior by underwriters and inside stakeholders, dozens of Chinese companies have already shelved their listing plans, according to CSRC data published in April. The total number of firms on the IPO waiting list dropped to 606 in the week ended on April 18, down from 675 firms in the previous week, according to the list published on the regulator's website, www.csrc.gov.cn. BIG NAMES YET TO COME The 46 applicants that have published prospectuses are dominated by firms in new materials, environment protection and manufacturing. Hua'an Securities Co Ltd is the only financial institution. Medium-sized Hua'an, based in the eastern Chinese city of Hefei, plans to issue 800 million yuan-denominated A shares on the Shanghai Stock Exchange to raise an unspecified amount of money to consolidate its capital base, it said in its draft prospectus published late on Monday. State-owned Shanghai Film Co Ltd plans to raise nearly 1 billion yuan to build new cinemas and update existing ones to meet increasing entertainment demand in China's financial hub, its prospectus said on Saturday. Another film producer, Beijing-based Wanda Cinemas plans raise 2 billion yuan for similar purposes. However, a slew of big names still on the CSRC's waiting list have yet to publish their prospectuses. These include large brokerages such as Shanghai-based Guotai Junan Securities and Shenzhen-based First Capital Securities, as well as a cluster of city commercial lenders including the Bank of Shanghai, the Bank of Hangzhou and the Bank of Chengdu. There are also a number of conglomerates owned by China's central government in line, including China National Nuclear Corp, Huadian Heavy Industries Co Ltd and China Film Group Corp. (Reporting by Lu Jianxin and Pete Sweeney; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBusinessmen walk on the Bund near the Huangpu River in front of the financial district of Pudong in ShanghaiBEIJING (Reuters) - Multinational firms are planning to invest less in China because of market access barriers and slowing growth in the world's second-largest economy, a U.S. business lobby said on Tuesday. China's economy expanded 7.4 percent year-on-year in the January-March quarter, its slowest pace in 18 months. Concerns over market access and slower growth are greater this year than they were in the past, the American Chamber of Commerce in China said in its annual report on the business climate in China. "We refer to market access barriers as one of the primary reasons for lowered investment," Chamber Chairman Greg Gilligan told reporters at a briefing on the report. "With slower growth, our member companies do not reflect less need for investment, but perhaps less need for investment based on the old economic model that was more reliant on exports and infrastructure spending," Gilligan said. At a plenum meeting of the Communist Party last November, China announced ambitious reforms that signaled the shift of China's economy from infrastructure- and export-fuelled growth towards a slower, more balanced and sustained expansion. The annual report, which the Chamber uses to lobby both the Chinese and U.S. governments, placed industrial policies that support Chinese state-owned enterprises atop the list of complaints. "State-owned enterprises have increased their control over certain sectors of the economy in recent years, and government support for SOEs was overwhelmingly citied by AmCham China member companies as the most negative industrial policy, being chosen more frequently than all the other options combined," the Chamber said in the report. The United States has a massive trade deficit with China, which maintains a tight grip on state-owned businesses. The report also said that 40 percent of the lobby's member firms felt they were targeted by Chinese media, increasing perceptions that foreign investment is becoming less welcome. Other concerns included fear of retribution if companies defend their interests through the Chinese legal system, and the report noted moderate or low progress on a host of perennial issues, from government procurement to intellectual property rights protection. Despite the deep-seeded worries over market access, the Chamber was optimistic about renewed negotiations on a U.S.-China bilateral investment treaty. The world's two biggest economies agreed in July to restart stalled talks on the investment treaty. Previously, Beijing had agreed to negotiations only if certain Chinese industries, especially in its service sector, were exempt. Tim Stratford, a co-chair on the Chamber's legal committee and a former U.S. trade negotiator, said the Chinese government's commitment to return to talks reflected "a lot of study." "It was not a casual undertaking on their part. Given all the work that has gone into these negotiations already and given the momentum behind them ... we are feeling optimistic that the negotiations will be successful," Stratford said. "It's hard to say how long that will take, but it is not something that will be done in a few months," he said. (Reporting by Michael Martina; Editing by Chris Gallagher) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsMarkets have reopened in Europe after a four-day holiday. And stocks are trading higher. Britain's FTSE is up 0.8%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.6%. Germany's DAX is up 1.0%. Spain's IBEX is up 0.3%. Earlier today, Swiss drugmaker Novartis announced three huge deals: 1) it's acquiring GlaxoSmithKline's oncology business for $14.5 billion; 2) it's divesting its vaccines business to GSK for $7.1 billion plus royalties; and 3) it's divesting its animal health business to Eli Lilly for $5.4 billion. In other big pharma news, hedge fund Pershing Square Capital disclosed that it owned about 10% of the $40 billion botox-maker Allergan. The Wall Street Journal reports that Ackman and Valeant Pharmaceuticals are orchestrating a takeover of the drug company. All of this comes a day after a modest rally in U.S. markets where the Dow and S&amp;P 500 are both on five-day winning streaks. Dow and S&amp;P futures are flat right now. However, the Nasdaq is up 1.7 points. The momentum stock-heavy index may be benefiting from Netflix, whose shares spiked after the company announced better-than-expected Q1 earnings on Monday afternoon. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannThe logo of Swiss drugmaker Novartis is seen at its headquarters in Basel October 22, 2013. ZURICH/LONDON (Reuters) - Swiss drugmaker Novartis announced a multi-billion dollar revamp on Tuesday, swapping assets with GlaxoSmithKline and selling its animal health arm in a bid to simplify its business and increase its focus on high-margin cancer medicines. The overhaul is part of a major realignment in the global pharmaceuticals industry as it strives to cope with a clampdown in health spending by cash-strapped governments. "The transactions mark a transformative process for us," said Novartis Chief Executive Joe Jimenez, who has been undertaking a strategic review of the once-sprawling business. "They also improve our financial strength, and are expected to add to our growth rates and margins immediately." Novartis said it had agreed to buy GlaxoSmithKline's oncology products for $14.5 billion, while selling to GSK its vaccines, excluding flu, for $7.1 billion plus royalties and creating a joint venture with GSK in consumer healthcare. Novartis also said it had agreed to sell its animal health arm to Eli Lilly for approximately $5.4 billion. The global pharmaceuticals sector has seen a flurry of deal-making recently as large companies seek to focus on a small number of leading businesses, while smaller specialty and generic producers seek greater scale. Cancer is a particular focus for some drugmakers, thanks to novel medicines that show promise by boosting the body's immune system. Tuesday's deal will see Novartis strengthen its world No.2 position in cancer behind cross-town rival Roche. A desire to boost its oncology business is seen as a key factor behind Pfizer's reported interest in AstraZeneca. A weekend newspaper said Pfizer, which has also been spinning off assets such as animal health and baby food, had made a 60 billion pound ($101 billion) bid approach that had been rebuffed by the British firm. "We reckon the real value of the deal should be searched for in the pipeline and the newly launched products, strengthening Novartis' position in melanoma and haematology," Vontobel analyst Andrew Weiss said of the cancer deal with GSK. Cancer is an extremely competitive marketplace, however, and some analysts said it made sense for GSK to exit a field where it was only No.14 in the world. As well as strengthening its vaccines business, GSK will take the lead in running a future consumer health business worth about $10 billion in annual revenue with Novartis. The British drugmaker will return 4 billion pounds to shareholders as well. At 0905 GMT, Novartis shares were up 2.3 percent to 76.4 Swiss francs. GSK shares were up 5.4 percent to 1,643.5 pence. PRICE TAG Novartis's Jimenez told reporters the deals would result in slightly lower overall sales for the Swiss group, but higher profit as it swaps lower-margin vaccines business for higher-margin oncology drugs. Analysts at Swiss broker Notenstein said the new cancer drugs would help Novartis to navigate patent expiries on top-selling medicines more easily. However, analysts at Barclays described the price tag for the oncology assets, which could rise as high as $16 billion if certain milestones are reached, as "rather hefty." Novartis said it would start a separate sale process for its flu business immediately, which was not part of the GSK deal. Eli Lilly will have the world's No.2 animal health business by revenue in the wake of its deal with Novartis. It said it would fund the transaction with $3.4 billion of cash and $2 billion of loans and expected cost savings of about $200 million per year within three years of closing the deal. BofA Merrill Lynch advised Lilly, while Goldman Sachs Group Inc advised Novartis on the animal health deal. GSK said Lazard and Zaoui &amp; Co. were acting as its joint financial advisers.  (Additional reporting by Alice Baghdjian and Ben Hirschler. Writing by Caroline Copley.; Editing by Noah Barkin and Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
