Thomson ReutersA Rio Tinto logo is displayed on the front of a wall panel during a news conference in SydneyBy Sonali Paul MELBOURNE (Reuters) - Rio Tinto  rejected a merger approach from smaller rival Glencore Plc  to create a $160 billion mining and trading giant in August just as the price of its most profitable product, iron ore, hit a five-year low. The miner said on Tuesday Glencore had contacted it about a potential merger in July, adding that it turned Glencore down in August and there had been no further contact between the companies on a deal. A merger would have created the world's biggest miner, supplanting BHP Billiton . "The Rio Tinto board, after consultation with its financial and legal advisers, concluded unanimously that a combination was not in the best interests of Rio Tinto's shareholders," Rio Tinto said in a statement to the Australian stock exchange. Rio's Australian shares jumped as much as 4.7 percent to a 9-day high of A$60.28 in a weaker broader market  after Rio issued the statement. Rio revealed the approach after Bloomberg reported that Glencore had talked to Rio's top shareholder, Chinese state-owned Aluminum Corp of China (Chinalco) [ALUMI.UL], to gauge its interest in a deal. The report, citing people familiar with the situation, said talks with Chinalco took place in recent weeks, and Glencore was also testing the waters with other Rio shareholders, studying financial and regulatory obstacles as it weighed its next steps. Any bid for Rio would need China's blessing, as Chinalco owns 9.8 percent of the company. Chinalco is sitting on a big loss on its stake, bought in February 2008 for 60 pounds a share, double Rio's current London-listed price , as it sought to block a $127 billion takeover bid from BHP Billiton. Glencore, which last year bought rival Xstrata in the sector's largest ever takeover, has recently talked openly about wanting to merge with Rio Tinto, coveting its low-cost, high quality iron ore, bankers have said. [ID:nL6N0RO5Y3] Iron ore would fill a gap in Glencore's suite of commodities, where it already has strong positions in copper, nickel, zinc and coal. But analysts and bankers saw major hurdles to a deal, saying Rio Tinto shareholders would want a massive premium, China would likely force a merged group to sell some copper and coal assets, and Rio's conservative culture would clash with Glencore's aggressively entrepreneurial DNA.  IRON ORE PRICE Citi analysts said the deal would be good for Glencore as it would give it a dual-listed platform to match BHP Billiton, provide it instant scale in iron ore to boost its trading business, give highly-geared Glencore access to Rio's balance sheet, and possibly offer as much as $8 billion in synergies. The two companies could save around $500 million just by combining their neighboring coal businesses in Australia, Citi estimated. "Overall a positive potential deal for Glencore and for the sector, given the long list of potential rationales," Citi analysts said in an Oct. 6 note. Speculation has grown around a Glencore bid for Rio as prices of iron ore, which made up 92 percent of Rio's first-half profit, have slumped to five-year lows, as the top producers have flooded the market with new supply. Analysts at Bernstein calculate that for every dollar fall in the price of iron ore, Rio Tinto's assets lose $1.5 billion in value. Rio has focused on slashing costs while expanding its iron ore output to what it calls "epic proportions", not shying away from the fact that it is largely dependent on steel growth in China, which is slowing. "The board believes that the continued successful execution of Rio Tinto’s strategy will allow Rio Tinto to increase free cash flow significantly in the near term and materially increase returns to shareholders," Rio Tinto Chairman Jac Nasser said in a statement. Glencore, which has criticized the top iron ore producers for driving down prices by ramping up production, had no immediate comment on its approach to Rio. Glencore's  shares rose as much as 3.9 percent in Hong Kong.  EYEING DEALS Glencore has been rumored to be eyeing several potential deals ever since it listed in 2011, but Chief Executive Ivan Glasenberg has brushed off long-simmering market talk of an interest in rival Anglo American . Unlike its bigger rivals, who have flagged they are going to stay away from chasing acquisitions for the foreseeable future following a string of soured deals, Glencore has been looking for bargains amid the commodities slump. Following its $46 billion merger with Xstrata last year, it bought Chad-focused oil company Caracal Energy  this year for about $1.3 billion and has been looking to buy BHP's troubled Nickel West business.  (Reporting by Sonali Paul; Editing by Stephen Coates and Ed Davies) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA screen displays JP Morgan Chase & Co. at the post that the stock is traded at on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange(Reuters) - Hackers who breached JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co's computer network earlier this year also tried to infiltrate other financial institutions, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people familiar with the investigation. Federal officials had asked financial institutions last month to check whether they had seen indications of cyberattack, the Journal said, citing the unnamed sources. (http://on.wsj.com/1rSWWTX) An undisclosed number of financial institutions responded that they had seen traffic from the suspect computer addresses linked to the hackers, but that they did not believe their systems had been breached, the newspaper said, quoting the sources. Even among the many agencies investigating and responding, disagreements and unanswered questions remain about the extent of the hackers access at the U.S. financial institutions, the newspaper said, quoting federal officials. It is unclear which financial institutions were targeted by the hackers.  (Reporting By Sudarshan Varadhan; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA sign spells out the store name on a Tesco store in Bow, east London(Reuters) - British grocer Tesco Plc's  Chairman Richard Broadbent might consider resigning after the investigation into company's accounting practices is complete, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing sources familiar with the matter. Broadbent would be ready to step down, if the time was right, the newspaper said citing sources. Broadbent has hinted to the board members that the right time for his departure might come after the accounting firm Deloitte LLP completes its investigation of profit overstatement, the WSJ reported, citing a source. Last month Tesco, the world's No. 3 retailer, suspended its UK boss along with three other senior executives due to accounting mistakes in supplier contracts. Representatives at Tesco were not immediately available for comment.  (Reporting by Shivam Srivastava in Bangalore; Editing by Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA zoomed image of a computer screen showing the Amazon logo is seen in Vienna(Reuters) - The European Commission is set to begin a formal probe into allegations that Luxembourg allowed Amazon.com Inc to benefit illegally from state subsidies for its European operations for almost 10 years, the Financial Times reported on Monday. The investigation relates to favorable terms given to Amazon under a 2003 tax ruling, which cap its tax exposure to the Grand Duchy and limit the overall cost to less than 1 percent of the company's European income, the FT reported, citing people familiar with the case. The commission contends that Luxembourg permitted Amazon to misallocate gains within its corporate structure, in a way that fell short of standards expected of an arms-length transaction between corporate subsidiaries, the FT said. This allowed the company to reduce artificially its tax bill on a selective basis, the FT reported citing sources familiar with the initial investigation. If the charges are proven, the commission can ask Luxembourg to recoup the substantial state subsidy from the firm, the newspaper reported. Amazon minimizes its tax bill by having the U.S. unit that owns its technology licenses lease the rights to re-license the technology to a tax-exempt partnership based in Luxembourg. The amount the company reports through a tax-exempt vehicle in Europe has dropped sharply in the past two years, even as European sales jumped, after the U.S. tax authority tightened rules it felt were being abused to shift profits. Representatives at the European Commission were not immediately available for comment. Amazon did not respond to requests for comment. Luxembourg's Ministry of Finance could not be immediately reached for comment.   (Reporting by Shivam Srivastava in Bangalore; Editing by Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMen walk past an electronic board showing Japan's Nikkei average, outside a brokerage in TokyoBy Lisa Twaronite TOKYO (Reuters) - Asian shares tentatively rose in early trade on Tuesday, while the dollar steadied after investors locked in some gains overnight on its recent rally. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan  was up 0.2 percent in early trade, shrugging off a choppy, losing session on Wall Street overnight. Japan's Nikkei stock average  dropped 0.3 percent ahead of the outcome of the Bank of Japan's policy meeting later in the session. The BOJ is widely expected to maintain its massive monetary stimulus program and offer a bleaker view on factory output, after signs Japan's economy was hit harder than expected by a national sales tax increase in April. "We expect the BOJ to keep monetary policy on hold, but it could lower its economic assessment to reflect continuing data weakness" since the tax hike, strategists at Barclays said in a note to clients. Against the yen, the dollar edged up about 0.1 percent to 108.91 yen , pulling away from an overnight low of 108.65 but still well shy of a six-year peak of 110.09 yen marked last week. The euro inched down 0.1 percent on the day to $1.2645  but held well above a more than two-year low of $1.2501 set on Friday, after the U.S. non-farm payrolls report fueled speculation that the Federal Reserve will hike interest rates by mid-2015. Investors had a muted reaction to Monday's disappointing report on German industrial orders, which fell 5.7 percent in August to mark their biggest monthly drop since 2009. The dollar index, which tracks the greenback against six major currencies, slipped 0.2 percent to 85.795  after marking its biggest one-day fall since July 2013. The index rose to a four-year high of 86.746 on Friday, and logged a record 12 straight weeks of gains in which it rose about 7.7 percent. The Australian dollar added about 0.1 percent to $0.8766 , pulling away from Friday's low of $0.8642 which was its lowest level since July 2010. Investors will be watching to see if the Reserve Bank of Australia tries to talk its currency even lower at its regular policy review on Tuesday, at which it is widely expected to hold its cash rate steady at 2.5 percent. The RBA will announce its decision at 11:30 p.m. EDT. The dollar's overnight weakness helped put a floor under recently slumping crude prices. Brent  was steady on the day at $92.78 a barrel. Gold  also steadied at $1,205.90 an ounce. In a volatile session on Monday, it marked its biggest one-day gain in two months, after first bumping to a 15-month low.  (Editing by Eric Meijer) FREE AppDownload
APSanctioned by the US on March 20 for being a member of President Vladimir Putin’s “inner circle”, and by the European Union (EU) on July 30, Arkady Rotenberg has arranged for a member of the State Duma to compose a bill to allow Rotenberg to receive state budget funding as compensation in the event that the sanctions cut off his cashflow and freeze his assets outside Russia. On June 23, the Russian government refused to approve the draft law, but Rotenberg lobbied the Kremlin to lift the government veto. On September 18 the bill was then pushed through the Duma’s Committee on Constitution and State Affairs. This week it is headed for its first and second-reading votes by the full Duma. On September 25, Sergei Prikhodko, once the President’s assistant for foreign policy and now chief of staff at the prime ministry, issued a full government imprimatur. He declared that the Russian Constitution not only protects the property of Russian citizens in Russia, it also protects their property abroad. “Taking into account the frequent cases of the introduction of certain foreign state restrictions on the citizens and legal entities of the Russian Federation in respect of the rights of the owner of property located outside the Russian Federation and owned by citizens and legal entities of the Russian Federation, the protection of property interests that have arisen as a result of such action deserves attention. These actions will ensure the practical implementation of the provisions of Article 61of the Russian Constitution, which guarantees citizens of the Russian Federation protection and patronage outside the country.” Until Prokhodko issued his declaration, the Duma bill appeared to be worded so as to protect Russians from enforcement in Russia of contested, arbitrary, or improper judgements issued by foreign courts. That was camouflage. Russian reporting of the bill, after the Kremlin revived it, has tagged the legislation the “Rotenberg villas bill”. Acting on the EU’s July 30 directive, the Italian government has issued freeze orders against properties Rotenberg owns in Italy. They include villas at the Sardinian seaside, an apartment in Cagliari, a personal residence in Rome, and a hotel between the Spanish Steps and Via Veneto, called Berg Luxury. Rotenberg has not been dispossessed of the assets, currently valued at about €30 million. In practice Rotenberg can continue to tan himself in the Sardinian sun, and drink negroni cocktails on his Roman balcony. The Italian action also does not lock the hotel’s doors. For the time being, though, none of the revenue the hotel’s guests pay for their accommodation -$2,200 for a superior double, $2,800 for a deluxe double – can slip through the hotel’s bank accounts into Rotenberg’s hands. Rotenberg has rubbed more than shoulders with Putin; they used to play games together. In Brussels on July 30, the EU Council made this point as one of the reasons why Rotenberg had been proscribed. “Mr Rotenberg is a long-time acquaintance of President Putin and his former judo sparring partner. He has developed his fortune during President Putin’s tenure. He has been favoured by Russian decision-makers in the award of important contracts by the Russian State or by State-owned enterprises. His companies were notably awarded several highly lucrative contracts for the preparations of the Sochi Olympic Games. He is a major shareholder of Giprotransmost, a company which has received a public procurement contract by a Russian State-owned Company to conduct the feasibility study of the construction of a bridge from Russia to the illegally annexed Autonomous Republic of Crimea, therefore consolidating its integration into the Russian Federation which in turn further undermines the territorial integrity of Ukraine“. The EU’s statement of reasons omitted to mention Rotenberg’s bigger businesses — Mostotrest, a publicly listed bridge builder with a current market capitalization of $675 million; Stroygazmontazh, a gas pipeline builder; North European Pipe Project (SETP is the Russian acronym), a broker for pipes; and two banks, the Northern Sea Route (SMP) Bank of St. Petersburg and InvestCapitalBank. For allegations that SETP was a $4 billion price-fixing racket, read this. For the archive on Arkady, 62, and his younger brother Boris Rotenberg, 57, click. SMP identifies the brothers as controlling 76% of SMP, worth about $300 million of the bank’s reported equity as of December 31, 2013. The Italian government interest in Russian-owned real estate has been limited to Arkady Rotenberg’s. It has overlooked the Italian assets of the man Rotenberg bought Mostotrest from, Mikhail Abyzov, who currently serves as the Minister of Open Government in Moscow. Abyzov, a crony of Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev’s, has also been exempted from US sanctions against his US assets. For that story, click. A fortnight ago, according to newspaper reports in Italy, the local tax police took judicial control of Arkady Rotenberg’s Italian assets. Rotenberg reacted, telling Interfax, the Russian press wire. “I have been subject to sanctions for several months. Nothing surprises me any more. But what puzzles me is that the current situation involves real estate to which the sanctions do not apply. Sanctions only apply to accounts and assets which I do not have in Italy.” Rotenberg’s spokesman, Andrei Baturin, said the Italian action was a joke. “Maybe this is the mentality of the Italians. All of a sudden they woke up.” On September 23, Baturin claimed Rotenberg kept no money in Italian banks. Last week he and Rotenberg were asked whether, since they publicly contest the Italian action, they have gone to the Italian courts to uphold their property rights. A string of European court decisions, including those of the UK Supreme Court and the European Court of Justice, have rejected the legality of sanctions when they lack reason and proportionality in relation to their purported objective, and when those targeted have been denied their rights, including due process. For the court cases,read here. Rotenberg has not gone into the Italian courts. He and Baturin refuse to say why. The US sanction, which was the template for the EU move four months later, attacks Rotenberg for making his money out of being Putin’s crony. “The following individuals are being designated because each is controlled by, has acted for or on behalf of, or has provided material or other support to, a senior Russian government official…Arkady Rotenberg and Boris Rotenberg have provided support to Putin’s pet projects by receiving and executing high price contracts for the Sochi Olympic Games and state-controlled Gazprom. They have made billions of dollars in contracts for Gazprom and the Sochi Winter Olympics awarded to them by Putin. Both brothers have amassed enormous amounts of wealth during the years of Putin’s rule in Russia. The Rotenberg brothers received approximately $7 billion in contracts for the Sochi Olympic Games and their personal wealth has increased by $2.5 billion in the last two years alone.” Three years before, Rotenberg said: “Knowing high government officials has never hurt anyone in our country but it’s by far not helped everyone. For me it’s unacceptable to use such connections.” The drafting of the bill to compensate Rotenberg out of the state budget began in April – a month after Rotenberg was sanctioned by the US, but three months before the EU acted against him. The draft bill was entitled Federal Law <U+2116> 607554-6 On Amendments to the Federal Law ‘On compensation for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable time, or the right to enforcement judgment within a reasonable time’. It was dated April 24, and came from the office of deputy Vladimir Ponevezhsky. The preamble of the bill referred to the violation by foreign courts of Russians’ right to trial when a foreign court order or arbitration tribunal judgement was applied inside Russia. In these circumstances, the bill claimed “these court decisions of foreign courts in the Russian Federation are clearly unjust.” For remedy, the bill offered recourse to the Russian arbitrazh courts. According to Article 5.4, a Russian who opposed the enforcement of a foreign court or arbitral tribunal order could apply to the Russian arbitrazh court, not to retry the case nor to nullify the judgement, but to arrange for the state budget to pay the penalty. “The amount of compensation is usually equal to the amount of losses that the applicant has suffered or may suffer as a result of enforcement of a judicial act (the cost of lost property, the amount paid by the sanctions, loss of earnings, other losses). The judgment for compensation shall take effect immediately. Compensation [shall be] awarded by the federal budget.” For the full text of the bill, read here. Ponevezhsky, the drafter of the bill, has an unusual background for a politician. Before his election on the United Russia ticket in 2011, he had spent 35 years as a state prosecutor, rising from trainee to a provincial prosecutor, and collecting a law degree by correspondence on the way. When Ponevezhsky tabled the bill late last month at his Duma committee, it was opposed by all three opposition factions — the Communist Party, Fair Russia, and the Liberal Democratic Party. In the debate, they noted the intended beneficiary of the measure was Rotenberg, and that recourse to cash compensation from the budget wasn’t available to all citizens. The Communist deputy, Vadim Soloviev, suggested that a private insurance fund should cover the targets of the bill, not the state budget. Moscow lawyers condemned the measure for its vagueness and its violation of Russian treaty obligations for reciprocal enforcement of court awards. Sergey Sokolov of Marks &amp; Sokolov commented: “I can’t imagine how this bill can work in reality. It is not possible to determine how a foreign judgement was improper.” In Duma committee Ponevezhsky has claimed his measure would draw twice on budget funds, first to allow Russians hit by sanctions to apply first to the arbitrazh court to award compensation, and then to pay lawyers for the state to go into court abroad to contest the sanctions. The committee chairman, Vladimir Pligin, claimed in committee session that the US and EU sanctions had been promulgated against Russian individuals and companies without their having the opportunity to defend themselves and for reasons “in no way related to their behaviour. Therefore, the [Russian] state is obliged to protect them.” The committee adopted Ponevezhsky’s draft on a majority vote, with the understanding that “improvements”, as Pligin called them, would be made by the second reading vote. The committee vote was then followed by Prikhodko’s statement of government approval for the measure. Prikhodko glossed over the language in the bill suggesting that resort to the Russian courts and state budget should come after foreign court rulings and orders. Instead, he said, referring explicitly to economic sanctions: “we note that the introduction of restrictions on the property can be carried out not only by the decision of a foreign court, but also to address other competent authorities and officials.” The government, Prikhodko announced, “supports the bill, subject to finalization for the second reading”. The Minister of Economic Development, Alexei Ulyukaev, then attacked the measure publicly, calling it “a strange bill” in reference to Rotenberg’s lobbying and the Kremlin’s support. “We cannot and should not take such decisions. I am sure that the use of this complex mechanism is unnecessary”. Pligin was asked to explain why he thought Rotenberg and other Russians hit by sanctions should not contest the measures in the European courts before they applied for Russian budget money. He declined to reply, and referred to Ponevezhsky for response instead. Ponevezhsky picked up his telephone, and confirmed his identity. He then asked what the subject of the questions was. When told it was sanctions compensation, he said: “It’s complicated. I am busy, call back later.” Ponevezhsky subsequently refused to respond. This article originally appeared at Dances With Bears. John Helmer is the longest continuously serving foreign correspondent in Russia, and the only western journalist to direct his own bureau independent of single national or commercial ties. Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersVisitors walk past the Samsung stand at the Mobile World Congress in BarcelonaSEOUL (Reuters) - Samsung Electronics Co Ltd  on Tuesday said operating profit likely fell 59.7 percent in the July-September period to 4.1 trillion won ($3.8 billion) as earnings from its market-leading smartphone division likely continued to shrink. The guidance, released ahead of final third-quarter figures due around end-October, was lower than a 5.6 trillion won mean estimate of 43 analysts polled by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. It would mark the company's fourth consecutive quarter of declining operating profit. Samsung also said third-quarter sales likely fell 20.5 percent to 47 trillion won, compared with a mean forecast for 50.9 trillion won by the Thomson Reuter I/B/E/S survey.   (Reporting by Se Young Lee; Editing by Stephen Coates) FREE AppDownload
APSamsung Mobile CEO J.K. Shin.Samsung warned Monday night that its third-quarter earnings would be weaker than expected.  In its Q3 guidance, the company blamed lower average selling prices (ASP) of its smartphones. Operating profit could be 4.1 trillion won, or just under $4 billion US. That's down nearly 60% from a year ago. Samsung's operating profit was $7.19 trillion won last quarter. This is a similar story to the one we heard last quarter. Samsung's profit is declining as its mobile business faces competition from companies that sell smartphones and tablets at much cheaper prices. That eats into Samsung's profits. Samsung's high-end phones run Android, and they don't offer features much different from those of the cheaper Android devices. In fact, some manufacturers like the Chinese startup Xiaomi are starting to make high-end Android devices that cost about half as much as Samsung's best phones. There's also new competition from the high end. Apple just released two new iPhones, the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus, which have larger screens that rival the big-screen Samsung devices. Samsung is about to release its latest phablet, the 5.7-inch Galaxy Note 4, in the US. But that device will have to compete against Apple's new 5.5-inch iPhone 6 Plus, which received stellar reviews. China will be an especially tough place for Samsung to compete. Interest for the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus is through the roof. And China is where many of those cheaper Android phones are sold. Samsung seems to be cutting the prices of its devices to compensate. FREE AppDownload
MarvelIt's comingMillions of fans and anyone invested in Hollywood are excited for all of the big movies coming out next year. Last month on an earnings call, IMAX Entertainment CEO Greg Foster explained just how big it could be for his company: The movies are spaced incredibly well. So instead of movies being on top of each other, they’re spaced with two or three weeks in between and we haven’t seen that in a long time. For whatever reason, we seem to be also particularly well-spaced. So when you look at starting, let’s say, in early April with "Fast and Furious 7," and then going to "Avengers," and then going to "Tomorrowland," and then going to "Jurassic World," and then going to "Terminator," and then going to — there are two movies that are on each other right now. That will be interesting which is [screened]: Pan, the Peter Pan movie, and Ant-Man, the Marvel title. And then you go to "Point Break," you go to “Man from U.N.C.L.E.” and there are many that I am missing in between that just we’re not doing. But for us, that spacing is incredible and then you get to "James Bond 24," which is in the very beginning of November. There is another ["Hunger Games"] in November, end of November. And then you have "Star Wars" on December 18. And, again, there are other titles that are in there that are also going to be quite successful. But when you have an Avengers, a Star Wars, a Bond, another Marvel Title and "Ant-Man," "Pan," "Terminator," "Fast &amp; Furious 7" in one year, that’s unbelievable. And it starts – summer starts this year the first week in April, which is also exceptional. So that spacing is great. The titles are great. The word coming out on some of them is already great. IMAX is a controversial investment, with perpetually high short interest and volatile stock movements ending in a flat finish for the past 12 months. Obviously, it does well when blockbuster movies do well — especially when directors like Christopher Nolan and J.J. Abrams tout the IMAX versions of their films. The company is pushing hard to expand globally and recently announced a simultaneous release deal with Netflix that made traditional exhibitors furious. FREE AppDownload
© AFP Federico ParraWorkers check bottles at the factory of Santa Teresa rum, in La Victoria, VenezuelaCaracas (AFP) - For decades, whiskies have been the status beverage of choice in Venezuela: an expensive, imported taste acquired during the country's oil boom. But with the economy now in a bust, Venezuelans are increasingly returning to long-snubbed local rum to drown their sorrows. Runaway inflation, a foreign exchange crisis and chronic shortages of basic goods have shut the door on the golden days when Venezuelans announced their country's arrival as a major oil power by buying up Scotch and Irish whiskey. Sales of whiskies fell 29 percent last year in Venezuela, while rum sales rose 22.6 percent, according to International Wine and Spirit Research (IWSR), a London-based consultancy. Domestic rum production meanwhile jumped from 15.8 million liters in 2012 to 21.8 million liters last year. "The fall in whiskey sales is due to the foreign currency shortage. There are no dollars to import it so they have to get them on the black market -- nearly 15 times more expensive -- and the price has greatly increased," said food and drink critic Miro Popic. "That, combined with the fact that rum distillation has improved a lot in recent years, has made a lot of people choose rum, the cheaper option," he told AFP. On the shelves of Venezuela's liquor stores, bottles of imported whiskies like Chivas Regal, Johnnie Walker, Old Parr and Buchanan's compete with domestic rums with names like Pampero, Santa Teresa, Cacique and Ocumare. But in the current economic climate -- with annual inflation of more than 60 percent, President Nicolas Maduro's socialist government battling crippling shortages of basic goods and dollars in short supply because of strict foreign exchange controls -- a bottle of Scotch costs two or three times as much as a good rum. "A lot of people have also switched to vodka or beer, but rum has made the strongest gains," said Fernando Barreto, the manager of a liquor store on the east side of the capital Caracas.  Venezuela's love affair with whiskies is linked to its birth as a petro-state. Consumption leapt with the arrival of European and American oil companies in the early to mid-1900s. As oil rose to become the century's dominant commodity, Venezuela, home to the world's largest reserves, exported crude and imported fine Scotch and Irish whiskey, a new symbol of status and wealth. Today Venezuelans are known for drinking whiskey with dinner and for the distinctive way they stir ice cubes around their glasses with an index finger. Rum for its part has been distilled in Venezuela since it was a Spanish colony, but it was long considered an inferior beverage. Its prominence in the national liquor cabinet has had an inverse relationship with crude prices, rising when they are low and falling when the oil money is flowing. This time, however, domestic rum distilleries are trying to follow the example of Colombian coffee producers and Mexican tequila makers by refining their brand. In 2003, the country's largest distilleries, some of them more than 100 years old, launched a "Rums of Venezuela" label that sets a high bar for quality: To sport the sticker on its bottle, a rum must age for at least two years in oak barrels. The distilleries have now launched "premium" and "ultra-premium" brands, some of which have won international awards and drawn rave reviews from critics and connoisseurs. "Having this economic cycle in our favor is an opportunity that we failed to take advantage of in the past," said Alberto Vollmer, president of the Santa Teresa distillery. "Before it was just a price war to see who could get the most local market share. Now it's about building value to export more." FREE AppDownload
APPresident Barack Obama meets with financial regulators for a discussion on the economy and to receive an update on implementation of Wall Street Reform.President Barack Obama met with top financial regulators at the White House on Monday, urging them to help "identify and mitigate risks" in the financial sector and let the White House know if there are any current gaps in oversight of financial institutions. "Participants discussed the importance of continued coordination through the Financial Stability Oversight Council to identify and mitigate risks to the financial system and address areas of overlap or gaps in oversight. The President asked regulators to evaluate where their agencies’ actions have been most effective and where standards could be tailored for the size and complexity of different institutions," the White House said in a readout of the meeting. The meeting came just after the sixth anniversary of the height of the financial crisis in 2008, and participants discussed the broader economy as well as the continued implementation of various Wall Street reforms pursued by the Obama administration. The White House said Obama commended the participants in finalizing and implementing the Volcker Rule, which bars banks from making investment bets with their own money. The White House did not identify any specific additional possible reform measures, months after Obama declared in an interview that an "unfinished piece of business" of his administration was further crackdown on banks that accept big risks. From the White House, here's the list of participants in the meeting: Participants in today’s meeting included: White House and Administration Participants: FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man walks past Deutsche Bank offices in London(Reuters) - U.S. and British regulators are in a plan to settle the Deutsche Bank AG  Libor case in the next few months as they hope to extract major penalties from the bank for alleged manipulation of the benchmark interest rate, The Wall Street Journal reported, citing sources. However, the size and timing of the settlement is still unclear and is unlikely to conclude until early 2015, the newspaper said, citing a person briefed on the talks. Regulators are hoping to convince the bank to pay well into the hundreds of millions of dollars, the newspaper said, citing a source. Deutsche Bank said it is cooperating in the various regulatory investigations and conducting its own ongoing review into the matters, the newspaper said. The bank is being investigated by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Justice Department and the UK Financial Conduct Authority, The Wall Street Journal reported. Deutsche Bank, which paid more than 5 billion euros ($6.3 billion) over the past two years for various settlements, expects to pay 3 billion more this year. The bank has been is grappling with the Libor case for over a year now. Banks like BNP Paribas SA  and Credit Suisse Group AG  paid heavy fines earlier this year, for violating the U.S. sanctions. Deutsche Bank could not be immediately reached for comment outside regular working hours.  (Reporting by Rishika Sadam in Bangalore; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Starting Salaries In Accounting And Finance Are Going To Rise New Year (Financial Planning) The average starting salaries for accounting and finance professionals in the US are expected to rise 3.5% next year, according to the staffing company Robert Half. Salaries are expected to increase because staff accountants, senior financial analysts, and business systems analysts are in "strong demand." Salaries will see higher than average increases in order to attract professionals to these jobs. “Hiring demand is placing pressure on the supply of skilled workers in many specialties, particularly in the technology and financial fields,” said Paul McDonald, Robert Half senior executive director. “It’s crucial for businesses to benchmark salaries to remain competitive, especially in a market where skilled candidates know they are in demand.” Index Mutual Funds Are A Better Choice Than ETFs When Investors Make Small, Regular Investments (Charles Schwab) Investors should consider index mutual funds for several reasons. "If you're making regular investments, such as monthly or quarterly IRA deposits or a dollar-cost averaging strategy, the commissions from trading ETFs generally make them much more expensive than a no-load, no-transaction-fee mutual fund. However, some ETFs are available commission-free at some brokerages and could be suitable for small, regular investments," according to Michael Iachini. Additionally, mutual funds have lower annual operating expenses. If mutual funds are the expense leader, investors are better off with mutual funds than ETFs — especially after considering commission costs on the ETF. And finally, mutual funds are a better choice if ETFs are traded infrequently. "If the ETF you're considering trades infrequently, this could lead to large bid/ask spreads discrepancies between the price you pay for the ETF and the net asset value (NAV) per share of the fund's underlying securities," writes Iachini. On the flip side, mutual funds always trade at NAV "without any bid/ask spreads." Investors Should Blend Passive ETFs And Active Strategies (BlackRock Blog) The market is changing, and therefore it may be time for investors to refresh their portfolios. Investors should assess their current fixed income allocations to determine the risk. There are two main risks with fixed income investing. First, there's interest rate risk, which is "the risk a bond will lose value as interest rates rise." And second, there's credit risk, which is "the risk that a bond issuer will default and be unable to make payments to bond holders." "The [current] environment for income seekers is not as plain vanilla and once dimensional as perhaps it once was," writes BlackRock's Rob Kron. "In today's low-yield world, US Treasuries aren't likely to provide the level the income you seek all on their own." As a result, investors should consider unconstrained income strategies, international bonds, municipal bonds, or ETFs.  And the best option would be to blend the passive ETFs and active strategies "that allow you greater flexibility and enhanced affordability in managing your market exposures," adds Kron. Plus, variety helps to curb risk. Markets Aren't Great At Forecasting Yields (Vanguard) US bond yields have been below historical long-term averages, and investors keep waiting for them to jump higher. But just because they've been low for some time now, doesn't mean that they will. In actuality, market predictions about yields "often miss the mark," according to Vanguard. "At the end of 2010, the market believed yields were at such low levels that a significant rise was in the offing. The blue line in the chart below shows where the market expected US Treasury yields to be three years down the road (as indicated by the so-called forward yield curve). For some maturities, those expectations implied that yields would more than double," the Vanguard note says. And the green line shows that Treasury yields at the end of 2013 were well below market expectations. According to the data, treasury yields at the end of 2013 are even lower than three years earlier. Vanguard Wealthy People Are Increasingly Donating To Initiatives That Provide Long-Term Solutions (Wealth Management.com) Ultra wealthy individuals (defined as those with net assets of over $30 million) are "increasingly focusing on philanthropic initiatives that provide long-term solutions by enabling the less fortunate to seize opportunities through entrepreneurialism, and using their own business acumen to measure the effectiveness of their philanthropic endeavors and to maximize their returns," writes Mykolas Rambus, the CEO of Wealth-X. On average, ultra wealthy individuals give away 10% of their lifetime net worth — which totals to around $240 million. Over 50% of ultra wealthy individuals donate at least $1 million. "Charitable giving by the rich has almost bounced back to pre-crisis levels, and some $86 billion in bequests are expected over the next 10 years, according to a new report released Friday by Wealth-X and Arton Capital." FREE AppDownload
The Waldorf AstoriaThe Waldorf-Astoria.The iconic Waldorf-Astoria hotel is being sold to the Chinese insurer Anbang Insurance Group Co. Ltd for about $1.95 billion.  The 121-year-old hotel is a landmark in New York City: It has hosted dignitaries, politicians, and world-famous celebrities like Elizabeth Taylor and Princess Grace. It has also served as the home away from home for every US president since Herbert Hoover and has hosted foreign royalty like the Duke and Duchess of Windsor.  And now it's entering a new chapter, though Hilton will continue to manage the property. Rooms in the Waldorf begin at $399, while rooms in the Towers begin at $699 for suites and $1,299 for presidential-style suites.
Martin WolfFusion's Felix Salmon and the FT's Martin Wolf are having it out on the internet this week. Here’s the short: Salmon, in the New York Times Book Review, wrote that he thinks Wolf’s new book, The Shifts and the Shocks, is too dense for a general audience. Wolf wrote a response letter accusing Salmon of being unqualified to review the book (because he isn’t an economist).  There’s been a continued back and forth in the few days since. Salmon’s point, as he made in his original review and in a follow up letter to the editor of the Times, is that Wolf’s book is hard to read. “Some books are a pleasure to read; others are convoluted, technical and abstruse. A reviewer should indicate which books are which,” he writes. Wolf, on the other hand, says that the arguments in his book require precision — a precision that you can’t get using the linguistic shortcuts that Salmon suggests in his original review. Salmon writes that he should have used the term wages instead of “real unit labor costs.” Wolf explains: The larger question here seems to be whether Wolf is writing for economists, in which case precision is of the utmost importance, or for a general audience, in which case clarity is important.  “My point was basically not that he was wrong. I know he is absolutely right,” Salmon told Business Insider. However, he said, Wolf’s prose is a slog, and “It’s worth saying that for anyone who might be tempted to buy this book.” That said, Paul Krugman is also out with a review of the book, with quite a different verdict: “Since the new sort-of consensus [on the economy] is clearly much more realistic than the pre-crisis complacency, Wolf, the chief economics commentator of the Financial Times, has performed a very useful service by putting it all together in one readable book.” FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric ThayerCreations from executive pastry chef Gonzalo Jimenez are seen at his chocolate workspace at the Grand Hyatt in New York.There's a big divergence going on in the global economy right now. Growth in the US is picking up as Europe, Japan, and the emerging markets slow. In its latest monthly Global Economic Outlook and Strategy report, Citi's Willem Buiter and his team downgrade the firm's expectation for global growth after "notable downgrades" to several emerging markets including Brazil, China, and Russia. "Our global growth forecasts continue to drift down, and we are cutting 0.1 percent off our 2015 forecast this month, and now look for global GDP growth of 2.8% this year and 3.3% for 2015 (at current exchange rates)," Buiter wrote. "This is the second consecutive monthly downgrade to our 2015 growth forecast, while in total we have cut our 2014 forecast by 0.5 percent (from 3.3% to 2.8%) since January." Buiter's 52-page note offers commentary on every major economy covered by Citi's army of economists. We highlight a few of the viewpoints for 36 major economies in the Americas, Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Africa. We also include GDP growth forecasts through 2018. FREE AppDownload
Mary Robnett/Business InsiderCornell's campus overlooking Lake Cayuga, in Ithaca, New York.When picking a college, location can sometimes be just as important as academics. The American Institute of Economic Research has released its latest College Destination Index, which compared college towns across the country based on their academic environment, quality of life, and professional opportunity. The index separated the destinations by population size. Here we have rounded up the best of the small college towns, all with populations under 250,000. We have included select statistics about each town; click here to see the full report. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of a woman walking past the Time Warner Center near Columbus Circle in Manhattan, New York(Reuters) - Turner Broadcasting, which operates cable news network CNN, TNT and the Cartoon Network, said on Monday it will slash its workforce by 10 percent, or 1,475 positions. The reduction includes previously announced buyouts targeting 500 to 600 workers. Turner has about 14,000 full-time employees worldwide. The job cuts "will come at all levels from across the company's news, entertainment, kids, young adult and sports networks and businesses, as well as corporate functions in 18 Turner locations around the world," Turner said in a statement. The move is part of a larger restructuring under parent Time Warner Inc &lt;twx.n&gt;, known as Turner 2020, that will focus resources on growth areas. Turner and Walt Disney's &lt;dis.n&gt; ESPN also announced Monday that they will more than double their annual payments to the National Basketball Association under a nine-year deal for broadcasting rights.     (Reporting by Jennifer Saba in New York; Editing by Richard Chang) FREE AppDownload
AP/Danny JohnstonMany modern consumers are attracted to the high-end options Whole Foods has to offer.Traditional supermarkets are losing market share to high-end grocers and dollar stores.  Customers today are seeking either specialty assortments or great value, according to a recent report by the real estate investment firm JLL.  While high-end grocers like Whole Foods and cheap retailers like Family Dollar will expand in the coming years, traditional grocery stores like Kroger, Giant Eagle, and Publix could close stores.  JLL ResearchTraditional supermarkets are the only category that is retracting. Supermarkets are hit hard by a few trends, according to the report.  Since the 2008 recession, consumers have been reluctant to pay full price for items. This led to dollar stores expanding their food assortments to include brand names.  Meanwhile, those who do want to pay more want the organic, artisanal assortments grocers like Whole Foods have to offer.  "Millennials and Boomers alike are focusing more on healthy eating choices and creatively prepared meals," the analysts write.  This puts grocery stores, which fall somewhere between organic retailers and discounters, in a difficult position.  JLL Alternative retailers are taking market share from grocery stores. Consumers are also buying groceries from several different places, including online.  This gives smaller and specialty retailers an advantage over supermarkets.  Consumers are also becoming less interested in retailers like Wal-Mart and Target, according to a recent note by Goldman Sachs.  Instead, "consumers appear more focused on some combination of value and convenience," the analysts write.  The advent of online retailers like Amazon has also contributed to the problems at Wal-Mart and Target, according to the note. Consumers are less likely to make a trip to the stores when they could get free delivery online.  Dollar stores, drug stores, and warehouse clubs "are taking share from broad-assortment retailers," the analysts write.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Benoit TessierThe S&amp;P 500 has gained 7% so far this year.  Despite what has been a 200% rally in the market since early 2009, Goldman Sachs' David Kostin believes the S&amp;P still has the ability to go from 1,960 today to 2,050 by the end of the year. From there, Kostin sees it going to 2,200 by the end of 2016. While further gains in the market are likely to be modest, some stocks are certainly going to outperform others. Kostin's new quarterly chartbook includes a list of 40 stocks offering the most upside relative to Goldman Sachs analysts' price targets. There are a significant number of oil and gas companies including Halliburton, Cabot and Alcoa inc. Also on this quarter's list of the stocks with the biggest upside are tech high-flyers like Amazon and salesforce.com.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos Barria A woman walks down a flight of stairs as barricades used by protesters to block an area around the government headquarters are seen, in Hong Kong October 6, 2014. Pro-democracy protests in Chinese-controlled Hong Kong subsided on Monday as students and civil servants returned to school and work after more than a week of demonstrations.Stocks lost ground on Monday in a session that saw little in the way of economic data as the stocks opened the day higher, fell to their lows near noon and closed with modest losses. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. The biggest story on Monday was news that computer giant Hewlett-Packard would split itself up into two separate businesses comprised of its PC and printer unit and its corporate hardware and services business. The PC-printer unit will be called HP and the remaining units will be called Hewlett-Packard Enterprise. Current HP CEO Meg Whitman will be the CEO of HP Enterprise and serve as Chairman of the HP board. Business Insider's Julie Bort broke down what the two companies will look like on a standalone basis. This breakup will also result in even more layoffs from the company, with its new layoff target getting upped to 55,000. Following the announcement, shares of HP gained 4.7%. 2. GT Advanced Technologies, which makes sapphire displays, announced it would file for bankruptcy protection on Monday. GT Advanced, which last year signed a $578 million supply agreement with Apple, said that it would remain in business. Following the announcement, shares of GT Advanced fell 92% to trade near $0.83. 3. The huge drop in shares of GT Advanced on Monday indicated that the market was caught largely by surprise following the announcement, and at least one analyst that Business Insider spoke to on Monday wrote that it appears possible Apple pulled the plug on its agreement with GT. Jeffrey Osborne, an analyst at Cowen &amp; Co., wrote that Apple had the ability to call its loan made to GT, and that GT's cash position in June and what it reported on Monday make it seem likely that this took place. As of Monday, however, this was unconfirmed from either company.  4. It was another active day for companies involved in developing Ebola treatments, as shares of Tekmira Pharmaceuticals fell sharply after the stock was downgraded and after Chimerix announced that the FDA approved the company's drug, brincidofovir, for potential use in patients with Ebola. Tekmira, which was gained more than 100% through the summer, was downgraded by analysts at Leerink, who cited the company's lofty valuation. On Monday, a Spanish nurse tested positive for Ebola in the first case transmitted in Europe.  5. On Monday, the Federal Reserve released its latest Labor Market Conditions Index, or LMCI, a composite of 19 labor market indicators that Fed Chair Janet Yellen has cited as indicating the labor market's broad improvement but still lingering weakness. The LMCI reading came in at 2.5 up from 2 the prior month, and this latest update follows Friday's jobs report, which showed that nonfarm payrolls grew by 248,000 in September while the unemployment rate fell below 6% for the first time since the summer of 2008.  6. A report from Bloomberg on Monday said that 95% of profits from companies in the S&amp;P 500 have been returned to shareholders either in the form of dividends or share buybacks in 2014.  7. Hilton sold the landmark Waldorf Astoria New York hotel to Chinese insurer Anbang Insurance Group for $1.95 billion. As part of the deal, Hilton will continue to manage the hotel for the next 100 years.  Don't Miss: GOLDMAN: Here Are The 40 Cheapest Stocks In The Market » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsPrices in Venezuela keep going up and up. The annual inflation rate soared to 63.4% in August, according to the latest figures published by the central bank.  Meanwhile, the country is plagued by food and good shortages and the local currency, the Bolivar (Bs), has plummeted under the regime of President Nicolás Maduro. To capture Venezuela's economic crisis, Reuters photographer Carlos Garcia Rawlins photographed basic items — like a towel or a can of cola — and price-tagged them as if they were sold in US dollars at the official rate of 6.3 bolivars to the dollar. "My aim was to demonstrate how Venezuela’s currency controls and runaway inflation — the annual rate is more than 63%, the highest in the Americas — are distorting the economy," Rawlins said on the Reuters photographers' blog. See the illustrations here, then head over to the blog to learn more about how Rawlins created this project. 
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaMa Chenxi, who was born in 2011, poses for a photograph in Shanghai August 22, 2014. Chenxi did not say if he would like to have siblings.In 1979, after steady population increase and declining infant mortality rates under Mao Zedong, the ruling Communist Party in China instituted a "one-child" policy on young families in the country. While the legislation allowed for some exceptions, the regulation was quite effective, greatly reducing China's birthrates. 35 years later, as older generations retire, China might not have enough citizens to meet its growing workforce demand. Experts now say the China is in dire need of a baby boom, and the country has been relaxing the policy as of late. Reuters photographer Carlos Barria was born in 1979, the same year the rules was put in place in China. Though Barria is a native of Argentina, he recently traveled to Shanghai to document the effects of China's "one-child" policy on the children who were born under it. He photographed one person born in each year the policy has been in place, and ask them about their desire for siblings. "This topic has been photographed for many, many years... I was trying to look for a different way to photograph it," Barria says in a recent Reuters video.  He found differing answers from different generations. Some of his subjects were worried about sharing things like parent's affections or money for college. Others felt lonely and thought it would be beneficial to grow up with a brother or sister. "It gave me the opportunity to see a whole generation of Chinese, from zero to 35-years-old and see their frustrations and expectations and dreams for the future," Barria says. (Captions by Carlos Barria and edited by Christian Storm)
Thomson ReutersA Goldman Sachs sign is seen over the company's trading stall on the floor at the New York Stock ExchangeLONDON (Reuters) - A lawyer seconded to the Libyan Investment Authority, which is suing Goldman Sachs over $1 billion of trades that ended up worthless, was "shocked" by the bank's "inappropriate" relationship with the fund, according to court filings. In a suit filed at London's High Court, the Libyan Investment Authority (LIA) claims the Wall Street investment bank exploited a position of trust by encouraging the sovereign wealth fund to invest more than $1 billion in a series of equity derivatives trades that expired as worthless in 2011. The fund, which became a Goldman client in 2007, alleges the trades "whilst extremely profitable for GSI (Goldman Sachs International), were inherently unsuitable for a sovereign wealth fund like the LIA", court documents show. Goldman on Monday reiterated an earlier statement saying it believes this case is entirely without merit and that it intends to contest it vigorously. In a witness statement released as the two parties met in court for the first time on Monday, Catherine McDougall, who was seconded to the LIA while working at London law firm Allen &amp; Overy, described her discussions with the fund's equity team about the disputed trades. "None of the equity team understood in any depth what the disputed trades involved," she said in the statement. "I asked them where the due diligence was and they responded "due what?""   "BLURRED" LINES McDougall, who said she left Allen &amp; Overy in 2008 amid the fallout related to the trades, said LIA employees were wholly reliant on Goldman's advice and seemed not to question it. She said in the statement to the court that the equity team considered one Goldman employee to be their very close friend, trusting him 100 percent. "They told me about their lavish trip to Morocco and that there was heavy drinking and girls involved," she said. She said she thought the level of closeness "seemed inappropriate and that the line between friendship and arm's length commercial dealings had clearly been blurred." In documents Goldman submitted to the court, the bank called the LIA's allegations "remarkable" and "utterly unconvincing" and argued the LIA was well-equipped to understand the trades. "(The LIA) had a board of directors, a board of secretaries, and an advisory committee, and its executives included highly experienced banking professionals," it said. "The claim is a paradigm of buyers' remorse." Goldman said the trades turned out badly because of the collapse of financial markets in 2008 and defended the conduct of its employees who worked with the fund. "Trusting one another is just a description of ordinary commercial life. A relationship of banker and customer does not normally give rise to any presumption of undue influence." The LIA has proposed that a trial lasting around 25 days take place at some point between January and March in 2016.     (Editing by David Evans) FREE AppDownload
The Common Core math standards are a topic of hot controversy, especially on the right. The Daily Signal, a news and commentary site started by the Heritage Foundation, recently featured this picture from Red State editor-in-chief Erick Erickson's blog, showing a page from Erickson's daughter's third-grade math textbook: Erick Erickson The above shows a way of doing subtraction that's probably different from what you learned in school. Rather than the basic "carry-the-1" approach, students are taught to see subtraction as a way of establishing the distance between two numbers. And the easiest way to do that is to establish the distance between various signposts. So the way to subtract 38 from 325 involves establishing the difference between 38 and 40 (2), 40 and 100 (60), 100 and 300 (200), and 300 and 325 (25). Adding 2 + 60 +200 + 25 gives you the answer: 287. Anyway, alternative methods like this one, or the "box multiplication" method we've looked at before, have raised a stir among some parents and conservative commenters. The Daily Signal's Kelsey Harris notes that "students must take about six steps (at minimum, depending how you count) to subtract just two numbers" using this method. Erick Erickson wrote that this method "makes no freaking sense to either my third grader or my wife." There are also complaints that we aren't teaching children how to perform arithmetic the old-fashioned way. Harris says the four methods in Erickson's daughter's textbook do not include "borrowing and carrying numbers. You know, the old-fashioned-taught-the-same-way-for-decades-granny-method-not-approved-by-bureaucrats subtraction." These alternative methods are actually intended to be supplemental learning tools, not replacements for the standard methods that have been taught to schoolchildren for decades. The Common Core standards do include learning and using those methods. From the Grade 4 standards for "Number and Operations in Base Ten": Common Core Standards Initiative That "fluently add and subtract multidigit whole numbers using the standard algorithm" is exactly the borrowing and carrying digits, operating on numbers arranged in columns, that we all know and love. The "counting up" method (which is what's depicted in the textbook above) is not intended to replace the standard way. Instead, it captures some of the underlying aspects of subtraction and place value that allow borrowing and carrying to work.  In the standard method, students start at the smallest, rightmost ones digit. If the digit on the bottom is smaller than the digit on the top, they subtract that digit and move on. If the bottom digit is larger than the top digit, they go to the 10s column to the left, and "borrow" a 10, adding 10 to the ones digit and subtracting 1 from the 10s digit. The student keeps moving to the left until they run out of digits. The standard method has the virtue of being relatively quick. However, why it works might not be immediately apparent to a second- or third-grade student who is learning subtraction for the first time. The standard method is based on place value. The 10s digit is representing some number of 10s, and it's possible to move or borrow one of those 10s over to the ones place, if we need to. The "counting up" method illustrated in Erickson's picture makes the role of place value more explicit. The student starts counting by ones from the smaller number up to the nearest multiple of 10. Then she counts by 10s to 100, then by hundreds to the first digit of the larger number, then takes the remaining two-digit part of the larger number. These are all just a different way of subtracting in different place values. Adding these intermediate steps together, the student gets her result. The point of these alternative methods is to provide a different perspective on a problem, which is often useful in learning math at any level. Counting up breaks the problem up into smaller pieces, and in the process improves the student's understanding of subtraction and place value. Although Erickson didn't provide pictures of the other three subtraction methods in his daughter's textbook, they likely also are illustrating other aspects of subtraction and place value. These alternative ways of looking at arithmetic ideally build up a student's foundational understanding of these key concepts, making it easier for them to work with the standard algorithms later.  FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt / Getty ImagesBest Buy is gaining on Amazon.Best Buy is close to offering televisions for as cheap as Amazon.  The brick-and-mortar tech giant's televisions are just 0.7% more expensive than Amazon's, according to Deutsche Bank.  And the gap could continue to shrink.  Best Buy's television prices are up 6% from a year ago — less than Amazon's gains of 9.2%.  Executives at Best Buy have made it clear that 4K Ultra High Definition televisions are the future of the business.  Deutsche BankThe price gap between retailers keeps declining. CFO Sharon McCollam recently told Goldman Sachs that the TVs would "be a decisive product for the franchise."  The TV's picture is four times more detailed than standard high definition, according to Best Buy's website.  The TVs also include internet access for easy television, movie, and music streaming.  Best Buy is working with the manufacturers Sony and Samsung to showcase all the TVs' features in stores, McCollam said.  Sony on InstagramBest Buy tells Goldman Sachs that the high-tech TVs are a "decisive product" for the industry. Because the televisions currently cost $4,000 to $10,000, they are not popular enough to affect business, McCollam said. Prices are expected to decline in the next couple of years.  Best Buy's store traffic has been declining as more people buy online.  In a report last week, Goldman Sachs said that people prefer to buy large, heavy objects online because they are difficult to ship. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commons GT Advanced Technologies, which makes sapphire glass components for smartphones, filed for bankruptcy on Monday. Sapphire glass is an ultra-strong material, which Apple uses on both the camera lens and fingerprint scanner on the new iPhone. However, Apple doesn't, contrary to some expectations, use the material for the iPhone's main display. The move caught the market flat-footed, shares of the company were down 90% after the announcement.  The drop in shares of GT on Monday has taken the company's market cap from roughly $1.5 billion Friday to about $175 million.  At least one analyst Business Insider heard from after the announcement sees one possible reason for the sudden change from GT Advanced: Apple pulled the plug. Jeffrey Osborne, an analyst with Cowen &amp; Co., wrote that Apple, which lent GT $578 million as part of a supply agreement last November, "had the ability to call the interest free loan back and it appears they have done that." Last November, GT and Apple entered a multiyear sapphire materials agreement that would include GT manufacturing sapphire materials at an Apple facility in Arizona. That agreement said that GT would reimburse Apple over five years, starting in 2015.  In his note, Osborne wrote that the agreement with Apple, "was made in order to allow GT to purchase components for the manufacture of ASF systems at the Arizona facility leased from an Apple affiliate company." "Repayment was initially scheduled to begin January 2015 and follow a five-year schedule," Osborne wrote. "In its repayment terms, it is most likely that a substantial amount of additional current portion of prepayment was triggered as a result of covenant terms held between GTAT and Apple in relation to operating and financial metrics that the company likely failed to meet." Osborne also noted that GT's cash and equivalents fell to $85 million on Monday from $333 million back in June, and while Osborne hasn't yet been able to confirm this, it seems this drawdown most likely resulted from early repayment triggers in the Apple loan.  Monday's news comes about a month after Apple announced its latest iPhone models, which some investors were betting would feature a full sapphire display.  They didn't, and immediately following that announcement shares of GT Advanced sold off. And since that news, GT shares have fallen about 40%. Here's the chart showing the last three months of trading in shares of GT. Google Finance And while 40% is a steep drop, this decline in a stock is rarely enough, on its own, to precipitate a bankruptcy filing. In its announcement on Monday, GT said the bankruptcy filing "does not mean we are going out of business; rather, it provides us with the opportunity to continue to execute our business plan on a stronger footing, maintain operations of our diversified business, and improve our balance sheet." But whatever the case, something changed at GT and changed quickly. This could be at least one reason why. Here's what the stock chart looked like on Monday. Google Finance    FREE AppDownload
Teardown.com took apart the Samsung Galaxy Note 4. Here's what they found inside. Produced by Matthew Stuart Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Thomson ReutersA banner for American International Group Inc hangs on the facade of the New York Stock ExchangeWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Former Treasury Secretary Henry "Hank" Paulson told a packed courtroom on Monday that AIG shareholders were singled out for punishment as part of the U.S. government's attempt to contain the contagion of the 2008 financial crisis. The testimony from Paulson appeared to bolster some claims contained in a lawsuit brought by former AIG Chief Executive Hank Greenberg, who contends the terms of a government loan to AIG cheated its shareholders. "AIG, either fairly or unfairly, ... became a symbol for all that is bad on Wall Street," Paulson said as he testified about the U.S. government's bailout of the insurance giant, which began with a $85 billion loan from the New York Federal Reserve in September 2008. Paulson, testifying in federal court in Washington, also said he supported the loan and its terms as appropriate for the circumstances. Paulson was a chief architect of the U.S. government's response to the unprecedented global credit crisis. He has since written a book about the experience, but Monday's courtroom setting put Paulson on the hot seat in a way he has not experienced since Congress wrapped up its hearings on the subject years ago. In the case of AIG, the Fed initially charged a high interest rate for the first loan and required a nearly 80 percent stake in the company in exchange, which Greenberg's lawyers have said was illegal. Paulson said such terms were necessary to protect against "moral hazard," or concerns that other companies would take reckless risks under the belief that the government would bail them out with few consequences. But in response to questions from a government lawyer, Paulson said Citigroup's &lt;c.n&gt; shareholders were not subject to similar terms, in part because policymakers were concerned about short sellers who were exerting pressure on Citi's stock and would profit if the rescue targeted Citi's shareholders. Paulson said he was worried the traders would take the same strategy to the next bank, a concern he said he did not have about any of AIG's peers. Paulson took the stand Monday morning wearing a dark suit and red tie and appeared relaxed, answering questions so directly that Greenberg's lawyer, star litigator David Boies, wrapped up what he expected to be six hours of testimony within a little over one hour. The testimony by Paulson comes in the second week of what is expected to be a six-week trial. Former Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and former Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke are expected to testify later this week. Paulson, who served as President George W. Bush's Treasury secretary from 2006 to 2009, was previously the chief executive of Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;gs.n&gt; and now runs an institute that focuses on climate change and other issues. The case is Starr International Co v. U.S., U.S. Court of Federal Claims, No. 11-00779 FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Danny MoloshokBillionaire Tesla CEO Elon Musk graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1995. There are 2,325 billionaires on this planet.  Surprisingly, 35% of them don't hold an undergraduate degree.  Unsurprisingly, those that do tend to flock to the Ivy League.  According to research firm Wealth-X's Billionaire Census, the University of Pennsylvania, Harvard, and Yale are the schools with the most billionaire alumni.  Here's its list of the 20 schools with the most billionaire grads: Wealth-X and UBS Billionaire Census 2014So why do these elite schools attract individuals who create the most wealth?  Duke University researcher Jonathan Wai attempted to answer as much in a recent research paper called "Investigating The World's Rich And Powerful."  It's clear that powerful people are overrepresented at top-tier colleges. Wai found that while only 2% to 5% of US undergraduates went to one of these super-elite schools, 44.8% of American billionaires did. And he believes it's due to a mixture of personality and privilege. So even if (Stanford-educated) billionaire investor Peter Thiel is telling you not to go to college, the stats suggest that you should if you're trying to break into the billionaires club.  Wai provides three arguments as to why:  One could argue that, especially for billionaires, many of these people got a leg up in college admissions due to their parent's wealth and influence. However, even among self-made billionaires, the percentage attending elite schools was not much different. Still, it is hard to completely rule out the possibility that this trend is, in part, about money and elite college attendance as a symbol of status for the ruling class.  Alternatively, it could be that many of the smartest people end up attending elite schools due to their high standardized test scores and other academic metrics. Maybe it's not elite college attendance that matters as much as the personal traits they had before they even went to college. Following that theory, whether (Delta State University alum and UPS CEO) David Abney went to a state school or an elite school, perhaps he still would have risen to the top spot at UPS because of who he is.  Or it might be that the power of the networks, brand name, and quality of education that come with elite school attendance is why so many of these people ended up in such positions of influence.  For a deeper look into why elite colleges are so tied to cultural elites, read Wai's full post. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsAn era is ending: for over half a decade, nearly worldwide, zero interest rates suppressed volatilities. That is over. The first sign of this evolution came over a year ago when the bond market experienced the “taper tantrum” as then Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke alluded to forthcoming rising interest rates. Since then, the re-volitization process has morphed to currencies, commodities, and stock prices.  More and exciting volatilities lie ahead. We are likely to see the Dow Jones Industrial Average move precipitously up or down 200 points with greater frequency. Why not? Two hundred points is only about 1%.  Contrast that with the Russell 2000 index which lost 10% since its summer peak. As the global zero-interest-rate era draws to a close, previously comforting, steady trends with smaller deviations are about to be replaced. That was the old normal of the past half-decade. In the stock market we are beginning to see the newer normal. We had some of it this week. In bonds, we have already seen the changes in volatility, first with the taper tantrum last year and now with the widening of the high-yield spread to Treasurys. Bond volatility shows up in spreads.  It also shows up in large market moves when momentous news like Bill Gross’s exit from PIMCO shocks markets and alters pricing. Sequential leadership changes at a two-trillion-dollar asset manager act to trigger market responses. Many know the existing holdings. They come to expect that large liquidations will occur. They know that, in a mutual fund, forced selling to raise cash may provide opportunity for the buyers who stand aside and wait for the seller to disgorge. The buyer gets the bargains, while the shareholders of the selling fund must accept the results of their redemptions.  We saw some signs of that in the past week. Cumberland is ONLY a separate account manager. We do NOT manage any mutual fund. ETFs aside, we do NOT use traditional bond mutual funds in most cases. All of our clients have 100% transparency regarding their own accounts. All client accounts are private when it comes to any information about their holdings. We wouldn’t have it any other way. Let’s get back to market volatility. There is no central bank role in this gyration. Market agents must not and should not expect there to be. The Federal Reserve has reaches neutrality this month and is calculating a policy shift to raise interest rates. The Fed is not engaged in saving the skin of any money manager, regardless of size. That would change only if the entire system were threatened. Two trillion is a lot, but it is not enough to threaten the entire system. It is, however, big enough to produce jagged lines on volatility charts. Differentials in policy also cause higher volatility. The US is at neutral and has stopped QE. Market-based options pricing suggests that the policy-oriented Fed Funds rate will be somewhere between 0.50% and 0.75% by the end of next year. So we see volatility changes to anticipate that the US will nudge rates up from the zero boundary soon. Meanwhile, the European Central Bank is below zero and trying to figure out how to do more QE. The Bank of Japan continues its 20-year policy of zero interest rates. And the Bank of England looks to be directed toward normalizing and eventual tightening. All of that maneuvering adds to volatility in currencies. The big-four currencies used to be on the same zero-boundary path. No more. Currencies are the basic substance by which financial assets are priced. Markets clear all transactions in money. And though money was priced at zero rates, that is now changing. The dollar is getting stronger; the euro and yen are getting weaker; and the pound may be getting stronger. These are shifts from an era when the dollar remained weak for years and our QE was the leadership policy of central bank expansion. That situation has changed. Markets have changed. We have entered a new era. We may as well get used to it. Some market agents want the old regime to go on forever. Last week was a good example. Consultants contacted me over the course of the downdraft day. They expressed their relief about having a cash reserve. But Friday’s surge after the labor report reversed the emails, texts, and messages to comments like, “Why didn’t we spend the cash at the bottom of the down day, 24 hours preceding the up day?” C’mon. That actually came from a professional. Really! Back away from the day-to-day volatility and look at the week. Cumberland’s largest overweight position in the US exchange-traded fund (ETF) portfolios is defensive. It is the Utilities sector. Last week, it was up 1.6% according to Barron’s. The Telecommunications sector broke even last week. It, too, is usually characterized as a defensive choice. By the way, last week all the rest of the sectors were negative. Our most underweight positions are in Energy and Materials. Because of the relative size of the Energy sector, that sector is extremely underweight. Oil and gas sectors were down 4% last week. Energy sector ETFs do not do well when the commodity price of the substance they deal in is falling. We are watching the oil price fall. How far it falls, at what velocity, and for how long – all are yet to be revealed. Transition in monetary policy coincides with continuing heightened geopolitical risk, whether with regard to Ukraine or ISIL or Asian hotspots. Keep an eye on the developing China-Russia rapprochement. Each sees a weakened America as an opening and therefore sees alignment with the other as an advantage. All this says volatility will rise. Risks and uncertainty premiums are rising. They all go together. At Cumberland Advisors, we are maintaining a cash reserve in our US ETF accounts. We also have some cash reserve in our momentum ETF strategy and our international ETF strategy. We may change this allocation at any time. Only the sector-rotation ETF strategy is fully invested. Why? Because it never uses cash and is always fully invested. We use all four strategies at Cumberland. They serve different purposes depending on the allocation mechanism and the preferences of the client. This article originally appeared at Cumberland Advisors.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Oil supply disruptions caused by geopolitical turmoil are at a three-year high. "More than 3 million barrels per day of oil supply have been taken off the market due to geopolitics," Citi analysts write. "The bulk is from Libya insecurity and the Iran sanctions regime, but disruptions in Nigeria, Syria, the Sudans and Iraq add up to over one million barrels per day." The good news is that this hasn't fueled any sustained spikes in prices. "Oil prices shot up initially following the invasions by the Islamic State for Iraq and Syria (ISIS) but are back at year-lows again," Citi noted. There are big forces helping to keep prices down. Demand growth has been slowing with the global economy, and global supply has been bolstered by the shale revolution. "Nevertheless, the growing violence in the Middle East presents acute geopolitical risks," Citi writes. "Will the US, as a global hegemon, respond militarily?" Citi Research FREE AppDownload
PIMCO / YouTubeBill GrossNEW YORK (Reuters) - Bill Gross, who recently left Pimco where he managed the world's largest bond fund, said in no uncertain terms that he expects to be a winner in running a relatively small fund in his new role at Janus Capital Group &lt;jns.n&gt;, and expects to take a hands-on role on the investment side, InvestmentNews reported Monday. "I'm in it to whip the pants off anybody competing on the same football field," said Gross, who co-founded Pimco more than 40 years ago. He had managed the Pimco Total Return Fund, whose assets peaked at nearly $293 billion last year. Gross said he expected to manage about $100 million in assets in the Janus Global Unconstrained Bond Fund, and to have an "investing thrust as opposed to an executive thrust," InvestmentNews reported. "Having a lot of people doesn't necessarily produce an efficient decision-making process," he said. "Sometimes it jams up the works." Gross said his wife, Sue, did not want him "hanging around the house all day" and persuaded him not to retire. Gross said he will have five or six people on his team at Janus, including a trader, credit analyst and portfolio manager, and would be able to invest more in sovereign debt, emerging markets, higher-yielding credit and currencies and take on a "small amount" of stock risk. Gross said he planned to ramp up his weekend reading in order to stay sharp: "I have to double and triple the amount of reading I do on weekends to make sure that a 70-year-old mind doesn't turn into a semi-senile 80-year-old mind." FREE AppDownload
BIIBanks are no longer opening new branches.Since the early days of the internet, retail banks have feared the day when customers would turn away from traditional brick-and-mortar bank branches. With the rise of mobile banking, it's definitely starting to happen.  BI Intelligence finds that even banks' desktop websites are seeing a loss in use, as smartphone apps become personal finance hubs. Young consumers are also increasingly looking to tech companies for financial services. We've created these slides to preview our report on how digital banking is changing in the mobile era. We hope you enjoy it.  BI Intelligence is a research and analysis service focused on payments, e-commerce, mobile computing, and digital media. Only subscribers can download the full report on Mobile Banking, as well as the report's individual charts and datasets in Excel, along with the PowerPoint version of this deck. Please sign up for a free trial here.  
REUTERS/2TangoMedicins Sans Frontieres (MSF) health workers prepare at ELWA's isolation camp during the visit of Senior United Nations (U.N.) System Coordinator for Ebola David Nabarro, at the camp in Monrovia August 23, 2014.The Ebola trade is getting a little out of control.  Shares of Tekmira Pharmaceuticals, which have been rallying on hopes for broad use of the company's Ebola treatment, are taking a beating on Monday. Near noon, shares of Tekmira were down 16%. The drop in Tekmira shares comes after research firm Leerink downgraded the stock to Market Perform from Outperform, citing valuation, according to MarketWatch.  Also on Monday, shares of pharmaceutical company Chimerix were up about 5% after the company announced that the FDA approved its drug brincidofovir for potential use in patients with Ebola.  In the last three month, including Monday's sell off, Tekmira shares are up more than 110%.  And after the CDC last week confirmed the first case of Ebola in the US, shares of Tekmira, as well as a number of other companies investors are hoping could develop a treatment for Ebola, surged, and on Monday the stock was still trading higher than it was ahead of that announcement.  It's been a wild ride for traders looking for a way to trade around Ebola news, a trend that seems unlikely to reverse. Be careful out there.  FREE AppDownload
Fox Business News screenshotLizabeth Dunn, a star retail analyst known for her calls on stocks like Lululemon, American Apparel, and Liz Claiborne, has left Macquarie to start her own consulting firm, Talmage Advisors. Dunn's been on The Street for about 20 years, with 13 of those spent as an equity researcher. So the point of Talmage, Dunn told Business Insider, is to put her knowledge of retail to use helping companies avoid strategic mistakes down the road. "I have some knowledge and expertise to share, and perhaps there's a different way that I can find value in what I know," she said. This advising is especially key in retail, since it's an industry that attracts creatives that aren't always well versed in the business side of the industry. Christine Day, CEO of Luvo and former CEO of Lululemon, said, "Liz has a strong understanding of the retail marketplace. She leverages her industry experience to probe deeper into the financial, operating, and strategic assessment of the companies she follows and is known for her ability to spot emerging companies with the potential to shift the market." Part of the reason Dunn made the shift from stock analysis to consulting is that Wall Street has changed. Without a trace of malice, she said simply, "I'm not trying to be negative about the industry, but it just isn't as fun as it used to be." Wall Street is a world where people sign nondisclosure agreements before they walk out the door, so it's not often that you hear people speak so candidly about what's going on. That said, it's no secret that issues like lower head counts and more compliance have been putting a lot more pressure on analysts, traders, bankers — you name it. The new Wall Street world order has resulted in a few key changes specific to analysts. For example, the market hasn't been volatile, so analysts are under more pressure to publish reports that have a shorter term, market moving outlook on a stock. Also, banks across The Street have started to emphasize access to management teams more than ever, which means a lot of road shows. "You end up spending a lot of your time as a party planner and less time on research," said Dunn. Plus, let's be honest, the pay isn't as good. That's real talk. FREE AppDownload
As Hewlett-Packard cleaves itself in two, the company will also trim another 5,000 employees from its payroll. And even that won't be the end of a massive multiyear layoff that grows bigger every few months, HP CEO Meg Whitman essentially told CNBC's Dan Farber on Monday. HP first announced its layoffs plans in 2012. Back then, HP said it would cut 27,000. By June of this year, it had doubled the target, to 50,000, with 36,000 employees already gone. On Monday, it bumped up the new layoff target, yet again, to 55,000. Even so, HP remains an enormous employer, with over 330,000 employees worldwide, and that means that when HP reorganizes itself, it will likely make even more cuts. This is what Whitman said about it on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street." Whitman: I think for 2015 in terms of this restructuring, we are done. Now when you split companies apart, typically, and we have looked at all of the other ones that have been done, often there is again realignment of the workforce, but we'll see how it goes. ... Faber: Well, it sounds to me, from that answer, that conceivably there are going to be more job cuts to come for these two companies. Whitman: We have to organize ourselves for these companies to win in the market. Now, the truth is, we're a lot more efficient than we were, you know, three years ago, as you can see. But we have to set these companies up to win, that is our mission. This news must be frustrating for HP employees, but it can't be a surprise. HP has been in a near-constant state of restructuring since 2008 when it bought EDS for $13.9 billion (then-CEO Mark Hurd's signature deal), which doubled its workforce to about 400,000. Since then, HP has been regularly cutting people, and has spent more than $8 billion on restructuring charges. That EDS unit, now called HP Enterprise Services, has been HP's biggest problem child for years, too, arguably in worse shape than the PC business ever was. And it looks like HP ES may be in for more scrutiny as part of the new Hewlett-Packard Enterprise company. In her CNBC interview, Whitman specifically named the Enterprise Services group as the reason why HP won't show revenue growth in fiscal 2015, keeping her from making good on her promise to have HP growing again by 2015 (year four of her five-year plan to turn HP around). "We said that 2015 we'd be flat in constant currency. Without Enterprise Services, the company would actually grow," she told Farber.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersIran's President Hassan Rouhani smiles while replying to a question during a news conference on the sidelines of the 69th United Nations General Assembly at United Nations Headquarters in New YorkBy Jonathan Saul LONDON (Reuters) - International banks are shying away from processing humanitarian deals with Iran for fear being fined for breaking Western sanctions, despite moves intended to facilitate the trade, a senior Iranian banker said. The sanctions regime, imposed by the United States and European Union over Tehran's nuclear program, allows trade in humanitarian goods such as food and medicine. Yet many banks avoid dealing with Iran at all due to the heavy fines handed out by U.S. authorities for trading with sanctioned countries including the Islamic Republic, such as a $8.9 billion penalty imposed on BNP Paribas  of France. Tehran-headquartered Middle East Bank, which is privately owned by investors that include small and medium-sized Iranian firms who can each hold up to a 5 percent stake, started operations on Nov. 1, 2012 with a focus on the humanitarian trade. Nevertheless, the bank continues to find it hard to get deals processed, its chief executive, Parviz Aghili, said. "Going though a very simple process of opening letters of credit for the importation of goods, even humanitarian goods, has become much more difficult and a hassle," Aghili told Reuters in an interview. "The (international) banks just do not want to take the risk. They understand and tell us that the rules and regulations are there. But they say the expected return is not enough to justify the risk. They tell us, 'if anything goes wrong, we would be faced with huge fines'. And this is what happens with 99 percent of the banking system outside of Iran." Iran has been trying to get HSBC  to process humanitarian transactions it has frozen because of concerns about potential breaches of sanctions. U.S. officials stress they have expanded licenses issued for food, agricultural goods, medicine and medical devices to Iran. They have also set up two so called "humanitarian channels" in Europe and Asia to facilitate legitimate trade with Iran, a system which includes an approved list of international companies which can do business there, with several commercial banks also involved. Since tougher, nuclear-related sanctions were first imposed in 2006, Western governments have taken a wide range of steps against Iranian firms - freezing their assets, blocking trade and preventing them from doing business with Western banks - in an attempt to curb Tehran's nuclear program, which the West suspects is aimed at building an atomic bomb, something Tehran denies. Aghili said the impact of sanctions and restrictions on Iranian banks "at the outset ... was not as bad, as many banks did not know what to do". "But gradually it has gotten worse and worse. We certainly have seen no improvement during (Iranian President Hassan)  Rouhani's term at all. We do not need any financing, it is our own money and we still cannot execute these transactions." Rouhani, viewed as a pragmatic cleric, succeeded the fiercely anti-Western Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as president in August 2013, promising to resolve the stand-off with the West after years of tension.  DESIGNATED BANK Middle East Bank, also known as Khavarmianeh Bank, has total assets close to $1 billion and was designated as a sanctioned company by the U.S. Treasury on Aug. 29. When contacted for comment, a U.S. Treasury spokeswoman referred to a statement the department issued in August, which said Middle East Bank had been placed on the Treasury's designated list as part of an executive order signed by President Barack Obama in February 2012, that blocked the assets and property of Iranian financial institutions. "Obama signed it to cover the government of Iran, the Central Bank of Iran and all the financial institutions in Iran. Whether we like it or not we are on the list simply because we are registered in Iran and because our license is issued by the government of Iran, not that we have done anything," Aghili said.    "Even though we are designated, which is constraining our activities even with humanitarian goods, we should not be considered as an unacceptable bank," he said. "But you go ahead and try to convince the international banks - you get nowhere. I suppose no one can blame them after the BNP fine." Aghili said "no state or state-affiliate had any stake" in the bank. Iran and world powers, known as the P5+1, are trying to agree a nuclear deal before a Nov. 24 deadline, but the most recent talks in New York last month made little progress. Aghili said Middle East Bank, which will complete its second year of operation next month, is pressing ahead with expansion plans including setting up offices in Mumbai and another location. It already has offices in Dubai and Arbil. The bank also aims to issue around $100 million in convertible debt in the next three months within the Iranian market. "After the third year of operation we should be in a position to consider listing outside of Iran. I suppose the closest place that could be considered would be Dubai or Istanbul," he said. Aghili will travel to London later this month for an Iran investor conference, seeking to boost ties with counterparts. "We are hoping that an agreement between P5+1 and Iran will be signed before Nov. 24 and I suppose after that date we do hope to have proper relationships with many international banks including many major European banks," he said. "And this is the reason I am attending this get-together."  (Editing by Giles Elgood) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange shortly after the opening of the markets in New York July 3, 2013.  The U.S. stock market is expecting the Republican party to gain a majority in the U.S. Senate in next month's mid-term election, but some close races may create a spike in "confusion and volatility," an analyst wrote on Monday. Robbert van Batenburg, director of market strategy at Newedge USA LLC in New York, said that while he expects the Republicans to end up with a "razor thin" majority in the next Congress, potential run-off elections could delay that result from becoming official for more than a month. If the presence of a Libertarian candidate results in no candidates winning a majority in the Georgia Senate race, that would result in a run-off election set for Jan 6, a scenario that "could leave [the] market in limbo." He added that in the previous six mid-term years, there was a five-point move in the CBOE Volatility index between June 1 and Oct 31 on four occasions. Even if the Republicans win all the races that are projected to be close, the party's majority will still fall short of the margin required to stop a Democratic filibuster. FREE AppDownload
There's a new cool economic report: the Labor Market Conditions Index, or LMCI.  The latest LMCI, released on Monday, increased to 2.5 in September from 2 in August, but indicates that labor market conditions remain broadly stronger. Here's a chart of the latest LMCI: Andy Kiersz/Business Insider The index was first "made famous" by Fed Chair Janet Yellen in her speech at Jackson Hole, when she said, "This broadly based metric supports the conclusion that the labor market has improved significantly over the past year, but it also suggests that the decline in the unemployment rate over this period somewhat overstates the improvement in overall labor market conditions." Recall that at Jackson Hole, Yellen spoke about the labor market puzzle of a steadily declining unemployment rate and strong payroll gains against the backdrop of declining labor force participation and flat wages. At the time, Yellen said, "There is no simple recipe for appropriate policy in this context," and Friday's jobs report largely reaffirmed this outlook. On Friday, the latest jobs report showed that nonfarm payrolls grew by 248,000, the unemployment rate fell to 5.9%, while wages were flat month-over-month and the labor force participation fell to its lowest level since 1978.  Here's the full table of the components included in the LMCI. Federal Reserve FREE AppDownload
Burger King on FacebookBurger King is sticking to what it does best. Burger King is thriving.  While fast-food competitor McDonald's grapples with declining sales, Burger King has been attracting more customers.  Morgan Stanley just upgraded Burger King's shares to "overweight," citing positive trends in the business. The company's stock has risen 56% in the past year.  Here are a few reasons Burger King is doing so well.  Burger King recently acquired the Canadian coffee chain Tim Hortons. Morgan Stanley analysts believe that Tim Hortons will have more than 600 international locations in the next three years. The chain is also expected to add locations in the US.  Yahoo! FinanceBurger King's shares have soared in the past year. "These days ... Burger King is behaving more like a startup than a typical burger chain," writes Devin Leonard at Bloomberg Businessweek. The company's 33-year-old CEO Daniel Schwartz has been credited with turning the company into a "cash machine."  Schwartz has swiftly changed Burger King's menu to be less complicated. He also made franchising easier for overseas restaurants, leading to a rapid international expansion.  Schwartz helped reduce Burger King's corporate headcount to 2,425 from 38,884 by refranchising restaurants, meaning those workers now report to franchise owners.  He also axed many executive perks, including lavish offices and a $1 million annual party at a chateau in Italy, Leonard writes. These cost-cutting measures have helped profits soar.  Courtesy of Burger King WorldwideCEO Daniel Schwartz has taken key cost-cutting measures. Burger King announced Monday that it was going to sell 10 chicken nuggets for $1.49.  The company also brought back Chicken Fries earlier this year after a viral social media campaign.  Rather than bogging down the menu with risky new items, Burger King is playing up what it does best — classic fast food.  This benefits everyone. Customers are getting what they want, and workers and restaurant owners aren't bogged down by an overwhelming menu.  FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogOn 9/24, Bloomberg’s Simon Kennedy reported that FRB-NY President William Dudley is the first Fed official starting to freak out about the strong dollar: “‘If the dollar were to strengthen a lot, it would have consequences for growth,’ the 61-year-old Dudley, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist, said at the Bloomberg Markets Most Influential Summit in New York. ‘We would have poorer trade performance, less exports, more imports,’ he said. ‘And if the dollar were to appreciate a lot, it would tend to dampen inflation. So it would make it harder to achieve our two objectives. So obviously we would take that into account.’” The JP Morgan trade-weighted dollar is up 5.8% since this year’s low on July 1. Dudley is right about the dollar and inflation; they are inversely correlated. There has also been a strong inverse correlation between the dollar and the 10-year TIPS expected inflation rate, which has dropped 36bps since July 31 to 1.93%, the lowest since June 24, 2013. The dollar was up again on Friday following the strong employment report. The euro and yen are likely to remain weak as long as the US economy continues to outperform the economies of the Eurozone and Japan. That’s because the Fed’s next move is likely to be a rate hike, while the ECB and BOJ might provide more rounds of easing. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: One and Done? (1) Jobs report poses numerous challenges for Fed’s doves. (2) March 18, 2015 could be the Fed’s D-Day. (3) Fed’s best and brightest fumbled jobless rate forecasts. (4) “Considerable time” should be over by the end of this month. (5) More green than red on Yellen’s dashboard. (6) Full-time employment rising and Earned Income Proxy makes another new high. (7) Doves freaking out: Evans and Dudley worrying about dangers of Fed’s exit strategy. (8) Will strong dollar shut Fed’s exit door? (9) Inflationary expectations falling as greenback soars. (10) Could it be “none and done” followed by stock market melt-up? (11) Buy the consumers, not the producers of commodities. (12) “Gone Girl” (+ +). (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Bruno Sanchez-Andrade Nuño In an announcement on Monday, GT Advanced, which makes sapphire displays that many investors hoped would be in Apple's newest iPhone, said it was filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.  Ahead of the announcement, shares of GT Advanced were halted for trade.  After re-opening on Monday, shares of GT Advanced were down more than 90% to $1.06.  Ahead of the announcement, GT Advanced had a market cap of about $1.5 billion, and after the collapse in the share price on Monday this had fallen to about $175 million.  Here's a chart of the past year of trading in GT Advanced. Google Finance And a close-up of the ugly action on Monday. Google Finance In early September, shares of GT Advanced got crushed after the company's sapphire displays were not in the latest version of Apple's iPhone 6 and 6 Plus. Over the past month, the stock had fallen about 35%, to just under $11 from about $17 per share.  GT Advanced, however, signed a multiyear agreement with Apple last November to supply the company with sapphire material. That agreement included a $578 million prepayment, which GT Advanced is set to repay Apple over a five-year period starting in 2015.  Apple's Watch, which is set to be released early next year, will include a sapphire display. Ahead of the latest iPhone announcement, investors hoped that the new phones would feature full displays made of sapphire, which is purportedly unbreakable.  Reports following the release, however, suggested that not only was sapphire glass not necessarily any more durable when dropped than the current Gorilla Glass used in Apple's iPhones, but that the material was never targeted for the latest iPhone models.  And what's more, the material's role in future iPhones is, at this point, unknown.  Here's the full release from GT Advanced: MERRIMACK, N.H., Oct. 6, 2014 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- GT Advanced Technologies Inc., (Nasdaq:GTAT), announced today that it had, together with certain of its direct and indirect subsidiaries (collectively, GT), commenced voluntary cases under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Hampshire. GT expects the court will authorize the company to continue to conduct business as usual while it devotes renewed efforts to resolve its current issues and develops a reorganization plan. GT indicated that as of September 29, 2014 it had approximately $85 million of cash. In addition, it is now seeking debtor-in-possession financing, which, once obtained, would provide the company with an immediate source of additional funds. These funding sources will enable GT to satisfy the customary obligations associated with the daily operation of its business, including the timely payment of employee wages and other obligations. As a result of the filing, and as is customary with public companies, NASDAQ may temporarily halt trading in the company's stock pending the receipt of additional information on the company's financial condition. The company is cooperating with NASDAQ and will be providing any requested information as promptly as possible. "GT has a strong and fundamentally sound underlying business," said Tom Gutierrez, president and chief executive officer of GT. "Today's filing does not mean we are going out of business; rather, it provides us with the opportunity to continue to execute our business plan on a stronger footing, maintain operations of our diversified business, and improve our balance sheet. "We are convinced that the rehabilitative process of chapter 11 is the best way to reorganize, protect our company and provide a path to our future success. We remain committed to our roots in innovation and our diversification strategy. We plan to continue to operate as a technology leader across our core set of businesses." The company indicated that it expects to provide additional details with respect to the chapter 11 filing as soon as they are available. More information, including access to court documents, can be accessed at www.KCCllc.net/gtat (court- appointed claims agent site); or www.nhb.uscourts.gov, the official Bankruptcy Court web site.      FREE AppDownload
LinkedInTim RameyHerbalife's biggest bull is back on Wall Street. Tim Ramey has returned as a food, beverage and nutrition sell-side analyst for Pivotal Research, ValueWalk and Herbalife blogger @TheSkeptic reported. Back in January, Ramey left his post as a D.A. Davidson analyst to join forces with Post Holdings CEO Bill Stiritz to do "some consulting on strategy, M&amp;A, and corporate development for a significant company."  Stiritz, 78, is the largest individual shareholder of Herbalife. Even in his new role, Ramey plans to still consult for Post Holdings, according to ValueWalk which cites an email from Ramey. While at D.A. Davidson, Ramey formed a reputation of being incredibly bullish and vocal on Herbalife, a multi-level marketer that hedge fund billionaire Bill Ackman is infamously short. Ramey has repeatedly challenged Ackman's assertions that the nutrition company operates as a "pyramid scheme."  This summer, Ackman said during an Herbalife presentation that Ramey had been fired from D.A. Davidson. Ramey left voluntarily, though. Ackman later had to retract that statement. It's unclear if Ramey will cover Herbalife at Pivotal Research. We wouldn't be surprised if he did, though.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAirbus A350 aircraft sits on the tarmac on display at the Singapore AirshowPARIS (Reuters) - European planemaker Airbus said on Monday it won 1,077 gross plane orders in the first nine months of the year. Taking cancellations into account, net orders totalled 791 in the year to end-September, Airbus said. Deliveries over the same period came to 443, it added. (Reporting by Andrew Callus; Writing by Brian Love) FREE AppDownload
Christopher Furlong/Getty ImagesAbout 95% of all profit earned by companies in the S&amp;P 500 is on pace to be used for share buybacks, according to a new report from Bloomberg's Lu Wang and Callie Bost.  The report, citing data from Bloomberg and S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices, said that in 2014 companies were on pace to spend $914 billion on buybacks and dividends, or about 95% of all profits earned by these companies.  That seems like a lot. Earlier this month, Josh Brown at The Reformed Broker highlighted a Wall Street Journal report that noted companies spent 31% of their cash flow on buybacks in the second quarter of this year, the most since 2008.  Warning about the recent glut of share buybacks, however, is not a particularly new refrain. Back in late August, Albert Edwards at Societe Generale wrote that companies increasing their borrowing to buy back their own stock had led to the market making a "hissing sound." And in July, noted hedge funder Stanley Druckenmiller highlighted the financial engineering undertaken by IBM over the past several years, with the company seeing flat sales but a rising stock price because of a tripling of its balance sheet to buy back stock. Druckenmiller called IBM the "poster child" for this kind of activity, and said: "Capital spending is the lowest it's been relative to sales in many, many years. That's the reason productivity is down. We've got to get out of this financial engineering stuff and get more into investing in the real economy." On this background, however, nonresidential fixed investment, essentially business investment, jumped 8.4% in the second quarter. FREE AppDownload
Brazil handed Wall Street a pleasant surprise Sunday night, when the country's first-round presidential runoff resulted in victory for the incumbent, the socialist party's Dilma Rousseff, and once long-shot center-right candidate Aecio Neves. The real is surging against the dollar, and its stock market, the Bovespa, is up 8%. The country's exchange-traded fund — a security that trades a basket of Brazil's stocks and its currency as a single entity — is up 10% in premarket trading. Yahoo Finance It's all because of center-right candidate Neves — this is why Wall Street loves him. He's the market-friendly candidate who, according to his platform, will tighten Brazil's belt and focus on bringing investment back to the country.  "Mr Neves hopes to raise the investment GDP ratio to 24% by 2018 from current levels of less than 18%," wrote Societe General in a note Monday morning. "More critically, he has promised to raise infrastructure spending by opening the sector to private players and allowing the returns on those investments to be set by the market (rather than by the government). As we have previously stated, investment decline has been the single most important factor behind the recessions and generally low growth seen over past three years. The key factor to revive investment in the short run remains investor confidence. " Right now the Brazilian economy is going through an ugly reversal. Once the darling of emerging markets under former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva's administration, its stock market has fallen 22% since current President Dilma Rousseff took power in 2011. Morgan Stanley sees the country's GDP going negative in the first half of 2015, contracting -0.4%. Inflation is high and climbing, corporate margins are thin, and tough reforms — like cutting fat from welfare programs that have pulled many Brazilians out of poverty — are necessary.  In fact the reforms are so tough that some believe a Neves victory is far from a cure-all. But it's better than what markets expected — a contest between Rousseff and Marina Silva, a former environmental activist who ran alongside Eduardo Campos. She was to be his vice president until he died in a plane crash this summer. BarclaysThere was a surge of support for Silva after Campos died, and it was so strong that polls had her beating Neves for the No. 2 spot until just before the election. This, the markets did not like at all. Last week, Brazil got absolutely pummeled as investors feared that Silva — who did not run on a platform as focused on fat-cutting as Neves' — might be the only alternative to Rousseff. Of course, this isn't over. Over the next three weeks, Rousseff will use her considerable political power as an incumbent — and the well-liked Lula — to out-campaign Neves.  The vote between Neves and Rousseff will be held Oct. 26. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Luc GnagoShares of Chimerix were up about 6% in premarket trade on Monday after the company announced that the FDA approved the company's drug brincidofovir for potential use in patients with Ebola.  In a statement, the company said it was "working closely with the FDA to finalize a clinical trial protocol early this week to assess the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of brincidofovir in patients who are confirmed to have an infection with the Ebola virus." Following the announcement, shares of Tekmira and BioCryst, which have been working on treatments for Ebola, were down more than 4%.  Over the weekend, the condition of the first patient with Ebola in the US took a turn for the worse, as Thomas Eric Duncan is now in critical condition.  You can read the full announcement from Chimerix here.  FREE AppDownload
Facebook/TheWaldorf Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. said it would sell the landmark Waldorf Astoria New York hotel to Chinese insurer Anbang Insurance Group Co. Ltd for about $1.95 billion. Waldorf Astoria New York is the flagship hotel of the company's luxury brand, Waldorf Astoria Hotels &amp; Resorts. Hilton Worldwide will continue to manage the hotel for the next 100 years as part of the deal. Here's the full press release: Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. (“Hilton Worldwide”) today announced it has entered into an agreement with Anbang Insurance Group Co.Ltd. (“Anbang”), under which Anbang has agreed to purchase the Waldorf Astoria New York for $1.95 billion. As part of this long-term strategic partnership, Anbang will grant Hilton Worldwide a management agreement to continue to operate the property for the next 100 years, and the hotel will undergo a major renovation to restore the property to its historic grandeur. The Waldorf Astoria New York is the flagship hotel of Hilton Worldwide’s rapidly-expanding luxury brand, Waldorf Astoria Hotels &amp; Resorts. Since 2007, the brand has increased its footprint more than five times to a portfolio of 27 landmark destinations, including Amsterdam, Beijing, Chicago, Dubai, Jerusalem, Ras Al Khaimah and Shanghai. Its pipeline of nine additional hotels includes key destinations such as Bali, Bangkok and Beverly Hills. “We are very excited to be entering into this long-term relationship with Anbang, which will ensure that the Waldorf Astoria New York represents the brand’s world-class standards for generations to come. This relationship represents a unique opportunity for our organizations to work together to finally maximize the full value of this iconic asset on a full city block in midtown Manhattan,” said Christopher J. Nassetta, president and chief executive officer, Hilton Worldwide. Hilton Worldwide intends to use the proceeds from the sale to acquire additional hotel assets in the U.S. in one or more transactions as part of a like-kind exchange under Internal Revenue Code Section 1031. These acquisitions will be finalized and announced at a later date. The Waldorf Astoria New York was famously called “The Greatest of the Them All” by Hilton Worldwide’s founder Conrad Hilton. It is an Art Deco masterpiece and has been an internationally recognized symbol of elegance and grace for more than a century. In the grandest of traditions, the hotel features cosmopolitan restaurants (including Peacock Alley, Bull and Bear Prime Steakhouse and Oscar’s), bustling lounges and bars, the Guerlain Spa, more than 60,000 square feet of high-tech equipped function space, a state-of-the-art business center and intriguing boutiques.    (Reporting by Ankit Ajmera in Bangalore; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila) FREE AppDownload
The Brazilian real is surging after pro-business presidential candidate Aecio Neves earned enough votes in Brazil's presidential election on Sunday to force a runoff with incumbent Dilma Rousseff.  In early trade on Monday, the real was up 3% against the dollar.  Over the past month, the real has fallen about 9% against the dollar as the Brazilian economy has flagged. The runoff is set for Oct. 26. Here's the early surge in the real as trading opened Monday morning. Bloomberg FREE AppDownload
Robert ShillerCAPE is currently at a level that comes before a crash.No single stock market forecasting model is infallible. It's an unsettling thought. But it's true. And some of the most respected stock market experts would warn that even the most reliable and consistent models are capable of breaking down. In his new monthly market commentary, Blackstone's Byron Wien discusses how Robert Shiller's CAPE ratio warnings are being ignored by market participants, who continue to push stock prices to record highs. CAPE, or the cyclically adjusted price-earnings ratio, is calculated by taking the S&amp;P 500 and dividing it by the average of 10 years' worth of earnings. If the ratio is above the long-term average of about 16, the stock market is considered expensive. Currently, CAPE is at a very worrisome 26.3. BloombergByron Wien."It reminds me of the dividend discount model I developed at Morgan Stanley in the 1980s, which related the level of the S&amp;P 500 to the yield on the 10-year U.S. Treasury," Wien said of CAPE. "The model worked well in the late 1980s and early 1990s, and I thought it would carry me through to retirement. It was a sad day in the mid-1990s when I realized it was no longer relevant." Wien has one of the longest, most notable careers on Wall Street. We'd argue that he has maintained his relevance by recognizing when models lose theirs. But, how dare anyone suggest CAPE may no longer be relevant? Shiller won the Nobel Prize in economics for his work related to CAPE. Believe it or not, even Shiller would warn you about CAPE. "Things can go for 200 years and then change," Shiller warned in an April 2012 interview with Money Magazine. "I even worry about the 10-year P/E — even that relationship could break down." We're not suggesting that CAPE is now broken. We're just noting that folks like Wien and Shiller will tell you that there's a risk it could break. Indeed, anyone who has stayed out of the market because CAPE is high has been missing out on some big market gains. REUTERS/Michelle McLoughlinRobert Shiller. FREE AppDownload
Activist investor Ralph Whitworth, famous for pushing for corporate breakups, is delighted that HP will be breaking itself into two companies, he said. HP's board has been studying the idea of a break for years. In 2013, Whitworth joined the board and for a while was chairman, but he resigned in July for health reasons. He is battling throat cancer. It's not clear yet how much of a hand Whitworth had in orchestrating HP's breakup, but we know he loves the idea.  Here is his statement: “HP's board and management have made a brilliant value-enhancing move at the perfect time in the turnaround,” said Mr. Whitworth. “Today's announcement sets out bold, logical and highly compelling steps that will align the company's assets within more strategically and operationally focused corporate structures. Shareholders will now be able to invest in the respective asset groups without the fear of cross-subsidies and inefficiencies that invariably plague large business conglomerates.” Mr. Whitworth continued, “At the same time, management can better design strategic plans, incentives and market initiatives to suit the varying growth rates, capital intensity, and market objectives of these more focused and nimble companies. The new companies will be better positioned to address today's light-speed market dynamics and customer needs, and with distinct and compelling financial profiles and strong leadership teams, accelerate growth and shareholder value creation.” FREE AppDownload
Uber cars offer a better price in many cities, but they don't always charge the same rate. In times of high demand Uber initiates surge pricing – you are charged the normal fare times a surge multiplier. We figured out the break-even point for each city. This is the level of surge pricing when the Uber car becomes more expensive than a taxi. Produced by Sara Silverstein Follow BI Video: On Twitter
Hewlett PackardHewlett-Packard has confirmed reports the company will separate itself into two businesses. One business will consist of personal computers and printers. The other would consist of corporate hardware and services. "In short, by transitioning now from one HP to two new companies, created out of our successful turnaround efforts, we will be in an even better position to compete in the market, support our customers and partners, and deliver maximum value to our shareholders," CEO Meg Whitman said. When a company announces a corporate action that cuts costs, increase efficiencies, boosts profits, or does anything intended to boost shareholder value, you can almost always assume job cuts are coming. Indeed, CNBC's David Faber first reported that the split would come with 5,000 new layoffs. According to HP's newly released investor presentation, new planned layoffs boost the company's total planned layoffs to 55,000 from an earlier estimated range of 45,000 to 50,000 cuts. Ever since the financial crisis, many big companies have delivered robust earnings growth despite weak revenue growth thanks cost-cutting actions like the one we are now learning about. As far as we know, the layoffs have not been issued yet. But employees now know they're coming. FREE AppDownload
Dave Lutz at JonesTrading has the things that traders are talking about today: Good Morning!   Futures are starting on the upswing, as tensions subside in Hong Kong, and Ebola fears subside in the States.    Russell Minis are adding 40bp as animal spirits are alive in Europe, with the DAX adding 1% in heavy volume after their 3day weekend, as doves love the collapse in German Factory Orders.   Eurostoxx are up 70bp, but FTSE is lagging, held back by the mining companies.   Looking like a nice day in Brazil, as Neves forces a runoff in 3 weeks – EWZ marked up 6%, PBR 11% - Over in Asia, Nikkei added 1.1% as the Yen softened, Shanghai Remains closed, while Aussie lost 50bp as the Miners were under pressure.    Keep an eye on the Yen, as we get the BOJ decision tomorrow.  We have heavy Feds-Speak as well, with Bernanke and multiple FOMC speakers (No Janet) - but the focus will be on the FOMC Minutes Weds.    This week also kicks off Earnings season, with YUM tomorrow, AA Wednesday, PEP Thursday, SWYFriday – but watch the Banks as they start reporting earnings next week (XLF a great Q4 performer, returning 9% on average the last 4years.)  Watch for pre-announcements from the larger multi-nationals as the stronger $ is probably crimping sales overseas.  Yields are slightly higher, but we have the $ retreating from 4Y highs – causing a tailwind for commodities.   Silver and Copper are both popping, hopes of Asian growth as the PBOC had some dovish comments over the weekend, while we are seeing a early bid out of the Crude complex, despite headlines talking about a “OPEC Price War”.  WTI is adding 60bp, lagging Brent slightly.   Nat gas is retreating sharply, off 2.7%, almost feels like someone reversing the “growth off” trade we have seen with Russian Sanctions.   Scheduled Catalysts today include Employment Trends Index at 10, the week’s largest POMO at 11, Treasury Sec Lew chairs Financial Stability Oversight Council Meeting and Fed’s George speaks later tonight.    Watch for possible skews in the VIX today – the Calculation inputs are changing from standard 3rd Friday series to Weeklies.. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonTraders work in the Goldman Sachs booth on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York May 10, 2010. A new online chat platform aimed at financial firms has already attracted more than half a million user requests, potentially making it bigger than Bloomberg’s messaging service, its chief executive has said. Symphony, which this week unveiled $66m (£41.3m) in funding from Goldman Sachs and 13 other Wall Street institutions, will be offered at no cost for individual users when it launches next year. Chief executive David Gurle said that while the corporate subscription fee has not been finalized, he has penciled in a price of around $30 per user per month compared to several thousands of pounds to use a Bloomberg terminal. “We are going to make sure the price is not going to be an obstacle. To have it offered for free to individual users is a pretty aggressive stance,” said Mr Gurle. A former manager at Skype and Thomson Reuters, Mr Gurle set up a start-up named Perzo two years ago to explore new a messaging platform that would bridge the gap between myriad chat and email products. He soon attracted the interest of Goldman Sachs, which was also working on ways to improve communications between its staff. The development was known as Project Babel until inspiration struck Mr Gurle for a permanent name. “I thought about what the absolute opposite of Babel was, I was listening to The Four Seasons by Vivaldi, which I love, and I realised a beautiful symphony, that was the exact opposite of Babel. It allows everyone to come together,” he said. The Symphony developers have worked with banking insiders to create a filter option that allows firms to monitor chats for keywords that might suggest abuse. This feature will be “way more proactive” than similar services on other platforms, Mr Gurle claimed, and has become more pressing in light of the chat transcripts that have formed a key part of the international investigation into Libor-rigging. He said Symphony has received at least 500,000 expressions of interest in the platform, from individuals and corporations, since its existence was made public in August. “There’s been more requests than I had expected. I think it’s because the problem resonates with far more firms than just those investing [in Symphony].” Instant Bloomberg, the messaging service run by the US media and data group, is widely used in the financial industry. About 320,000 subscribers use Bloomberg’s professional accounts, sending 200 million messages a day. Reuters' Eikon Messenger platform, which offers free accounts, has 250,000 users in the sector. Reuters has said it will work to allow Symphony users to interact with those using Eikon.  FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsUS companies added far more jobs in September than expected. This sent the unemployment rate down to 5.9%, the lowest level since July 2008. Meanwhile, wages remained stagnant with average earnings showing no month-over-month growth during the period. This is good and bad. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Wall Street's equity strategists typically find themselves revising down their often too-optimistic earnings growth forecasts. But with US economic activity surprising to the upside, that pattern has recently reversed. "2015 and 2016 estimates have been trending higher," RBC Capital's Jonathan Golub noted. Here's his chart. RBC Capital MarketsIn his monthly commentary, Blackstone's Byron Wien wrote that he worried about record-high stock prices despite elevated valuations. "The valuation context could change if earnings fall short of estimates," Wien wrote.  "Right now analysts seem to be stepping up their forecasts.  I started the year thinking the S&amp;P 500 would earn $115, but there are now forecasts out there as high as $120 for this year and $127 for 2015.  This has occurred in spite of the preponderance of negative guidance being given to analysts by the companies they follow.  The favorable earnings outlook would change if the United States slipped back into a recession, but most of the indicators I am reviewing suggest that is unlikely to happen anytime soon." For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
AFPSEOUL (Reuters) - South Korean IT giant Samsung Electronics plans to spend $14.7 billion on a new chip facility - its biggest investment in a single plant - leaning on its semiconductor business to bolster profits as its smartphone dominance wanes. Samsung, the world's top memory chip maker, said the plant would be located in Pyeongtaek, roughly 75 kilometers (47 miles) south of Seoul. The company said it would create 150,000 jobs, equal to about a third of the city's population. The bet on chips comes as its smartphone business is being squeezed by Apple Inc in the premium segment and undercut by Chinese rivals like Lenovo Group Ltd in mid-to-low end. April-June operating profit for Samsung's mobile division fell in annual terms for the second straight quarter, the longest streak since at least 2011. But with the higher demand for mobile devices comes increased orders for mobile chips, and Samsung Electronics' semiconductor division will be key to propping up the company's bottom-line, analysts say. The plant in Pyeongtaek will make either logic or memory chips, Samsung Electronics said, adding that a final decision had not been made yet. "Right now the only part of the company that is bringing in steady profits is the semiconductordivision, so it looks like the company will keep investing in the business," said IM Investment analystLee Min-hee. The chip business is likely to be a lone bright spot in what is otherwise expected to be a poor third quarter for the South Korean giant. Samsung will issue its earnings guidance for the period on Tuesday. The mean forecast from a Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S survey of 42 analysts calls for the firm's July-September operating profit to come in at 5.6 trillion won ($5.24 billion), its weakest performance since the fourth quarter of 2011. Some analysts forecast that the semiconductor division will report stronger operating profit than the handset division in the third quarter for the first time in more than three years. The chip business recorded a 1.9 trillion won profit in the second quarter, compared with 4.4 trillion won for the mobile business. The company's global smartphone market share has declined in annual terms in the past two quarters, according to Strategy Analytics, in step with the profit drop at its mobile division. Shares of Samsung Electronics closed 0.9 percent higher on Monday, compared with a 0.4 percent decline in the broader market. Samsung Electronics said its chip production capacity was expected to rise by a "low double-digit percentage". Construction of the new plant is scheduled to be completed by the second half of 2017. Any capacity increase can be ominous for competitors in a deeply cyclical industry. Shares in domestic rival SK Hynix Inc fell more than 8 percent at one point on Monday after Samsung's announcement. Market conditions for memory chips have remained favorable this year partly due to stronger-than-anticipated demand from personal computers and servers. Industry players like Samsung Electronicshave so far been careful about capacity expansion, keeping supply conditions on a tight leash. Besides SK Hynix Inc, competitors in the memory industry include Micron Technology Inc andToshiba Corp. "While the plant won't enter production until 2017, Samsung's investment plan hurts sentiment because it suggests that Samsung wants to make further market share gains," IM's Lee said. Some analysts said investors may be over-reacting on SK Hynix shares, given how output from the new Samsung plant won't materialize for several years and it is not yet clear what chips will be made there. They also noted that the investment will be spread out over three years, keeping spending on the project well within Samsung's typical annual semiconductor-related investments. "This isn't about Samsung trying to destroy the industry cycle but trying to maximize profits from thesemiconductor business," CIMB analyst Lee Do-hoon said. The tech giant said it had brought forward its investment plan for Pyeongtaek by more than a year in response to calls from regional governments to help boost economic activity in the area. "Samsung will continue to balance its domestic and foreign investments to ensure optimal global production structure," the company said. Analysts said there could be practical benefits to having the new plant in relatively close proximity to other domestic chip plants as opposed to building one overseas. Some said building a new plant nearSeoul makes it easier for the company to recruit local engineering talent as well. "To some extent this is also a response to the current government's call for big corporations to invest domestically," said Korea Investment Trust Management fund manager Baik Jae-yer. The government has proposed a tax on excess profits at big corporations in an effort to prod them to spend more on investment, wages and dividends. (Reporting by Se Young Lee; Editing by Edwina Gibbs and Ryan Woo) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos Barria Protesters install a statue with a yellow umbrella as other demonstrators block the main street to the financial Central district outside of the government headquarters building in Hong Kong October 5, 2014.Good morning! This is the major news from the weekend and Monday so far that is already making waves in markets. German Factory Orders Are Collapsing. German factory orders fell 5.7% between July and August, worse than the 2.5% decline expected by economists and adding to the eurozone’s grim outlook. Brazil’s President Won The First Round Of The Country’s Election. Leftist President Dilma Rousseff placed first in Sunday's election but did not get enough votes to avoid a runoff, and she will face pro-business rival Aecio Neves.  Samsung Is Investing $14.7 Billion In A Chip Facility. The company wants to build a new semiconductor production facility in South Korea. European Markets Are Up. France’s CAC 40 is up 0.30%, the UK’s FTSE 100 is up 0.35%, and Germany’s DAX is leading, up 1.07%. Both the Hang Seng and Nikkei in Asia closed up 1.09% and 1.16% respectively. The World Bank Has Cut China’s Growth Forecast. It now expects the massive emerging economy to grow by less than the 7.5% rate targeted by the government.  Protests Might Be Fracturing in Hong Kong. There is confusion among the city’s pro-democracy protesters as to whether they have agreed to restore access to particular roads. Much of Hong Kong is inaccessible by road because of the protests. Euro Disney Is Raising Over $1.2 Billion In Funding. Euro Disney will sell about €420 million of new shares, and about €600 million of the company's debt owned by parent firm Walt Disney will be converted into equity. Japan's Economy Minister Is Concerned About The Recovery. Japanese Economy Minister Akira Amari expressed concern on Sunday about the strength of the economic recovery. Hewlett-Packard Is Set To Split. The company plans to break in two, separating its computer and printer businesses from its corporate hardware and services operations, The Wall Street Journal reported on Sunday.  The Bank Of Japan Is Set To Make A Rates Decision. Japan's monetary policymakers will make a decision on rates and other policy, to be announced at 11 p.m. ET on Monday. Most analysts are not expecting a change.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr/StockphotosforfreeIn his newest 'Sunday Start' note, Morgan Stanley economist Joachim Fels lays out his argument that the global economy might be stronger than people realize. First he starts by noting that conversations with investors have turned negative on the economy, as gloom sets in regarding Europe, Japan, China, and the rest of the emerging world. There's a huge disconnect (something that Dan Greenhaus also talked about) between what's happening in the world, and what seems to be happening in the US (solid growth, and a return to normalcy).  Anyway, here's Fels' optimistic analysis: My sense is that the published consensus has now come down to or maybe below our own numbers, and the mood among investors on growth is even more negative. Which begs the question: is it time to revise our own outlook lower yet again? Not so. On the contrary, given how fast and far market sentiment has sunk, I think it is time to bang the drums and emphasise my ‘the glass is half-full’ story. For starters, the US economy keeps humming along nicely as illustrated by a better-than-expected labour market report on Friday. Following this week’s data, our US team sees 3Q GDP growth tracking at 3.3%, up from 2.9% last week. Second, the drop in oil prices is a boon for consumers around the globe. Third, lower risk-free bond yields buy more time for EM deficit countries to reduce their external imbalances. Fourth, a stronger dollar is exactly what the doctor ordered for the ailing European and Japanese economies, who are keen to export some of their deflationary pressures back to the US. This in turn will also make early rate hikes in the US less likely as lower import prices combined with a lack of wage pressures will keep US inflation at bay. In this context, note that our FX Strategy team led by our in-house ‘dollar bull’ Hans Redeker has revised up its trajectory for the dollar yet again and is now targeting EUR/USD dollar at 1.12 by the end of 2015. And fifth but not least, keep in mind that subdued and uneven global growth should help to prolong this expansion, which could actually become the longest one on record – the main theme of our ‘Lower but Longer’ Back-to-School Outlook last month. In summary, don’t despair, but believe! FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Mohd FyrolA chemist at testing firm TUV SUD shows tests food samples for contaminants in Singapore on July 16, 2014Singapore (AFP) - Every morning, food samples are laid out on a long table at a pristine laboratory run by a German firm in Singapore -- but they're not meant for chefs or gourmets. Testing company TUV SUD is watching out for contaminants that could harm consumers in Singapore and other parts of Asia, which has recently been rocked by food-safety scandals. Sales of US fast food giant McDonald's in China were hammered this year following news reports alleging that a supplier mixed expired meat with fresh deliveries. A Taiwan company is currently embroiled in a widening scare after it was found selling hundreds of tonnes of waste "gutter oil" to food makers, bakeries and restaurants forcing the recall of cakes, bread, instant noodles, cookies, dumplings and other food items at home and in Hong Kong. On a recent visit by AFP to the TUV SUD lab in Singapore, chemists in white gowns carried out a battery of tests on milk powder from the Philippines, seafood from Indonesia, Vietnam and Malaysia and locally processed food for consumption in the city-state as well as other Asian countries. "I've been working in the industry for the past 25 years and every few years there's something major," said Chong Kok Yong, a vice president responsible for food safety at TUV SUD in Singapore. "It's an ongoing challenge because there are parties who want to make more from less, so they are always trying to make poor-quality food look good. So there's always temptation for them to do something illegal." Changing consumption patterns driven by Asia's expanding middle class, the globalisation of the food chain and the transfer of new diseases from animals to humans have made it more complicated to combat the risks, experts warned. Sivapuram V.R.K. Prabhakar, a senior policy researcher at the Japan-based Institute for Global Environmental Strategies (IGES), said many countries "still handle the issue by handing over bits and pieces of the food safety puzzle to various ministries and agencies without much coordination and collaboration". In 2008, China's dairy industry was shaken by revelations that melamine was added to powdered milk to make it appear higher in protein content, leaving 300,000 babies ill and causing worldwide recalls of products containing Chinese dairy. Tests done at TUV SUD's Singapore facility at that time showed some samples of raw ingredients having 10,000 times more melamine -- a white chemical used in plastics, adhesives, countertops, dishware and whiteboards -- than the tolerable limit. In 2011, Singapore suspended the importation of three Taiwanese brands of juice used in the popular drink known as bubble tea after they were found to contain diethylhexyl phthalate, a chemical commonly used in plastic manufacturing. The intensification of food production has also given rise to concerns over the excessive and improper use of pesticides in crops and antibiotics in animals. India uses less pesticides per hectare than Taiwan and Japan but still reports a bigger number of pesticide residue cases due mainly to improper application and the type of chemicals used, a study co-written by Prabhakar said. Hiroyuki Konuma, who heads the UN Food and Agriculture Organization in Asia Pacific, said "unsafe food causes a great number of acute and lifelong diseases ranging from diarrhoea to various forms of cancer, with more than 200 diseases spread through contaminated food." Unsafe food can also have adverse effects on productivity, tourism and trade, and can result in economic losses through wastage, he said. Expenses incurred by food producers directly associated with product recalls due to safety issues averaged 9.4 percent of annual revenue, a TUV SUD study showed. This could severely hurt profit in an industry where gross margins range between 5-15 percent, it said. The infrastructure needed to ensure food safety throughout the entire production chain -- such as refrigerated storage facilities -- is lacking, and laws governing food safety are not keeping pace with the emerging trends, they said. Konuma said that "once a hazard enters the food chain, it is not always possible to remove it," making it necessary to implement safety measures across the entire process to ensure a product is safe to sell and consume. Ishan Palit, chief executive at TUV SUD Global Product Services, said most checks are being done at the tail end of the chain, although more countries are hiring third-party firms to conduct tests at source. "You don't eliminate the risk but you reduce the risk of destruction of full batches when they come in," he told AFP. "Strong control at the border is not good enough," said Palit. "Unlike an electronic device where each part can be stamped with a part number that is traceable to the factory where it came from -- in food you cannot do that," he said. Government policymakers must also update food-safety policies, experts said. "Very few countries have a standalone food safety policy," according to Konuma. Relevant laws are under review in several countries, he said, noting that one of the key issues is the existence of separate legislation covering segments of the production chain, resulting in different levels of control. "Implementation of these laws requires a more focused approach, especially in relation to food safety for domestic consumers. Currently in many countries the focus tends to be on food exports with the aim of ensuring increased market access," he said. Asia's food safety standards need to reach international levels to match the significant amount of food it exports, either raw or processed, he added. For Prabhakar, food safety in many Asian countries is "still a work in progress". FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesWASHINGTON (Reuters) - Herbalife Ltd, the marketer of weight-management products, energy drinks and nutrition supplements that has come under investigation by the Federal Trade Commission as well as other agencies, has hired a former FTC official as its chief compliance officer. Herbalife &lt;hlf.n&gt; said it named Pamela Jones Harbour, who was an FTC commissioner from 2003 to 2010, as senior vice president, global member compliance and privacy. She will be in charge of the company's 300-member compliance team and coordinate global compliance. Herbalife earlier this year said it was being investigated by the FTC following allegations that the company was a pyramid scheme. Herbalife has been under fire from billionaire investor William Ackman, who was the first to claim that the company is a pyramid scheme. His $14.7 billion hedge fund Pershing Square Capital Management unveiled a $1 billion short bet against Herbalife in December 2012. Herbalife has rejected the allegations, and has asked the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to investigate whether short-sellers illegally manipulated the market. Herbalife's share price hit $81 briefly in January but has struggled to get about $55 over the past two months. The shares closed on Friday at $44.61? One of Harbour's challenges will be to ensure that far-flung distributors selling Herbalife products, often out of small centers with small staffs, steer clear of exaggerating claims about Herbalife's protein and vitamin shakes. "I will develop and enhance training programs, develop and ensure consistent enforcement of rules," she said. "The challenge that I have is making sure that (distributors) don't make claims above and beyond what they should make." Harbour said she has been using Herbalife's Formula 1 shake mix since 2004. Companies operating in the United States are not allowed to advertise that products will help a user lose weight, or make other health claims, unless the statement is backed up by science. Harbour, an antitrust expert, is also a veteran of the New York attorney general's office. Harbour will also work on privacy and cyber security matters for Herbalife. (Reporting by Diane Bartz; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
If you think the Obama administration has been characterized by a big expansion of government employment, you're wrong. Bill McBride at Calculated Risk has updated his charts of public sector payrolls under President Barack Obama and his recent predecessors. Calculated Risk As you can see, it's not even close. Obama in the dark blue line has seen a sustained and violent slump in public sector employment since he became president, and we're not even close to closing the gap. Reagan had a brief decline in public sector employment, but it came back fast. All the other presidents saw only gains on this measure. So what's the takeaway? Partisans will point out that Obama doesn't deserve any "credit" for the decline in government employment, because most of it has happened at the state and local levels. And that's true as far as it goes, but it misses the simple story, which is that the Obama economy is facing a headwind that simply has not been seen in decades. If it hadn't been for the collapse in public-sector employment, the jobs picture would currently look much brighter than it is. If you want to understand why Obama's jobs recovery had been mediocre, this is a great place to look. FREE AppDownload
Nobel prize The Nobel Foundation has awarded the 2014 Nobel Prize jointly to John O'Keefe and husband-wife team May-Britt Moser and Edvard Moser for "their discoveries of cells that constitute a positioning system in the brain." In 1971, O'Keefe found that a type of nerve in the brain's hippocampus was always "on" when a rat was in a specific place — he called the nerve that was activated a "place cell." More than three decades later, in 2005, husband and wife team May-Britt and Edvard Moser discovered a different nerve cell, called the "grid cell." Together, the "place cells" and "grid cells" explain how our brain makes a map of the surrounding environment and how we are able to navigate these places.  The Nobel Committee has created a useful graphic to describe the achievements of O'Keefe and May-Britt and Edvard Moser.  See below: Nobel Prize FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesGood morning! European markets are up early Monday. Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40 is up 0.64%. Spain's IBEX is up 1.05%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.49%. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.40%. German markets are leading the climb, up 1.23% despite the bad news on the country's manufacturing sector Monday morning.  Asian markets saw a solid performance, too: the Hang Seng closed up 1.19% in Hong Kong, despite the ongoing protests there, and the Nikkei closed up 1.16% from Friday's close. U.S. futures are rising, with Dow futures and S&amp;P futures up 0.34% and 0.432%, respectively. It's a quiet day as far as economic releases are concerned, kicking off a quiet week. But with extremely poor German factory orders seen Monday, industrial production figures for the country Tuesday will be watched a little more closely for any big signs of weakness. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe crowd watches the premiere of the new Disney Dreams show at the Disneyland Resort in Marne-la-ValleeLONDON (Reuters) - Euro Disney &lt;edlp.pa&gt; said on Monday it had agreed a 1 billion euro funding deal backed by its largest shareholder, the Walt Disney Co &lt;dis.n&gt;, which includes a share sale and a debt restructuring, to allow it to invest in the business. Euro Disney, based in an eastern suburb of Paris, is 40 percent owned by parent Walt Disney &lt;dis.n&gt; and 10 percent by the Saudi prince Al-Waleed bin Talal bin Abdulaziz al Saud. The plan includes a rights issue of 420 million euros open to all shareholders and backed by Walt Disney. The company said the move would improve the cash position of Euro Disney by about 250 million euros. In addition, about 600 million euros of the group's debt owed to Walt Disney will be converted into equity, while credit lines extended to Euro Disney by its parent will also be consolidated. (Reporting by Kate Holton; Editing by Leila Abboud) FREE AppDownload
APGerman factory orders fell 5.7% between July and August, worse than the 2.5% decline expected by economists. Orders are down 1.3% from August last year. It's the worst single-month drop since the beginning of 2009. Export orders were worst hit, and that matches the business surveys that suggest there’s been a knock-on effect from the war in Ukraine. But domestic orders also dropped 2% from July. That's following the latest manufacturing business survey, which indicated that the sector is now shrinking.  In a note Monday morning, Claus Vistesen at Pantheon Macroeconomics said: “In one line: Grim, as manufacturing slowdown deepens.” The chart below, provided in the report, shows how factory orders and industrial production typically track each other:   Pantheon Macroeconomics FREE AppDownload
WikipediaAlfred Nobel.  Here's the schedule of announcements: Monday, Oct. 6, 5:30 a.m. ET at the earliest (11:30 a.m. local time) — The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine Tuesday, Oct. 7, 5:45 a.m ET at the earliest (11:45 a.m. local time) — The Nobel Prize in Physics Wednesday, Oct. 8, 5:45 a.m ET at the earliest (11:45 a.m. local time) — The Nobel Prize in Chemistry Friday, Oct. 10, 5 a.m. ET at the earliest (11:00 a.m. local time) — The Nobel Peace Prize Monday, Oct. 13, 7 a.m. ET at the earliest (1:00 p.m. local time) — The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel You can watch the live webcast of the decisions below, or head over to the Nobel Prize YouTube channel. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of Recruit Holdings is seen on its headquarters building in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japan's largest recruitment company Recruit Holdings priced its initial public offering at 3,100 yen on Monday, the top of its bookbuilding range, showing confidence in investor demand for the $2 billion listing. The range of 2,800 to 3,100 yen, set last week, had already suggested a more bullish stance than the initial indicative price of 2,800 yen. The company's Oct. 16 listing, which will help Recruit to pay for future acquisitions as it expands overseas, will test investor demand for big Tokyo listings after several weak debuts earlier this year. Some of the disappointing listings have reflected company-specific reasons, with Japan Display Inc's  shares skidding 43 percent from their IPO price as investors fret about falling smartphone screen prices and its ability to compete with Asian rivals. Investors have said Recruit may fare better due to a recent pickup in Tokyo shares as well as solid fundamentals. Recruit, one of the world's top five staffing firms, is aiming to become the world's biggest by 2020. In 2013, it reported revenue of 1.2 trillion yen ($10.96 billion) and an EBITDA margin of 15.2 percent. Rival Adecco SA's  EBITDA margin is around 5 percent. In recent years, Recruit has aggressively acquired overseas firms, seeking to offset a shrinking market in Japan where the population is rapidly aging. It has acquired U.S. staffing service CSI, Advantage Resourcing and Staffmark Holdings as well as Indeed.com. Including an overallotment, the IPO is worth 213.82 billion yen ($1.95 billion) and values the company at 1.78 trillion yen.   (Reporting by Ritsuko Ando; Editing by Edmund Klamann) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ueslei MarcelinoBrazil's President Dilma Rousseff.  Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Monday.  1. Brazil's President Dilma Rousseff led in Sunday's first round of elections but, after failing to win a majority of the vote, will have to run against pro-business candidate Aecio Neves in the second round of the contest on Oct. 26.  2. After more than a week of demonstrations, pro-democracy protesters in Hong Kong lifted their blockade outside government headquarters and allowed civil servants to return to work Monday morning. Students are now in open negotiations with the government.  3. Hewlett-Packard plans to split in two, with its personal-computer and printer businesses breaking away from its corporate hardware and services segments, The Wall Street Journal reported.  4. Sierra Leone counted 121 deaths on Sunday, marking "one of the single deadliest days" since the beginning of the Ebola outbreak in West Africa, Reuters reported.  5. It's Nobel Prize week. The 2014 prize in physiology and medicine will be announced at 5:30 a.m. ET on Monday.  6. Officials told The Wall Street Journal that the European Union was likely to reject France's 2015 budget plan, which does not meet the EU's deadline of lowering the public deficit to 3% of GDP by next year.  7. Thomas Eric Duncan, the first patient found to have Ebola in the US, is in critical condition at a Dallas Hospital.  8. Euro Disney has agreed to a one billion euro recapitalization plan proposed by the Walt Disney Company.  9. The Global Diversity Outlook, a report released Monday by the UN, shows that countries are far off from meeting their 2020 goals for protecting animals and plants.  10. Another round of nude celebrity photos has leaked.  And finally ... More than half of Britons can't spell common words, including restaurant and occurrence.  FREE AppDownload
