NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock investors head into the Thanksgiving holiday thankful for the market's recent strength, which puts major indexes on track for another year of double-digit gains, though the swiftness of the advance has raised eyebrows. The S&amp;P 500 is up 13.3 percent from an intraday low hit on Oct. 15, and the gains since then have been broad. Since that bottom, all but 23 S&amp;P 500 components are higher. The magnitude of the rally has some concerned. Several notable fund managers at this week's Reuters Investment Outlook Summit said they don't expect stocks to do much in 2015. Citigroup on Thursday wrote that the market was "on the edge of euphoria ... causing us to be more cautious," while Goldman Sachs on Wednesday released its 2015 year-end target of 2,100 - just 1.8 percent above current levels. The recent stretch of solid earnings and economic figures, however, leaves managers puzzled over what could hurt the market going forward. "It's tough for me to wrap my head around the next big move being lower," said David Lebovitz, global market strategist at J.P. Morgan Funds in New York. "Some people aren't comfortable with current levels, but fundamentals remain strong." The market's recent gains prompted a notable commentary from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco on Nov. 13 that pointed out certain valuation metrics look stretched. It also noted that the ratio of NYSE margin debt to GDP in September stood at an elevated level that, in the past, was "followed by major downturns in stock prices." Jim McDonald, chief investment strategist at Chicago-based Northern Trust Asset Management, wasn't buying it. He said the level of margin debt is "more or less consistent with the trend line over the past 20-plus years," though a pullback was possible. "The primary issue facing the market is that we've gotten a year's return out of the S&amp;P in the past month," he said. "Investors are more than willing to take risk off the table after such a big run." Volatility may pick up next week as many take off for Thanksgiving. Markets are closed on Thursday and will close early on Friday. However, December has historically been the best month of the year for the S&amp;P, according to the Stock Trader's Almanac, averaging a rise of 1.7 percent. Energy names have jumped sharply since the October low, which could make them liable to profit taking, especially going into the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries' Nov. 27 meeting, when members will consider whether to cut output to shore up prices. Chesapeake Energy, Newfield Exploration, CONSOL Energy and Marathon Petroleum Corp have all gained more than 20 percent since the market's October low.   (Editing by Nick Zieminski) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Visa logo is seen during the International CTIA WIRELESS Conference & Exposition in New Orleans, Louisiana(Reuters) - Visa Inc , the world's largest credit and debit card company, said it might have to pay more than $10 billion to buy its London-based European licensee, Visa Europe Ltd, if its owners exercise their option to sell it. Visa might issue debt or equity, or need third-party financing, to fund the purchase of Visa Europe, it said in an annual filing with regulators. Visa Europe is owned and operated by more than 3,700 European financial institutions.  (Reporting By Sai Sachin R in Bangalore. Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Bank of America building is shown in Los Angeles, CaliforniaBy Brett Wolf (Reuters) - Bank of America has hired two U.S. government officials to join its financial crimes team, according to three people familiar with the matter, as banks are under increasing pressure to police their transactions for suspicious activity. Bank of America has hired Jaikumar Ramaswamy, who heads the U.S. Justice Department's asset forfeiture and money laundering section, and Frederick Reynolds, who is deputy director of the Treasury Department's anti-money laundering unit, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN). Ramaswamy and Reynolds will join the bank in January and will report to the global head of financial crimes compliance, Bill Fox, a former director of FinCEN. Their precise roles have not yet been determined, said the sources, who declined to be identified because they were not authorized to speak publicly. A spokesman for Bank of America declined comment. Neither Ramaswamy nor Reynolds immediately responded to requests for comment. Banks face increasingly steep penalties for failing to flag transactions for possible money laundering or corruption risks, or those that could violate U.S. sanctions on other countries. British bank Standard Chartered agreed to pay a $300 million penalty from the New York state bank regulator in August for failing to weed out risky transactions that could be linked to money laundering. The settlement came on top of $667 million in penalties the bank agreed to pay in 2012 to resolve similar charges. In July, Bank of America's banking unit agreed to pay $16.6 million to resolve allegations that it processed several hundred transactions for drug traffickers subject to U.S. sanctions. Ramaswamy has led the anti-money laundering unit at the Justice Department since 2012, and oversaw the largest such case in which French bank BNP Paribas pleaded guilty in July and paying nearly $9 billion in penalties to resolve charges that it violated embargoes against Sudan, Cuba and Iran. Reynolds, a former prosecutor who worked on civil and criminal forfeiture cases, has played a key role in a recent  reorganization of FinCEN's enforcement unit.  (Reporting by Brett Wolf with additional reporting by Aruna Viswanatha; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
We discovered that the Facebook app for the iPhone is taking up way too much space on your phone. The video above explains in much more depth and tells you how to solve the problem, but it's still annoying. Update: Facebook sent us additional information on how it's addressing the problem: "Photos and videos account for most of the data we store, and we made a recent update to get smarter about when to delete old photos from the device that aren’t being used anymore. We also made an update in v18 of our app to clear out cached web pages after the web page cache reaches 25 megabytes." Produced by Matthew Stuart. Special thanks to Matt Johnston. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
There has been a lot of attention paid to the harm that the oil industry is experiencing in the face of declining oil prices, but there has been little talk about how strained state budgets may become due to lower oil tax revenues. Several states in the U.S. that are overly dependent on oil to meet their budget forecasts are starting to come to grips with the fact that their spending plans may not work in a low priced environment. Oil prices have dropped by more than 30 percent since the summer, with WTI prices dropping below $75 per barrel in the third week of November. That has officials from several states, namely Texas, Alaska, Louisiana, New Mexico, North Dakota, and Oklahoma, scrambling to make the math work. Alaska in particular will see a gaping hole between what it forecasted for revenue collections and what it will ultimately be able to collect. That is because it relies on oil taxes to meet 89 percent of its collections. Even worse, some states were much more optimistic about oil prices than others, setting their budgets up for a big disappointment. For example, Alaska’s budget assumed that oil prices would average $106.61 per barrel for the year, and $105 next year. With actual prices way off from that, Alaska may need to make some dramatic revisions to its spending plans. For now, state officials from Alaska are maintaining that this isn’t something the state can’t weather. “Our state is not in a situation of deficit spending and in no danger of being in one,” John Tichotsky, the state’s chief economist, told Bloomberg in an Oct. 28 interview. Texas, the largest oil producer in the U.S. by far at 3.1 million barrels per day (as of August 2014), is in much better shape. While it has more to lose, Texas has a much larger and much more diversified economy than other oil producing states. Oil revenues only make up about 8 percent of its tax take. Not only that, but after experiencing a massive bust in the 1980’s when oil prices tanked, Texas has since decided to divert much of its oil revenues to a rainy day fund, meaning not only has it built up cash reserves since then, but it also doesn’t design its annual budget around short-term fluctuations as much as it could. Even better still, unlike Alaska, Texas drew up its latest budget on very conservative oil price estimates – about $82 per barrel for 2014, and $80 per barrel in 2015, not too far off from current prices. But not all states are as well positioned as Texas. Louisiana is selling more debt in order to cover the unexpected shortfall. It offered $200 million in bonds, enough to cover a mid-November revision of its lower-than-expected budget revenue. The state is expected to take in $171 million less than originally projected through June 2015. New Mexico is also in the line of fire. It may take in $100 million less than anticipated, which could prevent hoped-for tax cuts. “We think the budget is simply not going to be big enough to accomplish major tax reform,” New Mexico’s Finance and Administration Secretary Tom Clifford, said on November 19. And it is not just U.S. states that are feeling the pinch. America’s massive oil producing neighbor to the north is also taking a hit. The eastern province of Newfoundland and Labrador might be the most exposed, as it is already running a deficit, according to Moody’s Investors Service. Lower revenues will exacerbate its budget woes. Alberta could weather low oil prices better than others, despite making up the lion’s share of Canadian oil production. That is because it built up cash reserves during good times. Still, the drop in oil prices is inflicting real pain. The province loses $215 million in revenues for every $1 drop in the price of a barrel of oil. Alberta’s Premier reiterated that the province will balance its budget even with low prices, butwarned that “this is not business as usual.” In an address on November 15 he said “We need to steel ourselves. We will face this challenge together.” He went on to add, “if we are in a low-price environment for an extended period of time… there will be consequences, clearly.” FREE AppDownload
Google MapsThis townhouse at 24 East 81st Street just hit the market for $63 million.New York’s new most expensive townhouse has hit the market for $63 million, real estate website Curbed is reporting. The six-story mansion has 17,850 square feet, 10 bedrooms, eight fireplaces, an elevator, and a total of 25 rooms.  Corcoran Group Real EstateIt also has 2,300 exterior square feet, huge windows, and tall ceilings. The house was originally built as a single-family residence, but has since been split up into six separate units, according to Curbed, with the restaurant Crown occupying the ground floor. Corcoran Group Real EstateThe home was designed in 1900 by New York-based architectural firm Buchman &amp; Fox and developer Jeremiah C. Lyons. Corcoran Group Real EstateThe previous record holder for priciest townhouse in New York was the Harkness Mansion on East 75th Street, which sold for $53 million to private equity mogul J. Christoper Flowers in 2006 according to The Real Deal.  Corcoran Group’s Carrie Chiang has the listing together with Brown Harris Stevens’ John Burger and Daniela Rivoir.  Corcoran Group Real Estate FREE AppDownload
Julia La Roche for Business InsiderPoker is a fantastic game, particularly alluring to competitive, creative types who love numbers. Business Insider's Eugene Kim has profiled some of Silicon Valley's biggest poker fans, and the game is also huge draw with the Wall Street crowd.  While I'm far from a serious, professional poker player, I do occasionally get a chance to enjoy a game with friends. And I also love math and statistics. So I decided to look at some of the basic mathematics of the game. Here, I go through the probabilities of drawing each five-card poker hand from a deck of cards. These probabilities are handy to have in the back of your head in a poker game, and they are the reason why hands are ranked the way they are: a straight flush is way less likely than a pair, so this is why the straight flush wins.
REUTERS/Dadang Tri SEC Chief: We're Wasting Money Trying To Protect Millionaires (Think Advisor)  Right now the SEC is examining possible changes to the accredited investor definition. SEC chairwoman Mary Jo White wants to make sure that the SEC is properly identifying the investors who fit that definition.  But SEC commissioner Daniel Gallagher doesn't think this is necessary because "millionaires can fend for themselves," reports Melanie Waddell. "Why should we spend limited commission resources 'protecting' the wealthiest 2% to 3% of investors in the country? This obsession with 'protecting' millionaires — potentially at the cost of hindering the wildly successful and critically important private markets — strains logic and reason," Gallagher said. Foreign Central Banks Offer Up A Glimmer Of Hope (Charles Schwab)  Although Europe's third-quarter GDP was slightly better than expected, things aren't looking good. The 18 euro-using economies haven't posted quarterly growth numbers greater than 0.3% since Q2 2013. "Europe's economy has remained frozen in place well beyond the past few quarters: real GDP is in-line with where it was four years ago," write Liz Ann Sonders, Brad Sorensen, and Jeffrey Kleintop. However, the European Central Bank is starting to act more aggressively. It's unveiled a negative deposit rate, long-term loans to banks, and purchases of assets. "Global economies remain weak, but we are seeing a glimmer of hope from stepped up responses from foreign central banks," they add. Two Advisers Worth $2.1 Billion Quit Merrill Lynch (Investment News) "Two advisers who formerly managed around $2.1 billion departed for rival firms in California, according to representatives at the recruiting firms. Both had ties to Merrill Lynch's elite private banking and investment group, which comprises 150 adviser teams serving ultra-wealthy clients," reports Mason Braswell. James Hulburd, who managed $1.5 billion, moved to UBS, while John Van Donge, who managed $600 million, moved to Stifel Nicolaus &amp; Co. Merrill Lynch has had a string of advisers leave. And the firm's brokerage chief, John Thiel, was questioned by executives over recent attrition, Braswell reports. An Adviser Was Expelled From The Industry After He Caused Elderly Investors To Lose $340,000 (Financial Planning)  Former CUSO Financial Services adviser Patrick Richard Harrison was banned from the industry after he reportedly was involved in securities transactions that caused two elderly investors to lose greater than $340,000, according to Margarida Correia. Harrison "introduced the investors to an individual who purported to sell them discounted shares in a publicly traded regional bank. Harrison participated in phone calls with the investors and the securities seller about the investment opportunity, and assisted in having funds deposited with the seller and entities he controlled," reports Correia. And while the investors lost money, Harrison made $14,000. Japan's QE Program Is Great For Global Risk Assets, But Terrible For The Yen (Advisor Perspectives)  The Bank of Japan recently announced an expansion in asset purchases similar to the Fed's QE, which should fund massive government indebtedness and facilitates pension fund reform. This could provide a boost to Japanese asset prices and give support to Japanese Prime Minster Abe. "Pumping money into the economy and changing the asset allocation mix of a trillion-dollar pension scheme has had an impact on Japan's domestic asset prices. Globally, it's also very supportive, in our view, because money is fungible. Money that is printed in Japan doesn't just stay in Japan; it flows into other markets. So we think Japan's QE program is very positive for global risk assets but will be unambiguously negative for the yen," wrote Michael Hasenstab.    FREE AppDownload
APPresident of Brazil Dilma RousseffSAO PAULO/BRASILIA (Reuters) - President Dilma Rousseff expects a bribery scandal at state-run oil company Petrobras to deteriorate in coming months, aides say, with arrests possible for some political allies and potentially serious damage to an economy that is already struggling. Prosecutors say corrupt officials siphoned billions of dollars from Petroleo Brasileiro SA, as the company is formally known, into the coffers of several parties including Rousseff's Workers' Party. The probe has already resulted in the arrest of two former Petrobras officials as well as executives from eight of Brazil's 10 biggest construction companies, which prosecutors say were part of the scheme. More arrests are expected. "The only thing we know is that things will get worse," a senior official close to Rousseff told Reuters. Rousseff was chairwoman of Petrobras' board from 2003 to 2010, but she has denied any knowledge of graft and opposition parties have ruled out seeking her impeachment for now. An uncharismatic career civil servant who has largely shunned the backroom dealing common in Brasilia, Rousseff will not try to stop the investigation from sweeping up guilty politicians, even those from her party, aides say. Local media say as many as 70 members of Congress could be implicated. "We want this investigation to go forward in full," she said in a speech Thursday. "Brazil will come out of this stronger." Rousseff is more worried about limiting the damage to the economy, which suffered a light recession earlier this year and faced the possibility of another one in 2015 even before the scandal broke. However, the official said "there aren't many good options," and that the ball appears to be primarily in the court of prosecutors and the companies involved. Under local law, companies found guilty of bribery can be barred from doing business with the government for two years. Yet the construction companies under investigation are so big, with combined revenues of 150 billion reais ($58 billion) and projects from hydroelectric dams to preparations for the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, that broad suspensions could badly damage the economy. The companies are also major suppliers to Petrobras, which would struggle to find alternatives to execute projects. Just a 10 percent cut to Petrobras' investment budget could cause Brazil's economy to grow 0.5 percentage points less next year, some economists said. The scandal has nudged Rousseff toward appointing a more market-friendly figure as finance minister who will try to keep investment from falling even further, aides said. An announcement is expected later Friday.   GOVERNMENT IS 'STUNNED' Some in Brasilia have accused Rousseff of largely disappearing from public view since being re-elected on Oct. 26 and say she should be more actively identifying and firing officials involved and taking more concrete steps to restore investor confidence, such as announcing budget cuts. "The government is stunned. It is completely paralyzed and rudderless," Senator Jose Agripino, leader of the opposition Democrats Party, told Reuters. A congressional leader for the Brazilian Social Democracy Party (PSDB), the biggest opposition party, filed a motion with judicial oversight bodies on Thursday to fire Petrobras CEO Maria das Gracas Foster. Yet Rousseff has, so far, stood by Foster, who has been described as one of her only close friends in public life. The director of Brazil's comptroller general said the body could hand down a suspension of government contracts for construction companies convicted of corruption. "The risk exists," Jorge Hage told Reuters on Friday. "It's the law." To avoid such a ban, Hage said guilty companies could have to negotiate a deal in which they would return illicitly gained money, renegotiate contracts that included bribes, and identify individuals who received bribes. "We hope they all have the good sense to take steps to repair the damage done," Hage said. That could require some degree of coordination among the companies. Some politicians have suggested the government could informally help broker such a deal but it would need the kind of negotiating finesse and communications skill that Rousseff has not shown. Recent developments suggest Rousseff and other parties may have some leeway to manage the crisis. An assistant to the judge overseeing the Petrobras case told Reuters this week that the investigation could continue for two years or more. A trial could take even longer in a country where big cases often drag on for more than a decade. The economy has also shown some bright spots, with inflation slowing a bit and unemployment hitting a new monthly low in October, although other data shows payrolls shrinking. Aides to Rousseff are hoping for a repeat of 2011, when a wave of smaller corruption allegations actually led her popularity to rise because she fired some involved. "The fight against corruption has never been as strong as it is now in my government," Rousseff said Thursday. "There is no pressure at all from the government to block investigations."   (Additional reporting by Brad Haynes; Editing by Kieran Murray) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lindsay DeDarioStorm clouds and snow blows off Lake Erie in Buffalo, New York.Central Banks provided some "oomph" to the markets, sending stocks to record highs. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. Before settling down a bit, the Dow surged 175 points to set an intraday high of 17,894.83 earlier today. The S&amp;P 500 spiked 18.7 points to set an intraday high of 2,071.46. 2. European Central Bank President Mario Draghi unleashed some dovish words that sent the euro tanking. "It is essential to bring back inflation to target and without delay," he said at the Frankfurt European Banking Congress. "For our part, we will continue to meet our responsibility – we will do what we must to raise inflation and inflation expectations as fast as possible, as our price stability mandate requires of us ... If on its current trajectory our policy is not effective enough to achieve this, or further risks to the inflation outlook materialise, we would step up the pressure and broaden even more the channels through which we intervene, by altering accordingly the size, pace and composition of our purchases." The euro tanked after his speech. 3. China's Central Bank sent shockwaves around the world when it unexpectedly announced its first rate cut since June 2012. The one-year deposit rate just got cut 0.25 points to 2.75%, and the refinancing rate was slashed 0.40 points to 3.60%. This was seen as an effort by Chinese policy makers to stimulate the decelerating economy. 4. But, at least one economist isn't so bullish about the rate cuts. "I think the market is somewhat overreacting," Societe Generale economist Wei Yao told Business Insider. "That kind of easing, in our view, will not be enough to stop growth deceleration, but it is enough to stop a hard landing." Don't Miss: GOLDMAN: Here Are The 10 Big Market Stories That'll Dominate 2015 » FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Portia Crowe/Business Insider Young New Yorkers kicked off the holiday season on Thursday night at the fifth-annual Toast To Wishes, a charity event organized by Make-A-Wish New York's under-40 board. The event took place at Marquee in Chelsea, and had been sold-out for six weeks. (Last year's event was so packed that the organizers had to limit the tickets this year to 650, down from 750.) Click here to skip to the slide show » "[Make-A-Wish] really gives a child a reason to hope and to dream and to really want to live, at times when they might not want to," Zach Coopersmith, the co-chair of Make-A-Wish's under-4o board and partner at Leading Ridge Capital Partners, told Business Insider.  Coopersmith first came up with the idea for Toast to Wishes five years ago with a group of friends in the Hamptons. "We were a few years out of school, we were enjoying going to clubs... and we said, 'Hey, could we put something together for a great cause and still have a lot of fun doing it?'" Short answer: yes. “With so many things to do, and so many places to give, why Make-A-Wish? For me it’s simple — and that’s the mission. The mission to grant wishes and strength and joy to children battling life-threatening illnesses. And for me, the impact that Make-A-Wish has on kids and their families dealt such a tough hand is unmatched, unparalleled," Coopersmith told the attendees. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Maria Teresa The hipster population is spreading nationally and internationally. Skinny jeans-wearing, beard-toting 20- and 30-somethings are flocking to areas in which they feel right at home. These are areas chock-full of trendy food trucks, as in Austin's East Austin neighborhood; theater festivals, as in the Shimokitazawa neighborhood of Tokyo; and thrift stores, as in Stockholm's Södermalm. After scouring the globe, we found the most hipster neighborhoods in cities around the world.
Joshua Roberts/ReutersSenator Levin was particularly testyThe Goldman Sachs Senate hearing on commodities got nasty yesterday, The New York Times reported.“What’s the point? Maybe you can help me out here,” the Times quoted a frustrated Senator McCain (R-Arizona) as saying to a panel of Goldman executives. It was the first of a 2-day hearing over the bank’s sway in the commodities market. The Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations claims that Goldman has been able to drive certain commodities prices higher through its ownership of Colombian coal mines, Detroit aluminum warehouses, and a London-based uranium trading firm. Goldman says it doesn't impact the market, and that it should be able to keep these holdings.Other banks, including JP Morgan Chase and Morgan Stanley, have faced similar allegations and have pledged to cut down their commodities assets. At the hearing, shots were fired. Senators got sassy. At one point, Senator McCain responded to Goldman executives with a sarcastic “Remarkable,” the Times reported. Senator Carl Levin (D-Michigan), also on the subcommittee, said “Come on … I’m just trying to get you to acknowledge what is obvious.” What is obvious, according to the Senators, is that bank regulation dating back to the 1950s prevented banks from owning physical commodities. However, a combination of deregulation in the 1990s, and the chaos of asset purchases after the financial crisis landed some of these commodities on bank balance sheets. Now regulators and legislators alike are trying to go back to something more like the way things were. And their worry isn't just price manipulation. The Senate report on Goldman says that the bank was holding commodities valued at 12% of their Tier 1 capital. McCain and Levin wrote that they feared a disaster — a BP-sized oil spill, for example — could blow a massive hole in a systemically important bank's balance sheet. Here’s the subcommittee's 400-page report on how Goldman artificially boosted the price of aluminum.   FREE AppDownload
Sears tested its products and printed the famous catalog in the complex just outside Chicago.  But in 1974, the company moved to the Sears Tower and these buildings were left deserted for 30 years. In that time, Sears went from being on top of the world to being one of the most distressed American brands.  While developers used some of the site to build the Homan Square area in Chicago, some buildings still remained empty and are considered historical landmarks.  Local photographer Martin Gonzalez took eerie photographs from inside the old headquarters. Despite the decay, many signs of the office life remain. 
Mr PorterIt's hard to buy gifts for a gentleman. They have to be tasteful, useful, thoughtful, and aesthetically pleasing. A gentleman, after all, has standards. And think about it: Do you really think he'll like getting a single tie? Again? Business Insider put together a list of creative items that might be the very thing a gentleman wants without knowing it. After all, those are the best kinds of gifts. FREE AppDownload
GameStop shares are crashing after the company reported disappointing earnings.  Executives said that a delay in a new version of the video game "Assassin's Creed" negatively impacted sales.  But the falling share price reflects that analysts and experts are worried about some long-term issues with GameStop's business.  Sterne Agee analyst Arvind Bhatia detailed some of those concerns in a note to clients.  One of the main reasons GameStop's business is declining is because customers aren't purchasing games for the Xbox 360 and PS3, instead opting for the Xbox One and PS4. GameStop needs to figure out a way to move out the old inventory while still turning a profit.  Company president Tony Bartel assured analysts that this is a temporary issue because newer versions of video games are performing so well.  GameStop boasted that its digital business grew by 52%. Digital downloads now make up 10% of total sales. Bhatia notes that it's unclear whether the trend of downloading a game rather than buying it will continue, or whether GameStop will expand its offerings.  Analysts also expressed concerns of whether digital downloads would yield the same profits as phyiscal products in the long-term.  Earlier this year, Wal-Mart launched a trade-in program for used video games, which analysts surmised could be a huge threat to GameStop because of the retailer's ubiquity and convenience.  GameStop, which has offered the service for years, denies that Wal-Mart is a threat.  "We continue to monitor our stores and have not seen an impact on pre-owned trades or sales due to other retail competition," CFO Robert Lloyd told analysts.  The digital entertainment sector is constantly evolving, and GameStop has experienced instability in the past. GameStop closed 200 stores in 2012 as customers turned to tablets and smartphones over video games.  As a video game retailer, GameStop must always rely on having the most exciting technology from partners like Microsoft. FREE AppDownload
FinVizThere goes the euro.Markets are rallying in the wake of some big central bank gestures. Currently, the Dow is up 64 points (0.4%), the S&amp;P 500 is up 8 points (0.4%), and the Nasdaq is up 15 points (0.3%). Friday came with two big central bank moves. The first big move came from European Central Bank President Mario Draghi, who spoke to a banking conference in Frankfurt at about 3:30 a.m. ET. "It is essential to bring back inflation to target and without delay," Draghi said. "We have to be very watchful that low inflation does not start percolating through the economy in ways that further worsen the economic situation." Draghi spent some time discussing how the ECB is able to stimulate the economy and prices via its purchases of bonds on the market. "For our part, we will continue to meet our responsibility – we will do what we must to raise inflation and inflation expectations as fast as possible, as our price stability mandate requires of us," he said. "If on its current trajectory our policy is not effective enough to achieve this, or further risks to the inflation outlook materialise, we would step up the pressure and broaden even more the channels through which we intervene, by altering accordingly the size, pace and composition of our purchases." The euro immediately tanked on Draghi's dovish words (see chart above). France's CAC is up 2.6%, Germany's DAX is up 2.6%, and Spain's IBEX is up 30%. The second big move came from the People's Bank of China, which announced interest rate cuts at about 5:30 a.m. ET. This was the first time the PBoC cut rates since July 2012. FinVizThere goes the Aussie dollar.The one-year deposit rate just got cut 0.25 points to 2.75%, and the refinancing rate was slashed 0.40 points to 3.60%. As you can see to right, the Aussie dollar — a proxy for the Chinese economy — made a huge move. Both of Friday's actions come in the wake of accumulating signs of deterioration in the European economy and the deceleration in the Chinese economy. "China's once-famous growth rates have dropped, and the government is now pursuing a 7.5% annual rise in GDP. Some economists think even that rate is unrealistic," Business Insider's Mike Bird noted. Societe Generale analysts note that this may not be the end of it either. "[T]he onus will be on central bankers to provide some oomph for markets going into the weekend," they wrote. "The Bank of England's MPC member [David] Miles, Federal Reserve board member [Daniel] Tarullo and San Francisco Fed President [John Williams] will all deliver speeches today while ECB Vice President Constancio will deliver a speech on monetary policy on Saturday." For now, markets are ripping higher. FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Steve Wright Jr.  Shares are down 12% today. After the close Thursday, the video game retailer reported third-quarter adjusted earnings of $0.57, missing expectations for $0.60.  Revenue came in at $2.09 billion, missing expectations for $2.2 billion. Comparable stores sales fell 2.3% in the third quarter. In a statement, GameStop CEO Paul Raines said: "Overall, most of our major product categories performed very well, but our third quarter results were impacted by Assassin’s Creed Unity moving out of October."  The company said the "Assassin's Creed" delay affected both top- and bottom-line results in the third quarter. "We believe the negative EPS impact of moving that game was at least $0.05," BMO Capital analyst Edward Williams said. GameStop's guidance for the fourth quarter also disappointed, with the company saying it saw comparable store sales coming in between -5% and +2%. The company expects profit in the fourth quarter to come in between $2.08 and $2.24 per share, below the $2.28 expected by the Street. GameStop also expects to miss profit forecasts for the full year, with the company saying earnings in fiscal 2014 will total $3.40 to $3.55 per share, below the $3.68 expected by Wall Street.  Here's the full release from GameStop.    FREE AppDownload
Chances are you’ve seen the headlines about “smart beta.” It’s become one of the most ubiquitous themes in the investment industry. But what exactly is smart beta, and what can it do for you as an investor? Over the last decade, investors far and wide have increasingly embraced the benefits of passive investing — strategies that seek to replicate a benchmark as closely as possible — as a way to efficiently access market returns at a lower cost.  But while our minds might appreciate the transparency and consistency of a passive approach, our hearts are often more than the benchmark return: We all want to be above average! Enter smart beta. Origin For the last 40 years, investors have thought of “beta,” or passive investing, as being defined by market capitalization – that is, by owning all or part of an index whose component companies or governments are represented in proportion to their shares outstanding, with the biggest issuers making up the largest slices of the index.  So passive funds typically own, say, the same securities that are in the S&amp;P 500 or the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index, while active strategies try to outperform those indices by holding positions that deviate from broad cap-weighted indexes. The beauty of smart beta is that it blends aspects of both passive and active approaches: It’s active in that it attempts to improve risk-adjusted returns compared to cap-weighted indices by capturing market anomalies or investment themes. But it’s also passive in that we believe portfolio construction should be rules-based and transparent. Why so ‘smart?’ The basic zero-sum math of capital markets still holds true: For every winner there must be a loser. What’s differentiated about smart beta is the recognition that there are certain risks (or risk premia, in the language of investment managers) that have been categorically rewarded, like taking on economic or inflation risk. At the same time, there have been forces – often powerful ones – that have driven market prices away from the pack in a predictable way, such as the way so-called value stocks or low volatility stocks tended to outperform over the long term. Many of these ideas have been featured in actively managed portfolios for decades. Smart beta allows investors to capture these themes at a fraction of the cost. Is there a catch? Well, even the most formidable forces are not immune to market cycles. For example, value stocks can lag in rallying markets as they did, for example, during the mid-2000s.  But over a sufficiently long period of time, patient investors may be rewarded for bearing the risks and the discomfort of market cycles. That’s actually the catch: You have to be willing to look past the daily market coverage and invest for the long haul.  The good news is that smart beta factors have generally not been correlated with each other – that is, each factor tends to be rewarded at different times of the economic cycle. So they can be a powerful way to implement investment views and can also be powerful sources of diversification in a portfolio. I’ll take a deeper dive into smart beta strategies and potential uses in my next Blog post.  Sara Shores, Global Head of Smart Beta for BlackRock, is the newest contributor to The Blog. FREE AppDownload
 On Friday morning, China's central bank cut interest rates to keep money flowing through the country's slowing economy. The market rejoiced.  But the market is overreacting, acording to at least one top economist. The People's Bank of China announced that it cut the one-year deposit rate by 0.25 points, to 2.75%. What it really did, however, was make a suggestion. Commercial banks can still charge 3.3% for that one-year deposit rate if they choose — that's the upper limit on the rate and has been for some time.  And considering that Chinese banks are struggling under the load of the country's corporate debt, they'll want to charge that upper limit. In a note released after the announcement, Societe Generale's Wei Yao admitted that she didn't see the interest-rate cut coming, but also reiterated that it's not a "de facto rate cut." "I think the market is somewhat overreacting," she told Business Insider. "That kind of easing, in our view, will not be enough to stop growth deceleration, but it is enough to stop a hard landing." Even if a hard landing is prevented, that doesn't mean it won't be ugly on the way down. The PBOC is reacting to the fact that the country's economy is simply decelerating faster than it had anticipated. China's HSBC PMI Manufacturing fell to a six-month low of 50 in November. The market anticipated 50.2, and anything under 50 shows a contraction in manufacturing. Another recent ugly number came from Macau's gaming sector. Analysts at Wells Fargo estimate that gross gaming revenue could fall 18% to 21% in November. That kind of data begs for action, but China didn't really take any. "The [PBOC] message is, 'We're not doing a lot of easing, so we're pushing for reform at the same time,'" said Yao. "It's not as simple as 'We're easing.'" So for the time being, we'll continue seeing these head fakes and smaller liquidity injections to prop up Chinese banks. It's not enough, though. The only thing that will really change the situation in China is a large-scale restructuring of the corporate sector, according to Yao. Reform is the only answer. Even a true rate cut wouldn't help anymore. The problem, or temporary solution, depending on how you see it, is that the market doesn't view this announcement that way.  When a central bank announces it's cutting interest rates, it usually means action is being taken. That's what the market has understood for years. This jolt of good feelings is a normal reaction; it's just that the PBOC is not a normal central bank. It's a bank with a crisis on its hands. We can all relate.     FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of TheranosElizabeth Holmes' company, Theranos, is revolutionizing the standard blood test.Age, as they say, ain't nothing but a number, and that's especially true when it comes to how much a person can achieve at a young age. We found the most inspiring innovators, entrepreneurs, and activists under the age of 40 around the world. These people disrupt industries — spanning finance, tech, sports, entertainment, media, science, food, and retail — with their revolutionary new companies, products, and ideas. In 2015, this incredible group of individuals will be worth watching.  FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Mike Mozart(Reuters) - A group of Wal-Mart employees pushing for higher wages said they were planning to protest on Black Friday at 1,600 U.S. stores in areas including Washington and Los Angeles. More than 60 protests will be held in the Washington area alone in the "biggest Black Friday strike till date", pressure group OUR Walmart said on a media call. The group also plans strikes at the San Francisco Bay Area, Sacramento, Chicago, Seattle, Texas, Minneapolis and Tampa among other places. Wal-Mart Stores Inc, owner of Wal-Mart brand stores, and the largest private employer in the United States, has been a target for activists in the contentious national debate over proposals to raise the minimum wage. (Reporting by Sruthi Ramakrishnan and Ramkumar Iyer in Bangalore; Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
There are innumerable ways to prepare your turkey for Thanksgiving dinner. But if you want something simple, delicious, and most importantly fast, this dry rub turkey recipe will get your bird on the table in 90 minutes.  Business Insider's own Sydney Kramer, who runs the food blog The Crepes of Wrath, walks us through the easy steps to cooking the perfect turkey.  The full recipe can be found here.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Additional camera by Alex Kuzoian.  Follow BI Video: On Twitter    
As the People's Bank of China slashes interest rates, the potential for a Chinese slowdown is back on everyone's mind.  China's growth has slowed from above 12% to just 7.5%. The latter is the government's target, and a lot of economists don't even believe that's manageable. That matters for pretty much everyone else in the world as well: By at least one measure China is already the world's largest economy, and if the mammoth exporter sneezes, the rest of the world could easily catch a cold. This one chart pretty much guarantees a Chinese slowdown of some sort. United Nations, Business InsiderA dependency ratio is simple: It's just the number of people aged younger than 14, combined with those aged over 65, in relation to the working-age population (16 to 64). Those figures are from the United Nations population division. So if your dependency ratio (the left-hand side of that chart) is 90, it means there are 90 people over 65 and under 14 for every 100 people of roughly working age. And China's is going to spike, under just about any circumstance, because of the country's controversial one-child policy. In the second half of the 20th century, the population was ludicrously child-heavy (which is why the dependency ratio looks high in the 1960s), so there were a lot of young workers and not many dependents during China's rapid growth spurt. But that big generation is getting older, and it's all uphill from here. It doesn't even matter whether China starts having more children, because that will only drive up the dependency ratio in the next few decades. Other countries often look to immigration to solve this, but because the Chinese population is nearly 1.4 billion, this is effectively impossible. With fewer people working and more pensions and medical care to pay for, even if China performs brilliantly in every other way, a growth slowdown is completely unavoidable.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David MoirLONDON (Reuters) - Royal Bank of Scotland said it only marginally passed a stress test last month by European regulators after admitting to an error in data it submitted, calling into question if it can pass a tougher test by British regulators. The revised result means that RBS, which is 80 percent-owned by the British government, was the worst performing UK bank in the European stress test, which assessed whether banks have enough capital to weather another economic crash. RBS said on Friday it would hold core capital under full Basel III rules of 5.7 percent under the adverse scenarios, scraping past the minimum 5.5 percent required. It had initially appeared to pass the test comfortably, holding core capital of 6.7 percent under the adverse scenarios. The revelation is another embarrassment for the bank, which has been fined in the past two weeks for failing to stop its traders attempting to manipulate foreign exchange rates and for a computer systems failure two years ago which locked millions of customers out of their bank accounts. Rival state-backed lender Lloyds Banking Group was initially understood to be the worst performing British lender, with core capital of 6.2 percent under the adverse scenarios. The Bank of England's test will measure the resilience of Britain's banks if house prices fell by 35 percent and interest rates rise to 6 percent. The results will be published on December 16.               (Reporting by Matt Scuffham; Editing by Steve Slater) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA picture illustration shows a U.S. dollar bank note and a one Euro coinBRUSSELS (Reuters) - Europe's proposed free trade agreement with the United States would collapse if European leaders bowed to pressure to remove investment protection from any deal, the chairman of EU trade ministers said on Friday. The United States and the European Union are trying to seal a free trade deal which could bring economic gains of around $100 billion dollars a year for each side. But progress has slowed partly due to stiff resistance from environmental groups and Germany to the trade pact's Investor-State Dispute Settlement Clause (ISDS), which allows companies to take cross-border legal action against governments. Critics have said that investment protection should be removed from the EU's negotiating mandate. "If we try to change the mandate, it would be the same decision as to abandon the negotiations," Italy's deputy industry minister Carlo Calenda, who is responsible for trade, told Reuters in an interview after EU trade ministers met. "It would be more than a missed opportunity because while the rest of the world is moving at a fast pace and you remain stuck, you are losing market share." The European Commission, which handles trade negotiations on behalf of the 28-member European Union, has suspended talks on investment protection pending a public consultation, the results of which are expected to be published in the coming month. It is then expected to spend months discussing how such investment talks would restart. Calenda said ISDS had to be part of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, as the EU-U.S. free trade deal would be known. "Because otherwise we cannot put an ISDS clause with China or Vietnam, because we are using ISDS clauses all around the world and because we are able to write an ISDS clause without any prejudice for the power of the state," he said. EU trade ministers meeting in Brussels agreed a joint declaration saying they wanted an ambitious trade deal with the United States. Calenda said the declaration was significant after a meeting in Rome last month when not all trade ministers backed his view that talks needed to be sped up. "At a certain point it was very unclear due to the tonnes of declarations that were going around ... Basically we asked (today) to speed up the process," he said.  (Reporting by Philip Blenkinsop; editing by Andrew Roche) FREE AppDownload
  Mike NudelmanBut this isn’t for some networking or investment opportunity of a hot startup. They meet for something much more fun: a game of poker. “It was meant to basically put together 9 or 10 of the most competitive people in Silicon Valley and play poker,” Palihapitiya, who’s been hosting home poker nights for a few years now, told Business Insider. “Once you get this competitive group of people together on the same table, it’s super fun.” The level of play is far beyond regular amateur tables. For example, Palihapitiya, who often walks off with the most chips, has played in some of the highest stake poker tournaments, including the World Series of Poker, where he finished 101st out of more than 7,000 contestants in 2011. In fact, according to Hellmuth, a 12-time world champion in Texas Hold’em, the skill level is so high that he was only able to hit break-even in the first three years he played there. “In general, great businessmen are great poker players. There’s a reason these guys made so much money in the real world. Those skills translate to poker,” Hellmuth tells us. Once the game starts, the intensity could easily turn up in a matter of seconds. They play for hours, well past 2AM on some occasions. And while the stakes remain relatively modest, $10,000 bluffs do happen in the most heated moments. But Palihapitiya says the cash part of the game is mostly irrelevant. It’s rather about the thrill of playing and winning against highly competitive people, and just trying to master every nuance of a game that, he says, “you can learn so easily, but never master.” Poker has relatively simple rules. In traditional Texas Hold’em poker, each player is first dealt a set of two cards, which are not shown to others, and then a shared pile of five cards on the table. The first three of the five shared cards are dealt at once, and after a round of betting, the fourth card is shown. The fifth card is uncovered after another round of betting. But, in between each round of betting, there’s intense strategy and mind-games involved that requires a lot of intellect and discipline throughout the game. That’s what makes poker such a complex — and fascinating — game, Palihapitiya says. There’s a chance of overcoming a poor hand, if you play it smart. Or you could lose everything with a single mistake, just when you thought you were going to win a big hand. In that sense, Palihapitiya says, there’s a certain element of poker that almost “mirrors life and running a startup.” It’s why so many entrepreneurs love the game. He sums up the similarities in six distinct points: BI Depending on how you play each round of betting, you could completely change the outcome of the game — regardless of what cards you are dealt at first. It’s just like being born into terrible circumstances in life but finding ways to overcome that and succeed. Palihapitiya relates to it personally, as he is a classic “rags-to-riches” story, having grown up on welfare as an immigrant in Canada to become one of the most successful tech entrepreneurs around. “That’s a characteristic of this game that very few games have,” he says. BI You make plenty of mistakes in poker. The point is learning from those mistakes and fixing it in the future. “When you misplay your cards and lose a big hand, it’s an unbelievable moment of learning,” Palihapitiya says. It’s one thing not to repeat the same mistake, but it’s also important to know when you win by sheer luck. “Sometimes you just do something and it completely works, and you think to yourself, ‘I must be really good.’ The takeaway should be the exact opposite — you may have just gotten really lucky,” Palihapitiya says. BI Pretending like you have a strong hand, or “bluffing,” is a huge part of poker; all good players know how and when to use it properly. Palihapitiya says he doesn’t even look at his hand 90% of the time before placing his first bet. Similarly, in startups, it’s important to act confident at all times and believe in your product/vision, as he says, “In a startup, you have to fake it 'till you make it.” This is the same point Salesforce.com’s Marc Benioff says in his book, “Behind the Cloud”: “You have to act confident, even when you’re not.” BI There are moments in poker when you lose big just when you thought you were going to win. It often causes huge emotional tilt and impacts your subsequent decision-making power. “If you can’t keep a clear head, you’re going to start making worse decisions and those decisions will compound,” Palihapitiya says. “Poker’s great because it teaches you how to be mentally disciplined in the face of adversity.” BI The best poker players have an exceptional ability to sense others’ emotional energy. They can read how people feel or think by just looking at their reactions to certain moves or body gestures. Palihapitiya says that ability can help you in everyday life, too, as you become “more emotionally attuned to the people around you.” In other words, you can start understanding others better, coaching people better, and even negotiating better. BI An average person’s life spans 80 to 90 years. Most startups are on a five-to-seven-year trajectory. A single round of poker, however, happens in a matter of just a few minutes. “Every hand in poker is a microcosm of that entire struggle (of life or a startup),” Palihapitiya says. You have to make quick decisions — and take risks — in a short period of time, with very limited information, and those decisions could have a huge impact on the outcome of the game. It’s why good poker players know how to make the right decisions quickly and take risks when needed. BIPalihapitiya, who at age 26 was the youngest VP in AOL’s history, says he doesn’t have enough time to play poker as much as he used to anymore. But he still tries to tell others how great the game is through charity events, which many of his Silicon Valley friends join in together. For example, he donated all of his winnings from the World Series of Poker to the Boys and Girls Club, while he’s been hosting a number of different charity poker games that generate roughly $6 million a year. “It’s really not about trying to make money - it’s about ‘Can you beat this guy?” Palihapitiya says. “Poker’s just a fascinating game of skill that’s exceptionally difficult to master. It really helps you disambiguate a lot of skills.” 
LONDON (Reuters) - - A banking culture that implicitly puts financial gain above all else fuels greed and dishonesty and makes bankers more likely to cheat, according to the findings of a scientific study. Researchers in Switzerland studied bank workers and other professionals in experiments in which they won more money if they cheated, and found that bankers were more dishonest when they were made particularly aware of their professional role. When bank employees were primed to think less about their profession and more about normal life, however, they were less inclined to dishonesty. "Many scandals... have plagued the financial industry in the last decade," Ernst Fehr, a researcher at the University of Zurich who co-led the study, told reporters in a telephone briefing. "These scandals raise the question whether the business culture in the banking industry is favoring, or at least tolerating, fraudulent or unethical behaviors." Fehr's team conducted a laboratory game with bankers, then repeated it with other types of workers as comparisons. The first study involved 128 employees all levels of a large international bank - the researchers were sworn to secrecy about which one - and 80 staff from a range of other banks. Participants were divided into a treatment group that answered questions about their profession, such as "what is your function at this bank;" or a control group that answered questions unrelated to work, such as "how many hours of TV do you watch each week?" They were then asked to toss a coin 10 times, unobserved, and report the results. For each toss they knew whether heads or tails would yield a $20 reward. They were told they could keep their winnings if they were more than or equal to those of a randomly selected subject from a pilot study. Given maximum winnings of $200, there was "a considerable incentive to cheat," Fehr's team wrote in the journal Nature, online November 19. The results showed the control group reported 51.6% winning tosses and the treatment group - whose banking identity had been emphasized to them - reported 58.2% as wins, giving a misrepresentation rate of 16%. The proportion of subjects cheating was 26%. The same experiments with employees in other sectors - including manufacturing, telecoms and pharmaceuticals - showed they don't become more dishonest when their professional identity or banking-related information is emphasized. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work in the Goldman Sachs stall on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange(Reuters) - Mergers and acquisition deals announced so far this year have topped $3 trillion, the highest since 2007, helped by mega deals in the healthcare, energy and power sectors. The total value of deals globally jumped about 48 percent to $3.06 trillion as of Nov. 20, compared with the same period last year, according to Thomson Reuters data. Goldman Sachs Group Inc &lt;gs.n&gt; retained its No. 1 position as M&amp;A adviser with deals worth $877 billion, followed by JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;jpm.n&gt; with $651 billion and Citigroup Inc &lt;c.n&gt; with $633 billion. Morgan Stanley &lt;ms.n&gt; slipped to the fifth position from third last year. The M&amp;A market, which was the doldrums following the financial crisis, got a lift from a resurgent stock market and growing confidence among cash-rich companies. The $66.4 billion bid for Allergan Inc &lt;agn.n&gt; by Actavis PLC &lt;act.n&gt; this week more than doubled the total value of deals in the healthcare sector to $364 billion. Halliburton Co's &lt;hal.n&gt; plans to buy smaller rival Baker Hughes Inc &lt;bhi.n&gt; for about $38.5 billion raised the value of deals in the energy sector by 68 percent to $516.3 billion. Other notable deals include Comcast Corp's &lt;cmcsa.o&gt; $45.2 billion bid for rival Time Warner Cable Inc &lt;twc.n&gt;. The United States led the way with about $1.41 trillion worth of deals, up 58 percent compared with last year.   (Reporting by Avik Das in Bangalore; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
Dan Loeb is having a great week.  Dow Chemical and Loeb's hedge fund Third Point have just announced an agreement. Dow Chemical is now adding four independent directors to its board. Two of those new directors—Raymond J. Milchovich and R. "Steve" Miller—had previously been retained by Third Point as advisers. They now have to act as independent directors, meaning they can't have contact with Loeb. It wasn't a loss for Dow, though. The other two directors were picked by Dow. What's more is the board's size is actually increasing from 10 to 13 effective January 1, 2015.  Dow Chemical's stock was last trading up more than 2%.  Loeb's $17 billion Third Points last held 22,000,000 shares of Dow Chemical. Last week, the activist investor released a scathing political advertising-like video slamming the company's management for "broken promises." He also launched a website and touted Milchovich and Miller for having "significant expertise in corporate turnarounds and operational management, skillsets Dow desperately needs to move forward.” The website, www.value-dow.com, has been taken down.  Dow isn't Loeb's only win this week. On Thursday, Sotheby's—one of the Loeb's other targets—said that its CEO Bill Ruprecht would step down following a "mutual agreement with the Board." Loeb and two allies joined the auction house's board back in the spring. Sotheby's stock was last trading up about 8% in the pre-market.  Here's the Dow Chemical release:  The Dow Chemical Company (DOW) today announced it will add four new independent directors to its Board: All four individuals will be included in Dow’s nominations for election at the 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Loughridge, Milchovich and Miller will join the Board effective January 1, 2015, and Davis will join the Board in May 2015, following Dow’s 2015 Annual Meeting. As a result of today’s announcement, Dow’s Board will increase from 10 to 13 members, as of January 1, 2015. *** Mr. Mark Loughridge Former SVP and CFO, IBM Mr. Mark Loughridge was named IBM's Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in May 2004. He was given the additional responsibility for Enterprise Transformation in July 2010 to lead IBM’s ongoing integration and transformation as well as continue in his role as CFO. Loughridge retired from this position in December 2013 after 36 years with IBM. He joined the company in 1977, where he started as a development engineer in the Office Products Division in Lexington, KY. He holds a Master of Business Administration degree from the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from Stanford University and completed studies at Ecole Nationale Superieure de Mecaniquein Nantes, France. In 2010, Loughridge was rated by the buy-side analysts as the top rated CFO in the IT Hardware Sector by Institutional Investor. In 2012, he was ranked the #1 CFO in America by the Wall Street Journal, and named the "Executive Dream Team" CFO by Fortune Magazine, and the "Best CFO" in the IT hardware category by Institutional Investor. Loughridge serves on the Board of Directors of The Vanguard Group. He is also a member of the Council on Chicago Booth. Raymond J. MilchovichLead Director, Nucor Corp; Former Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and President, Foster Wheeler AG Mr. Milchovich has served as the Lead Director of Nucor since September 2013. Mr. Milchovich served as non-executive Chairman of the board of directors of, and a consultant to, Foster Wheeler AG, a Switzerland-based global engineering and construction company serving primarily the energy infrastructure markets, from 2010 until his retirement in 2011. Previously, Mr. Milchovich served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Foster Wheeler from 2001 to 2010 and as President from 2001 to 2007. Prior to that, Mr. Milchovich served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Kaiser Aluminum &amp; Chemical Corporation, a producer and marketer of alumina, aluminum and aluminum fabricated products, from 1999 to 2001, and as President and Chief Operating Officer from 1997 to 1999. Mr. Milchovich began his career in the steel industry, holding a variety of operating management positions for Wisconsin Steel Corporation and Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation. From 2002 to 2007, Mr. Milchovich served as a director of Nucor and voluntarily resigned from such position to devote more time to his position as Chief Executive Officer of Foster Wheeler. Mr. Milchovich was also a director of Delphi Corporation from 2005 through 2009. In serving as Chief Executive Officer of two different companies for more than ten years, Mr. Milchovich developed strong leadership and strategic management skills. Mr. Milchovich has more than 30 years of experience in the metals industry. At Nucor, Mr. Milchovich is the Chairman of the Governance &amp; Nominating Committee and a member of the Audit Committee and the Compensation &amp; Executive Development Committee. Mr. Milchovich holds a Bachelor of Science from the California University of Pennsylvania and Advanced Management Program from Harvard University. Robert S. MillerNon-Executive Chairman of the Board, AIG, Inc.; Former Chief Executive Officer, Hawker Beechcraft, Inc. Former Executive Chairman, Delphi Mr. Miller is Chairman of the Board of American International Group (AIG), and Chairman of MidOcean Partners, a private equity firm specializing in leveraged buyouts, recapitalizations and growth capital investments in middle-market companies. Mr. Miller served as Chief Executive Officer of Hawker Beechcraft, an aircraft manufacturing company, from February 2012 to February 2013. He served as Executive Chairman of Delphi Corporation from January 2007 until November 2009 and as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from July 2005 until January 2007. From January 2004 to June 2005, Mr. Miller was non-executive Chairman of Federal Mogul Corporation. From September 2001 until December 2003, Mr. Miller was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Bethlehem Steel Corporation. Prior to joining Bethlehem Steel, Mr. Miller served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on an interim basis upon the departure of Federal Mogul’s top executive in September 2000. Mr. Miller began his career in 1968 at Ford Motor Company and after more than a decade there joined Chrysler Corporation where he worked for 13 years, eventually serving as Vice Chairman. While at Chrysler, corporate staffs, financial services, international automotive operations, and non-automotive operations all reported to him. Mr. Miller led the financial negotiations with 400 bank lenders and the Federal government, which resulted in the Loan Guarantee Act bailout package in 1980 that saved Chrysler. Mr. Miller currently serves as a Director of Symantec (SYMC) and WL Ross Holding Corp. (WLRH). Mr. Miller has previously served as a director of a variety of companies, including United Airlines Corporation, Reynolds American, Inc., U.S. Bancorp, and Waste Management, Inc. Mr. Miller earned a degree in economics from Stanford University, a law degree from Harvard Law School and a master’s of business administration, majoring in finance from Stanford Business School. Mr. Richard DavisChairman, President and CEO, U.S. Bancorp Mr. Richard Davis is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp, the fifth largest bank in the United States. Mr. Davis has served as Chairman of U.S. Bancorp since December 2007, Chief Executive Officer since December 2006, and President since October 2004. He also served as Chief Operating Officer from October 2004 until December 2006. Mr. Davis was also an Executive Vice President at Bank of America and Security Pacific Bank prior to joining Star Banc Corporation, which was one of U S Bancorp's legacy companies. Mr. Davis brings extensive leadership skills and financial services industry experience and knowledge to the Board. During his career, he has served as Chairman of the Financial Services Roundtable, Chairman of the Consumer Bankers Association, Chairman of The Clearing House, and representative for the Ninth District of the Federal Reserve, where he was President of its Financial Advisory Committee. Additionally, his service as lead director of the Xcel Energy board of directors broadens his experience of overseeing management in an industry subject to extensive regulation. Mr. Davis also currently serves on the board of directors of the National American Red Cross, The Itasca Project, the Minnesota Business Partnership, The Minnesota Institute of Arts, the Twin Cities YMCA, and the University of San Diego. He was also one of three executive co-Chairs that made the presentation to the NFL to secure the Super Bowl coming to Minneapolis in 2018. He continues to serve on the 2018 Super Bowl Host Committee. FREE AppDownload
New York City is home to 8.4 million waste-producing people; that's a lot of toilets, drains, and sewers. It takes 14 wastewater treatment facilities scattered throughout the five boroughs to clean up all of our dirty water.  We visited the largest facility, the Newtown Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, to see how the water is treated. It's a dirty job that surprisingly smells great.  Produced by Sam Rega. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Facebook 
Investing is for people who have time. Not time to devote to cherry-picking their investments, buying and selling shares every day, and obsessively checking their return like they check their Twitter feed — time to leave the money alone. The markets will rise and fall, and you can't predict what they'll do next. How do you defend against that? According to many financial experts, you spread your money out ("diversify," in investing-speak) and, instead of aiming to beat the market this year, aim to ultimately gain rather than lose over time.  When life coach and author of "MONEY Master The Game: 7 Simple Steps To Financial Freedom" Tony Robbins demystified the nine biggest myths of investing on Business Insider, he highlighted "beating the market" as one of those myths. Specifically, that it can be problematic to invest with fund managers who claim they can do it. "From 1984 to 1998 — a full 15 years — only eight out of 200 fund managers beat the Vanguard 500 Index," Robbins writes. Instead, he says it's wiser to invest your money in a diversified, low-cost index fund.  He writes: So instead of buying all the stocks individually, or trying to pick the next high-flying hotshot fund manager, you can diversify and own a piece of all 500 top stocks simply by investing in a low-cost index fund that tracks or mimics the index. One single investment buys you a piece of the strength of "American Capitalism." In a way, you are buying into the fact that over the past hundred years, the top tier companies have always shown incredible resilience. Robbins isn't the only one who recommends this approach. Online investing platforms known as robo-advisers tend to invest in index funds and their exchange-traded counterpart ETFs for just this reason. Plus, Robbins provides a very apt quote from investing legend Warren Buffett's 2013 Berkshire Hathaway shareholder letter: "The goal of the nonprofessional should not be to pick winners — neither he nor his 'helpers' can do that — but should rather be to own a cross section of businesses that in aggregate are bound to do well. A low-cost S&amp;P 500 index fund will achieve this goal." FREE AppDownload
The signs are everywhere, after years of central-bank collusion to douse the world with free money: historically low yields even on the riskiest cov-lite junk bonds; corporate profit margins at the upper extreme of the range; record valuations of stocks and other assets…. Heck, even startups: median Series A valuations – the first major VC money after seed money – have gone berserk and are now higher in inflation-adjusted terms than the median Series B valuations were 10 years ago! And all this in a historically crummy global economy. Valuations are going to revert to the mean. They always do. And when they do, they’ll overshoot in the process. The business cycle still exists. The great unwind will happen in an environment when nearly everything is overvalued. But those who have dared to stamp a near-term date on that event have gotten hammered by reality. Now, prudent wiggle room is getting built into the scenarios. Junk bonds are enjoying the most extraordinary bubble ever, as investors – particularly bond funds – are desperate to get some yield in a world where central banks have moved heaven and earth to expunge yield. They’re stretching and reaching for it, and that has created demand that has driven down the very yield they’re so desperately reaching for. Their justification: junk-bond default rates hover near historic lows of about 2%. Sure. As long as cheap new money is available to service or pay off old debt, defaults are rare. The issue arises when the new money gets more expensive and investors more prudent. Suddenly, new money won’t bail out old money. That’s when default rates soar. Investors will lose their shirts. It will happen. It always does, says high-yield expert Martin Fridson. The “next junk-bond implosion” will kick $1.6 trillion in junk bonds into default over a three-year period, he says. But not now. In 2016, he figures…. [“$1.6 Trillion in Defaults Coming,” Legend Says]. Jeremy Grantham, co-founder and Chief Investment Strategist of GMO, wrote of a similar scenario for stocks: a tough environment of crazy valuations where the future looks bleak – but that future hasn’t arrived yet. Already a year ago, he saw the bubbly conditions in the US markets – “badly overpriced” is what he called them at the time in GMO’s third-quarter letter – and predicted that the US stock market would “work its way higher, perhaps by 20% to 30% in the next year or, more likely, two years….” In the year since, the S&amp;P 500 has gained 15%. Right on target. He added: And then we will have the third in the series of serious market busts since 1999 and presumably Greenspan, Bernanke, Yellen, et al. will rest happy, for surely they must expect something like this outcome given their experience. Ah yes, “we the people, of course, will get what we deserve.” And he had an “Inconvenient Conclusion”: “Be prudent and you’ll probably forego gains. Be risky and you’ll probably make some more money, but you may be bushwhacked and, if you are, your excuses will look thin. Your call.” This scenario of bubbly conditions, followed by some nasty downdrafts would create negative average returns over the next seven years of -2.1% for US large stocks and -3.5% for small caps per year (chart). Gloomy. But in the future. So far, he has been right. GMO’s Q3 2014 newsletter, released on Tuesday, resumes the theme of party now, pay later, but not much later…. Stocks are supported for the moment by some positives, including the “Presidential Cycle,” but they also face some negatives: the end of QE, “talk of rate increases early next year,” a possible escalation of “several minor but intractable wars,” topped off by the Ebola outbreak. And then there’s “the very substantial overpricing of the US market,” though it may not have any short-term effect whatsoever. And so he comes to this chilling conclusion: My personal fond hope and expectation is still for a market that runs deep into bubble territory (which starts, as mentioned earlier, at 2250 on the S&amp;P 500 on our data) before crashing as it always does. Hopefully by then, but depending on what the rest of the world’s equities do, our holdings of global equities will be down to 20% or less. Usually the bubble excitement – which seems inevitably to be led by U.S. markets – starts about now, entering the sweet spot of the Presidential Cycle’s year three, but occasionally, as you have probably discovered the hard way already, history can be a snare and not a help. This is the new theme: we see the problems, they’re everywhere. We track them, we chart them, we understand them, we know they’re huge, and denying or rationalizing them would make us look silly, though plenty of folks are still denying and rationalizing them. There will be a reset of some sort, these crazy valuations will unravel, corporate profit margins will revert to the mean by overshooting it, defaults will cascade through the system, trillions will go up in smoke. This will be a rough time for unprepared investors, the meme goes, but for now, the party is hopping. Money is still free and plentiful. Times are still good. Profits now. Apocalypse later. But does the smartest guy on the block really want to party till the last minute, whenever that may be? Perhaps not. Warren Buffett impeccable sense of timing has apparently kicked in, but he doesn’t want to spook the markets. Read… Buffett Is Dumping Stocks out the Backdoor  FREE AppDownload
As I was finally cleaning out the junk receptacle that my mailbox has become, I found a thick, nearly black envelope among the wadded-up fliers. It was sent to “Resident” and titled “San Francisco Offers.” Kudos. Whoever was trying to get through to me, made it. It contained six glossy, multicolored sheets, each for a different company. It must have cost a bundle. I was getting ready to toss the packet when I recognized one of the names: these were startups! But why would startups that plan to disrupt entire industries, invent new paradigms, take mankind to the next level, and make the world a better place for all … why would they resort to expensive, wasteful, dead-tree, old-school junk mail? Was it a reluctant admission that this old, low-tech stuff works? There are now 48 pre-IPO startups valued at over $1 billion. Uber, which is currently getting tarred and feathered even on NPR, is sitting on top of the heap, with a valuation of $18 billion. But there are thousands of smaller startups, and they’re all scrambling for money and attention and love. Their valuations too have been soaring. In 2014, the median Series A valuation – the first major VC money after friends-and-family rounds and seed money – has hit $19 million, which surpassed even on an inflation-adjusted basis the median Series B valuations 10 years ago, according to Tomasz Tunguz, a partner at VC firm Redpoint Ventures. And Series B valuations now exceed Series C valuations from 10 years ago. Everything has moved up. Big money is gushing in all directions. Some of these millions are for startups not to develop a better mousetrap that would disrupt, but to buy other startups. So messaging startup Kik Interactive just announcedthat it had raised an additional $38.3 million, for a total of $70.5 million, and that it would blow some of this money on yet another overvalued messaging startup, Relay. Much of the remaining money is spent, not on building the newest mousetrap, but on advertising. Facebook is the biggest beneficiary of this VC-funded money flow to the point where Mat Honan at Wired suggested that “if the app bubble pops, Facebook’s money machine could seize up – just as it had happened to magazines a decade before.” So I look through the glossy sheets of paper from another era. On top, a delivery service called Minibar that delivers wine, spirits, and beer “in 30-60 minutes.” Perfect for those desperate situations when you’re too plastered to make it to the store yourself. The inducement: “$10 off your first delivery.” Its seed round – the angel investors that get you started – wasn’t $100,000 or so, but a whopping $1.8 million, a month ago! They’re already blowing some of this money on glossy flyers. Then there was on-demand home-cleaning and repair service Handy. It has racked up $45.7 million in four rounds, and some of it was plowed into two acquisitions. Handy is currently in the news, not for inventing the next big thing or disrupting something, being a latecomer in a very crowded industry, but for being already tangled up in aclass-action lawsuit over a whole laundry list of alleged labor law violations and other claims. Unperturbed, the coupon promises, “Only $29 for your first 2-hour home cleaning.” And another delivery service. Food. They sprout like mushrooms. A while ago, Google was partnering with our local Costco for a similar thing. Amazon is dabbling in food delivery. Heck, Safeway has been doing it for years. OK, this one is different…. Blue Apron delivers a recipe and the required ingredients all together. So, two eggs, a pinch of salt…. It received $58 million in three rounds, including $50 million in April! And another delivery service. This one for your pooch. You choose a dog size and a plan, and you get a BarkBox “of treats and toys” delivered every month. The eponymous company received $21.7 million in four rounds, including $15 million in July. And another delivery service. Enticement: “Get $20 off $80 on your first order.” Boxed, an “online wholesale club,” received $7.6 million in two rounds, including $6.5 million Series A in May. It’s as if the money-spigot had been opened all the way this year, and no one can figure out how to shut it. The last sheet shows a very pretty girl dressed in not a lot of clothes, sitting all by herself in the middle of the glossy sheet, looking longingly and with a mysterious smile right at me. There is no text. A girl delivered to my house? They got my attention. I flip the sheet over. First thing I see is a “$50 credit.” I have to go to Casper.com to claim it. Then I see it, on the left, the word “mattress.” I re-check the front. Sure enough, the white surface the girl is sitting on is a bare mattress. Casper received $15 million in two rounds, including $13.1 million in August. Money sloshing all over the place this year. None of these companies invented anything that hasn’t been done before. There are no barriers to entry, and anyone can jump right in and offer the exact same thing. None of them are tech companies though they have apps and websites. This is how they’re going to disrupt. With glossy junk mail. And who put all this together? In tiny print at the bottom of the envelope, there is a URL, mailisback.com. Turns out, this is a nearly information-less website that lists the firm’s eight clients – the six startups in this mailer plus two others. The URL appears to be three months old. It doesn’t say who owns it. But it appears to be another startup, probably flush with money like its eight startup-clients, ready to disrupt, but this time the old-fashioned way, with junk mail made of glossy dead trees. Hence the meme of startups raising money to blow on advertising, while other startups have formed to take this advertising money off their hands, and the money goes around from one startup to the next, and ad-tech startups offer their services, and much of it ends up at big media companies like Facebook. And when these startups run out of ideas, they buy each other. And all of this at valuations that make otherwise sane people shake their heads uncontrollably. This is what a bubble looks like after it has been inflated to the extreme. It’s a lot of fun – till the money dries up. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
The economy has recovered considerably since the depths of the "Great Recession." And the stock market continues to set all-time highs. But we still have work to do. America in the 1930s... AP America on November 21, 2014... Business Insider FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Federal ReserveWASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Federal Reserve will issue in the first quarter of next year a formal notice of rules it has been reviewing for financial holding companies and their activities in the physical commodities markets, a top official with the U.S. central bank said on Friday. "We are conducting a careful and thorough assessment of the costs and benefits of financial holding company engagement in these activities," Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo said in prepared remarks ahead of a Senate subcommittee hearing on the issue of banks' involvement with physical commodities. Banks have come under heavy scrutiny for the huge stockpiles of oil, natural gas, electricity and metals and other commodities that they have accumulated as a compliment to trading and hedging operations. The Fed has been reviewing how it regulates large banks with physical commodity holdings, and it invited public comments earlier this year. The timing of the Fed's plan to issue a formal notice of public rulemaking on the issue in the first quarter was not previously known.   (Reporting by Michael Flaherty; Editing by Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Andrew WinningActor Daniel Craig elongates his round-shaped head with short hair on the sides and temples. Forget everything you think you know about face shapes and haircuts — it's probably all wrong. All that nonsense about heart-shaped heads or oblong-shaped heads? For the most part, it just doesn't apply to the short, tapered, long-on-the-top haircuts popular with today's gentlemen. According to barber Kyle Holbrook of Fellow Barber in San Francisco, you need to know only one thing about your face shape to get the most flattering haircut — whether your head is wider or longer. In other words, is your face rounder than it is long, or longer than it is round? It's really that simple. A rounder, wider face should get a haircut that is tighter on the sides. This will give the whole face more length and balance out your proportions, thus giving you the illusion of having a less-round face. For those with a longer, squarer face, ask for a longer length of hair on the sides and around the temples. This will frame your face and make it appear wider. GettyActor Ryan Gosling makes his long face appear wider with longer hair on the sides. These two subtle shifts can make a world of difference on how your new haircut will look on you. Of course, a good barber will do this automatically, but Holbrook warns that you should always take charge of your hair. Your proportions will thank you.   FREE AppDownload
Dan Loeb is having a great week.  Dow Chemical and Loeb's hedge fund Third Point have just announced an agreement. Dow Chemical is now adding four independent directors to its board. Two of those new directors—Raymond J. Milchovich and R. "Steve" Miller—had previously been retained by Third Point as advisers. They now have to act as independent directors, meaning they can't have contact with Loeb. It wasn't a loss for Dow, though. The other two directors were picked by Dow. What's more is the board's size is actually increasing from 10 to 13 effective January 1, 2015.  Dow Chemical's stock was last trading up more than 2%.  Loeb's $17 billion Third Points last held 22,000,000 shares of Dow Chemical. Last week, the activist investor released a scathing political advertising-like video slamming the company's management for "broken promises." He also launched a website and touted Milchovich and Miller for having "significant expertise in corporate turnarounds and operational management, skillsets Dow desperately needs to move forward.” The website, www.value-dow.com, has been taken down.  Dow isn't Loeb's only win this week. On Thursday, Sotheby's—one of the Loeb's other targets—said that its CEO Bill Ruprecht would step down following a "mutual agreement with the Board." Loeb and two allies joined the auction house's board back in the spring. Sotheby's stock was last trading up about 8% in the pre-market.  Here's the Dow Chemical release:  The Dow Chemical Company (DOW) today announced it will add four new independent directors to its Board: All four individuals will be included in Dow’s nominations for election at the 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Loughridge, Milchovich and Miller will join the Board effective January 1, 2015, and Davis will join the Board in May 2015, following Dow’s 2015 Annual Meeting. As a result of today’s announcement, Dow’s Board will increase from 10 to 13 members, as of January 1, 2015. *** Mr. Mark Loughridge Former SVP and CFO, IBM Mr. Mark Loughridge was named IBM's Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in May 2004. He was given the additional responsibility for Enterprise Transformation in July 2010 to lead IBM’s ongoing integration and transformation as well as continue in his role as CFO. Loughridge retired from this position in December 2013 after 36 years with IBM. He joined the company in 1977, where he started as a development engineer in the Office Products Division in Lexington, KY. He holds a Master of Business Administration degree from the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from Stanford University and completed studies at Ecole Nationale Superieure de Mecaniquein Nantes, France. In 2010, Loughridge was rated by the buy-side analysts as the top rated CFO in the IT Hardware Sector by Institutional Investor. In 2012, he was ranked the #1 CFO in America by the Wall Street Journal, and named the "Executive Dream Team" CFO by Fortune Magazine, and the "Best CFO" in the IT hardware category by Institutional Investor. Loughridge serves on the Board of Directors of The Vanguard Group. He is also a member of the Council on Chicago Booth. Raymond J. MilchovichLead Director, Nucor Corp; Former Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and President, Foster Wheeler AG Mr. Milchovich has served as the Lead Director of Nucor since September 2013. Mr. Milchovich served as non-executive Chairman of the board of directors of, and a consultant to, Foster Wheeler AG, a Switzerland-based global engineering and construction company serving primarily the energy infrastructure markets, from 2010 until his retirement in 2011. Previously, Mr. Milchovich served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Foster Wheeler from 2001 to 2010 and as President from 2001 to 2007. Prior to that, Mr. Milchovich served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Kaiser Aluminum &amp; Chemical Corporation, a producer and marketer of alumina, aluminum and aluminum fabricated products, from 1999 to 2001, and as President and Chief Operating Officer from 1997 to 1999. Mr. Milchovich began his career in the steel industry, holding a variety of operating management positions for Wisconsin Steel Corporation and Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation. From 2002 to 2007, Mr. Milchovich served as a director of Nucor and voluntarily resigned from such position to devote more time to his position as Chief Executive Officer of Foster Wheeler. Mr. Milchovich was also a director of Delphi Corporation from 2005 through 2009. In serving as Chief Executive Officer of two different companies for more than ten years, Mr. Milchovich developed strong leadership and strategic management skills. Mr. Milchovich has more than 30 years of experience in the metals industry. At Nucor, Mr. Milchovich is the Chairman of the Governance &amp; Nominating Committee and a member of the Audit Committee and the Compensation &amp; Executive Development Committee. Mr. Milchovich holds a Bachelor of Science from the California University of Pennsylvania and Advanced Management Program from Harvard University. Robert S. MillerNon-Executive Chairman of the Board, AIG, Inc.; Former Chief Executive Officer, Hawker Beechcraft, Inc. Former Executive Chairman, Delphi Mr. Miller is Chairman of the Board of American International Group (AIG), and Chairman of MidOcean Partners, a private equity firm specializing in leveraged buyouts, recapitalizations and growth capital investments in middle-market companies. Mr. Miller served as Chief Executive Officer of Hawker Beechcraft, an aircraft manufacturing company, from February 2012 to February 2013. He served as Executive Chairman of Delphi Corporation from January 2007 until November 2009 and as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from July 2005 until January 2007. From January 2004 to June 2005, Mr. Miller was non-executive Chairman of Federal Mogul Corporation. From September 2001 until December 2003, Mr. Miller was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Bethlehem Steel Corporation. Prior to joining Bethlehem Steel, Mr. Miller served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on an interim basis upon the departure of Federal Mogul’s top executive in September 2000. Mr. Miller began his career in 1968 at Ford Motor Company and after more than a decade there joined Chrysler Corporation where he worked for 13 years, eventually serving as Vice Chairman. While at Chrysler, corporate staffs, financial services, international automotive operations, and non-automotive operations all reported to him. Mr. Miller led the financial negotiations with 400 bank lenders and the Federal government, which resulted in the Loan Guarantee Act bailout package in 1980 that saved Chrysler. Mr. Miller currently serves as a Director of Symantec (SYMC) and WL Ross Holding Corp. (WLRH). Mr. Miller has previously served as a director of a variety of companies, including United Airlines Corporation, Reynolds American, Inc., U.S. Bancorp, and Waste Management, Inc. Mr. Miller earned a degree in economics from Stanford University, a law degree from Harvard Law School and a master’s of business administration, majoring in finance from Stanford Business School. Mr. Richard DavisChairman, President and CEO, U.S. Bancorp Mr. Richard Davis is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp, the fifth largest bank in the United States. Mr. Davis has served as Chairman of U.S. Bancorp since December 2007, Chief Executive Officer since December 2006, and President since October 2004. He also served as Chief Operating Officer from October 2004 until December 2006. Mr. Davis was also an Executive Vice President at Bank of America and Security Pacific Bank prior to joining Star Banc Corporation, which was one of U S Bancorp's legacy companies. Mr. Davis brings extensive leadership skills and financial services industry experience and knowledge to the Board. During his career, he has served as Chairman of the Financial Services Roundtable, Chairman of the Consumer Bankers Association, Chairman of The Clearing House, and representative for the Ninth District of the Federal Reserve, where he was President of its Financial Advisory Committee. Additionally, his service as lead director of the Xcel Energy board of directors broadens his experience of overseeing management in an industry subject to extensive regulation. Mr. Davis also currently serves on the board of directors of the National American Red Cross, The Itasca Project, the Minnesota Business Partnership, The Minnesota Institute of Arts, the Twin Cities YMCA, and the University of San Diego. He was also one of three executive co-Chairs that made the presentation to the NFL to secure the Super Bowl coming to Minneapolis in 2018. He continues to serve on the 2018 Super Bowl Host Committee. FREE AppDownload
Marques Brownlee is a 20-year-old college student who's been hailed "the best technology reviewer on the planet right now" by former Google VP Vic Gundotra. With nearly 2 million subscribers on his YouTube channel, Brownlee has become a supremely influential personality in the tech and gadget space. He tells us how he got to where he is at such a young age. Produced by Will Wei Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Thomson ReutersPeople walk through the City of London during the early morning rush hour in LondonLONDON (Reuters) - Senior banking executives would favour criminal prosecutions and jail time if necessary for employees suspected of serious market misconduct, one of Britain's most influential fund managers told Reuters. Anne Richards, chief investment officer at Aberdeen Asset Management, with more than $500 billion of assets under management, said more must be done to change the culture of an industry whose image has been tarnished by scandal after scandal. The latest of those is the foreign exchange scandal, which saw six banks fined $4.3 billion by U.S. and UK regulators last week for failing to put in place systems and controls to prevent traders from attempting to rig benchmark exchange rates. Richards said that her conversations with several banking executives showed them to be acutely aware of the need for deep-rooted and lasting change to ensure such scandals are not repeated. "There is a systemic thing around how you control a large organization and affect culture. I know how seriously bank chief executives take the question of culture," Richards told the Reuters Investment Summit. "The good guys would prefer to see a system where the bad guys in their organisation go to jail," she said. Richards's comments are significant because Aberdeen is Britain's largest independent fund manager by assets and a major shareholder in the country's largest banks since its acquisition of Scottish Widows Investment Partnership. Legal sources say a number of currency traders will likely be prosecuted in the coming months, mirroring the Libor interest rate-rigging scandal which saw banks fined $6 billion and individuals arrested and charged. That said, putting traders in jail won't be easy or quick. Lawyers familiar with the FX investigation say no obvious offence has been committed in the $5.3 trillion-a-day market, by far the world's largest market and one of its least regulated. The failure to put adequate systems and controls in place and the culture of these banks were not the fault or remit of the traders now being "hung out to dry", according to one lawyer involved in the investigation. That goes higher up the food chain, but it's up for debate whether senior management and executives will ever face criminal prosecution. There's no precedent that suggests this is about to happen soon. "White collar crime is extremely difficult to prosecute, especially in finance, due to its complexity," Richards said.   (Reporting by Jamie McGeever) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mark Ralston/Pool Pakistan's President Mamnoon Hussain (L) and his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping shake hands before the opening ceremony of the fourth Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA) summit in Shanghai May 21, 2014. ISLAMABAD (Reuters) - The Chinese government and banks will finance Chinese companies to build $45.6 billion worth of energy and infrastructure projects in Pakistan over the next six years, according to new details of the deal seen by Reuters on Friday. The Chinese companies will be able to operate the projects as profit-making entities, according to the deal signed by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif during a visit to China earlier this month. At the time, officials provided few details of the projects or the financing for the deal, dubbed the China-Pak Economic Corridor (CPEC). The deal further cements ties between Pakistan and China at a time when Pakistan is nervous about waning U.S. support as troops pull out of Afghanistan. Pakistan and China, both nuclear-armed nations, consider each other close friends. Their ties are underpinned by common wariness of India and a desire to hedge against U.S. influence in South Asia. Documents seen by Reuters show that China has promised to invest around $33.8 billion in various energy projects and $11.8 billion in infrastructure projects. Two members of Pakistan's planning commission, the focal ministry for the CPEC, and a senior official at the ministry of water and power shared the details of the projects. The deal says the Chinese government and banks, including China Development Bank[CHDB.UL], and the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd (ICBC)&lt;601398.SS&gt;, one of China's 'Big Four' state-owned commercial banks, will loan funds to Chinese companies, who will invest in the projects as commercial ventures. "Pakistan will not be taking on any more debt through these projects," said Pakistan's minister for water and power Khawaja Asif. Thomson ReutersChina's President Xi stands next to a flower arrangement depicting China's national flag, in Caracas Major Chinese companies investing in Pakistan's energy sector will include China's Three Gorges Corp[CYTGP.UL], which built the world's biggest hydro power scheme, and China Power International Development Ltd&lt;2380.HK&gt;. Sharif signed more than 20 agreements during his trip to China earlier this month, including $622 million for projects related to the deepwater, strategically important Gwadar port, which China is developing. The port is close to the Strait of Hormuz, a key oil shipping lane. It could open up an energy and trade corridor from the Gulf across Pakistan to western China that could be used by the Chinese Navy - potentially upsetting rival India. Pakistan sees the latest round of Chinese investments as key to its efforts to solve power shortages that have crippled its economy. Blackouts lasting more than half a day in some areas have sparked violent protests and undermined an economy already beset by high unemployment, widespread poverty, crime and sectarian and insurgent violence. Under the CPEC agreement, $15.5 billion worth of coal, wind, solar and hydro energy projects will come online by 2017 and add 10,400 megawatts of energy to the national grid, officials said. An additional 6,120 megawatts will be added to the national grid at a cost of $18.2 billion by 2021. "In total we will add 16,000 MW of electricity through coal, wind, solar and hydel plants in the next seven years and reduce power shortage by 4,000 to 7,000 megawatts," said Asif. "This will take care of a growing demand for power by a growing economy." The CPEC deal also includes $5.9 billion for road projects and $3.7 billion for railway projects, all to be developed by 2017. A $44 million optical fiber cable between China and Pakistan is due to be built.   (Reporting by Mehreen Zahra-Malik; Editing by Jeremy Laurence) FREE AppDownload
Cheaper gas should boost holiday spending Due to plummeting oil prices, the cost of gasoline in the United States is now at the lowest level since 2010. Gasoline consumption as a share of total spending should fall in the fourth quarter due to lower prices, freeing up income for spending in other areas. Even if gasoline prices remain unchanged for the rest of the year, we project real discretionary consumption should rise by the most since the beginning of 2011, helping to spur GDP growth.Guggenheim Partners FREE AppDownload
If you're looking to find a wild turkey, your best bet is to hit the US heartland. Nine out of 10 states with the most turkeys were found in the middle of the country, according to a new report by Trulia, which tracked the number of turkeys the US Geological Survey found in a given county over a 2-1/2-hour survey time period. The No. 1 county for turkeys? Roger Mills, Oklahoma, where you can find approximately 29 turkeys in 2 1/2 hours of looking around. Take a look below to see if your state is overstuffed with turkeys, too. Trulia   FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVHoward MarksI just wanted to pass on this great talk from Howard Marks at the CFA Institute. He touched on a variety of different topics and many that I fully agree with:  Oaktree Capital I don't agree with everything Marks says, but there's a lot of good thinking here, so give it a listen if you have some time. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn investor reacts in front of an electronic board showing stock information at a brokerage house in TaiyuanBy Francesco Canepa LONDON (Reuters) - The big story of recent stock market investment has been volatility, and the opportunities that sharp price swings can bring for those with strong nerves. But good news is emerging now for those who prefer safer strategies: some of the best returns this year have come from stable stocks like billionaire Warren Buffett's holding company Berkshire Hathaway  or Swiss toilet maker Geberit . A basket of the two least volatile stocks in each STOXX Europe 600  sector index, as compiled by Thomson Reuters, up 8 percent year to date, or almost twice as much as the STOXX Europe 600 overall. (Here volatility is defined by the size of price moves in either direction.) Though that high performance might seem odd - particularly looking at double-digit returns yielded by other European stocks that see-sawed at the prospect of a U.S. interest rate hike recently - in fact it demonstrates that low-volatility stocks are often stronger companies with healthier earnings power. That distinction really matters when European companies' earnings recovery is still vulnerable - and it's one that more people are waking up to. "Investors are ready to invest on the equity market but under the condition that they are not too exposed to risk and that’s one argument for investing in the least volatile stocks," said Laurent Lagarde, head of quant equity management at investment firm THEAM, a unit of BNP Paribas.     The Reuters basket included traditionally defensive stocks like drugmaker Novartis, up 29 percent, but also benefited from similar gains by cyclical companies - those whose profits and share prices track the pace of the economy. Among those were Givaudan , the world's biggest maker of flavours and fragrances, or media group Reed Elsevier . Stocks from Switzerland - home to reliable earners such as Geberit - accounted for 13 out of 38 components. The strategy also worked globally: BNP Paribas' World Low volatility strategy returned 15 percent in the first 10 months of the year, helped by a rally of nearly 20 percent in the shares of Berkshire Hathaway, among others.     A Lipper basket of 53 exchange traded funds which tracked stocks with low volatility returned 8 percent year to date. That compares to a 6 percent return for the MSCI World Index, Datastream data showed. And the trend continues to pick up steam. As last month's volatility gripped financial markets, assets under management at low volatility stock funds attracted net inflows of over $1 billion even as other stock funds lost money, Markit data shows. This reflects investors' weariness with jumpy markets. After a rollercoaster October more jitters are expected as the United States shuts off the flow of cheap money that has been buoying its banks and businesses, and economies from the euro zone to China struggle to grow. Fund manager Ossiam's head of business development Isabelle Bourcier said interest in its low volatility ETFs had grown. "Expectations from clients that there will be volatility is helping us," she said. Assets in low volatility ETFs have grown to $16 billion currently from $15 million when the financial crisis hit in 2008, Markit data showed.  (Editing by Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerAlibaba Group Executive Chairman Jack Ma gestures as he speaks to media and staff in front of a giant electronic screen showing real-time sales figures of the company's Taobao.com and Tmall.com, on the "Singles' Day" online shopping festival, at the company headquarters in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province November 11, 2014.SINGAPORE (IFR) - Alibaba Group Holding &lt;baba.n&gt; sold the largest bond by an Asian company last night via a $8 billion six-tranche offering. The tight pricing achieved on the deal led many to believe the US-listed Chinese ecommerce giant got away without paying a Chinese premium. “The pricing on Alibaba’s bonds did not reflect a China risk premium in our view, and was priced more like a US credit, given the solid demand from the US investor base and hype around the IPO,” said Raymond Lee, Sydney-based portfolio manager at Kapstream Capital, one of Australia’s largest fixed-income managers. Over the course of the 24-hour three-timezone bookbuilding, orders topped at US$57bn before settling at close to US$55bn. US investors anchored the trade by taking about three-quarters of the notes, two sources familiar with the transaction said. The company hasn’t disclosed the distribution statistics.  “It is a defining trade not just for the sheer size, but the fact that it got priced against a peer group in a developed market,” said a person familiar with the matter.  Alibaba bonds priced through some of the US blue chip tech giants such as Amazon &lt;amzn.o&gt; and eBay &lt;ebay.o&gt;. Its US$1.5bn 7-year tranche, priced at 115bp over Treasuries, came inside Amazon’s 2022s, quoted at a G-spread of 116bp. Its US$2.25bn 10-year, priced at 128bp over, also easily pierced through eBay’s interpolated curve. “The company achieved the tight pricing as it was clear in positioning away from China,” the person said. In fact, Alibaba’s three- and five-year tranches were priced 30bp-35bp tight to Chinese search engine giant Baidu Inc and 40bp-50bp inside the country’s web portal and social media leader Tencent Holdings.  Asian investors, whose orders exceeded US$11bn across the tranches, were allocated a mere 15%-20% of the notes, the two sources said.  Asian investors generally found Alibaba bonds expensive as they have many other Chinese credits that offer higher risk-adjusted premiums. According to a research note published by Nomura yesterday, Chinese credits typically pay a 20bp-50bp premium to their US peers due to the “China Discount” driven by the headline risk of the country and other technical factors. “For the Asian credit market, the Alibaba bonds are rich although they were priced fair for the US. Alibaba is a US credit (as it’s listed in the US and trades on US technicals) and unfortunately it will not provide the Asian market with a free-ride premium,” said Owen Gallimore, Singapore-based head of credit strategy, Asia, for ANZ. For those reasons, a number of Asian investors didn’t play in Alibaba. Instead, they bought Tencent and Baidu as they believed the Alibaba curve would make them look cheap, a third person familiar with the trade said. As expected, the Alibaba deal repriced the Asian tech space as the curves for Tencent and Baidu have been tightening since Thursday afternoon.   Some funds also find better value in paper from similarly-rated Chinese state-owned enterprises.  “We prefer to allocate our Chinese exposure to opportunities with better relative value like China National Petroleum Corporation, a AA rated government owned SOE, which priced their three year bonds almost 40bp wider versus Alibaba,” Lee said. The wholly state-owned oil major in China, rated Aa3/AA-/A+, priced a US$500m three-year tranche at 107.5bp over Treasuries, compared to Alibaba’s (A1/A+/A+) 70bp over.   Gallimore concurred: “Asian investors have more options to buy higher-yielding paper such as the state-owned oil names in China and proxy sovereign export-import bank.” The US$8bn deal, to repay a syndicated loan of the same size, was split into US$1bn 1.625% three-year fixed-rate notes at 70bp over Treasuries; a US$300m three-year floater at 52bp over three-month Libor; US$2.25bn of 2.5% five-year at 95bp over; US$1.5bn of 3.125% seven-year at 115bp over; US$2.25bn 3.6% 10-year at 128bp over; and US$700m 4.5% 20-year at a spread of 148bp. The 20-year was a clear outperformer in the secondary market, tightening more than 10bp in the Asia morning. The other tranches were around par or a couple of basis points wider by early afternoon in Asian hours. Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, JP Morgan and Morgan Stanley were active bookrunners, with Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs as the passive bookrunners. BNP Paribas, DBS, HSBC, ING, Mizuho Securities were co-managers.  (Reporting by Lianting Tu, editing by Daniel Stanton.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/PlatiauJonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a rundown of what traders are chatting about right now: Good Morning, and Happy Expiration Friday!   US futures are jumping higher, led by a 1% pop in the Russell.   The market started to get legs early this AM as Draghi was quite dovish in a speech overnight, but futures jumped at 5:30amET as China cut its benchmark interest rates for the first time in more than two years – surprising the street.   Right now the DAX is up 2% and thru the 200dma in very heavy volume as Materials and Industrials leap, and peripheral banks are up 2.5%+ as PIIGS yields collapse.   Most Asian markets had a great session overnight, impressive since they closed before the China Cut.   India’s Sensex closed at another record, while Shanghai popped 1% playing catch up from the week’s underperformance.   Japan action was muted, as the Yen popped higher when Japan’s finance minister said the currency had fallen too fast over the past week – but Abe dissolving the lower house helped the Nikkei mitigate most losses.   South Korean markets liked the stronger Yen, as KOSPI bounced 40bp as Technology rallied in the region.   The standout loser was Aussie, weighed down by Industrials and Miners.  European yields are all lower, with Germany’s 10YY off 2bp and nearing the recent lows, as Draghi’s Remarks spur hopes ECB is nearing sovereign bond buying program.   The US 10YY is up small and nearing 2.36% where it has been rejected several times this week.   Some wild moves in FX, as the Dovish Draghi hits euro near the month’s lows, while the $/Y is slowly rallying back from the Japanese Fin Min smackdown overnight.   The surprise Chinese cut has sparked a huge rally in Commodity Currencies - A$, NZ$ and C$ all jumped.   Despite the DXY leaping over 88 to test recent highs, we have a strong bid in most commodities.   China has Copper up 1.4%, but more importantly sparked a 2% rally in Crude Oil.   The weakest commodity is Natty Gas, which has seen a 10% move this week – it is off nearly 3% in anticipation of warmer weather in the USA.  We have a pretty light catalyst calendar today (considering what happened overnight) – We do have Options Expiry (Index Open, Singles Close) – at 10am there is a Senate Subcomittee Hearing on NY Fed and "Regulatory Capture", at 11am we get the Kansas City Fed Manf. Activity (World Series Impact?), Energy players will be looking for the Baker Hughes Rig Count at 1 – While at 3:30 we get the “Commitment of Traders” data.   At some point after the EU close, Fitch is updating on Greece, DBRS on Portugal   FREE AppDownload
FinVizThere goes the euro.Markets are rallying in the wake of some big central bank gestures. Currently, the Dow is up 64 points (0.4%), the S&amp;P 500 is up 8 points (0.4%), and the Nasdaq is up 15 points (0.3%). Friday came with two big central bank moves. The first big move came from European Central Bank President Mario Draghi, who spoke to a banking conference in Frankfurt at about 3:30 a.m. ET. "It is essential to bring back inflation to target and without delay," Draghi said. "We have to be very watchful that low inflation does not start percolating through the economy in ways that further worsen the economic situation." Draghi spent some time discussing how the ECB is able to stimulate the economy and prices via its purchases of bonds on the market. "For our part, we will continue to meet our responsibility – we will do what we must to raise inflation and inflation expectations as fast as possible, as our price stability mandate requires of us," he said. "If on its current trajectory our policy is not effective enough to achieve this, or further risks to the inflation outlook materialise, we would step up the pressure and broaden even more the channels through which we intervene, by altering accordingly the size, pace and composition of our purchases." The euro immediately tanked on Draghi's dovish words (see chart above). France's CAC is up 2.6%, Germany's DAX is up 2.6%, and Spain's IBEX is up 30%. The second big move came from the People's Bank of China, which announced interest rate cuts at about 5:30 a.m. ET. This was the first time the PBoC cut rates since July 2012. FinVizThere goes the Aussie dollar.The one-year deposit rate just got cut 0.25 points to 2.75%, and the refinancing rate was slashed 0.40 points to 3.60%. As you can see to right, the Aussie dollar — a proxy for the Chinese economy — made a huge move. Both of Friday's actions come in the wake of accumulating signs of deterioration in the European economy and the deceleration in the Chinese economy. "China's once-famous growth rates have dropped, and the government is now pursuing a 7.5% annual rise in GDP. Some economists think even that rate is unrealistic," Business Insider's Mike Bird noted. Societe Generale analysts note that this may not be the end of it either. "[T]he onus will be on central bankers to provide some oomph for markets going into the weekend," they wrote. "The Bank of England's MPC member [David] Miles, Federal Reserve board member [Daniel] Tarullo and San Francisco Fed President [John Williams] will all deliver speeches today while ECB Vice President Constancio will deliver a speech on monetary policy on Saturday." For now, markets are ripping higher. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Harrison McClaryRepublican presidential candidate and former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum displays a piece of North Dakota shale while speaking to supporters during an event at the Curb Center on Belmont University's campus in Nashville, Tennessee February 29, 2012, a few days prior to Super Tuesday voting on March 6, 2012. WILLISTON N.D. (Reuters) - Halliburton Co's  $35 billion takeover of Baker Hughes Inc will create an oilfield services powerhouse in North Dakota with more than half the cementing market and a leading position in fracking, according to data seen by Reuters. The deal, announced on Monday, will help Halliburton better compete with global leader Schlumberger NV, as well as smaller peers Calfrac Well Services Ltd, Trican Well Service Ltd and other oilfield services companies in North Dakota, the second-largest oil producer in the United States. The North Dakota market share projections for the combined company will be of keen interest to competitors and regulators. The deal faces stiff antitrust hurdles and likely will receive close scrutiny from regulators in the United States and European Union. Halliburton has said it would be willing to shed units that generate revenue of $7.5 billion to ensure the deal closes. Even though oil production in the state's Bakken shale formation has grown exponentially in the past five years, more than 35,000 new wells are expected to come online in the state by 2030, highlighting the ongoing need for the services these companies provide. "We will rule unconventionals now," one Halliburton manager in North Dakota told Reuters, speaking on the condition of anonymity. In the Williston Basin, the oil-rich geologic formation holding much of North Dakota's Bakken and Three Forks shales, the combined company will control 53 percent of the market to line a new well with cement to prevent leaks, according to the data. The step is required by regulators and a key process to safeguard drinking water supplies. The combined company will also control roughly 36 percent of the Williston Basin market for hydraulic fracturing - the process commonly known as 'fracking' where water and sand are blasted into a well at high pressure to extract oil. And roughly 35 percent of the market for directional drilling, the process to drill wells horizontally, will be held by the combined company, according to the data. The Williston Basin market prowess in cementing and directional drilling would eclipse the united company's global share of those markets. Fracking market share in the basin would nearly match the new Halliburton, globally. REUTERS Halliburton is very interested in Baker Hughes' artificial lift division, which makes products that help old wells boost their productivity, as well as its production chemicals unit, according to footnotes accompanying the data. In a statement to Reuters, Halliburton said it is too early to discuss the status of the combined company. "It is important to remember that until the close of the transaction, Halliburton and Baker Hughes remain separate companies," Halliburton spokeswoman Emily Mir said. It was not immediately clear what Schlumberger's market share is for various products and services in North Dakota, but the Halliburton-Baker Hughes tie-up gives the combined company clear dominance in most oilfield services performed in the state. Schlumberger did not respond to a request for comment. The deal could lead to higher prices for some oil producers. Baker Hughes historically has priced its services below Halliburton, and the deal will allow Halliburton to make pricing more uniform. Continental Resources Inc &lt;clr.n&gt;, for instance, uses a plethora of oilfield service companies for various well completion processes, often choosing the lowest bidder. The deal also gives Halliburton access to Baker Hughes' extensive North Dakota real estate holdings, including a training center it built earlier this year. Halliburton currently trains employees at centers in Oklahoma and Colorado.  (Editing by Terry Wade and Muralikumar Anantharaman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerChina's central bank governor Zhou Xiaochuan is surrounded by journalists.Good morning! Here are 10 major events you should know about before US stock markets open. Markets Are Ripping Higher. Global stocks are up following dovish actions from the European Central Bank and the People's Bank of China. Dow futures are up 110 points, and S&amp;P futures are up 12 points. In Europe, France's CAC is up 1.7%, Germany's DAX is up 1.8%, and Spain's IBEX is up 2.1%. ECB's Draghi Comes Out Super-Dovish. "It is essential to bring back inflation to target and without delay," Draghi said. "We have to be very watchful that low inflation does not start percolating through the economy in ways that further worsen the economic situation." Draghi said the ECB would broaden its asset-purchase program to address these problems. The euro tanked on the news and is down by 0.9% against the US dollar. The PBoC Cuts Rates For The First Time In 2 Years. At about 5:30 a.m. ET, the PBoC cut rates for the first time since July 2012. The one-year deposit rate got cut 0.25 points to 2.75%, and the refinancing rate was slashed 0.40 points to 3.60%. These moves come as data continues to show deceleration in the world's second-largest economy. Obama's Immigration Announcement Could Lead To A Shutdown. US President Barack Obama unveiled his executive order that will shield about 4 million undocumented immigrants from deportation in a prime time address from the White House on Thursday evening. Top Republicans responded by hinting they could push the government toward another shutdown.  UKIP Won Another Seat In Parliament. With 42% of the vote to the Conservative party's 35%, Mark Reckless is now the anti-EU party's second member of parliament. Alibaba Raised $8 Billion In A Massive Bond Sale. The Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba raised $8 billion in a bond offering, The Wall Street Journal said. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's Support Is Tumbling. Support for Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe is at its lowest since he took office, and more than a third of voters think his economic policies have failed, a survey Friday showed. Blackstone Is Buying $1.6 Billion (£1.02 Billion) Of Real Estate From GE. The US private equity firm Blackstone said it would buy the residential real estate arm of General Electric's property unit in Japan, as the country's land prices slowly recover from an asset bubble burst. The Fed Is Reviewing Its Relationship With Big Banks. According to the Financial Times, the Federal Reserve will conduct a review of its position as regulator of large financial institutions.  Foxconn Is Building Another Factory Just For Apple Displays. The factory will be located in southern Taiwan and follows an "urgent request" from Apple, according to a Foxconn spokesperson quoted by Bloomberg. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric Vidal  It's one of Draghi's most forthright speeches, with one exceptional snippet: "It is essential to bring back inflation to target and without delay." Draghi added: "We have to be very watchful that low inflation does not start percolating through the economy in ways that further worsen the economic situation." You can take a look at the full text of the speech here. The whole thing is heavy on discussion of the eurozone's low inflation, as Twitter's Lorcan Roche Kelly notes:   One sentence towards the end of the speech stands out particularly. In 2012, Draghi promised to do anaything within the ECB's power to solve the euro crisis, and the speech is credited with beginning the end of the currency union's chaotic period. Is this comment Draghi's new "whatever it takes?":   we will do what we must to raise inflation and inflation expectations as fast as possible, as our price stability mandate requires of us. And the markets are reacting. The euro is now down 0.86% against the dollar, back bellow $1.245. Here's the euro plunging against the dollar as Draghi's speech was released:Investing.com, Business Insider FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric Miller The People's Bank of China, one of the world's most secretive central banks, just slashed interest rates.  The one-year deposit rate just got cut 0.25 points to 2.75%. And the refinancing rate was slashed 0.40 points to 3.60%. That's according to the Financial Times.  This is all in the face of a slowing economy. China's once-famous growth rates have dropped, and the government is now pursuing a 7.5% annual rise in GDP. Some economists think even that rate is unrealistic.  China's house prices are also dropping in the vast majority of the country, which is likely to throw some cold water over the economy. Interest rate cuts could go at least some of the way to counteracting that, or at least reducing the slump. International economist Michael Pettis has explained the stakes for the world economy here; they're absolutely colossal, given the proportion of the global output China now makes up. There were recently rumours that Zhou Xiaochuan, head of the PBoC, was on his way out. But it's often hard to tell what exactly is happening at the bank, with operations far more opaque than the other centres of monetary policy. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerAlibaba Group Executive Chairman Jack Ma gestures as he speaks to media and staff in front of a giant electronic screen showing real-time sales figures of the company's Taobao.com and Tmall.com, on the "Singles' Day" online shopping festival, at the company headquarters in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province November 11, 2014.SINGAPORE (IFR) - Alibaba Group Holding &lt;baba.n&gt; sold the largest bond by an Asian company last night via a $8 billion six-tranche offering. The tight pricing achieved on the deal led many to believe the US-listed Chinese ecommerce giant got away without paying a Chinese premium. “The pricing on Alibaba’s bonds did not reflect a China risk premium in our view, and was priced more like a US credit, given the solid demand from the US investor base and hype around the IPO,” said Raymond Lee, Sydney-based portfolio manager at Kapstream Capital, one of Australia’s largest fixed-income managers. Over the course of the 24-hour three-timezone bookbuilding, orders topped at US$57bn before settling at close to US$55bn. US investors anchored the trade by taking about three-quarters of the notes, two sources familiar with the transaction said. The company hasn’t disclosed the distribution statistics.  “It is a defining trade not just for the sheer size, but the fact that it got priced against a peer group in a developed market,” said a person familiar with the matter.  Alibaba bonds priced through some of the US blue chip tech giants such as Amazon &lt;amzn.o&gt; and eBay &lt;ebay.o&gt;. Its US$1.5bn 7-year tranche, priced at 115bp over Treasuries, came inside Amazon’s 2022s, quoted at a G-spread of 116bp. Its US$2.25bn 10-year, priced at 128bp over, also easily pierced through eBay’s interpolated curve. “The company achieved the tight pricing as it was clear in positioning away from China,” the person said. In fact, Alibaba’s three- and five-year tranches were priced 30bp-35bp tight to Chinese search engine giant Baidu Inc and 40bp-50bp inside the country’s web portal and social media leader Tencent Holdings.  Asian investors, whose orders exceeded US$11bn across the tranches, were allocated a mere 15%-20% of the notes, the two sources said.  Asian investors generally found Alibaba bonds expensive as they have many other Chinese credits that offer higher risk-adjusted premiums. According to a research note published by Nomura yesterday, Chinese credits typically pay a 20bp-50bp premium to their US peers due to the “China Discount” driven by the headline risk of the country and other technical factors. “For the Asian credit market, the Alibaba bonds are rich although they were priced fair for the US. Alibaba is a US credit (as it’s listed in the US and trades on US technicals) and unfortunately it will not provide the Asian market with a free-ride premium,” said Owen Gallimore, Singapore-based head of credit strategy, Asia, for ANZ. For those reasons, a number of Asian investors didn’t play in Alibaba. Instead, they bought Tencent and Baidu as they believed the Alibaba curve would make them look cheap, a third person familiar with the trade said. As expected, the Alibaba deal repriced the Asian tech space as the curves for Tencent and Baidu have been tightening since Thursday afternoon.   Some funds also find better value in paper from similarly-rated Chinese state-owned enterprises.  “We prefer to allocate our Chinese exposure to opportunities with better relative value like China National Petroleum Corporation, a AA rated government owned SOE, which priced their three year bonds almost 40bp wider versus Alibaba,” Lee said. The wholly state-owned oil major in China, rated Aa3/AA-/A+, priced a US$500m three-year tranche at 107.5bp over Treasuries, compared to Alibaba’s (A1/A+/A+) 70bp over.   Gallimore concurred: “Asian investors have more options to buy higher-yielding paper such as the state-owned oil names in China and proxy sovereign export-import bank.” The US$8bn deal, to repay a syndicated loan of the same size, was split into US$1bn 1.625% three-year fixed-rate notes at 70bp over Treasuries; a US$300m three-year floater at 52bp over three-month Libor; US$2.25bn of 2.5% five-year at 95bp over; US$1.5bn of 3.125% seven-year at 115bp over; US$2.25bn 3.6% 10-year at 128bp over; and US$700m 4.5% 20-year at a spread of 148bp. The 20-year was a clear outperformer in the secondary market, tightening more than 10bp in the Asia morning. The other tranches were around par or a couple of basis points wider by early afternoon in Asian hours. Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, JP Morgan and Morgan Stanley were active bookrunners, with Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs as the passive bookrunners. BNP Paribas, DBS, HSBC, ING, Mizuho Securities were co-managers.  (Reporting by Lianting Tu, editing by Daniel Stanton.) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Rolls-Royce logo is pictured on an Airbus A380 engine during the International Air and Space Fair (FIDAE) at the Santiago international airportLONDON (Reuters) - Britain's Rolls-Royce said it won a $5 billion contract to supply aero engines to power 50 new Airbus planes ordered by Delta Air Lines. Rolls-Royce said on Friday that the order for engines also included the provision of long-term post-delivery services as part of a "TotalCare" support package. The engines ordered are the Trent XWB engines to power 25 Airbus A350s, and Trent 7000 engines to power 25 Airbus A330neo aircraft. Rolls-Royce is the only supplier of engines for both aircraft. Delta's order was first reported on Wednesday and follows a closely fought competition with Boeing &lt;ba.n&gt;, which had offered its 787 Dreamliner. (Editing by Paul Sandle) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric Miller The People's Bank of China, one of the world's most secretive central banks, just slashed interest rates.  The one-year deposit rate just got cut 0.25 points to 2.75%. And the refinancing rate was slashed 0.40 points to 3.60%. That's according to the Financial Times.  This is all in the face of a slowing economy. China's once-famous growth rates have dropped, and the government is now pursuing a 7.5% annual rise in GDP. Some economists think even that rate is unrealistic.  China's house prices are also dropping in the vast majority of the country, which is likely to throw some cold water over the economy. Interest rate cuts could go at least some of the way to counteracting that, or at least reducing the slump. International economist Michael Pettis has explained the stakes for the world economy here; they're absolutely colossal, given the proportion of the global output China now makes up. There were recently rumours that Zhou Xiaochuan, head of the PBoC, was on his way out. But it's often hard to tell what exactly is happening at the bank, with operations far more opaque than the other centres of monetary policy. FREE AppDownload
Alexander Zemlianichenko/ReutersRussian President Vladimir Putin toasts with ambassadors during a ceremony to hand over credentials at the Kremlin in Moscow, November 19, 2014.Russia and its redoubtable president, Vladimir Putin, have been much in the news lately. The latest flurry came when Putin was taken out behind the woodshed at the G20 conference in the Philippines last weekend over his recent moves to inject more Russian troops and arms into Ukraine. For today’s Outside the Box we have two pieces that deliver deeper insights into the situation with Russia and Putin. The first is from my good friend Ian Bremmer, President of the Eurasia Group and author of "Every Nation for Itself: Winners and Losers in a G-Zero World". You probably caught my mention of Ian’s presentation at the institutional fund manager conference where we both spoke last weekend. He had some unsettling things to say about Russia; and so when he followed up with an email to me on Monday, I asked if he’d let me share the section on Russia with you. Understand, Ian is connected, and so what you’re about to be treated to here is analysis from way inside. (He’ll be presenting at our Strategic Investment Conference again next April, too.) Then we turn to a piece that my friend Vitaliy Katsenelson published last week in his monthly column in Institutional Investor. I need to preface this one by mentioning that Vitaliy was born in Murmansk, Russia, where he lived until age 18, when his family emigrated to the US. Fast-forward 23 years, and today Vitaliy is Chief Investment Officer for Investment Management Associates in Denver and author of the highly successful "Active Value Investing: Making Money in Range-Bound Markets and The Little Book of Sideways Markets." That’s quite a journey, and Vitaliy has some very strong feelings about the country he left as well as the one he came to. In his intro to today’s piece he admits, [This is] one of the most emotionally taxing things I ever wrote. A few days ago my wife looked at me and said, “When are you going to be done with it; this article is bringing you down.” She was right. But I think you’ll agree that when Vitaliy recently subjected himself to a 7-day news diet of nothing but Russian media, the better to comprehend current Russian attitudes, he resurfaced with some valuable insights. And I can’t leave our deliberations on all things Russia and Putin without mentioning again Marin Katusa’s new book, The Colder War, which I featured in Outside the Box two weeks ago. It’s a compelling survey of the history and dynamics of world energy markets and the role that Putin seeks to play in them. Geopolitically, the world seems to be a calmer place as we head into the Christmas season, with the significant and glaring exception of Russia. And remember, falling oil prices will seriously impact an already stressed Russian economy. ReutersMap of eastern Ukraine showing the area of control by pro-Russian separatists. [Editors Note: Mr. Mauldin's introduction was edited for length.] Ian Bremmer Nov. 17, 2014 The Russians are taking every opportunity to escalate an already plenty hostile relationship with the United States and some selected allies. The G20 summit was particularly negative on that front, with Russian President Putin bringing along some warships to Australia, while Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper led a rope line of Western leaders calling Putin a scoundrel and a liar. Putin left early, claiming a need to catch up on sleep and some other business to attend to. Like in Ukraine. Mstyslav Chernov/AP Pro-Russian rebel military vehicles convoy move towards Donetsk , Eastern Ukraine on Nov. 10, 2014. On Saturday, AP reporters saw scores of unmarked military vehicles moving near Donetsk and farther to the east.I had a chance to talk with some senior Russians last week, including two advisers to the Kremlin. They explained that Putin expected his offer of a ceasefire in southeast Ukraine would be sufficient to get the Americans to tolerate a status quo, while bringing the Europeans to the table with some sanctions reductions. That didn’t happen: Instead a coordinated harder line policy stayed in place, while the Americans and Germans looked set to put more sanctions in place unless the Russians actively backed down. Despite mounting economic pressure on the Europeans, the frozen conflict/long game the Kremlin was playing didn’t look like it was going to succeed. And so the Kremlin moved backed to escalation, dramatically expanding their direct military presence in the region – confirmed by NATO and the typically-conservative OSCE, denied by the Russian government – and announcing plans to build up troops in Crimea. They’re preparing both sides to consolidate their territory, initially through taking the port city of Mariupol... potentially then a land-bridge between eastern Ukraine and Crimea and beyond (Odessa being the most obvious place). The most likely path is the Kremlin now looking for provocations to “go further” – they’ve already expressed a level of outrage around the Ukrainian government severing economic ties to the separatist region – then the fiction of ceasefire is erased and the Russians/separatists take more territory. Ultimately, whatever the formalized “governance” structure, the Kremlin is moving towards making Crimea and southeast Ukraine a single place. There’s very little the Ukrainians can do. The Ukrainian military will remain badly outgunned, and the local populations in the region remain fairly anti-Kiev, even if they’re skittish about the notion of Russian takeover. We’ll see a pickup in international calls to provide arms for the Ukrainian military, but they’ll be rejected, most particularly by the United States. At best we’ll see a step up in intelligence and training support, to little consequence. Swedish Armed ForcesIn this amateur photo provided by Sweden's armed forces and distributed by the TT News Agency on Sunday, Oct. 19, 2014, a partially submerged object is visible in the water at center, in the Stockholm archipelago, Sweden.Putin’s military efforts are also stepping up outside Ukraine: the “unknown” but clearly Russian submarine off Sweden, a Russian nuclear armed exercise during an intelligence meeting in Denmark; bomber patrols in the Gulf of Mexico. They’re all bluster, but a clear message to America and its allies... and pose a far higher potential for accidents – one Scandinavian airlines flight recently made an emergency alteration to its flight path when a Russian military jet suddenly appeared in front of it. The likelihood of Moscow backing down in this environment is near zero. the sanctions aren’t having a meaningful impact on the Russian economy (yet) and the popularity of the Kremlin isn’t taking a hit. The speech from former soviet general secretary Mikhail Gorbachev – no fan of Putin, but clearly pointing the finger at the west for Russia’s troubles – makes that clear. And it’s getting harder for the Americans to find an out. REUTERS/Kevin LamarqueRussian President Vladimir Putin talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel as they attend the International 70th D-Day Commemoration Ceremony in Ouistreham June 6, 2014.German chancellor Angela Merkel continues to be the best opportunity for compromise, but her relationship with Putin is now only barely functional (the Kremlin advisers I spoke with said this was the single biggest misstep from Putin to date – they believed his bilateral conversations with her were too aggressive and led Merkel to feel misled; neither believed the relationship could be salvaged near-term). And so Russians are now presuming the sanctions environment will be there for the long haul, and are thinking about the longer term economic implications. I’d now say that’s meaningful before we get to Russia’s 2018 elections: further sanctions causing steep recession leading to unrest in the regions, which begins to metastasize to the cities. That would spook Russian elites, some of whom could split from the Kremlin. The key early warning indicator would be meaningful defections of any insiders to the west. But critically, we’re at least a year or two away from that. by which time Ukraine has been economically devastated, while the strategic shift of Russia-china is thoroughly entrenched. By Vitaliy KatsenelsonInstitutional Investor, Nov. 17, 2014 My father, Naum Katsenelson, painted this watercolor, “Dolls Become Humans,” two years after we came to the United States in 1993. This is the only “thematic” picture my father ever painted. Vitaliy KatsenelsonIf you look at the picture carefully you’ll see the silhouette of Lenin in the clouds (representing the past). On the far left there is a Stalin doll and a line of people going to prison.  Across from Stalin on the right there is a doll of Brezhnev (you’ll recognize him by his large, distinct eyebrows).  On the building on the right there is an image of Gorbachev.  Look carefully at the faces in the foreground (representing the present and the future): as they get closer to you they become more humanized – transforming from dolls into humans.  The man in front of the woman draped in the American flag is my father; the boy with the Star of David on his chest is me. This was an aspirational picture. In 1993 the Soviet Union fell apart. Russia’s future looked bright – although it was in chaos, it was a democracy.  The dolls here are an analogy for robots, suggesting uniformity of thought. As I was composing this I called my father and asked him if he’d paint the same picture today. He said, “No. Today’s picture would look very different.” I spent three months aggravating over the following article. It was one of the most emotionally taxing things I ever wrote. A few days ago my wife looked at me and said, “When are you going to be done with it; this article is bringing you down.” She was right. I grew up hating America. I lived in the Soviet Union and was a child of the cold war. That hate went away in 1989, though, when the Berlin Wall fell and the cold war ended. By the time I left Russia in 1991, the year the Soviet Union collapsed, America was a country that Russians looked up to and wanted to emulate. Twenty-three years later, a new version of cold war is back, though we Americans haven't realized it yet. But I am getting ahead of myself. After Russia invaded Crimea and staged its referendum, I thought Vladimir Putin's foreign excursions were over. Taking back Crimea violated plenty of international laws, but let's be honest. Though major powers like the U.S. and Russia write the international laws, they are not really expected to abide by those laws if they find them not to be in their best interests. Those laws are for everyone else. I am not condoning such behavior, but I can clearly see how Russians could justify taking Crimea back – after all, it used to belong to Russia. I was perplexed by how the Russian people could possibly support and not be outraged by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. But I live in Denver, and I read mostly U.S. and European newspapers. I wanted to see what was going on in Russia and Ukraine from the Russian perspective, so I went on a seven-day news diet: I watched only Russian TV – Channel One Russia, the state-owned broadcaster, which I hadn't seen in more than 20 years – and read Pravda, the Russian newspaper whose name means "Truth." Here is what I learned: If Russia did not reclaim Crimea, once the new, illegitimate government came to power in Ukraine, the Russian navy would have been kicked out and the U.S. navy would have started using Crimean ports as navy bases. There are no Russian troops in Ukraine, nor were there ever any there. If any Russian soldiers were found there (and there were), those soldiers were on leave. REUTERS/Vasily FedosenkoA Ukrainian naval officer (C) passes by armed men, believed to be Russian servicemen, as he leaves the naval headquarters in Sevastopol, March 19, 2014. They went to Ukraine to support their Russian brothers and sisters who are being abused by Ukrainian nationalists. (They may have borrowed a tank or two, or a highly specialized Russian-made missile system that is capable of shooting down planes, but for some reason those details are not mentioned much in the Russian media.) On November 12, NATO reported that Russian tanks had entered Ukraine. The Russian government vehemently denied it, blaming NATO for being anti-Russian. Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 was not downed by Russia or separatists. It was shot down by an air-to-air missile fired by Ukraine or a NATO plane engaged in military exercises in Ukraine at the time. The U.S. has the satellite imagery but is afraid of the truth and chooses not to share it with the world. Ukraine was destabilized by the U.S., which spent $5 billion on this project. As proof, TV news showed a video of Senator John McCain giving a speech to antigovernment protesters in Kiev's Maidan Square. It was followed by a video of Vice President Joe Biden visiting Ukraine during the tumult. I wasn't sure what his role was, but it was implied that he had something to do with the unrest. Speaking of Joe Biden, I learned that his son just joined the board of Ukraine's largest natural gas company, which will benefit significantly from a destabilized Ukraine. Ukraine is a zoo of a country, deeply corrupt and overrun by Russian-haters and neo-Nazis (Banderovtsi – Ukrainian nationalists who were responsible for killing Russians and Jews during World War II). Candidates for the recent parliamentary election in Ukraine included Darth Vader (not kidding), as well as a gay ex-prostitute who claims to be a working man's man but lives in a multimillion-dollar mansion. I have to confess, it is hard not to develop a lot of self-doubt about your previously held views when you watch Russian TV for a week. But then you have to remind yourself that Putin's Russia doesn't have a free press. The free press that briefly existed after the Soviet Union collapsed is gone – Putin killed it. The government controls most TV channels, radio and newspapers. What Russians see on TV, read in print and listen to on the radio is direct propaganda from the Kremlin. YouTubeA scene from "The Untold Story." Before I go further, let's visit the definition of propaganda with the help of the Oxford English Dictionary: "The systematic dissemination of information, especially in a biased or misleading way, in order to promote a political cause or point of view." I always thought of the Internet as an unstoppable democratic force that would always let the truth slip out through the cracks in even the most determined wall of propaganda. I was wrong. After watching Russian TV, you would not want to read the Western press, because you'd be convinced it was lying. More important, Russian TV is so potent that you would not even want to watch anything else, because you would be convinced that you were in possession of indisputable facts. Russian's propaganda works by forcing your right brain (the emotional one) to overpower your left brain (the logical one), while clogging all your logical filters. Here is an example: Russian TV shows footage of schools in eastern Ukraine bombed by the Ukrainian army. Anyone's heart would bleed, seeing these gruesome images. It is impossible not to feel hatred toward people who would perpetrate such an atrocity on their own population. It was explained to viewers that the Ukrainian army continued its offensive despite a cease-fire agreement. Of course if you watched Ukrainian TV, you would have seen similar images of death and despair on the other side. In fact, if you read Ukrainian newspapers, you will learn that the Ukrainian army is fighting a well-armed army, not rebels with Molotovs and handguns, but an organized force fully armed by the Russian army. What viewers were not shown was that the cease-fire had been broken before the fighting resumed. The fact that Putin helped to instigate this war was never mentioned. Facts are not something Russian TV is concerned about. As emotional images and a lot of disinformation pump up your right brain, it overpowers the left, which capitulates and stops questioning the information presented. What I also learned is that you don't have to lie to lie. Let me give you an example. I could not figure out how the Russian media came up with the $5 billion that "America spent destabilizing Ukraine." But then I found a video of a U.S. undersecretary of State giving an 8.5-minute speech; at the 7.5-minute mark, she said, "Since Ukrainian independence in 1991 … [the U.S. has] invested more than $5 billion to help Ukraine." The $5 billion figure was correct. However, it was not given to Ukraine in three months to destabilize a democratically elected, corrupt pro-Russian government but over the course of 23 years. Yes, you don't have to lie to lie; you just have to omit important facts – something Russian TV is very good at. Another example of a right-brain attack on the left brain is "the rise of neo-Nazism in Ukraine." Most lies are built around kernels of truth, and this one is no different. Ukraine was home to the Banderovtsi, Ukrainian nationalists who were responsible for killing tens of thousands of Jews and Russians during World War II. Putin justified the invasion of Crimea by claiming that he was protecting the Russian population from neo-Nazis. Russian TV creates the impression that the whole of Ukraine is overrun by Nazis. As my father puts it, "Ukrainians who lived side by side with Russians did not just become Nazis overnight." Though there may be some neo-Nazis in Ukraine, the current government is liberal and pro-Western. Svoboda – the party whose members are known for their neo-Nazi and anti-Semitic rhetoric – did not get even 5 percent of the votes in the October election, the minimum needed to gain a significant presence in parliament. Meanwhile the TV goes on showing images of Nazis killing Russians and Jews during World War II and drawing parallels between Nazi Germany and Ukraine today. What also makes things more difficult in Russia is that, unlike Americans, who by default don't trust their politicians – yes, even their presidents – Russians still have the czarist mentality that idolizes its leaders. Stalin was able to cultivate this to an enormous degree – most Russians thought of him as a father figure. My father was 20 when Stalin died in 1953, and he told me that he, like everyone around him, cried.REUTERS/Alexander Demianchuk I keep thinking about what Lord Acton said: "Power corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely." The Putin we scorn today was not always like this; he did a lot of good things during his first term. The two that stand out the most are getting rid of the organized crime that was killing Russia and instituting a pro-business flat tax system. The amount of power Russians give their presidents, however, will, with time, change the blood flow to anyone's head. Come to think of it, even Mother Teresa would not have stood a chance in Russia. A few weeks ago Putin turned 62, and thousands of people took to the streets to celebrate his birthday. (Most Americans, including this one, don't even know the month of Barack Obama's birthday.) In my misspent youth, I took a marketing class at the University of Colorado. I remember very little from that class except this: For your message to be remembered, a consumer has to hear it at least six times. Putin's propaganda folks must have taken the same class, because Russian citizens get to hear how great their president is at least six times a day. We Americans look at Putin and see an evil KGB guy who roams around the country without a shirt on. Russians are shown a very different picture. They see a hard-working president who cares deeply about them. Every news program dedicates at least one fifth of its airtime to showcasing Putin's greatness, not in your face but in subtle ways. A typical clip would have him meeting with a cabinet minister. The minister would give his report, and Putin, looking very serious indeed, would lecture the minister on what needed to be done. Putin is always candid, direct and tough with his ministers. I've listened to a few of Putin's speeches, and I have to admit that his oratory skills are excellent, of a J.F.K. or Reagan caliber. He doesn't give a speech; he talks. His language is accessible and full of zingers. He is very calm and logical. Russians look at the Putin presidency and ask themselves a very pragmatic question: Am I better off now, with him, than I was before he came into power? For most the answer is yes. What most Russians don't see is that oil prices over the past 14 years went from $14 to more than $100 a barrel. They are completely responsible for the revival of Russia's one-trick petrochemical economy. In other words, they should consider why their economy has done better the past decade, and why it may not do as well going forward. Unless Putin was the one who jump-started China's insatiable demand for oil and other commodities that drove prices higher, he has had very little to do with Russia's recent "prosperity." REUTERS/How Hwee Yong/Pool  I place prosperity in quotes because if you take oil and gas riches away from Russia (lower prices can do that with ease), it is in a worse place today than it was 14 years ago. High oil prices have ruined Russia. They have driven its currency up, making its other products less competitive in international markets. Also, capital gravitates toward higher returns; thus oil has sucked capital from other industries, hollowing out the economy. After the Soviet Union collapsed, Russia had a chance to broaden its economy; it had one of the most educated workforces in the world. Sadly, it squandered that opportunity. Name one noncommodity product that is exported from Russia. There aren't many; I can think only of vodka and military equipment. But most Russians don't look at things that way. For most of them, their lives are better now: No more lines for toilet paper, and the stores are full of food. Their personal liberties (such as freedom of speech and freedom of the press) have been taken away from them, but many have so much trust in their president that they don't mind, whereas others are simply complacent. Today we see three factors that influence oil prices and are working against Russia: Supply is going up with U.S. shale drilling; demand growth will likely decline if the Chinese economy continues to cool; and the dollar is getting stronger, not because the U.S. doing great but just because the rest of the world is doing worse. If oil prices continue to decline, this will expose the true state of the Russian economy. When I visited Russia in 2008, I sensed an anti-American sentiment. NATO – which in Russia is perceived as a predominantly American entity – had expanded too close to Russian borders. Georgia tried to join NATO, but Russia put a quick end to that. Russians felt they extended a friendly hand to the U.S. after 9/11, but in response America was arraying missiles around its borders. (The U.S. says they are defensive, not offensive; Russians don't see the distinction. They are probably right.) The true colors of this new cold war came to light recently. In August 2008, according to Henry Paulson, the U.S. Treasury secretary at the time, "top level" Russian officials approached the Chinese during the Olympics in Beijing and proposed "that together they might sell big chunks of their GSE (Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac) holdings to force the U.S. to use its emergency authorities to prop up these companies." This incident took place just weeks before the collapse of Lehman Brothers. The U.S. economy was inches from revisiting the Stone Age. The proposed Russian-Chinese maneuver could have made such an outcome more likely. The Federal Reserve would have had to step in and buy Fannie's and Freddie's debt, and the dollar would have taken a dive, worsening the plunge in the U.S. economy. Our friend Putin wanted to bring the U.S. economy down without firing a single shot, just as he annexed Crimea from Ukraine. Today anti-American sentiment is much greater in Russia. European sanctions are seen as entirely unjustified. Here is why: Crimea had a "democratic referendum," and the Ukrainian conflict is believed to be not of Russia's doing but rather an American attempt to destabilize Russia and bring Ukraine into NATO. In his annual speech at the Valdai conference last month, Putin said America had pushed an unwilling Europe into imposing sanctions on Russia. America is perceived as an imperialistic bully that, because of its economic and military power, puts its own self-interest above everyone else's, and international law. Putin uses anti-Americanism as a shiny object to detract attention from the weak Russian economy and other internal problems. In the short run, sanctions provide a convenient excuse for the weakening Russian economy and declining ruble. They have boosted Putin's popularity (at least so far). As the Russian economy gets worse, anti-American sentiment will only rise. This new version of the cold war has little in common with the one I grew up in. There are no ideological differences, and there is no arms race (at least not yet, and let's be honest: Today neither country can afford one, especially Russia). At the core of it, we don't like what Russia is doing to its neighbors, and Russia doesn't like what we do to the rest of the (non-EU) world. Business Insider The criticisms of U.S. foreign policy voiced by Putin in his latest Valdai speech are shared by many Americans: The U.S. is culpable in the unresolved, open-ended Afghanistan adventure; the Iraq War; the almost-bombing of Syria, which may have destabilized the region further; and the creation of the Islamic State, which is in large part a by-product of all of the above. Yet Putin's abominable Ukrainian excursion and the thousands of lives lost were never mentioned. But there is also something less tangible that is influencing Russia's behavior: a bruised ego. During the good old Soviet Union days, Russia was a superpower. It mattered. When it spoke, the world listened. The Russian people had a great sense of pride in their Rodina (Mother Russia). Today, if Russia did not have nuclear weapons, we'd pay much less attention to it than we do. Pick a developing country without oil whose president you can name. (Okay, we Americans can't name the president of almost any other country, but you get the point.) Anti-Americanism and Putin's popularity will both rise as the Russian economy weakens. For instance, Putin took his own people hostage when he imposed sanctions on imports of European food. The impact on Europe will not be significant (the Russian economy is not very large in comparison to the European Union), but Russia is very dependent on these imports. In the U.S. consumers spend about 13 percent of their earnings on food, but in Russia that number is almost three times larger. Therefore, food inflation hurts Russians much more. Yet as food inflation spiked, so did Putin's popularity and anti-Americanism. Even declining oil prices will be explained as a anti-Russian manipulation by the U.S. Unfortunately, the only thing Russia has going for it today is its nuclear weapons. Russia has started to remind us of its military recently. According to NATO, the alliance "has conducted over 100 intercepts of Russian aircraft in 2014 to date, which is about three times more than were conducted in 2013." Every article needs a conclusion, but this one doesn't have one. I am not sure what this new cold war means for the world. Will Russia start invading other neighboring countries? Will it test NATO resolve by invading Baltic countries that are part of NATO? I don't know. Economic instability will eventually lead to political crises. We have plenty of economic instability going on around the world. I'll leave you with this thought: On March 7, 1936, the German army violated the Treaty of Versailles and entered into the Rhineland. Here is what Hitler later said: "The forty-eight hours after the march into the Rhineland were the most nerve-racking in my life. If the French had then marched into the Rhineland, we would have had to withdraw with our tails between our legs, for the military resources at our disposal would have been wholly inadequate for even a moderate resistance." Those two days determined what Germany would do next – build out its army and start World War II. Comparing Putin with Hitler, as one of my Russian friends put it, is "absolutely abominable" because it diminishes Hitler's atrocities and overstates by a mile what Putin has accomplished to date. Yet it feels as if we are at a Putin-of-1936 moment. Will he turn into a Putin of 1939 and invade other countries? I don't know. But the events of the past nine months have shown Putin's willingness to defy international law and seize the advantage on the ground, betting – correctly so far – that the West won't call his bluff. As Garry Kasparov put it, while the West is playing chess, responding tactically to each turn of events, Putin is playing high-stakes poker. We ignore Putin at our own peril. Vitaliy Katsenelson, CFA, is Chief Investment Officer at Investment Management Associates in Denver, Colo. To receive Vitaliy’s future articles by email or read his articles, click here. Like Outside the Box?Sign up today and get each new issue delivered free to your inbox. It's your opportunity to get the news John Mauldin thinks matters most to your finances. Important Disclosures This article originally appeared at Outside The Box.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric Vidal  It's one of Draghi's most forthright speeches, with one exceptional snippet: "It is essential to bring back inflation to target and without delay." Draghi added: "We have to be very watchful that low inflation does not start percolating through the economy in ways that further worsen the economic situation." You can take a look at the full text of the speech here. The whole thing is heavy on discussion of the eurozone's low inflation, as Twitter's Lorcan Roche Kelly notes:   One sentence towards the end of the speech stands out particularly. In 2012, Draghi promised to do anaything within the ECB's power to solve the euro crisis, and the speech is credited with beginning the end of the currency union's chaotic period. Is this comment Draghi's new "whatever it takes?":   we will do what we must to raise inflation and inflation expectations as fast as possible, as our price stability mandate requires of us. And the markets are reacting. The euro is now down 0.86% against the dollar, back bellow $1.245. Here's the euro plunging against the dollar as Draghi's speech was released:Investing.com, Business Insider FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Olivia Harris  The European Commission is gearing up to sign off on the state budgets of eurozone member states after gaining the power to regulate budgets last year. Previously, it was left up to the national governments. Because of weakening economies across Europe, the spending grab has never been more pronounced as the EU body checks over draft budgets submitted by eurozone countries, before making an official decision next week. Two stories in the Financial Times Friday morning illustrate this perfectly. First, there's an interview with Italian finance minister Pier Carlo Padoan, who accuses Brussels of using a "shaky analytical apparatus" to work out how much Rome should spend, suggesting that Italy could use more room to boost its struggling economy. The second is a head-to-head between the eurozone's two biggest economies, Germany and France. Gunther Oettinger, Germany's EU Commissioner, slammed the French government in a piece for the FT, criticising Paris for a lack of budget cuts and reform ambition. Here's a snippet: Germany’s European commissioner has questioned whether President François Hollande has the “willingness to act” to reform the French economy in a blunt warning set to add to tensions between Berlin and Paris. Günther Oettinger, a political ally of Angela Merkel, chancellor, said France must live up to commitments made last year to cut its budget deficit, and said its new spending plan does not reform the pension system, cut labour costs or lower corporate taxes enough.  This is a bit of schaudenfreude from Germany, which is heading for its first balanced budget in 45 years. But with such meagre economic growth, most governments are now fighting for table scraps from the European Commission, taking any fiscal giveaways on offer. The official decisions on Europe's budgets are released next week, so keep an eye out.  FREE AppDownload
© AFP Toshifumi KitamuraJapanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe (2nd L) and Regional Revitalisation Minister Shigeru Ishiba (L) receive 'Banzai' calls from ruling lawmakers after dissolution of the lower house of parliament, in Tokyo on November 21, 2014Tokyo (AFP) - The lower chamber of Japan's parliament was dissolved on Friday in readiness for a general election, expected next month, as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe seeks to consolidate his grip on power and reinvigorate his economic drive. "In accordance with article seven of Japan's constitution, the lower house is dissolved," speaker Bunmei Ibuki told the chamber. Ibuki's move came after a mandate from Abe, who is going to the polls less than half way through a four-year term. Abe said earlier this week that he wanted to ask for voters' endorsement for his decision to postpone a sales tax rise after data showed an earlier hike had knocked the economy off its axis. His cabinet is scheduled to hold an emergency meeting Friday afternoon to confirm the election will be Sunday, December 14. "I'm fully aware that it's going to be a tough election," Abe told a meeting of businessmen Thursday afternoon in Tokyo. "Through the election campaign, I want to clarify if the growth strategy we are pushing is right or wrong," he said. The last 24 months have seen two of the so-called "three arrows" of "Abenomics" fired -- massive fiscal stimulus and a flood of easy money. A third "arrow" of structural reforms remains stuck in the quiver, a victim of the vested interests it is intended to undermine. "The third arrow has never flown at all, facing resistance" from his own conservative Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), Kenji Eda, co-leader of the opposition Japan Restoration Party, said Thursday. Banri Kaieda, head of the largest opposition Democratic Party of Japan, also said: "We can't have the (rich-poor) gap widen. We can't give him a blank cheque for another four years."  According to opinion polls conducted by the Asahi Shimbun Wednesday and Thursday, the Abe cabinet's approval rate fell to 39 percent from 42 percent earlier this month. His disapproval rate rose to 40 percent from 36 percent, making it higher than his approval rate for the first time since he took office in December 2012, the survey showed. Abe has tried to cast the election as a referendum on his decision to delay the sales tax hike to 10 percent, after the first jump to 8.0 percent sent consumers scurrying for cover and took a huge bite out of GDP. But the Asahi survey said 65 percent of voters were not convinced by his reasoning. Most commentators agree that the election is a fig leaf to cover Abe's attempt to consolidate his own position within his fractious LDP, and to fend off challengers in a party leadership election scheduled for September next year. However, he also runs the risk of undermining his authority if his coalition's majority is reduced too much.   FREE AppDownload
