Every state has one governor and two senators, but, in almost every other way, each state’s human geography is different, often wildly so. New Jersey has 15 times more people than Wyoming, despite being one-tenth its size. You can divide the island of Manhattan in two and the top half would be more populous than North Dakota, the bottom half more populous than South Dakota.  Most state borders were drawn centuries ago, long before the country was fully settled, and often the lines were drawn somewhat arbitrarily, to coincide with topography or latitude and longitude lines that today have little to do with population numbers. I wanted to know what the country might look like if we threw out all of the East’s ancient squiggles and the West’s rigid squares, and reconstituted the country as a union of states of equal population. Maybe it’s because I grew up in New Hampshire, one of the nation’s smallest states geographically and population-wise, but I’ve always been intrigued by the idea that we might find a way to even things out. This is easier said than done. I started with a relatively straightforward approach to evening up the numbers: splitting America into just two states of equal population. Using the 2010 decennial census as my data source, I drew the map below. Each region has approximately 154,374,000 residents and no existing census tract is split in two: For the map above, and the majority of the maps in this article, I used a gerrymandering algorithm (similar to the one described here) that sought to optimize the compactness of each region. (To get technical: This means that the regions were drawn so the sum of the weighted average of distances from the center of every census tract to the center of the state was minimized.) Optimizing for compactness is often championed by those who oppose gerrymandering and would like to see more orderly, regular congressional districts, as opposed to the jigsaw puzzle pieces we have now, which have been drawn and redrawn by politicians eager to gain or hold on to power. But consistency and compactness don’t guarantee more reasonable boundaries. Optimizing for compactness has the downside of ignoring topographical and cultural boundaries, and often results in metropolitan areas being carved up awkwardly. In the map above, just a small tip of the Upper Peninsula of Michigan is grouped with “East America,” though it hardly seems to make sense to divide such a small, geographically distinct area in two. To make my map conform to common sense, you’d need to do a lot of redrafting—and pretty soon, you might end up with a much more complicated picture. If you don’t care about compactness, you can divide America into two halves of equal population in a bunch of different ways. Here are just a few of the options: But let’s assume there is some benefit to compactness, and see what happens when we split the country up into larger groups of smaller states, all of equal population. Alternative Americas of three, four, five, and 13 states are below: And what if you wanted to divide the U.S. into 50 states of equal population? If we turn the algorithm loose to create 50 states while seeking to optimize for total state compactness, we get the map below. But that’s just one way to do it; there are many ways to split up America into 50 equal states, and depending on your methods, the results will look very different. If you wanted to, you could split the United States up by latitude or longitude. Below I divvied up the country by latitude. I created the first state by starting at the southern most point in the US, drawing a latitude line through it, and then moving upwards until that very long, skinny state contained 1/50th of the American population. I repeated that process until I had 50 new states. (Granted, some of these new “states” wouldn’t be very convenient to govern, like the northern-most one, which includes Alaska, a long stretch along the Canadian border from Washington to Michigan’s upper peninsula, and even a sliver of Maine.) For this map, I kept each census block group (one of the smallest units of measure used by the Census) intact. Forcing smooth curved borders on the new states would have made the final map look less jagged, but it would have required inexact guesswork about where people actually live within each small unit of area.  When I finished my latitude map, I took the same approach, but with longitude: Here’s another way to skin this cat: split up the United States in concentric circles around the center of America. The US Census Department publishes a mean centerof population after each of its decennial surveys. The mean center is the point on which an imaginary weightless map would balance if weights of identical value were placed on it to represent each resident: It’s essentially the middle of America if you ignored physical geography and only compared where people live. After the 2010 census, this point was determined to be in Texas County, Missouri. So I centered each state at this point and extended concentric circles around it (again, keeping block groups intact). His version, certainly more aesthetically pleasing than mine, is below: In making his map, Freeman took into account current metropolitan areas to create states that, in theory, could plausibly be states. My version—seeking optimal compactness—cut through cities like Chicago and New York. I asked Freeman, via email, what he thought this type of map does best and worst. He thought the reason his map was so popular was because it drew people in with a story that they could relate to, with alternate “states” as opposed to visualizations that merely illustrate population density. (The realistic names Freeman gave his new states probably helped too.) He also stressed that different maps are needed to emphasize different patterns, and not every type of data is best illustrated with the same mapping methods “Different projects require different tools,” Freeman concluded. “Let a thousand maps bloom.” We won’t quite let a thousand maps bloom on Slate this week—but we’ll be illustrating what an alternative United States would look like divvied up by wealth, race, poverty, and, of course, Dunkin’ Donuts franchises. Tomorrow: Remapping America based on baseball player birthplaces. This article originally appeared at Slate.  Copyright 2014. Follow Slate on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersVendors sit outside a shop selling clothes in HanoiBy Masayuki Kitano SINGAPORE (Reuters) - The World Bank cut its 2014-2016 growth forecasts for developing East Asia and China, and cautioned of capital-flight risks to Indonesia while growth in China is seen slowing due to policy measures aimed at putting the economy on a more sustainable footing. The Washington-based lender expects the developing East Asia and Pacific (EAP) region to grow 6.9 percent in 2014 and 2015, down from the 7.1 percent rate it had previously forecast for both years. Growth in 2013 had been 7.2 percent. The bank also trimmed its 2016 growth forecast for the region to 6.8 percent from 7.1 percent. "Regional exports and growth will benefit from a gradual recovery in high-income economies," the World Bank said in its latest East Asia Pacific Economic Update report on Monday. Developing East Asia and Pacific will remain the fastest-growing developing region, it added. Possible risks to the outlook include a weaker-than-expected recovery in global trade and any abrupt rise in global interest rates, the report said, adding that its baseline scenario was based on an orderly normalization of monetary policy in the United States. The World Bank said growth in China was likely to slow to 7.4 percent in 2014 and 7.2 percent in 2015, down from 7.7 percent in 2013. Growth in 2016 was seen at 7.1 percent. The World Bank had previously seen China's growth coming in at 7.6 percent in 2014 and 7.5 percent in 2015 and 2016. "Measures to contain local government debt, curb shadow banking, and tackle excess capacity, high energy demand, and high pollution will reduce investment and manufacturing output," it said regarding China's outlook. China's economy has struggled to recover from a soft start to the year when growth slowed to its weakest in 18 months in the first quarter. Beijing has indicated it is prepared to accept slower growth as it tries to wean the world's second-biggest away from dependence on investment and exports in favor of consumption. But a rapid downturn in the housing market has become an increasing drag on the broader economy, prompting Beijing and local governments to step up efforts to restore momentum.   HOUSING, CAPITAL FLIGHT RISKS The potential risks in the region's real estate markets also came in for some cautionary comment in the lender's report, which said an abrupt financial tightening could trigger a disorderly adjustment of housing prices. On China, the bank said: "A major nationwide correction in real estate prices in China remains unlikely, although there may be pressure on prices in several of the less rapidly growing provinces." Overall, the report added that evidence of significant bubbles in the larger EAP economies are weak, which limits the scope for 'significant' house price corrections. Growth in developing East Asia and Pacific excluding China will slow to 4.8 percent in 2014 from 5.2 percent in 2013 due to the slowing economies of Indonesia and Thailand, the World Bank said, adding that growth was likely to rise to 5.3 percent in 2015. While the region's vulnerabilities to capital-flow reversals have decreased over the past year, Indonesia remains relatively exposed due to its high short-term external financing needs, it said. The U.S. Federal Reserve is expected to start raising interest rates at some point next year, with analysts expecting a more aggressive tightening-cycle by the Fed to potentially trigger a destabilizing flight of capital from some emerging market economies. Economic growth in Indonesia is likely to be held back in the second half of 2014 by weakness in commodity-related income, lower-than-expected government consumption and slower credit expansion, the report said. In Thailand, the respite from recent political unrest will lead to a resumption of growth, it added Broad risks to the region include the possibility of slower than expected recovery in global demand, as well as any rapid increase in interest rates, which could lead to debt servicing issues in some EAP countries, particularly among households and corporates, the World Bank said. "In Malaysia and Thailand, where household debt ratios are high, abruptly rising interest rates could strain household budgets and potentially slash consumption spending," it said. "In China...rapidly rising interest rates could create liquidity issues, and potentially also solvency issues, among marginal corporate borrowers in troubled excess-capacity industries," the report added. Another risk to the region would be a sharp slowdown in China but the likelihood of that is low, partly because Beijing has fiscal buffers to provide economic stimulus, or to bail out banks if non-performing loans emerge, the World Bank said.  (Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
This is a really good summation of what investors are thinking about right now, from Dan Greenhaus (@danBTIG) of BTIG: Our conversations this past week revealed client’s sense of bifurcation. On the one hand, Friday’s payroll report and strong ISM non-manufacturing index validate the strong U.S. thesis (first chart below, terrifically strong period for private sector job growth). However, weak data out of Europe, Japan and China continue to give clients headaches. Ultimately, most agree a strong U.S. is considerably more important than a weak [insert some other economy] but as we enter earnings season, the overseas weakness is one of two areas we’re on the lookout for in terms of disrupting the reporting season (the other is of course the strong dollar). There's no doubt about it, the US is leading the way right now in terms of the world economy. We're seeing much stronger growth than Europe, and both Japan and China (and much of the emerging world) are struggling. This is fundamentally why the dollar is so strong, because the Fed is getting closer to existing ultra-loose monetary policy, while the rest of the world is nowhere clear to that. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Danny Moloshok At the end of his last note, Jefferies strategist David Zervos offers up a simple trading idea: I continue to suspect that most asset markets are not set up for this type of uncertainty. As such I will continue to bang on a simple theme that seems to be playing out nicely. Own more vol. In a move to a more traditional monetary policy debate in the US, we will also see a move toward more traditional levels of market volatility. In addition, our ability to forecast what parts of the accommodation removal process will come from domestic sources (ie rates) vs international sources (ie currencies) is weak. That imprecision will also create plenty of room for enhanced volatility. Good luck trading. For a long time, Zervos was an ardent bull, on the simple idea that the Fed was in full-on reflation mode, and there was just no way to lose going long and taking risk. But as the exit ramp for the Fed approaches, you just can't presume the same playbook will work. So whether it's currency, interest rates, or equity, bet on higher volatility going forward. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman cycles in front of a brokerage in TokyoBy Hideyuki Sano TOKYO (Reuters) - Japanese stocks bounced on Monday and the U.S. dollar held near four-year highs against a basket of currencies, as upbeat U.S. jobs data boosted sentiment after a week of worries about global growth and geopolitical tensions frayed investor nerves. Tokyo's Nikkei  jumped 0.9 percent in early trade while South Korean shares rose 0.3 percent after a market holiday on Friday. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan  was down 0.2 percent. Some signs of calm in the region was seen towards the end of last week after the civil unrest in Hong Kong had spooked investors. The U.S. Labor Department reported nonfarm payrolls rose 248,000 in September, 33,000 more than median forecast while the jobless rate fell two-tenths of a point to a six-year low of 5.9 percent. Stocks on Wall Street jumped more than 1.0 percent on Friday, with the S&amp;P 500  posting its best day in almost two months to end at $1,967.90. The U.S. dollar was another clear winner, as the data highlighted the relative strength of the U.S. economy as many other major economies remain sluggish. The dollar index stood at 86.679 , little changed so far on Monday but having risen 1.3 percent on Friday to hit a high of 86.746 , its strongest since June 2010. The euro traded at $1.2515 , having fallen to $1.2505 on Friday, its lowest level in more than two years. The dollar fetched 109.82 yen , near last week's six-year high of 110.09 yen. "The theme in the currency market at the moment is the divergence of economic growth... But the pace of the dollar's rally may slow down a bit from now. The 110 yen level seems to be heavy," said Shusuke Yamada, chief Japan FX strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. In early thin Asian trade, sterling hit a 11-month low $1.5943  while the New Zealand dollar fell 0.7 percent to $0.7719 , threatening to fall below one-year low of 0.7708 marked last week. As the dollar rose, gold came under pressure, falling 0.5 percent to hit a 15-month low of $1,183.51 per ounce . The U.S. Treasuries bond prices fell on the jobs data, but they quickly recovered most of the lost ground. The 10-year notes yielded 2.4412 percent  on Monday, little changed from just before the data release. While job growth was solid, some investors also focused on the small growth in wages. Average hourly earnings rose just 2.0 percent from a year earlier, well below above three percent before the Great recession in 2008-09. As limited wage growth suggests low inflationary pressure, affording the Federal Reserve room to wait before raising interest rates, interest rate futures markets showed limited reaction, moving only a few ticks. Federal fund rate futures  are pricing in full chance of a rate hike in July. Asia has little data to trade on, but one focus later in the day is on Brazil, where leftist President Dilma Rousseff placed first in Sunday's election but did not get enough votes to avoid a runoff on Oct. 26. She will face pro-business rival Aecio Neves, who made a dramatic late surge into second place. [ID:nL2N0S00A0] Over the past month, the Brazilian real and shares tended to weaken when polls show Rousseff gaining as many investors believe a more market-friendly administration could help boost demand for Brazilian assets. The real hit six-year low of 2.5070 reais per dollar  on Friday, hitting the 2.50 mark, a level seen by some as fuelling inflation and increasing the chances of additional central bank market intervention.  (Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Francois GuillotA Romanée-Conti wine bottle is displayed on May 12, 2014 in Paris Hong Kong (AFP) - An auction in Hong Kong Saturday broke the world record for the most expensive lot of wine ever sold, with 114 bottles of Burgundy going for HK$12,556,250 ($1.6 million), Sotheby's said. The auction house said a collection of Romanee-Conti, one of the world's most sought after Burgundy labels, sold for the equivalent of $14,121 for each bottle or $1,700 per glass. The lot contained six bottles of each of the 19 vintages made from 1992 to 2010. The previous record for a single lot of wine -- also held by Sotheby's -- was $1.05 million for 50 cases of top Bordeaux Chateau Mouton Rothschild 1982, sold in New York in 2006. "The Romanee-Conti Superlot presented a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to acquire an unprecedented quantity of the world's most desirable wine," Robert Sleigh, head of Sotheby's Wine in Asia, said in a press release. "It is only fitting that it has broken the world record to become the most valuable single wine lot ever sold at auction," he added.  A 66-magnum collection of Henri Jayer, owned by Silicon Valley magnate and Netscape founder James Clark, also sold for $1.1 million, or $16,000 per bottle.  Sotheby's did not release who acquired either lot.  The record sales come despite a much publicised anti-corruption campaign and separate austerity drive by Chinese president Xi Jinping which has hit luxury goods and vintage wine sales in Hong Kong hard. According to a survey by Vinexpo Asia Pacific, mainland China's wine consumption fell by 2.5 percent last year, after 10 years of uninterrupted growth at a rate of 25 percent per year. In 2013, China overtook France as the world's largest consumer of red wine, guzzling more than 155 million 9-litre cases or 1.865 billion bottles that year, according to Vinexpo. But the official austerity drive in China has meant that people are increasingly turning to cheaper wines.   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBuildings in the City of London and Canary Wharf are seen from The View gallery at the Shard, western Europe's tallest building, in LondonLONDON (Reuters) - Growth is back on the agenda for Britain's financial services companies, which have been posting rising profits and adding staff in recent months, an industry survey showed on Monday. Following the 2007-09 financial crisis, many of Britain's banks and financial services firms were forced to trim costs and cut jobs and cope with a raft of new regulations. According to the latest quarterly review of the industry by the Confederation of British Industry (CBI) and consultancy PwC, firms may be starting to move on from the painful period of restructuring. Business volumes grew at their fastest rate since 2007 in the quarter to September, while 60 percent of firms reported greater profits, the survey of 109 companies found. That trend is expected to continue in the current quarter, with the majority of firms forecasting another period of rising volumes and profits. Respondents said competition was among their main concerns for the coming year, which suggested companies were looking for opportunities to grow. "The sector could be moving to a new phase in the recovery where firms are feeling more assured about the level of demand and are now shifting their gaze to competing for new customers and business," Rain Newton-Smith, CBI's director for economics, said in a statement that accompanied the report. Separate research from recruitment firm Astbury Marsden said financial sector firms in London, home to around a third of the industry's workers, created 3,470 new jobs in September, 46 percent more than the same period last year. Many of the new roles were in compliance and regulatory functions, and stronger equity markets have created a need for more dealmakers and front office staff. "We are now also starting to see many employers feel that the time is right to drive business growth by building up their revenue earning teams," said Adam Jackson, a director at Astbury Marsden. "As the IPO (initial public offering) and M&amp;A (mergers and acquisitions) markets heat up, this will have a positive knock-on effect on hiring in equities trading, broking and corporate finance departments," he added. M&amp;A volumes rose by more 60 percent to $2.7 trillion in the first nine months of the year, while equity capital market deals were up by a quarter at $678.1 billion, Thomson Reuters data showed last week. That spike in activity sent investment banking fees up by 13 percent to $68.8 billion in the year to end-September. Astbury Marsden said firms were also hiring in technology in response to regulatory demands for improvements to data protection systems. Large investment banks want staff to help identify and counter threats to the integrity of their IT infrastructure, the recruiter added. "The cyber security jobs market has grown rapidly in recent months, and the banks are actively recruiting information security specialists to shore up their technology teams," Jackson said.  (Reporting by Clare Hutchison; editing by Jane Baird) FREE AppDownload
Reuters Pro-democracy protesters remained in a tense stalemate with the Hong Kong government late on Sunday.To retreat or not to retreat? That was the question for Occupy Central protesters into their eighth night of the civil disobedience movement yesterday. Pledges to restore access to Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying's office in Admiralty as well as a section of Nathan Road in Mong Kok came undone within minutes of them being made. The swift change in plans highlighted a split in strategy among the tens of thousands of demonstrators occupying parts of Hong Kong in protest against Beijing's restrictive reform framework for the 2017 chief executive election. It remained unclear whether or not protesters would allow 3,000 civil servants into work at government headquarters today, given that the footbridge from Admiralty Centre - the main pedestrian access to the offices - was largely blocked, leaving room for people to pass only in single file. The offices were closed last week because of a blockade by protesters. Leung issued an ultimatum on Saturday for access to be reopened by today. If the protesters retreat, they will be seen as going back on their vow to bring government operations to a standstill. But if they do not, police have said they will clear the crowd outside - and that could result in casualties. Outside Leung's office yesterday, only a small number of protesters remained - until others learned at 6pm that an agreement had been reached to "return" the road to police. A protester was seen shaking hands with police after agreeing on the protesters' behalf to retreat from the area. At news of the planned retreat, protesters elsewhere rushed to the scene. Ben Liu Chi-fung, 20, said: "We strove hard to get this site. We shouldn't give it up without any government decision in favour of us." In Mong Kok, a group of about 20 protesters who had occupied part of Nathan Road since last Monday also announced their withdrawal at about 6.30pm. "We don't want to see more people get hurt," protester Daniel Tang said, adding that attacks by anti-Occupy activists over the past few days had deterred them. But as night fell, others criticised the group for leaving. "If you want to leave, just leave. Don't try to influence others," one protester, Carlos Leung, said. "Whoever removes our tents and blockades are our enemies." There were no signs of the crowd in Monk Kok shrinking. State broadcaster CCTV has aired footage of Hong Kong protesters for the first time since Occupy Central started its sit-ins a week ago, but only of people opposed to the movement for democracy. "Holding Hong Kong hostage is not peaceful. Blocking the streets is not democracy," the station quoted a foreigner as saying, without giving his full name. The man said he had been based in Hong Kong for 25 years and claimed to know many who opposed the protests. "Blaming the police for the chaos is hypocrisy because they are the ones who are causing the problem." Other interviewees in the report complained of disruptions brought by the closure of shops and suspension of school classes. Meanwhile, other state media continued to round on the civil disobedience movement. Xinhua said the number of mainland visitors to Hong Kong in the first two days of the National Day "golden week" holiday fell 1.7 per cent compared with a year earlier. Many tours were cancelled, it said. The Communist Party mouthpiece, People's Daily, has published criticism of the movement for five days in a row. In its latest article, Zhi Zhenfeng, an associate research fellow at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, warned the protests would intensify the polarisation of Hong Kong society. "Occupy Central runs counter to the mainstream opinion of people in Hong Kong," Zhi wrote in his commentary. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWorkers walk in the rain at the Canary Wharf business district in LondonLONDON (Reuters) - London is the most popular city in the world to work in, an international survey of more than 200,000 people found, with nearly one in six of those questioned wanting to move to the British capital to secure employment. The study by The Boston Consulting Group and totaljobs.com found respondents from 189 countries ranked London above New York and Paris, while Britain was second behind the United States as the most appealing country for international jobseekers. While the survey - described by its compilers as the most expansive study conducted on worker mobility - found that almost two thirds of jobseekers were willing to move abroad to work, within Britain only 44 percent of people want to move overseas for work. "This report cements London's reputation as a truly global city," said Mike Booker, of totaljobs.com. "Not only does it offer a wealth of job opportunities in a range of industries, but it boasts some of the world's top cultural attractions, so it's no surprise that people across the globe want to come and work here." The survey of a mixture of the employed, unemployed, self-employed and students included a mix of people actively looking for a job, those not actively looking but open to opportunities and workers not looking for a new job at the moment.      (Reporting by Kate Holton; Editing by David Goodman) FREE AppDownload
Remember Bitcoin? There's not much to say about it, except that it's doing TERRIBLY. Here's a chart going back to earlier this summer. Charts don't get uglier than this. Bitcoinwisdom Interestingly, the Bitcoin industry continues to be quite excited about the prospects for the digital currency, and there continue to be announcements about expanding its potential usage. But for now: toilet. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersUndated handout photo of Canadian transport executive Cy Tokmakjian holding his grandsonBy Daniel Trotta HAVANA (Reuters) - Defense lawyers for a Canadian executive sentenced to 15 years prison in Cuba on bribery and other charges released a raft of documents on Sunday seeking to bolster their case that Cy Tokmakjian was denied a fair trial. Tokmakjian's transportation company said crucial evidence  prepared by the defense team was not accepted by the five-judge panel during the two-week trial in June, and relevant witnesses including experts were denied a chance to testify. The defense documents, released to reporters by a public relations firm, say many of the charges were legally inadmissible and Tokmakjian's acts did not constitute crimes. For example, Tokmakjian was convicted of paying bribes but defense lawyer Ramon de la Cruz Ochoa said in one of the documents that "gifts, meals and courtesies are presented negatively and out of context" in the charges. Tokmakjian was convicted by a Cuban court last month and sentenced on charges of bribery, damaging the Cuban economy, illicit economic activity, currency trafficking, fraud and tax evasion, and it ordered the seizure of assets valued at $100 million. Sixteen others including two Canadian employees of his company, the Tokmakjian Group, were convicted and sentenced to terms ranging from 6 to 20 years in a case that has strained Cuba's relations with Canada, a major trading partner, and could deter foreigners from investing with the communist government. Tokmakjian, 74 who was arrested three years ago, has denied wrongdoing. Over 20 years, the privately-held Concord, Ontario-based Tokmakjian Group became one of most successful foreign companies doing business in Cuba, supplying vehicles, motors, parts and construction equipment. The defense documents said that officials receiving gifts could not have directed contracts to Tokmakjian on their own. Contracts worth more than $1 million, for example, must receive approval from 13 separate levels of bureaucracy, the defense said. "A vice-minister cannot make these decisions single-handedly," defense lawyer de la Cruz Ochoa said. This referred to one of the 14 convicted Cubans, former vice-minister of the sugar ministry, Nelson Labrada, who was sentenced to 20 years for taking bribes from Tokmakjian and directing millions of dollars worth of contracts his way. The court cited numerous gifts that Labrada received from Tokmakjian or his companies including family vacations, a gambling trip to Niagara Falls, bottles of liquor and a flat-screen TV. A lawyer for Labrada, Carlos Manuel Perez Ricardo, told Reuters he received gifts, as the court found in its verdict, but said they played no role in directing state business to Tokmakjian. The defense documents say Tokmakjian treated Labrada to weeklong vacations to a beach resort only because his wife was a company employee, and the families of all Tokmakjian employees enjoyed that benefit. Cuba said Tokmakjian's dealings with Cuban state companies caused $91 million in damage to the Cuban state. While such companies are closely tied to the state, the defense used the letter of the law to argue that such damage could not be possible. It cited law establishing that those companies were independent of the state, meaning the state cannot claim any damages done to one of those companies. In addition, the tax evasion charge ignored a dual-taxation agreement Cuba has with Barbados, the defense said. Tokmakjian operated through a number of companies, including one called Tokmakjian International, which is incorporated in Barbados. The taxes were duly paid in Barbados, the defense said.  (Reporting by Daniel Trotta. Editing by David Adams and Frances Kerry) FREE AppDownload
APAecio Neves. After Brazil's most volatile campaign in decades, Neves' emphasis on "safe change" and his record as a popular two-term governor convinced enough opposition voters that he was the surest bet to try to unseat Rousseff, who has presided over a long economic slump but remains popular among the poor. With three-quarters of votes counted, Rousseff led with 40.4 percent support compared to 35.2 percent for Neves. Marina Silva, a prominent environmentalist who had recently led opinion polls but saw her support collapse late in the campaign, was in third place with just 21 percent of votes. An exit poll broadcast by TV Globo just after polls closed showed Rousseff, who is seeking a second term, with 44 percent of the vote, compared with 30 percent for Neves and 22 percent for Silva. Results were not yet in from some poorer states in the northeast and Amazon, where Rousseff is stronger, meaning her lead could widen as they come in. Because no candidate won a majority of valid votes, the top two finishers will face each other in a second round on Oct. 26. The matchup, which polls show Rousseff is favored to win, will pit her emphasis on robust social programs and state intervention in the economy against Neves' vision of greater trade and a more austere state. Silva had as recently as late last week seemed like Rousseff's probable challenger. But her campaign abruptly fell apart under a barrage of negative ads that accused her of flip-flopping on issues like taxes and gay marriage. That provided Neves, the grandson of a beloved politician from the 1980s, a window to present himself as a more steady alternative. His centrist Brazilian Social Democracy Party (PSDB) governed Brazil from 1995 to 2002, a period that saw important pro-market reforms that ended decades of high inflation and financial instability.   (Additional reporting by Brazil newsroom; Editing by Todd Benson and Kieran Murray) This article originally appeared at Reuters.  Copyright 2014. Follow Reuters on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
There goes gold. As markets whirr back to life to start the week, gold is falling again.  It's been really weak of late, as a strengthening economy and strenghtening dollar have taken the wind out of the gold story big time. It's now below $1190/oz. Kitco  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBill Gross, co-founder and co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment Management Company (PIMCO), wears sunglasses as he arrives to speak at the Morningstar Investment Conference in ChicagoNEW YORK (Reuters) - It was one of the most extraordinary meetings in the history of the bond market. Two of the biggest-ever names in fixed-income investing, Bill Gross and Jeffrey Gundlach, fierce rivals who had never previously talked, held a secret meeting over glasses of lemonade, water, and plates of crudites about whether to join forces. In the week of Sept. 15, just before Gross shocked the investment world on Sept. 26 by storming out of Pimco, he approached Gundlach and dropped a bombshell. According to Gundlach, Gross said he was about to be fired by the firm he had helped launch more than four decades ago and had built into a $2 trillion investment powerhouse. Gross disclosed he had been toying with quitting for some time after Pimco erupted in turmoil earlier this year when Gross' heir apparent, Mohamed El-Erian, left the firm, sparking a public falling out between the two long-time colleagues.  And Gross also told Gundlach he had been in talks with another firm some six months ago. He did not say which firm it was, Gundlach said. Reuters first reported the meeting between Gross and Gundlach, who runs DoubleLine Capital, the day of Gross' departure from Pimco for Janus Capital Group. Gundlach has now provided Reuters with a much fuller picture of how the meeting came to pass and what they discussed over three hours on the north loggia of Gundlach's Los Angeles home. Gross declined repeated requests to be interviewed for this story or to confirm Gundlach’s account of their meeting. Representatives for Pimco, a unit of German insurer Allianz SE, and Janus, which is a much smaller player in the asset management business, declined to comment. DoubleLine has been among the firms to benefit as investors have ditched Pimco following Gross’s departure.    REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz Jeffrey Gundlach, chief executive and chief investment officer of DoubleLine Capital, speaks at the Sohn Investment Conference in New York, May 5, 2014.Gundlach said that Gross called him out of the blue. "Bill called through the DoubleLine switchboard," said Gundlach. Skeptical that it was really Gross, Gundlach said he "told the receptionist to take a number and then call it to verify it was not some prankster. A couple of hours later I called Bill from home."  In that initial phone conversation, Gundlach said: "Bill came out and told me: 'Pimco doesn't want me anymore.' And I said, 'That is an unbelievably stupid decision.'" "Then he told me, 'They are going to push the button and fire me.' To which I said, "This is really distressing." "They" were the members of Pimco's executive committee, chaired by Pimco Chief Executive Doug Hodge. Hodge and Pimco President Jay Jacobs, through a Pimco spokesman, declined to comment for this story. Gross' position at Pimco had grown precarious in the months since El-Erian left. The firm's flagship fund, the Pimco Total Return Fund, run by Gross personally, was underperforming and bleeding assets through redemptions. Sources have told Reuters that Gross had clashed repeatedly with Hodge and the executive committee, threatening to quit on several occasions. He finally did quit for Janus, hours before the committee was planning to dismiss him. Gundlach said he told Gross he sympathized with him as Gundlach himself had been fired in 2009 by TCW Group, at the time owned by French bank Societe Generale SA, in a dispute over management and control of the firm’s fixed-income business. Gross, who is 70, told Gundlach he didn't want to retire, according to Gundlach. He wanted to keep managing money, albeit less of it. At the conclusion of their phone call, Gundlach, 54, invited Gross, who lives south of Los Angeles in Newport Beach near Pimco's headquarters, to Gundlach's home about an hour-and-a-half away. "I did think there could be some kind of 'Dream Team' concept," Gundlach said. REUTERS/Steve Marcus Kobe Bryant (L) of the U.S. 2012 Olympic men's basketball team walks past his teammate LeBron James during their exhibition game against the Dominican Republic at the Thomas & Mack Center in Las Vegas, Nevada July 12, 2012.  Gross arrived in a chaffeur-driven car the next afternoon around 4 p.m. The two perched in Gundlach's open-air loggia with mountainside views of the Pacific Ocean and for three hours talked about their careers, Gross' travails at Pimco and the possibility of the two men - both at various times nicknamed "bond king" by the financial press - combining forces. Gross came well-informed about Gundlach, saying that his wife, Sue Gross, had probed extensively into the younger man's history. The results of her research were very complimentary of Gundlach’s career achievements, Gundlach said. Gundlach told his rival that Gross had set the bar too high through years of out-performance that had allowed Gross to build the Total Return Fund into the world’s largest bond fund, which at its peak in April 2013 had nearly $293 billion in assets. The fund was now too large to manage, and unfairly even a few years of average performance was now considered a failure, Gundlach said. "I said to Bill: 'You are running too much money.' Bill agreed, saying 'absolutely, smaller is better.'" "It was clear that Bill had reconciled himself to the weaker performance being because of the fact that he was running too much money," Gundlach said. "There was no disagreement at all. This change he is making is a good thing for his ability to perform." In fact, Gross had proposed to Pimco's executive committee that he manage considerably less money - roughly $40 billion to $50 billion - and that he no longer wanted to run the flagship fund, Gundlach said that Gross told him. Instead, Hodge and Jacobs told Gross the executive committee had reached a different decision. Gross told Gundlach the committee said: "We want you to leave soon." YouTube/PIMCO Word of the face-to-face meeting between Gundlach and Gross surprised the bond world. For two decades, the two had no relationship or interaction at all, even though their personas were intertwined, compared and contrasted often in  the financial media and by other bond market players. Morningstar named Gross "Fixed Income Manager of the Decade" in 2010, an award for which Gundlach was a finalist. Then in 2011, Barron's magazine anointed Gundlach as the new King of Bonds. Gundlach, for his part, said he never considered that he and Gross had been "adversaries" though he admits the two clearly competed "to log better returns than each other." In their meeting, Gross "mentioned the 'Bond King' thing and seemed surprised when I said I never encouraged the media on that one, which is true," Gundlach said. Discussing their potential legacies, Gundlach said Gross spun an analogy to National Basketball Association star players Kobe Bryant and the younger LeBron James. "I am Kobe. You are LeBron James," Gross told Gundlach. "I have five rings, you have two rings - probably going to five,” a reference to the number of NBA championships the two players have each won. The meeting ended with no decision made about a partnership, but they agreed to stay in touch. Gundlach has made it clear that he wants to remain fully in charge at DoubleLine. Then, a week later, Gross called Gundlach on the night before his Janus announcement. He left a voicemail message saying he was leaving Pimco for another firm. (Reporting By Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Dan Burns and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Saint Peter's Basilica is reflected on a Harley-Davidson bike tank in RomeBy Yantoultra Ngui KUALA LUMPUR (Reuters) - Roads in Southeast Asia have been getting a little louder lately as motorcycle makers, an aspiring middle class and easy bank credit come together to breed a new genus of motorcyclists – the big-bike rider. Traffic in urban centers such as Jakarta, Kuala Lumpur and Ho Chi Minh City has long been characterized by swarms of small motorbikes and scooters. Honda Motor  and Yamaha Motor , the world's biggest motorbike makers, have dominated this sprawling regional market. The landscape is slowly shifting as the Southeast Asian market, the world's third-largest after China and India, undergoes a structural change. In Malaysia and Vietnam, motorbikes with bigger engine capacities are outselling their smaller cousins. Italy's Ducati Motor Holding [DUMTG.UL], Japan's Kawasaki and Austria's KTM  are among motorbike makers looking to build a new axis of growth in this market of 600 million people as orders for larger bikes in first-world countries slow. They are wooing not just small-bike owners graduating to larger models. They are also chasing riders who already own a four-door subcompact sedan but have no qualms about taking on an additional financial commitment. Harley-Davidson  plans to roll out a new entry-level motorcycle, the Street 750, in Southeast Asia early next year. The 749cc model has been a hit in India, with sales accounting for 60 percent of the company's local revenue two months after its launch in February. The bike costs 410,000 rupees ($6,663). "We are optimistic about the Southeast Asian premium leisure motorcycle market," Marc McAllister, vice president and managing director of Harley-Davidson Asia-Pacific, told Reuters. "The motorcycle is perfectly suited to the region's infrastructure and fast-growing urban cities filled with a younger generation of riders who want an accessible premium ride." The demand for premium bikes is in step with rising gross national income (GNI) in Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia, Vietnam and the Philippines - vast countries held together by miles and miles of high-speed motorways, urban roads and rural byways. In Vietnam, GNI per capita is approaching the key $2,000 level, data from the World Bank shows. Crossing that threshold marks the first phase of a shift in a population's spending from subsistence to moderate consumption, U.S.-based private equity and investment consulting firm TorreyCove Capital Partners said in a report in 2013. Indonesia and the Philippines both breached the $3,000 level in 2012, while in Malaysia and Thailand, GNI per capita stood at $10,400 and $5,370, respectively, last year, according to the World Bank data. In Vietnam, sales of larger models are outpacing the broader market, according to Harley-Davidson and Ducati. In Malaysia, sales of bikes with capacities of 250cc and above surged 49 percent last year, while the overall market was almost flat, local industry association data shows. In Indonesia, the region's largest motorcycle market, bikes with similarly bigger capacities comprised 13 percent of total sales in 2013, up from 11 percent in 2012. "We also see that not only bigger and heavier bikes will have a better volume, but also cross-touring motorcycles like BMW  and Triumph will have a better opportunity here," said Tony Tardjo, head of consumer lending of Indonesia's Bank CIMB Niaga . "This kind of motorcycle offers the ability for on and off-road, which is suitable for Indonesian road infrastructure," he said.  EXTRA COMMITMENTS With a monthly salary of 4,000 ringgit ($1,229), Hor Chee Fung, 28, is one of the region's new middle class earners, working hard to pay off monthly commitments from phone bills to car loans. But that didn't stop him from taking another loan to buy a larger and more powerful motorcycle. "I don't mind taking that extra commitment to join my fellow riding friends," said Hor, a Kuala Lumpur-based financial analyst with International Business Machines Corp . Hor is moving from a moped to a 250cc sports motorbike – the Kawasaki Ninja 250R. He plans to eventually upgrade to a Harley-Davidson or Ducati entry-level model when he gets a pay rise and promotion. An entry-level Ducati, such as the Monster 795 assembled in Thailand, costs 59,900 ringgit in Malaysia, 18 percent cheaper than an entry-level Toyota Vios car. A Kawasaki Ninja 250R costs less, at 22,590 ringgit. "These superbikes are highly affordable from 60,000 ringgit to the dream machines costing 500,000 ringgit and above," said Khairul Kamarudin, business development director at Bank Islam Malaysia Bhd, a unit of BIMB Holdings Bhd . "As there are presently not many financial institutions providing superbike financing, we view this under-served community as an exciting prospect," he said. "We are in this superbike financing for the long haul." A consumer banking manager from a Kuala Lumpur-based bank was more cautious. He said the superbike market is still small compared with car financing, though he agreed it is growing. "I would say a lot of it is impulse buying," he said, adding that interest rates are high, as much as 10 percent if the client chooses zero downpayment. Market research firm Nielsen estimates that middle class earners in Southeast Asia, or those with disposal incomes of as much as $3,000 a month, will more than double to 400 million by 2020.  CLOSE TO YOU To be closer to this new growth segment, KTM, Europe's second-largest motorcycle maker, last year opened its first assembly plant outside Austria in the northern Malaysian state of Kedah. That came two years after Ducati, a unit of Audi AG , set up a factory in Thailand. "We notice in Southeast Asia a clear demand for bigger engine capacities. Even premium high-end models like our 1290 Super Duke R show potential. But clearly the main business is done with products between 200 and 400cc," Thomas Kuttruf, PR manager at KTM Sportmotorcycle GmbH, told Reuters. Apart from being closer to their customers, it also makes more economic sense for manufacturers to produce in Southeast Asia. A regional free trade pact has meant lower import tariffs in the single digits. Bikes and components imported from outside the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) are slapped with duties of up to 30 percent, making them more expensive. "The choice of the factory in Thailand, the first for us outside of Italy, was an important step... We are able to deliver Ducati motorcycles throughout Asia taking advantage of the ASEAN duty agreement," Pierfrancesco Scalzo, general manager of sales and marketing at Ducati Asia, told Reuters. For now, market leaders Honda and Yamaha remain unfazed by the entry of other motorbike makers. Like Ducati, KTM and Kawasaki, a unit of Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd , Honda is starting to offer bigger bikes, producing the CB500 and CB650 series in Thailand. "We are not competing with the other manufacturers," Yuka Abe, a Tokyo-based Honda spokeswoman told Reuters. "But we do this because in Asia, demand for bigger models is increasing while in developed countries, the demand for the same is decreasing." Yamaha is not about to be left behind. The world's second-largest motorcycle maker has recently started producing a new 250cc sports motorcycle in Indonesia – the R25 - and is looking to launch the model worldwide soon.  (1 US dollar = 61.5350 Indian rupee) (1 US dollar = 3.2560 Malaysian ringgit)  (Additional Reporting by Yoko Kubota in TOKYO, Shadia Nasralla in VIENNA, Mai Nguyen in HANOI, Khettiya Jittapong in BANGKOK, Rosemarie Francisco in MANILA and Fransiska Nangoy in JAKARTA; Editing by Ryan Woo) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn IndiGo Airlines Airbus A320 aircraft is pictured parked at a gate at Mumbai's Chhatrapathi Shivaji International AirportBy Tommy Wilkes NEW DELHI (Reuters) - The airport in Patna, one of India's smaller cities and the capital of its poorest state, is so crowded that government authorities this year said they need to build another one. The airport has seen the number of passengers, and daily flights, double in the last four years as the country's largest carrier IndiGo Airlines and smaller rivals like GoAir seek to cash in on a surge in demand for air travel from smaller regions to offset losses on highly competitive "trunk" routes linking big cities. "We are close to capacity in our arrivals and departure lounges," said Santosh Kumar, who runs operations at Patna airport. "We can handle more planes but it is only possible with a bigger terminal. We need a bigger airport." Higher disposable incomes, an expanding middle class and rapid urbanization have made India one of the world's fastest growing domestic aviation markets, where passenger numbers are expected to grow by more than 75 percent in the next six years to exceed 217 million. Much of that growth is expected to come from smaller cities like Patna, where more people are flying for the first time. Passenger numbers from these places have risen nearly 17 percent a year since 2009, compared to 7.6 percent from larger hubs, data from industry analysts CAPA - Centre for Aviation show. That trend is set to continue as more airports are built in smaller cities. This month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's  government picked five smaller cities to kick off a nationwide initiative to build about 50 new airports. "The opportunity is changing," said Aditya Ghosh, president of IndiGo, which now flies larger Airbus A320 planes to and from Patna instead of smaller ATR jets. "On some of these smaller routes, the planes are more full than the trunk routes." Fifth largest carrier GoAir has also boosted flights to and from Patna and other smaller cities, Chief Executive Giorgio de Roni said, as these regional routes now make more money than the more congested routes between Mumbai and Delhi. Flag carrier Air India's regional unit is also looking at increasing its fleet to tap a larger share of this market, industry officials said. Air India did not respond to requests for comment. While more established carriers see regional travel as a way to counter the razor-thin margins and losses on big city routes, a crop of new airlines are catering only to regional demand. Zav Airways plans to start flying within the northeast in 2015, when Air Carnival also aims to fly within the south, according to CAPA. Air Costa began flying within southern India last October and this year, it agreed to buy 50 jets from Embraer SA in the biggest aircraft deal for an Indian regional carrier so far this year. Chief Financial Officer Vivek Choudhary said Air Costa was bracing for competition. "But we are capitalizing on the first-mover advantage," he added. For now, demand for regional travel outstrips supply, making the sector attractive for airlines. Air travel penetration in India remains small in global terms, with 0.04 annual trips per capita against 0.3 in China and more than two in the United States. Industry analysts, however, warn that as more carriers pile into the sector, fares will fall and airlines will face the same pressure on yields as they do now on big city routes. "There is huge latent demand in some of these smaller cities," said Dhiraj Mathur, an executive director at PwC India who focuses on aerospace and defense. "But there's always a danger from increased competition."  (Additional reporting by Douglas Busvine in NEW DELHI and Siva Govindasamy in SINGAPORE; Editing by Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
Lane Hickenbottom/ReutersCharlie MungerCharlie Munger dropped out of college, served as a meteorologist in the US Army Air Corps, and attended Harvard Law. And then at age 31, he met Warren Buffett, who convinced him to go into investing. Today, Munger is Warren Buffett's right-hand man at Berkshire Hathaway and has an estimated net worth of $1.3 billion. We've compiled a list of his most insightful quotes about business, investing, and life in general. So step inside the mind of one of the most brilliant investors alive today. FREE AppDownload
Business Insider(left to right) Barry Ritholtz, CIO, and Josh Brown, CEO, of Ritholtz Wealth Management. But it's still pretty high for young people just starting out or parents who want to start something small for their kids. A number of so-called "robo-advisers" have been launched in recent years to help investors automatically allocate their portfolio. But what if you want advice from a known investor? It was with this in mind that Ritholtz Wealth CEO Josh Brown and CIO Barry Ritholtz decided to create the first robo adviser for young people. They wanted to be able to serve people who don't need the same advising as individuals with a high net worth but who still want to know who is running their money. Ritholtz and Brown are both well known as writers and investors on Wall Street, and now they're giving younger investors a chance to buy into their strategy. The program is called Liftoff, and it takes only $5,000 and a computer to get started. "Liftoff combines various attributes of financial planning and classic low-cost asset allocation to help people get started and stay on track for their goals," Brown told Business Insider via email. Ritholtz partnered with the California-based tech company Upside to make a super clean interface in which setup is a snap. Here's what it looks like when you start out. Ritholtz Wealth After a few questions about how much risk you're willing to take as an investor and setting the amount you want to start with, Liftoff gives you a projection of what your portfolio will look like. Ritholtz Wealth Once you've set it, you can basically forget it. That's the idea. The whole deal costs an annual fee of 40 basis points. On $50,000 that should be $200 per year or about $17 a month, on $5,000 its about $1.70 a month. Surveys show that young people are really distrustful of the stock market and don't see it as a solid way to save for retirement. It's understandable — the financial crisis is basically what young people know about investing in the stock market. However, by staying out, they're missing out. "The single most precious resource that investors have is not experience or capital or market wisdom — it is time," Brown said. "By not taking full advantage of their long-time horizons, we believe that many young people are squandering this resource and missing out on the power of compounded returns." So check it out.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Muhammad HamedMuslim pilgrims pray around the holy Kaaba at the Grand Mosque during the annual Hajj pilgrimage in Mecca. As a child, Osama al-Bar would walk from his home past Islam's holiest site, the Kaaba, to the market of spice and fabric merchants where his father owned a store. At that time, Mecca was so small, pilgrims could sit at the cube-shaped Kaaba and look out at the serene desert mountains where the Prophet Muhammad once walked. Now the market and the homes are gone. Monumental luxury hotel towers crowd around the Grand Mosque where the Kaaba is located, dwarfing it. Steep rocky hills overlooking the mosque have been leveled and are now covered with cranes building more towers in row after row. "My father and all the people who lived in Mecca wouldn't recognize it," said al-Bar, who is now Mecca's mayor. As Muslims from around the world stream into Mecca for the annual hajj pilgrimage this week, they come to a city undergoing the biggest transformation in its history. Decades ago, this was a low-built city of centuries-old neighborhoods. Over the years, it saw piecemeal renewal projects. But in the mid-2000s, the kingdom launched its most ambitious overhaul ever with a series of mega-projects that, though incomplete, have already reshaped Mecca. REUTERS/Muhammad HamedThe four-faced Mecca Clock Tower is seen from the top of Mount Al-Noor. Old neighborhoods have been erased for hotel towers and malls built right up to the edge of the Grand Mosque. Historic sites significant for Islam have been demolished. Next to the Kaaba soars the world's third-tallest skyscraper, topped by a gigantic clock, which is splashed with colored lights at night. "It's not Mecca. It's Mecca-hattan. This tower and the lights in it are like Vegas," said Sami Angawi, an architect who spent his life studying hajj and is one of the most outspoken critics of the changes. "The truth of the history of Mecca is wiped out ... with bulldozers and dynamite. Is this development?" Critics complain the result is stripping the holy city of its spirituality. They also say it is robbing the hajj of its more than 1,400-year-old message that all Muslims, rich or poor, are equal before God as they perform the rites meant to cleanse them of sin, starting and ending by circling the Kaaba seven times. Mecca is revered by hundreds of millions of Muslims worldwide. They face the Kaaba every day in their prayers. The Grand Mosque is one of the few places in the world where Muslims of all stripes gather — Sunnis and Shiites, secular Muslims, mystics and hard-liners. Overseeing Mecca is also a key source of prestige for Saudi Arabia's monarchy. The past two kings — the current one, Abdullah, and his predecessor, Fahd — have adopted the further title of "custodian of the two holy mosques" to boost their status, referring to Mecca's Grand Mosque and Muhammad's mosque in nearby Medina. REUTERS/Muhammad HamedMuslim pilgrims shop at a mall near the Grand Mosque during the annual Haj pilgrimage in Mecca. Now the city is being molded to a particularly Saudi vision that bolsters the rule of the Al Saud royal family. Two forces shape that vision. One is raw, petrodollar-fueled capitalism. Mecca's planners are largely catering to wealthier pilgrims by focusing on construction of five-star hotels, surrounding the Kaaba in marble-sheathed luxury. Nearby pilgrims can shop at international chains, including a Paris Hilton store and a gender-segregated Starbucks. The other force is Wahhabism, the strict, puritanical interpretation of Islam that the Al Saud rulers elevated to the country's official doctrine. In return, Wahhabi clerics staunchly back the monarchy. The monarchy has long given Wahhabi clerics a monopoly of preaching at the Kaaba. One tenet of Wahhabism is that Muslim tombs or sites connected to revered figures — even the Prophet Muhammad, his family, and companions — should be destroyed to avoid veneration of anything other than God. It's the same iconoclastic zeal that has prompted militants from the Islamic State group to blow up Muslim shrines in Iraq and Syria. REUTERS/Muhammad HamedMuslim pilgrims circumambulate around the holy Kaaba during the ritual pilgrimages of Haj and Umrah at the Grand Mosque. In Mecca, hardly any site associated with Muhammad remains. Many were destroyed in previous expansions of the Grand Mosque in the 1980s and 1990s, and the new development is finishing off much of what remains. In 2008, for example, the house of Abu Bakr, Muhammad's successor as leader of the Muslim community, was razed to make way for a Hilton. The country's top religious official, Grand Mufti Abdul-Aziz Al-Sheik, backed such demolitions last year, saying "the removal of such things within the expansion is necessary." The urban renewal is necessary, Saudi officials say, to accommodate hajj pilgrims whose numbers are expected to swell from around three million currently to nearly seven million by 2040. The $60 billion Grand Mosque expansion will almost double the area for pilgrims to pray at the Kaaba. Around half the cost went to buying about 5,800 homes that had to be razed for the expansion, said al-Bar, the Mecca mayor. Domes and pillars dating back to rule by the Ottoman Empire are being pulled down to put up modern facilities. Another mega-project is Jabal Omar, a hill on the mosque's west side. The hill — a landmark in the city — was leveled, and in its place, construction of about 40 towers is underway, mostly for luxury hotels providing some 11,000 rooms. The first of the Jabal Omar hotels, a Hilton Suites and the Anjum Hotel, just opened in the past few months. On the mosque's south side stands the 1,972-foot (600-meter) clock-tower skyscraper, part of a completed seven-tower complex that was built after tearing down an Ottoman fort on the site. REUTERS/Hassan AliThe Mecca Clock overlooks the Grand Mosque. Also underway is the Jabal Sharashif project, in which a slum that largely houses Burmese and African migrants is to be torn down to build a new neighborhood for Saudis, along with hotels. A four-line metro system is planned for the city along with a high-speed rail line to the port city of Jiddah, where the area's airport is located, and to Medina. The Grand Mosque's expansion is being headed by the Saudi Binladin Group, which also built the clock tower. The Binladin family has been close to Al Sauds for decades and runs major building projects around the country. Al Qaeda's late leader Osama bin Laden was a renegade son disowned by the family in the 1990s. Speaking at a public forum in Jiddah in May, Nawaf Binladin, whose father is chairman of the conglomerate, said people were constantly asking if all this construction was needed. "This can be answered in one moment in this image," he said, flashing a picture of tens of thousands of worshippers praying in the street because there was not enough room inside the Grand Mosque. REUTERS/Muhammad HamedMuslim pilgrims pray near the holy Kaaba (not seen) at the Grand Mosque. But many in the audience were not convinced. Saeed al-Ghamdi, a former Saudi diplomat, said he thought greed was the main motivator. Muslims around the world have an "intimate bond" with Mecca, he said. "It is not a place for one businessman or one company." Mecca's planners didn't have to build so close to the Kaaba, overwhelming the simple cube-shaped structure, said Irfan al-Alawi, a Saudi who heads the London-based Islamic Heritage Research Foundation. The hotels could have been built miles away and transportation improved. "Already we are losing the spirituality," he said. Pilgrims admire the clock tower instead of "looking at the Kaaba and admiring the house of God." Essam Kalthoum, managing director of the government-owned Bawabat Makkah Company, which is involved in a number of projects around the city, acknowledged that "it would be a farce" to say financial motivations are not coming into play. But he said the main goal was to increase space for pilgrims. Kalthoum showed a gift from a Turkish foundation he had just received: a photo of Mecca from the late 1800s. "This is painful," he said. "For those of us who witnessed some of this (past), it brings back memories." But he pointed to the Kaaba in the photograph. "Because of this place," he said, the old markets and buildings had to go. ___ Follow Batrawy on twitter.com/ayaelb Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThere are infinitely many numbers, and infinitely many ways to combine and manipulate those numbers. Mathematicians often represent numbers in a line. Pick a point on the line, and this represents a number. At the end of the day, though, almost all of the numbers that we use are based on a handful of extremely important numbers that sit at the foundation of all of math. What follows are the eight numbers you actually need to build the number line, and to do just about anything quantitative. Zero represents the absence of things. Zero is also an essential element of our number system. We use zero as a placeholder when writing numbers with more than one digit &mdash; zero lets me know the difference between having 2 dollars and 20 dollars. Zero as a number on its own is also extremely important in math. Zero is the "additive identity" &mdash; any time I add a number to zero, I get that number back: 3 + 0 = 3. This property of zero is a central aspect of arithmetic and algebra. Zero sits in the middle of the number line, separating the positive numbers from the negative numbers, and is thus the starting point for building our number system. As zero was the additive identity, one is the multiplicative identity &mdash; take any number and multiply it by one, and you get that number back. 5 x 1 is just 5. Just using one, we can start to build up the number line. In particular, we can use one to get the natural numbers: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and so on. We keep adding one to itself to get these other numbers: 2 is 1 + 1, 3 is 1 + 2, 4 is 1 + 3, and we keep going, right on out to infinity. The natural numbers are our most basic numbers. We use them to count things. We can also do arithmetic with the natural numbers: if I add or multiply together any two natural numbers, I get another natural number. I can also sometimes, but not always, subtract two natural numbers, or divide one natural number by another: 10 - 6 = 4, and 12 &divide; 4 = 3. Just using zero and one, and our basic arithmetic operations, we can already do a good amount of math just using the natural numbers. To start with, it is not always possible to subtract two naturals and get another natural. If all I have to work with are these counting numbers, I have no idea how to parse a statement like 3 - 8. One of the wonderful things about math is that, when we are confronted with a limitation like this, we can just expand the system we are working with to remove the limitation.&nbsp; To allow for subtraction, we add -1 to our growing number line. -1 brings with it all the other negative whole numbers, since multiplying a positive number by -1 gives the negative version of that number: -3 is just -1 x 3. By bringing in negative numbers, we have solved our subtraction problem. 3 - 8 is just -5. Putting together the positive numbers, zero, and our new negative numbers, we get the integers, and we can always subtract two integers from each other and get an integer as the result. The integers provide the anchor points for the number line. The negative numbers are useful in representing deficits &mdash; if I owe the bank $500, I can think of my bank balance as being -500. We also use negative numbers when we have some scaled quantity where values below zero are possible, such as temperature. In the frozen wasteland of my hometown of Buffalo, we would get a few winter days each year down in the -20&deg; range. Also, the integers are still arithmetically incomplete &mdash; while we can always add, subtract, or multiply two integers and get another integer, we cannot always get an integer by dividing two integers. 8 &divide; 5 makes no sense if all we have are whole numbers. To deal with this, we add 1/10, or 0.1, to our number line. With 0.1, and the powers of 0.1 &mdash; 0.01, 0.001, 0.0001, and so on, we can now represent fractions and decimals. 8 &divide;&nbsp;5 is now just 1.6. Dividing any two integers (except for dividing by zero) gets us a decimal number that either terminates, like 1.6, or has a repeating digit, or pattern of digits: 1 &divide; 3 = 0.3333..., with the 3's going out to infinity. These types of decimals are the rational numbers, since we can form them by taking fractions, or ratios, of two integers. The rational numbers are arithmetically closed - I can take any two rationals and add, subtract, multiply, or divide them, and get back another rational number. The rational numbers allow us to represent quantities between integers, or fractional quantities. If three friends and I are sharing a cake and splitting it up evenly, we each get 1/4, or 0.25, or 25% of the cake. The rationals help us start filling in the spaces between the integers on the number line. The square root of a number is a second number that, when squared, or multiplied by itself, gives us the original number. So, the square root of 9 is 3, since 32 = 3 x 3 = 9. We can find the square root of any positive number, but with only a few exceptions, these square roots get messy. The square root of 2 is one such messy number. It is an irrational number &mdash; its decimal expansion never terminates or settles into a repeating pattern. The square root of 2 starts out with the digits 1.41421356237..., and then just keeps going in weird and random-looking directions.&nbsp;It turns out that the square roots of most rational numbers are irrational &mdash; the exceptions, like 9, are called perfect squares. Square roots are important in algebra, as they figure into the solutions of many equations. For example, the square root of 2 is a solution to the equation x2 = 2. By putting the rational and irrational numbers together, we complete our number line. The full range of rational and irrational numbers are called the real numbers, and these are the numbers most commonly used in all manner of calculations. Now that we've completed our number line, we can look at a couple really important irrational numbers. &pi;, the ratio of the circumference of any circle to the circle's diameter, is maybe the most important number used in geometry.&nbsp;&pi; shows up in basically any formula involving circles or spheres &mdash; the area of a circle with radius r is&nbsp;&pi;r2, and the volume of a sphere with radius r is (4/3)&pi;r3. &pi; also features prominently in trigonometry. 2&pi; is the period of the basic trigonometric functions sine and cosine. This means that the functions repeat themselves every 2&pi; units. These functions, and thus &pi;, are key to working with any periodic or repeating process, particularly in describing things like sound waves. Like the square root of 2, &pi; is irrational - its decimal expansion never terminates or repeats. The first few digits of &pi; are pretty familiar &mdash; 3.14159...&nbsp;Mathematicians using really big computers have found the first 10 trillion or so digits of &pi;, though for most day to day applications, we only need those first few digits to get sufficiently precise results. Euler's number, e, is foundational to working with exponential functions. Exponential functions represent processes that double or halve themselves in a fixed period of time. If I start with two rabbits, after a month I will have four rabbits, after two months I will have eight rabbits, and after three months I will have 16 rabbits. In general, after n months, I will have 2n+1 rabbits, or 2 multiplied by itself n+1 times. e is an irrational number, approximately 2.71828..., but like all other irrational numbers, the decimal expansion goes on forever with no repeating pattern. ex is the natural exponential function, the baseline for any other exponential function. The reason ex is special is a little complicated. For those of you who have seen calculus, you may know that the derivative of ex is ex. This means that, for any particular value of x that we plug into ex, the rate at which the function is growing at that point is the value of the function &mdash; for x = 2, the function ex is growing at a rate of e2. This property is basically unique among functions, making ex very nice to work with mathematically. ex is useful in working with most exponential processes. One of the most common applications is finding compound interest that is being compounded continuously. With a starting principal of P, and an annual interest rate r, the value of an investment A(t) after t years is given by the formula A = Pert. We mentioned earlier that we can take the square root of any positive number, so now we see what happens with negative numbers. Negative numbers do not have square roots in the real numbers. Multiplying two negative numbers together gives you a positive number, so squaring any real number results in a positive number, so there's no way to multiply a real number by itself to get a negative number. But as we saw earlier, when we are confronted with an apparent limitation like this in a number system, we can just expand the number system to remove the limitation. And so, confronted with the limitation that we do not have a square root for -1, we simply ask ourselves what would happen if we did.&nbsp; We define i, the imaginary unit, to be that square root, and by throwing in all the other "numbers" we need to make sure that addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division still make sense, we extend the real numbers to form the complex numbers. The complex numbers have many amazing properties and applications. Just as we were able to represent the real numbers as a line, we can represent the complex numbers on a plane, with the horizontal axis representing the real part of the number, and the vertical axis an imaginary component, representing the square root of some negative number. Any polynomial equation has at least one solution in the complex numbers, a result so important that mathematicians call it the fundamental theorem of algebra. The geometry of the complex plane results in some surprising and elegant results, and has many applications in the physics of electricity and in electrical engineering. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stephen LamMeg Whitman, chief executive officer and president of Hewlett-Packard, speaks during the grand opening of the company's Executive Briefing Center in Palo Alto, California January 16, 2013.  After years of a slow-going turnaround, HP CEO Meg Whitman is clearly ready to do something big. On Monday, she announced that she's spinning off HP's largest business unit, its $55.9 billion PC and printer division. The Wall Street Journal broke the story on Sunday.  The Printing and Personal Systems (PPS) unit represents half of the company's revenue. The new company will be called "HP" and will run be the unit's current leader, Dion Weisler with Whitman as chairman. Whitman will become the CEO of the new enterprise company, called Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, with independent director Patricia Russo as chairman. Without PPS, Whitman's new company includes all of the remaining groups: HP has been known to successfully spin-out companies before. It did it way back in 1999 with Agilent Technologies. Agilent came from the unit that was, arguably, the "original HP" makers of electronics testing gear, the stuff Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard invented in that famous garage. HPLeader of HPs PC/Printer business Dion WeislerUnlike Agilent, which had a successful IPO, it's not clear how investors will respond to a company composed of PCs and printers in the "post-PC era." Whitman created the huge Printing and Personal Systems (PPS) unit in 2012, shortly after she joined the company. It was an idea that had been tried before. Previous CEO Carly Fiorina had combined these units. The next CEO Mark Hurd had unbundled them, sources close to HP told us. And the next HP CEO, Leo Apotheker, caused pandemonium when he publicly floated the idea of selling off the PC business. One of the first things Whitman did when she took on the CEO role was to announce that HP was not getting rid of PCs. She had a good reason to keep them. HP is not only one of the world's biggest maker of PCs, but also of enterprise servers, the same suppliers that make the parts for PCs also make them for servers: disk drives, memory, motherboards. HP gets a good deal from them because of the volume it buys. And on the sales side, the same corporate customers that buy servers, buy Windows PCs. 2013 was a horrible year for the entire PC industry and HP had its share of the pain. In June 2013, Whitman replaced the man running it, Todd Bradley, with Weisler. HP had hired Weisler away from Lenovo in 2012. Whitman's management style is low-key but unforgiving, we've heard from people who know her. She gives her top bosses leeway and resources to make changes. But if they don't deliver as promised, they're out. Under Weisler in 2014, HP's PC business has been growing again. It has grown each of the last three quarters, including a healthy 12% year-over-year revenue growth last quarter. Thanks to that HP reported its first quarter of overall revenue growth in three years. It's not a highly profitable business, though. Margins for PCs are slim, only about 4%. The printer business is far more profitable, with about an 18% profit margin, but it just keeps shrinking: a 4% decline in revenue last quarter, another 4% the quarter before and so on. Thanks to email and smartphones, people just aren't printing as much as they used to. And all of this follows news that Whitman's months-long talk to buy another huge enterprise tech player, EMC, had just fallen through. Some sources say that the EMC deal could be revived if the two could agree on the price. Without the PC and printer business, we'll see if HP's deal with EMC could rematerialized, and if HP's shareholders could stomach so many huge changes. FREE AppDownload
Mario Anzuoni/ReutersCostco says sales of televisions, coffee, beer, and wine are especially good.Costco is consistently outperforming competitors like Wal-Mart and Target.  The warehouse discounter has reported quarter after quarter of great financial results. Meanwhile, Wal-Mart and Target are grappling with a lull in business.  Costco has a simple strategy for winning — concentrating on driving sales.  The company believes that if sales are good, "everything else will take care of itself," Goldman Sachs writes in a recent report.  The Motley FoolThe company is outperforming competitors. While Wal-Mart and Target pour money into marketing, Costco has a no-frills approach and doesn't advertise.  The company also sells a limited number of items.  Despite Costco's large store volume, it has been known to sell a fraction of the number of toothpaste brands as Wal-Mart, according to The New York Times. Selling fewer items increases sales volume and helps drive discounts.  Costco's focus on driving sales also helps explain why it offers better pay and benefits than competitors.  Many retailers drive profits by paying workers less, but Costco wants to retain good employees who will motivate customers to come back.  ReutersWal-Mart and Target have blamed current woes on the cash-strapped American consumer. In a note earlier this year, Goldman Sachs predicted the slow decline of Wal-Mart and Target.  "Consumers appear more focused on some combination of value and convenience," the analysts wrote.  Huge Wal-Mart and Target stores lack the convenience of smaller dollar chains and drugstores. They also can't offer the deep discounting of warehouse clubs like Costco.  FREE AppDownload
iPhone 6 or 6 Plus? 16, 64 or 128 Gigabytes? Once you've decided to get the new iPhone, you still have a few decisions to make.  Produced by Sara Silverstein Follow BI Video: On Facebook
APFrom left, former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, former Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, and former Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. WASHINGTON (AP) — It could be an awkward reunion. Three top former government leaders who devised the 2008 financial bailouts — Henry Paulson, Timothy Geithner and Ben Bernanke — are set to testify this week in a lawsuit over the government's rescue of the insurance giant AIG. Six years ago, their rescue plan revived AIG, protected its far-flung financial partners and helped save the financial system. Yet AIG's former CEO, 89-year old Maurice Greenberg, argues that the government's bailout was illegitimate and is demanding roughly $40 billion in damages for shareholders. This despite the fact that Greenberg orchestrated a 2010 deal in which he unloaded $278 million in AIG shares that his holding company owned — a windfall that might have been impossible without the government's intervention. The lawsuit alleges that the bailout violated the Constitution's Fifth Amendment by taking control of AIG without "just compensation." Greenberg objects to the government's takeover of a company approaching bankruptcy in exchange for what would eventually become $180 billion-plus in taxpayer-backed loans. Many legal experts deem the lawsuit a longshot. But the trial serves as a reminder that few were satisfied by the government's response to the crisis — even those who, like Greenberg, fared far better than the millions who lost homes and jobs. For Greenberg, the case represents a chance to make the former Federal Reserve chairman (Bernanke) and two past Treasury secretaries (Paulson and Geithner) defend a landmark action made at the most perilous moment for the U.S. financial system since the Great Depression. All three, of course, have well-honed and oft-repeated arguments in defense of the AIG bailout. Geithner released his memoirs this year, while Paulson appeared in a Netflix documentary film about his experiences last year. The tight-lipped Bernanke is now writing his own book. During the height of the crisis, no private company was willing to provide loans to AIG. The insurer "faced severe liquidity pressures that threatened to force it imminently into bankruptcy," Bernanke told the House Financial Services Committee in 2009. An AIG collapse "would have posed unacceptable risks for the global financial system and for our economy," Bernanke said. The viability of state and local governments, banks and 401(k) plans was at risk, he warned. Greenberg's lawyer, David Boies, is famed for fighting for gay marriage and arguing before the Supreme Court on behalf of Al Gore in the 2000 presidential election. But in congressional hearings and news conferences, the three witnesses he intends to grill before the U.S. Court of Federal Claims have learned to measure their words carefully. The challenge is whether Boies can use the multitude of their past comments about AIG to trap them in an inconsistency, said Hester Peirce, a senior research fellow at George Mason University and former Senate Banking Committee staffer. "They are in a pretty difficult position because they might have to contradict what they previously said," Peirce said. For Americans who yearn to see reckless bankers held accountable in court, it's somewhat surreal to have a lawsuit based on the premise that the government's rescue unfairly punished a company whose collapse would have threatened the global financial system. How so? AIG was overexposed to subprime mortgages back in 2008. That's because of a financial instrument known as a credit default swap. It obligated AIG to pay out if the mortgages defaulted. Its stock and credit ratings had nosedived. The company largely built by Greenberg appeared to be freefalling into bankruptcy, possibly dragging down several major investment banks with it. So the government provided an initial $85 billion loan — ultimately $182 billion — in return for an 80 percent stake in AIG. That 80 percent stake angered Greenberg. He remained the company's most vocal shareholder after being ousted as CEO and chairman in 2005 amid a New York state investigation into suspicious financial transactions under his watch. Greenberg contends that AIG shareholders were singled out for retribution, while the government chose to extend loans on far more generous terms to banks such as Citigroup. The division within AIG that undermined the company's balance sheet was established under Greenberg's watch, noted James Cox, a law professor at Duke University. "Greenberg probably did create a culture at AIG that nurtured the aggressiveness of the swaps business and the excessive greed that we associated with the crisis," Cox said. "I don't see him as a choir boy in this process." Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Getty Images/ Neilson Barnard For this year's list of the "sexiest" Wall Streeters, we decided to go in a bit of a different direction. Instead of the typical Jamie Dimon, Dan Loeb, and Bill Ackman lineup, we scoured Wall Street for new names. Of course, we still have a few household names on the list, too.   For the list, our guest judge Stephanie Ruhle, the anchor of Bloomberg TV's "Market Makers," helped come up with some names of the sexiest men in finance.  If you'd like to nominate someone for a future list, please send a photo and a brief bio to jlaroche@businessinsider.com.  FREE AppDownload
Hodinkee, InstagamTwo generations of A. Lange & Sohne ChronographsThere comes a time in every gentleman's life when he starts to value time — he values it so much, in fact, that he wants to wear it as a gorgeous piece on his wrist. At this point, it is time to start a watch collection. This should be done carefully. A gentleman should conduct his research before selecting his first watch. It is a deduction that requires an understanding of not only what is out there, but also of one's own personal style. And of course, one's own financial limitations. "Unless you're spending $5,000 to $10,000 you're not going to have an investment-grade watch," says Benjamin Clymer, editor of men's watch site, Hodinkee. "Just make sure you buy something that you love ... Really do your homework. ... There's nothing worse than realizing you don't have the watch that you think you have." Now here's what you can have. You must decide if you would like your watch to be automatic or manual (meaning you'll have to wind it). You must decide if you would like to purchase a vintage watch (from, say, eBay or a flea market) or a new watch. After that, there are still almost too many options, so here are some things to keep in mind. "Like so many other things in men’s dress, it is best to keep your watch pretty simple and restrained," says Justin Jeffers of men's style blog, The Fine Young Gentleman. "Not restrained in the sense that you shouldn’t wear a $25,000 watch ... But restrained in the sense that a man shouldn’t wear some oversized, over iced or over styled watch (or anything else) on his wrist. ... A watch should not be so big that your shirt cuff cannot fit over it. There are few things more gaudy than a huge watch face staring you in the face from someone else’s wrist. It takes attention away from the things that matter (like the wearer's face) and puts it where it doesn’t matter (the wearer's wrist)." Now let's say you're starting out at a fairly low price point (under $500). What should you get? Consider going vintage; it's more work but it's also more rewarding. Clymer recommends purchasing an old Omega brand.  You'll want to make sure the vintage piece you buy has as much of its old parts intact as possible, especially with things you can see, like the dial or the face. You want your watch to look old — like it's been passed down from generation to generation. "The dream watch for a vintage watch collector is a watch that has never been serviced or messed with at all," says Clymer. If you want a new watch, things are a little different. "To get a really good mechanical watch [under $500] you're going to want to look at Seiko," said Clymer. Citizen Citizen, Eco-Drive $250You could also check out Pulsar, Timex, Citizen, Daniel Wellington, Bulova, Shinola, ESQ, Luminox, and Tissot. There's a debate raging in the men's watch world about whether or not you should buy from a company that creates items other than watches (like, say, a Burberry) — but it's bloody, and Business Insider is staying out of it. What's more important is that you take care of your watch. "Keep your watch away from super magnets (large speakers, buckyballs, etc).  Although unlikely, it could move pieces inside," says Kirk Miller, nation editor at men's lifestyle newsletter, InsideHook. "Extreme temperature changes, shouldn't be a problem, but again be careful. Expansion and contraction do funny things to watch insides. Leave your watch in the locker when going into the sauna." And take care of how you use your watch, as well. "Do not wear a sports or digital watch with a suit. It’s like putting VW wheels on an Audi," says Jeffers. All this said, you're going to have to service your watch. Especially if you buy something high end or vintage. If your watch is new, you can take it to the manufacturer. If it's vintage, make sure to go to someone who understands what you want, and won't Frankenstein your watch with new parts you don't want. If you do all that, your watch could last forever. FREE AppDownload
The EconomistAFTER "rate hikes", the most common phrase in America's electricity industry these days is "death spiral". The recession clobbered demand, and it has not recovered.  Last year Americans used 2% less electricity than in 2007. The government's Energy Information Administration reckons demand will grow by less than 1% a year between now and 2040 (see chart). Consumers are buying more electric gadgets than ever, but the power these machines use is tumbling. Electricity consumed by TVs has fallen by a quarter in five years. Tablets and laptops use less than desktop computers, and cloud computing means businesses need fewer power-hungry servers. And then there is "distributed generation", which covers everything from household solar and geothermal systems to on-site electricity generation by large businesses and college campuses. All steal sales from power companies. The utilities are required to guarantee continuity of the electricity supply, which means they must keep spending on infrastructure and maintenance even as customers build their own power sources. So far the main response of the companies' generally risk-averse bosses has been to propose building conventional generation and distribution projects, and to lobby regulators to let them raise their prices to pay for these--including imposing extra charges on customers who have solar panels. But this only makes "home-brew" electricity more competitive--so consumers buy even less power from the utilities, deepening the death spiral. Small wonder that analysts at Barclays bank recently downgraded the bonds of the entire American electricity industry. Given the utilities' endless need for cheap funding, this was dire news: if investors switch off, that supply of money will shrivel. What the industry needs is a new business model. The best prospect, thinks Elias Hinckley, an energy-finance specialist at Sullivan and Worcester, a law firm, is plug-in electric vehicles. Today, Americans' daily spending on energy can be split into two large chunks: about $1 billion on electricity and $1.4 billion on fuel for their vehicles. In the past, electricity providers had no way to tap into the latter market. Plug-in cars should change that. A modest 250,000 plug-in cars now glide silently along American roads, and they currently account for fewer than 1% of vehicles sold. But sales have been almost doubling each year (compared with about 5% annual growth for the entire car industry), and homes that own a plug-in car typically consume 58% more electricity, according to Opower, a seller of energy-conservation software. The Edison Electric Institute, a power-industry trade body, recently issued a report that called plug-ins a "quadruple win" for utility companies. In other words, they could help the industry increase demand, meet environmental goals, get closer to customers and cut costs by electrifying its own vast vehicle fleets. REUTERSA visitor looks at BYD E6 electric car on display at the New Energy Auto Expo in Nanjing Power companies are not exactly rushing into the market. Some big ones, including Dominion, NRG Energy and Duke Energy, have between them installed a few hundred plug-in car-charging stations; some of them have pilot programmes that let owners sell power stored in the cars' batteries back to the grid at times of peak demand. But none is partnering with plug-in carmakers to offer cheap installation of home chargers, and fewer than one in ten offers special tariffs to plug-ins' owners--two lost opportunities that, says Mr Hinckley, "boggle my mind". The utilities are standing by as firms such as ChargePoint, CarCharging and SemaConnect build networks of thousands of fast public and private chargers--inserting themselves into the customer relationship that plug-in car owners might have with electricity providers. The utilities, thinks Mr Hinckley, fail to understand that "they could literally own America's future transportation infrastructure". The picture is somewhat confused because, in America at least, early adopters of plug-in cars are often among the first to start generating their own electricity. Opower found that 32% of plug-ins' drivers (admittedly in the wealthier, sunnier, western parts of the country that it surveyed) also have rooftop solar panels. The reduction in these consumers' purchases of electricity from the grid, as a result of owning solar panels, slightly outweighs the increase from having plug-in cars, so they end up buying a little less power from the utilities than households with neither. Business Insider/Julie Bort What this may mean is that utilities enjoy a recovery in demand as plug-in cars become popular, then a renewed fall as solar kits (whose price has halved in the past five years) also become ubiquitous. Rich, sunny bits of America will see this phenomenon first, but it will surely come to the rest of the country, and other parts of the world, too. Nevertheless, it still makes sense for the power utilities to move swiftly into providing charging systems for electric cars, contracting with their owners to buy back energy stored in the vehicles' batteries and indeed into installing and maintaining solar-power kits (as some already do). For these businesses have many years of growth ahead of them, unlike the power companies' existing business. The utilities have a stark choice: sit back and be disrupted, or embrace the shock of the new. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
MasterMindsMichael de GuzmanIn 1993, a prospector named Michael de Guzman walked out of the jungles of Borneo with extraordinary news: he found gold. This is according to MasterMinds, a Canadian true crime documentary television series produced by truTV. For the next three years, de Guzman produced thousands of core samples riddled with gold.  Canada's CBC News has a detailed timeline of the events. During that period, the market value of de Guzman's employer, Bre-X Minerals, went from nothing to $6 billion.  BusinessWeek notes that Wall Street's top analysts were extremely bullish on the stock.  Big funds poured money into the stock and the world's major miners wrestled for a piece of the action. The problem: there was no gold. As the story unraveled, records mysteriously burned and people unexpectedly died.  Questions were left unanswered. There are plenty of people who wish this story would just go away.  But just a few days ago, a lawyer representing one of the players in the Bre-X story was disbarred. What follows is a summary of MasterMinds' telling of the incredible story. NOTE: The images and the details in this feature are from MasterMinds. Many of the images are from reenactments of the events. FREE AppDownload
Greg Flume/Getty ImagesThe US economy grew at its fastest rate in eight years in the second quarter of 2014, but Americans still think the US is in the midst of a recession. Two key trends will solidify the recovery in 2015: higher wages as unemployment falls below 6%, and an expansion in consumer credit as households reach the end of the debt deleveraging cycle. Despite some downside risks posed by higher interest rates and weak demand from Europe, we expect a steady economic expansion over the next year. The economy powered ahead in the second quarter by 4.6% at an annual rate, matching the fastest quarterly growth rate since 2006. Bouncing back from the weather-induced downturn in the first quarter, growth was boosted by improvements across all sectors, including consumer spending, residential and non-residential fixed investment, net exports and government spending. Growth appeared to have been reasonable in the third quarter (official results won't be known for a few weeks) and economic data suggests it was above 3% at an annual rate. Consumer spending rose 0.5% month on month in August, pushed up by auto sales, which reached an eight-year high. However, according to a recent poll from the Public Religion Institute, more than 70% of the population think the economy is still in a recession. This is unsurprising. The unemployment rate is still elevated, millions of Americans are out of work, and the recovery still has some distance left to run. Recessions caused by systemic financial crises do greater damage to the underlying economy than a business-cycle recession, and the economy takes longer to fully recover. Two influential academics, Carmen Reinhart and Ken Rogoff, found that post-war economies have required, on average, four and a half years to reach the same GDP per head they had before a financial crisis, that unemployment rates take a similar time frame to hit bottom, and that housing prices take even longer. That said, by those standards, the US has, in fact, bounced back quite strongly from the 2008 crash. The Economist Intelligence Unit expects two key trends to support strong economic growth in the coming months, ensuring that the recovery starts to feel real for more Americans. The economy is driven, for the most part, by consumers-private consumption accounts for almost 70% of GDP. These consumers can choose to take one of three actions with their income; spend it, save it or use it to pay down debt. Household debt exploded when the housing market crashed and Americans have been spent much of the past six years reducing debt to a more manageable level. However, the ratio of household debt to disposable income dropped below 100% in the second quarter of 2014, the lowest level since 2002, and the debt-deleveraging cycle is coming to a close. The Economist Consumers will gradually take on more credit, devoting less of their income to paying down debt, and ploughing more of it back into the economy. This is in stark contrast to the US's northern neighbour, Canada, which was relatively sheltered from the global financial crisis but where household debt levels have reached unprecedented levels. The second key trend is in the labour market: the unemployment rate fell to 6.1% in August and the US is on track for its best year of job creation since 1999. The Federal Reserve (Fed, the central bank) has said 6.1% unemployment is a tipping point for wage acceleration; a tighter labour market puts upward pressure on real wages, as nominal wage growth outpaces inflation. The Economist This will put more money in the pockets of employees, increasing household wealth and supporting consumer spending. One caveat to this unemployment forecast is the slump in the labour force participation rate, which has averaged 62.9% so far this year, well below the average of 66% in 2008. Some analysts have suggested that strong job creation will attract more workers back to the labour force, adding to labour market slack, and that the unemployment rate will stall above 6%. However, we think that some of the decline in labour force participation is structural, owing to the ageing of the labour force and the growing number of Americans claiming disability, and we expect the unemployment rate to decline below 6% in the months ahead. While higher wages and lower debt will be the two major trends shaping the economy, there are also several other forces lining up to support US growth. On the political front, the EIU has, for a long time, expected little policy action from the government, as the sharp ideological split between Democrats and Republicans makes political compromise and passage of legislation difficult. Nevertheless, with the mid-term elections approaching in November, the post-election "lame duck" session presents the best chance of bipartisan action for some time. In addition, more than three years of austerity have mended the public accounts, and government spending is gradually starting to support economic growth again; public spending increased by 1.7% at an annual rate in the second quarter. Larry Downing/ReutersU.S. President Barack Obama smiles after he awards two Medals of Honor for actions during the Vietnam War while in the East Room of the White House in Washington, September 15, 2014.  Lower energy prices will also provide a lift, reducing business costs and lowering petrol prices for the car-dependant American consumer. Despite a summer of heightened sectarian violence in the Middle East and a political stand-off between Russia and the West over Ukraine, global oil prices actually declined to a two-year low this week. A glut of oil in the Atlantic basin, a partial recovery in Libya's output, a stronger US dollar and weak global demand have contributed to the low prices. In addition, in the longer term, the "shale gas revolution" in the US will add to downward pressure on domestic energy costs. Production has ramped up so fast that the US will be the world's largest oil producer next year (counting crude oil and natural gas liquids). There are, however, risks to this rosy scenario, and the contraction in the first quarter of this year was a timely warning to expect the unexpected. Looking ahead, three headwinds are clearly visible. First, we expect the Fed to start tightening monetary policy in the summer of 2015, which will make it more expensive for consumers to borrow, dampening spending. Second, the outlook for the housing market is soft, owing to low inventories, a decline in distressed sales, and difficulties facing first-time buyers trying to get on the ladder. The third downside risk comes from the euro zone, which ground to a halt in the second quarter of 2014 as sanctions imposed by Russia took a toll on Germany, the growth engine of the bloc for the past few years. Nevertheless, we expect the US to take these obstacles in its stride and, with several quarters of steady growth ahead, it will finally shed some of the deep scars left by the financial crisis. On balance, the economy is in better health than it has been for some time. More Americans are working than ever before, consumers are carrying a lighter debt burden, and salaries are finally set to start rising for beleaguered US employees. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
HPHP CEO Meg Whitman. Hewlett-Packard is splitting itself into two separate businesses, the company confirmed on Monday.  HP is splitting its personal-computer and printer segments from its corporate hardware and services business. The PC/printer company will be called HP. The remaining units will be called Hewlett-Packard Enterprise. Both will be public companies. The stock split is intended to be a tax-free transaction for existing shareholders. The Wall Street Journal first reported the story. The company reorganized itself in 2012 under CEO Meg Whitman. That move combined its computer and printer businesses.  The PC and computer segment is massive for HP. It accounts for half of the company's revenue. For the first six months this year, it reported $27.8 billion in revenue. That's about three times the size of HP's next biggest unit, the Enterprise Group, which makes servers, storage, and network hardware. Under the new split, Whitman is chairman of the computer and printer business, and she remains CEO of the separate HP Enterprise company. Patricia Russo, who sits on HP's board, is chairman of the enterprise company. Dion Weisler, who currently leads the printer and PC operation, is being named CEO of the new printer/PC company. Whitman has said since 2012 that fixing the supply chain is one of HP's biggest priorities to get the company back on track in terms of revenues and profits. HP reported a beat on revenue for its third quarter, and its profits were right in line.  This isn't the first time HP has been toying with the idea of strategic moves. For almost a year it has contemplated merging with EMC to create what would be one of the biggest enterprise companies in the world. But talks apparently fell through, The Journal reported.  And HP isn't the only company that sees benefit in splitting itself to create a more-focused company. eBay announced last week that it was spinning off PayPal into a separate business starting next year.  Here is the press release HP issued Monday morning: October 06, 2014 06:30 ETHP to Separate Into Two New Industry-Leading Public Companies Hewlett-Packard Enterprise Will Define the Next Generation of Technology Infrastructure, Software and Services for the New Style of IT HP Inc. Will Be the Leading Personal Systems and Printing Company Delivering Innovations That Will Empower People to Create, Interact and Inspire Like Never Before Strategic Step Provides Each New Company With the Focus, Financial Resources and Flexibility to Adapt Quickly to Market and Customer Dynamics While Generating Long-Term Value for Shareholders PALO ALTO, CA--(Marketwired - Oct 6, 2014) - HP (NYSE: HPQ) Highlights: Hewlett-Packard Enterprise will build upon HP's leading position in servers, storage, networking, converged systems, services and software as well as its OpenStack Helion cloud platformMeg Whitman to be President and Chief Executive Officer of Hewlett-Packard Enterprise; Pat Russo to be Chairman of Hewlett-Packard Enterprise BoardHP Inc. will be the leading personal systems and printing company with a strong roadmap into the most exciting new technologies like 3D printing and new computing experiencesDion Weisler to be President and Chief Executive Officer of HP Inc.; Meg Whitman to be Chairman of the HP Inc. BoardCompany reiterates fiscal 2014 non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share (EPS) outlook of $3.70 to $3.74 and updates GAAP diluted net EPS outlook to $2.60 to $2.64Company issues fiscal 2015 non-GAAP diluted net EPS outlook of $3.83 to $4.03 and GAAP diluted net EPS outlook of $3.23 to $3.43 HP (NYSE: HPQ) today announced plans to separate into two new publicly traded Fortune 50 companies: one comprising HP's market-leading enterprise technology infrastructure, software and services businesses, which will do business as Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, and one that will comprise HP's market-leading personal systems and printing businesses, which will do business as HP Inc. and retain the current logo. Immediately following the transaction, which is expected to be completed by the end of fiscal 2015, HP shareholders will own shares of both Hewlett-Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. The transaction is intended to be tax-free to HP's shareholders for federal income tax purposes. Today's announcement comes as HP approaches the fourth year of its five-year turnaround plan. Over this time, the company has executed successfully against its turnaround objectives, keeping customers and partners at the forefront. HP has reignited its innovation pipeline, strengthened its go-to-market capabilities, rebuilt its balance sheet, and inspired its workforce and management teams. The company is now positioned to accelerate performance, drive sustained growth and demonstrate clear industry leadership in key areas. "Our work during the past three years has significantly strengthened our core businesses to the point where we can more aggressively go after the opportunities created by a rapidly changing market," said Meg Whitman, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of HP. "The decision to separate into two market-leading companies underscores our commitment to the turnaround plan. It will provide each new company with the independence, focus, financial resources, and flexibility they need to adapt quickly to market and customer dynamics, while generating long-term value for shareholders. In short, by transitioning now from one HP to two new companies, created out of our successful turnaround efforts, we will be in an even better position to compete in the market, support our customers and partners, and deliver maximum value to our shareholders." Both companies will be well capitalized and expect to have investment grade credit ratings and capital structures optimized to reflect their distinct growth opportunities and cash flow profiles. The separation into independent publicly traded companies will provide each company with its own, more focused equity currency, and investors with the opportunity to invest in two companies with compelling and unique financial profiles well suited to their respective businesses. Management StructureMeg Whitman, President and Chief Executive Officer of HP, and Cathie Lesjak, Chief Financial Officer of HP, will hold these positions with Hewlett-Packard Enterprise. When the separation is complete, Whitman will also serve on the Board of Directors of Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, and Pat Russo will move from Lead Independent Director of HP to Chairman of Hewlett-Packard Enterprise. Dion Weisler, Executive Vice President of HP's Printing and Personal Systems business, will lead HP Inc. as President and Chief Executive Officer. Whitman will serve as non-executive Chairman of HP Inc.'s Board of Directors. Hewlett-Packard EnterpriseHewlett-Packard Enterprise will have a unique portfolio and strong multi-year innovation roadmap across technology infrastructure, software and services to allow customers to take full advantage of the opportunities presented by cloud, big data, security and mobility in the New Style of IT. By leveraging its HP Financial Services capability, the company will be well positioned to create unique technology deployment models for customers and partners based on their specific business needs. Additionally, the company intends for HP Financial Services to continue to provide financing and business model innovation for customers and partners of HP Inc. Customers will have the same unmatched choice of how to deploy and consume technology, and with a simpler, more nimble partner. The separation will provide additional resources, and a reduction of debt at the operating company level, to support investments across key areas of the portfolio. The separation will also allow for greater flexibility in completing the turnaround of Enterprise Services and strengthening the company's go-to-market capabilities. "Over the past three years, we have reignited our innovation engine with breakthrough offerings for the enterprise like Apollo, Gen 9 and Moonshot servers, our 3PAR storage platform, our HP OneView management platform, our HP Helion Cloud and a host of software and services offerings in security, analytics and application transformation," continued Whitman. "Hewlett-Packard Enterprise will accelerate innovation across key next-generation areas of the portfolio." HP Inc.HP Inc. will be a proven leader in the personal systems and printing markets with exciting new technologies on the horizon. The new company's strong profitability and free cash flow will enable investments in growth markets such as 3-D printing and new computing experiences. At the same time, HP Inc. will continue to execute against a well-defined and established strategic plan, ensuring continuity for customers and consistent value to shareholders. "Since assuming responsibility for the Printing and Personal Systems Group, Dion and his leadership team have done an excellent job of building our relationships with customers and channel partners, segmenting the market and driving product innovation," added Whitman. "The creation of HP Inc. will only accelerate the progress the team has made." "This is a defining moment in our industry as customers are looking for innovation to enable workforces that are more mobile, connected and productive while at the same time allowing a seamless experience across work and play," said Weisler. "As the market leader in printing and personal systems, an independent HP Inc. will be extremely well positioned to deliver that innovation across our traditional markets as well as extend our leadership into new markets like 3-D printing and new computing experiences -- inventing technology that empowers people to create, interact and inspire like never before." Transaction DetailsThe separation transaction is intended to be tax-free to HP shareholders for federal income tax purposes. The transaction is currently targeted to be completed by the end of fiscal 2015, subject to certain conditions, including, among others, obtaining final approval from the HP Board of Directors, receipt of a favorable opinion and/or rulings with respect to the tax-free nature of the transaction for federal income tax purposes and the effectiveness of a Form 10 filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Goldman Sachs &amp; Co. is serving as financial advisor and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen and Katz is serving as legal advisor to HP. For more information, please see here. Financial OutlookFor fiscal 2014, HP reaffirms its non-GAAP diluted net EPS outlook range of $3.70 to $3.74, and updates its fiscal 2014 GAAP diluted net EPS outlook to be in the range of $2.60 to $2.64. For fiscal 2015, HP estimates non-GAAP diluted net EPS outlook to be in the range of $3.83 to $4.03 and GAAP diluted net EPS outlook to be in the range of $3.23 to $3.43. HP's outlook does not include one-time GAAP charges the company is expected to incur in connection with the separation, including advisory and tax costs which will be quantified at a later date. Investment Community Conference CallFor webcast details, go to www.hp.com/investor/2014OctAnnouncement/. HP Securities Analyst Meeting 2014HP also announced today that, as a result of the announcement of this separation, its October 8, 2014 Securities Analyst Meeting has been postponed. About HPHP creates new possibilities for technology to have a meaningful impact on people, businesses, governments and society. With the broadest technology portfolio spanning printing, personal systems, software, services and IT infrastructure, HP delivers solutions for customers' most complex challenges in every region of the world. More information about HP is available at http://www.hp.com. Use of non-GAAP financial informationTo supplement HP's historical and forecasted financial results presented on a GAAP basis, HP provides non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share. Non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share is defined to exclude the effects of any restructuring charges, charges relating to the amortization of intangible assets and certain other acquisition-related charges recorded or expected to be recorded during the relevant period. In addition, non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share are adjusted by the amount of additional taxes or tax benefit associated with each non-GAAP item. Fiscal 2014 non-GAAP diluted net EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $1.10 per share, related primarily to restructuring charges and amortization of intangible assets. Fiscal 2015 non-GAAP diluted net EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.60 per share, related primarily to amortization of intangible assets and restructuring charges. HP's management uses non-GAAP financial measures, including HP's non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share, to evaluate and forecast HP's performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by HP's management to be outside of HP's core business segment operating results. These non-GAAP financial measures may have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of HP's results as reported under GAAP. For example, items such as the amortization of intangible assets, though not directly affecting HP's cash position, represent the loss in value of intangible assets over time. The expense associated with this loss in value is not included in HP's non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share and therefore does not reflect the full economic effect of the loss in value of those intangible assets. In addition, items such as restructuring charges that are excluded from HP's non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share can have a material impact on HP's GAAP diluted net earnings per share. Other companies may calculate non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share differently than HP does, which limits the usefulness of that measure for comparative purposes.   FREE AppDownload
Via Wikimedia Commons The battle rages on. Wall Street and Silicon Valley keep fighting for the top graduates. Students are increasingly waving good-bye to Wall Street... the tech industry just keeps getting more and more alluring. And banks are getting nervous. Some have started to raise junior banker salaries, and others have cut hours — hoping to attract and retain the top talent. Still, some graduates are still heading to Wall Street, and Business Insider wanted to know why. So we've asked some recent grads why they chose Wall Street over Silicon Valley — even though tech is the industry du jour.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonanthan ErnstThe billionaires George Soros and James Simons.Forbes has released its annual "Richest People In America List."  The Forbes 400 always includes the biggest names in the hedge fund space. We counted 30 hedge fund managers this year. Fund managers like Daniel Loeb of Third Point and Bill Ackman of Pershing Square have both seen their net-worth increase significantly in the past year. Steve Cohen also saw a $1 billion jump in his personal fortune.  The 84-year-old George Soros is still king, though, with an estimated net-worth of $24 billion. On the flip side, numerous billionaire fund managers in the US didn't make the cut. Folks like Baupost Group's Seth Klarman and Discovery Capital's Rob Citrone, who are worth 10 figures, weren't quite rich enough.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA woman walks by stoves in the appliance section at a Sears store in Schaumburg, Illinois near ChicagoCHICAGO (Reuters) - Sears Holdings Corp.'s deepening financial troubles have forced insurers and banks to raise the cost of guaranteeing payment to vendors, rattling the retailer's supply chain as the company heads into the key holiday season. The move by these financial intermediaries -- in an opaque but vital quarter of the retail business where makers of goods ranging from apparel to TVs seek to insure they get paid -- comes in the wake of unusual steps Sears has taken to raise cash for operations. In the past three weeks, the retailer twice has turned to its billionaire CEO Eddie Lampert's hedge fund for a cash infusion -- first as the anchor on a $400 million loan and then again Thursday as a buyer for most of its stake in the ailing Sears Canada. Sears aims to raise $380 million with that deal. Sears spokesman Chris Brathwaite said the company is on track to raise $1.45 billion this year, a sign of its "financial flexibility" and capacity to meet its obligations. He said the company has the financial resources to work directly with vendors and that there has not been a significant impact on its supplier relationships following the events of the past few weeks. Suppliers, however, have become increasingly concerned about the company's financial strength. The retailer, which oversees some 2,300 Sears and Kmart stores, has lost about $6 billion since 2012 and its margins are far below the industry average. To protect themselves from the risk of non-payment, suppliers sometimes will buy insurance on their receivables. In more extreme cases, they purchase a derivatives contract, called a put option, that pays out if the company defaults. With concerns about Sears' cash flow on the rise, insurers have sharply reduced coverage. And put options have become so costly they no longer make economic sense for some suppliers. Large underwriters of credit insurance - vendors' conventional first line of defense against nonpayment --  essentially have stopped offering coverage on Sears for new clients, insurance brokers said. Euler Hermes Group, one of the top underwriters, told clients this week that it was cancelling coverage for new shipments, said a person informed of the new policy. Euler Hermes declined to confirm those cancellations, but said it was closely monitoring the situation. A senior executive at Atradius, another large underwriter, said Sears' recent fundraising had not eased his concerns about the business. “We have contracted our cover to where we are comfortable for the moment but we will continue to monitor the situation because everyone knows it is not a comfortable one," said David Huey, president of the insurer's U.S. operations. In the market for put options, the price of a so-called "accounts receivable put" was quoted by an underwriter at 295 basis points on Sept 26. That is up some 50 percent since the $400 million loan from Lampert's hedge fund was announced on Sept. 15, a person familiar with recent market pricing said. The Lampert loan worried investors in part because it was secured by 25 properties, whereas previous short-term funding from Lampert had been unsecured. The put price quoted Sept. 26 means a vendor would be paying 35 percent of the value of shipped goods on an annualized basis merely for payment protection. By comparison, a put on receivables owed by rival chain JC Penney Co. was priced under 100 basis points. Jim Young/ReutersKyle Zalewski unpacks televisions at a Sears store in Schaumburg, Illinois near Chicago, September 23, 2013. The put option has "sky-rocketed into the uneconomical range", said Marc Wagman, managing director of Aequus Trade Credit, whose clients include Sears vendors. "Sears suppliers in this case have few options". Wagman said some of his clients are reconsidering whether they can afford the risk of selling to Sears. Brathwaite, the Sears spokesman, said he believed put prices and other insurance reflect "perception rather than reality" and that providers of these financial products can use "false information to their advantage". This is not the first time vendors have faced a spike in the cost of put options on Sears. The price jumped above 300 basis points in early 2012, an underwriting source said, amid worries about Sears' deteriorating earnings performance. Lampert at the time took measures interpreted as a sign he was worried about the supply chain. His hedge fund bought a stake in receivable put option agreements from an undisclosed financial institution.   Sears referred questions about the 2012 option purchase, and whether similar action might be taken again, to Lampert's fund, ESL Investments. ESL did not respond to a request for comment. To be sure, there are no outward signs of vendors cutting ties with Sears as insurance and other hedges dry up. An executive whose firm supplies small ticket plastic items to Sears said he is continuing to do business now without financial protection. "Getting any kind of insurance has been difficult for months now," the executive said. Adds another supplier: In the short term, "we'll take some risk to support them" with or without credit insurance. The long term: The vendor may have no choice but to hold back shipments. "As of today, it's o.k.," he added. If Sears has a poor holiday quarter there is a risk suppliers will start reducing exposure in 2015, insurance brokers and analysts said.   Suppliers long have turned to factoring companies, which purchase invoices at a discounted price and profit if they receive payment from the retailer. But factors, too, according to sources, have scaled back on coverage to Sears' vendors. CIT Group, the largest factoring company, declined to comment. "Eventually their suppliers are going to say, 'If I can't get it factored, if I can't get it credit insured, then I'm going to stop selling product,'" said Donald Harkey, a senior executive at insurance broker Arthur J. Gallagher &amp; Co. Sears said that less than 3 percent of its gross inventory involved factoring companies. “It’s a very, very small percentage of our overall business,” Brathwaite said. REUTERS/Rick Wilking Still, Sears stock has rebounded about 10 percent since news of the stake sale in Sears Canada on Thursday. But Wagman of Aequus Trade said that he was concerned that the capital infusion would not be enough to ease vendors' concerns. With vendors on edge, performance in the upcoming fourth quarter, to be announced in February, could prove critical, some analysts said. Sears lost $358 million in the last holiday season quarter and hasn't turned a profit during the industry's key selling season since 2011. "This year I think they are good," said Evan Mann, a senior analyst at debt research firm Gimme Credit, referring to the possibility of vendors reducing exposure to Sears in 2014. "But if they have a really bad Christmas and liquidity looks bad at the end of the year, next year could be problematic."  (Additional reporting by Nandita Bose; Editing by David Greising and Hank Gilman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Fabrizio BenschThe humanoid robot AILA (artificial intelligence lightweight android) operates a switchboard during a demonstration by the German research centre for artificial intelligence at the CeBit computer fair in Hanover March, 5, 2013.IF THERE IS a technological revolution in progress, rich economies could be forgiven for wishing it would go away. Workers in America, Europe and Japan have been through a difficult few decades. In the 1970s the blistering growth after the second world war vanished in both Europe and America. In the early 1990s Japan joined the slump, entering a prolonged period of economic stagnation.  Brief spells of faster growth in intervening years quickly petered out. The rich world is still trying to shake off the effects of the 2008 financial crisis.  And now the digital economy, far from pushing up wages across the board in response to higher productivity, is keeping them flat for the mass of workers while extravagantly rewarding the most talented ones. Between 1991 and 2012 the average annual increase in real wages in Britain was 1.5% and in America 1%, according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, a club of mostly rich countries. That was less than the rate of economic growth over the period and far less than in earlier decades. Other countries fared even worse. Real wage growth in Germany from 1992 to 2012 was just 0.6%; Italy and Japan saw hardly any increase at all. And, critically, those averages conceal plenty of variation. Real pay for most workers remained flat or even fell, whereas for the highest earners it soared. The Economist It seems difficult to square this unhappy experience with the extraordinary technological progress during that period, but the same thing has happened before. Most economic historians reckon there was very little improvement in living standards in Britain in the century after the first Industrial Revolution. And in the early 20th century, as Victorian inventions such as electric lighting came into their own, productivity growth was every bit as slow as it has been in recent decades. In July 1987 Robert Solow, an economist who went on to win the Nobel prize for economics just a few months later, wrote a book review for the New York Times. The book in question, "The Myth of the Post-Industrial Economy", by Stephen Cohen and John Zysman, lamented the shift of the American workforce into the service sector and explored the reasons why American manufacturing seemed to be losing out to competition from abroad. One problem, the authors reckoned, was that America was failing to take full advantage of the magnificent new technologies of the computing age, such as increasingly sophisticated automation and much-improved robots. Mr Solow commented that the authors, "like everyone else, are somewhat embarrassed by the fact that what everyone feels to have been a technological revolution...has been accompanied everywhere...by a slowdown in productivity growth". This failure of new technology to boost productivity (apart from a brief period between 1996 and 2004) became known as the Solow paradox. Economists disagree on its causes. Robert Gordon of Northwestern University suggests that recent innovation is simply less impressive than it seems, and certainly not powerful enough to offset the effects of demographic change, inequality and sovereign indebtedness. Progress in ICT, he argues, is less transformative than any of the three major technologies of the second Industrial Revolution (electrification, cars and wireless communications). Yet the timing does not seem to support Mr Gordon's argument. The big leap in American economic growth took place between 1939 and 2000, when average output per person grew at 2.7% a year. Both before and after that period the rate was a lot lower: 1.5% from 1891 to 1939 and 0.9% from 2000 to 2013. And the dramatic dip in productivity growth after 2000 seems to have coincided with an apparent acceleration in technological advances as the web and smartphones spread everywhere and machine intelligence and robotics made rapid progress. YouTubeSteve Jobs comparing smartphones 2007. A second explanation for the Solow paradox, put forward by Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee (as well as plenty of techno-optimists in Silicon Valley), is that technological advances increase productivity only after a long lag. The past four decades have been a period of gestation for ICT during which processing power exploded and costs tumbled, setting the stage for a truly transformational phase that is only just beginning (signalling the start of the second half of the chessboard). That sounds plausible, but for now the productivity statistics do not bear it out. John Fernald, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and perhaps the foremost authority on American productivity figures, earlier this year published a study of productivity growth over the past decade. He found that its slowness had nothing to do with the housing boom and bust, the financial crisis or the recession. Instead, it was concentrated in ICT industries and those that use ICT intensively. That may be the wrong place to look for improvements in productivity. The service sector might be more promising. In higher education, for example, the development of online courses could yield a productivity bonanza, allowing one professor to do the work previously done by legions of lecturers. Once an online course has been developed, it can be offered to unlimited numbers of extra students at little extra cost. Similar opportunities to make service-sector workers more productive may be found in other fields. For example, new techniques and technologies in medical care appear to be slowing the rise in health-care costs in America. Machine intelligence could aid diagnosis, allowing a given doctor or nurse to diagnose more patients more effectively at lower cost. The use of mobile technology to monitor chronically ill patients at home could also produce huge savings. IBMThe 'doctor app' on IBM's Watson supercomputer. Such advances should boost both productivity and pay for those who continue to work in the industries concerned, using the new technologies. At the same time those services should become cheaper for consumers. Health care and education are expensive, in large part, because expansion involves putting up new buildings and filling them with costly employees. Rising productivity in those sectors would probably cut employment. The world has more than enough labour. Between 1980 and 2010, according to the McKinsey Global Institute, global nonfarm employment rose by about 1.1 billion, of which about 900m was in developing countries. The integration of large emerging markets into the global economy added a large pool of relatively low-skilled labour which many workers in rich countries had to compete with. That meant firms were able to keep workers' pay low. And low pay has had a surprising knock-on effect: when labour is cheap and plentiful, there seems little point in investing in labour-saving (and productivity-enhancing) technologies. By creating a labour glut, new technologies have trapped rich economies in a cycle of self-limiting productivity growth. Fear of the job-destroying effects of technology is as old as industrialisation. It is often branded as the lump-of-labour fallacy: the belief that there is only so much work to go round (the lump), so that if machines (or foreigners) do more of it, less is left for others. This is deemed a fallacy because as technology displaces workers from a particular occupation it enriches others, who spend their gains on goods and services that create new employment for the workers whose jobs have been automated away. A critical cog in the re-employment machine, though, is pay. To clear a glutted market, prices must fall, and that applies to labour as much as to wheat or cars. Chrysler Where labour is cheap, firms use more of it. Carmakers in Europe and Japan, where it is expensive, use many more industrial robots than in emerging countries, though China is beginning to invest heavily in robots as its labour costs rise. In Britain a bout of high inflation caused real wages to tumble between 2007 and 2013. Some economists see this as an explanation for the unusual shape of the country's recovery, with employment holding up well but productivity and GDP performing abysmally. Productivity growth has always meant cutting down on labour. In 1900 some 40% of Americans worked in agriculture, and just over 40% of the typical household budget was spent on food. Over the next century automation reduced agricultural employment in most rich countries to below 5%, and food costs dropped steeply. But in those days excess labour was relatively easily reallocated to new sectors, thanks in large part to investment in education. That is becoming more difficult. In America the share of the population with a university degree has been more or less flat since the 1990s. In other rich economies the proportion of young people going into tertiary education has gone up, but few have managed to boost it much beyond the American level. At the same time technological advances are encroaching on tasks that were previously considered too brainy to be automated, including some legal and accounting work. In those fields people at the top of their profession will in future attract many more clients and higher fees, but white-collar workers with lower qualifications will find themselves displaced and may in turn displace others with even lesser skills. A new paper by Peter Cappelli, of the University of Pennsylvania, concludes that in recent years over-education has been a consistent problem in most developed economies, which do not produce enough suitable jobs to absorb the growing number of college-educated workers. Over the next few decades demand in the top layer of the labour market may well centre on individuals with high abstract reasoning, creative, and interpersonal skills that are beyond most workers, including graduates. Most rich economies have made a poor job of finding lucrative jobs for workers displaced by technology, and the resulting glut of cheap, underemployed labour has given firms little incentive to make productivity-boosting investments. Until governments solve that problem, the productivity effects of this technological revolution will remain disappointing. The impact on workers, by contrast, is already blindingly clear. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Like everywhere else in Manhattan, the Upper West Side and Manhattan began as bucolic farmland, settled with farmhouses and later large mansions away from the commercial fray downtown. Grand mansions were built from the Revolutionary era through the Gilded Age, by a variety of characters ranging from robber barons to respected surgeons. Famous names like Boss Tweed, John James Audubon, A.T. Tewaert, CKG Billings and Charles Ward Apthrop once graced these halls, but their homes all fell to the same fate–the wrecking ball. Library Of Congress Charles W. Schwab was president of U.S. Steel (founded by Andrew Carnegie) and also founded Bethlehem Steel Company. On Riverside Drive between 73rd Street and 74th Street, he built a 75-room mansion in a French chateau style over the course of four years from 1902 to 1906. He dubbed it Riverside, giving a nod to its great views of the Hudson River. Schwab was also the first to acquire an entire block in Manhattan, according to The New York Times. The 50,000 square foot abode came replete with a pool, a bowling alley, a gaym and three elevators. As late as 1930, Schwab still staffed the mansion with 20 servants, mostly English-born. Schwab ended up going bankrupt, and according to this personal story, a Boticelli was smuggled out of the mansion and sold, which kept Schwab going financially for the remainder of his life. Schwab tried to sell his home and property to the city as a mayoral residence but Fiorelli LaGuardia refused to live in it. In 1948, it was demolished and replaced with an apartment building. NYPLCharles Ward Apthorp, member of the Governor’s Council during the American Revolution, built The Apthorp Mansion just west of what is now 91st and Columbus Avenue on an 168-acre property. Known as Elmwood, the grand home overlooked the Hudson River and the New Jersey Palisades. The mansion was taken over by both American soldiers and leaders, as well as the British, in different periods of the Revolution. Apthrop was charged with high treason after the war, but was released and allowed to keep the property. After Apthorp’s death in 1797, the property became exceedingly contested by its new owner and Apthorp’s children, and in the meantime was left to decay. In the 1850s and 1870s, the 68th Regiment used it as a parade ground and by 1890, it became a picnic ground, with the house turned into a beer and dance saloon. In 1870, it was also the site of the Orangeman riots. It was slated for demolition in 1891, with The New York Times noting that “An old house is like an old citizen, in that it deserves an ‘obituary.'” _ Still amazing that this mansion at 93rd Street was actually built as a summer home. It was the country abode of Dr. Valentine Mott, a celebrated surgeon whose principal place of residence was at 1 Gramercy Park. This home if standing today, would be right in the middle of Broadway. _With over $2 million lying around, Cornelius King Garrison Billings (1861-1937) built an estate overlooking the Hudson River that fit right into the excessive culture of the Gilded Age. Completed in 1907, the Billings estate on Fort Tryon at Washington Avenue and Riverside Drive, was originally meant to only be his summer dwelling and included a bowling alley, a heated indoor swimming pool, and a maple squash court among the living quarters. Soon after finishing an elaborate stable for 60 horses in 1903, Lowell started designing an estate for the millionaire and his family in the lavish style of Louis XIV. Completed in 1907 and named Tryon Hall, it included 21 rooms and was centered around a courtyard of flowers. Since the mansion was 250 feet above the Hudson River, the Statue of Liberty could be spotted from the observatory. To keep up with all the chores and maintenance, Billings had 23 live-in servants. Despite his extravagant surroundings, Billings didn’t enjoy living in Upper Manhattan so in 1917, only 9 years after construction was completed, he sold the property to John D. Rockefeller, Jr. for $35,000 per acre. Rockefeller planned to turn the estate into a park, while demolishing the estate, which was met with resistance. A fire took down the house in 1918 while it was being rented out. Today, the only thing left of the Billings estate are these grand arches just west of Corbin Circle. Library of Congress Across from the Billings estate once stood Libby Castle, designed in 1855 by Alexander Jackson Davis, an architect also responsible for Federal Hall and various other mansions in the New York area. The most famous residents of Libby Castle included Boss Tweed, who in turn lost the home due to foreclosure to A.T. Stewart, who was owed the value of the furnishings for the Metropolitan Hotel. After Stewart’s death, the castle became the property of his business partner William Libby, for whom the castle is named. Following Libby’s death, New York mayor Hugh J. Grant bought it, followed by Rockefeller. By 1919, the mansion had become a school for choirboys under a Father Finn, given to the  Paulists for use by Rockefeller. In 1939, Libby Castle was demolished to make way for Fort Tryon Park. _ The William W. Wheelcock mansion was once owned by John James Audubon, though much less Victorian in style, built on land purchased in 1841. The Wheelocks lived next to Audubon and helped Audubon’s wife following his death. She sold the property to the Wheelocks in 1862. The countryside mansion gradually became surrounded by row houses as urbanization marched northwards in Manhattan and in 1941 the house was demolished for a housing project. Sabrina Romano contributed to this post.     FREE AppDownload
oninnovation/flickrEntrepreneur, humanitarian, bookworm. While Bill Gates has a schedule that's planned down to the minute, the entrepreneur-turned-billionaire-humanitarian still gobbles up about a book a week.  Aside from a handful of novels, they're mostly nonfiction books covering his and his foundation's broad range of interests. A lot of them are about transforming systems: how nations can intelligently develop, how to lead an organization, and how social change can fruitfully happen. We went through the past four years of his book criticism to find the ones that he gave glowing reviews and that changed his perspective. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsNEW YORK (Reuters) - The suddenly unstoppable U.S. dollar is posing a triple threat to American companies' profits: driving up the costs of doing business overseas, suppressing the value of non-U.S. sales and, perhaps most worryingly, signaling weak international demand. The dollar has been on a tear, with an index tracking it against six other major currencies notching roughly an 8 percent gain since the end of June. Few analysts see its breakout performance stalling out anytime soon since the U.S. economy stands on much firmer footing than most others around the world, Europe's in particular. For companies in the benchmark S&amp;P 500, that's a big headwind because so many are multinationals, and as a group they derive almost half of their revenue from international markets. "You will get some companies that have failed to meet expectations based on the weakness we're seeing overseas, so it is going to be a source of disappointment," said Carmine Grigoli, chief investment strategist at Mizuho Securities in New York. Moreover, that weakness, especially in Europe, "is going to be critical here," he said. "It's an important component of (U.S.) earnings going forward." And while investors and analysts have begun to figure in the negative effects of a fast-strengthening dollar with regard to the approaching third-quarter reporting period, the risk to the fourth quarter and 2015 remains largely unaccounted for. For instance, third-quarter profit-growth expectations for S&amp;P 500 companies have fallen back to 6.4 percent from about 11 percent two months ago, Thomson Reuters data showed. By contrast, the fourth-quarter growth forecast is down just slightly, to 11.1 percent from a July 1 forecast of 12.0 percent. And profit-growth estimates for 2015 have actually increased in that time from 11.5 percent to 12.4 percent. "If you try and extrapolate out to the fourth quarter and how much that currency effect is going to be, your guidance is probably going to come down for a good slug of the multinationals on the S&amp;P," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Wunderlich Securities in New York. Ulrich Baumgarten/Getty ImagesWhile the dollar’s strength is a sign of better economic prospects in the United States compared with the euro zone and other parts of the world, it makes U.S. goods and services more costly overseas. Data this week showed German factory activity shrank for the first time in 15 months, while European Central Bank President Mario Draghi disappointed stock investors when he failed to provide a specific stimulus program for the euro zone's flagging recovery. In China, data showed the country's manufacturing sector is barely growing. Grigoli said third-quarter profit estimates for U.S. companies with the most overseas sales have fallen more than estimates for the entire S&amp;P 500 and also compared with companies with almost no overseas sales. Mizuho data shows a 1.5 percentage point decline in estimates from July 31 to Sept. 29 for companies that derive 60 percent or more of their sales from overseas compared with a 1.0 point decline in estimates for the S&amp;P 500 and a 0.4 point decline for companies with almost no overseas sales exposure. Ford Motor Co.'s disappointing forecast this week may be a hint of what's to come. The No. 2 U.S. automaker cut its forecasts for pretax profit this year, citing steeper losses in Russia and South America. "Not to extrapolate too broadly from one company, but I think the negative sentiment . . .has been pretty dramatic," said Michael James, managing director of equity trading at Wedbush Securities in Los Angeles. Ford shares lost 10.7 percent last week. The potential hit to earnings follows a nearly flat quarter for the market performance of the S&amp;P 500. The index gained just 0.6 percent, although it remains near its record high. Equity valuations are also tipped to the high side. From a forward 12-month perspective, the price-to-earnings ratio on the S&amp;P 500 is 15, just above its historic average of 14.9, according to Thomson Reuters data.  AP The onslaught of quarterly results begins soon, and the next two weeks bring reports from U.S. companies with some of the highest levels of overseas sales. Among them, fast-food restaurant operator Yum Brands, which derives roughly 77 percent of its sales overseas, is due to report on Tuesday, while results from chipmaker Intel, with about 83 percent of its sales coming from overseas, are due on Oct. 14. In the last 30 days, analysts have slashed Yum's estimates, lowering the average earnings per share forecast by 5.4 percent, according to Thomson Reuters StarMine. At the same time, though, Intel's estimates have been nudged up by 0.2 percent. Among sectors, tech has the highest percentage of foreign sales, at 57 percent, and analysts say it may take the biggest hit from the dollar this earnings season, according to S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices data. Qualcomm, whose shares fell 5.6 percent in the third quarter, derives 97 percent of its sales abroad, the data showed. There's been little recent forecast revision activity for Qualcomm, which will not report earnings until early November. Accenture tops the list of companies with the most sales abroad within the S&amp;P 100, while Fabrinet leads the list of companies with the most sales abroad within the S&amp;P small-cap 600. Twenty-one of the 23 analysts to revise their Accenture forecasts in the last month have cut their outlooks, while no analysts have changed Fabrinet's forecasts in the last 30 days. Tech also has the highest number of profit warnings for the third quarter, though its ratio of negative-to-positive preannouncements, at 2.1 to 1, is lower than the S&amp;P 500's ratio of 3.3 to 1, Thomson Reuters data showed. (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch. Additional reporting by Chuck Mikolajczak. Editing by Dan Burns and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
Jeff Bezos, Warren Buffett, and Bill Gates all credit their success to luck. Peter Thiel, the serial entrepreneur, venture capitalist, and billionaire, has a different take on it. In his new book "Zero to One," Thiel explains why he rejects the idea that success is dependent on luck and how to build a better, more definitive future for your company.  Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional Camera by Graham Flanagan. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
REUTERS/Bobby YipA mainland Chinese visitor looks on in front of policemen during a blockage by pro-democracy protesters on a main road at the Mongkok shopping district in Hong Kong October 5, 2014. HONG KONG (Reuters) - Pro-democracy protesters remained in a tense stalemate with the Hong Kong governmentlate on Sunday after authorities warned they were determined to get the Asian financial hub back to work after more than a week of unrest. Some protesters left the Mong Kok area of the city, pulling back from the scene of recent clashes with those who back the pro-Beijing government. But many hundreds more remained, disputing reports on social media that their leaders had called for them to leave. "We're afraid there may be a police crackdown, so we came here to support. The more people we have, the harder it is for the police to clear," said Lester Leung, 25, who said he was ready to stay on the streets all night. Fearing a crackdown as city leaders have called for the streets to be cleared so businesses, schools and civil servants could resume on Monday, other protesters who have paralyzed parts of the former British colony with mass sit-ins also pulled back from outside Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying's office. By late Sunday evening, Reuters reporters estimated around 4,000 protesters had gathered in Admiralty, the main area they have occupied over the past week at the heart of the government district - far fewer than rallied there the previous day. Over the past week, tens of thousands of protesters have demanded that Leung step down and that China allow them the right to vote for a leader of their choice in 2017 elections. Protesters and authorities are currently having preliminary discussions about hwat happens next. “A dialogue is not a compromise,” Alex Chow, secretary-general of the Hong Kong Federation of Students, told protesters. “We will start arranging talks with the government, because we understand that there are people in both the government and here who want to solve society’s problems. We will not back down."  REUTERS/Carlos Barria Protesters install a statue with a yellow umbrella as other demonstrators block the main street to the financial Central district outside of the government headquarters building in Hong Kong October 5, 2014. The pro-democracy camp mixed defiance with pragmatism in the cramped streets of Mong Kok, a gritty, working class neighborhood where scuffles broke out between protesters and supporters of the government on Friday and Saturday - and where police used pepper spray and batons in sporadic clashes early on Sunday. "We want everyone to leave because we don't want to see any more bloody conflicts ... we will come back again if the government doesn't respond (to calls for direct talks)," said Tang Sin-tung, a 16-year-old high school student who said she represents some of the protest volunteers in Mong Kok. She said around 20 of the 30 or so volunteers in that area would leave and join the rally at Admiralty, though some may choose to stay. Tang alleged that some female volunteers had been molested and faced sexual harassment by some of those opposed to the protest movement. "We will be back. Fight till the end," some of the protesters chanted. "Mong Kok, Mong Kok, never retreat," shouted those remaining, cheered on by around 200 supporters. Many residents have criticized the police handling of the recent unrest in Mong Kok, a traditional stronghold of Hong Kong's notorious organized crime gangs, or Triads. Police have had to defend their tactics and denied allegations of any collaboration between the security forces and gang members. "We've been pepper-sprayed. We've been tear-gassed. We've seen Triads. Now we're not afraid of anything," said Kit Lee, 41, who was among those opting to stay in Mong Kok. REUTERS The South China Morning Post reports that several current and former officials have told protsters to disperse for their own safety, as a crackdown may be imminent before Monday morning. "If you stay, there is a risk to your safety," Hong Kong University vice-chancellor Professor Peter Mathieson said. "Please leave now: you owe it to your loved ones to put your safety above all considerations."  "No one would like to see the students getting hurt," former Chief Justice Andrew Li Kwok-nang said. "I sincerely urge the students to leave immediately. Otherwise there is a danger to their safety." "I call on students and other protesters to withdraw immediately to ensure their personal safety," former chief secretary Henry Tang Ying-yen said. "The best solution to problems is dialogue, not stand-off." "Several indications have pointed to the high possibility that the situation will become very dire in the next 12 hours," Professor Leonard Cheng Kwok-hon, president of Lingnan University, said."I urge all students and staff to leave all protest areas immediately for their safety and not make your families worried." REUTERS/Bobby YipPolicemen stand in front of a tent set up by pro-democracy protesters with a banner supporting students, blocking a main road at Mongkok shopping district in Hong Kong October 5, 2014. Facing a government deadline on Monday to clear the streets of protesters so that Hong Kong's schools, businesses and government offices can return to work, the protest groups have said they would dismantle barricades to key government buildings to allow civil servants to get to work. Businesses, shop owners and taxi drivers have added to the pressure on the protesters to end their occupation and disperse. The government said all secondary schools in Central, Western and Wan Chai districts would re-open on Monday, but primary schools and kindergartens would remain closed. The student activists, established protest groups and many ordinary Hong Kong residents present Beijing with one of its biggest political challenges since it crushed pro-democracy protests in and around Tiananmen Square in 1989. But they remained defiant in saying they would not call off their action. China's ruling Communist Party leadership in Beijing has dismissed the Hong Kong protests as illegal, but appears to have left it to Leung and his government to find a solution. As the protests have ebbed and flowed, they have caused uncertainty for businesses and triggered a more than 7 percent drop in the value of shares on the Hong Kong stock exchange in the past month. Financial Secretary John Tsang wrote in a blog on Sunday that Hong Kong was at a critical moment and its "financial foundations and core values have inevitably been shaken." Allan Zeman, a member of the 1,200-strong committee that selects candidates for Hong Kong's top job, said the protesters had made their point, but businesses, particularly those paying high rents, were being hit. "If they carry on too long, you're asking for trouble," he told Reuters. "At some point you need to open the roads. You're choking off the economy." Protest leaders, who earlier pulled out of planned talks with the government because of the way the police handled Friday's unrest, held out the prospect of rejoining the dialogue if policing improved. They also braced for a potential showdown with a government determined to get Hong Kong back to work on Monday. "We must take care in the coming days. In the face of violence we must remain steadfast and brave. This is only the calm before the storm, but the Hong Kong people here with us ... proves our strength," Alex Chow, leader of theHong Kong Federation of Students, said over the weekend. REUTERS/Bobby YipAnti-Occupy Central protesters stand behind a police cordon on Nathan Road at Hong Kong's Mongkok shopping district October 3, 2014, demanding the tents set up by pro-democracy protesters to be demolished. China's state-run People's Daily said in a commentary on Sunday that there had been misunderstandings about the democratic process. "This is not a struggle between democracy and non-democracy, but merely different understandings on the realization and implementation methods of democracy. In the final analysis, the central government is the most powerful supporter of democracy in Hong Kong," the newspaper said. Facing separatist unrest in far-flung Tibet and Xinjiang, Beijing is standing firm on Hong Kong, fearful that calls for democracy there could spread to the mainland. Bao Tong, the most senior Chinese official jailed over the 1989 Tiananmen protests, said today's demonstrators inHong Kong should "take a break". In a phone interview, he told Reuters he was worried that recent violence "could give people excuses." "I don't believe the protesters will engage in violent activities, but no one can guarantee that others will not use violence against the demonstrators," he said. "The most important thing is for tomorrow. This problem cannot be solved now. What (they) really want now is universal suffrage. That is not an easy matter." "As for the goals that have not been achieved, they need further persistence, tenacity and adherence - so that's why they should rest now." (Additional reporting by Yimouu Lee, Twinnie Siu, Elzio Barreto, Charlie Zhu, Alexandra Harney, Clare Baldwin, Joseph Campbell, Donny Kwok, James Pomfret, Bobby Yip, Irene Jay Liu, Farah Master, Diana Chan, Kinling Lo and Venus Wu in HONG KONG, and Sui-Lee Wee in BEIJING; Writing by Ian Geoghegan, Anne Marie Roantree and Jeremy Laurence; Editing by Kim Coghill) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersIMF Director Lagarde delivers her speech on the global economy at Georgetown University in WashingtonLONDON (Reuters) - World policymakers gather in Washington later this week to ponder how to sustain economic recovery at a time when the United States is about to turn off its money taps. Given the same G20 finance ministers and central bankers met in Australia only two weeks ago it is not hard to guess how the debate will go: most of the western world will urge the euro zone to do more to foster growth and Germany will warn against letting up on austerity. That debate has circled within the G20 for three years and is fizzing now in Europe with France, Italy and others pressing for a loosening of fiscal strait-jackets to allow time for economic reforms in defiance of Berlin's wishes. "Existing flexibility within the rules should allow governments to address the budgetary costs of major structural reforms, to support demand and to achieve a more growth-friendly composition of fiscal policies," European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said on Thursday after a monthly policy meeting. The Federal Reserve will end its program of bond-buying with new money later this month, a prospect that has already driven the dollar higher and created jitters about a reversal of money flows out of emerging markets back into the United States. The euro zone in the guise of the ECB has been doing its best to come up with new stimulus, though it has shied away from full quantitative easing so far. Its most effective card may be euro weakness, the flipside of dollar strength. The euro is down almost 10 percent from a peak against the dollar in May. With U.S. money printing about to end and speculation about the timing of a first interest rate rise, there are good reasons to think this trend could continue. The strong U.S. jobs report on Friday did little to change the picture. "I don't think it changes the Fed dynamics. I still think the first rate hike is maybe mid-year," said Kim Rupert, managing director at Action Economics in San Francisco. "We are trying to gauge whether it's March or June." If the euro keeps falling, it would push the prices of imports up while making it easier for euro zone countries to sell abroad which should have an upward impact on both growth and inflation. The impact won’t be immediate though, as last week’s inflation reading of just 0.3 percent demonstrated. As with Japan last year, G20 policymakers gathered in Washington for the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank are in a poor position to complain about competitive devaluation having demanded stronger European growth for so long. The IMF will release its latest World Economic Outlook before the meeting starts. "The global economy is at an inflection point: it can muddle along with sub-par growth, a 'new mediocre'; or it can aim for a better path where bold policies would accelerate growth, increase employment, and achieve a 'new momentum'," IMF chief Christine Lagarde said as she looked ahead to the annual meet. Last month's G20 meeting again failed to secure agreement on concrete measures, largely due to resistance from Germany, Europe's largest economy. One reason the Fed's change of gear has not caused more ructions in financial markets so far may be an assumption that the Bank of Japan and ECB will eventually fill the liquidity gap by printing more money. The Bank of Japan meets on Tuesday and is expected to keep monetary settings unchanged ahead of a rate review on Oct. 31 that will produce quarterly long-term economic forecasts which are likely to be downgraded. For the ECB, money-printing quantitative easing (QE) is anything but certain given the philosophical and political difficulties it throws up in Germany and elsewhere despite the bloc flirting with deflation. "The market is very much taking for granted that quantitative easing through a government bond purchase program is coming and I think there are many, many obstacles to that," Scott Thiel, head of European and global bonds at Blackrock, who oversees assets worth around $100 billion, told Reuters. The Bank of England also meets in the week to come. Nobody expects it to raise interest rates from a record low 0.5 percent yet because of a near absence of wage growth despite robust economic growth. The consensus in the latest Reuters poll of economists is for a first move upwards, something two of the Bank’s nine rate-setters have already voted for, in the first quarter of next year, which should put it a little ahead of the Fed. The Reserve Bank of Australia is expected to keep rates at 2.5 percent on Tuesday as it has for the previous 12 meetings. In Europe, Poland is expected to cut. Whatever else happens, investors are going to have to get used to a world of divergent monetary policies. "There are significant and increasing differences in the monetary policy cycle between major advanced economies," Draghi said. (Editing by Jeremy Gaunt) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos BarriaEven though everybody wants a piece of his time, Warren Buffett stays focused. Here's his approach. The secret to the Buffett's success? If you look at how rigorously empty he keeps his calendar, you get the impression that he's a master prioritizer — and a story we spotted on Scott Dinsmore's productivity blog shows how we might gain that mastery.  While we haven't confirmed the story with Buffett, it goes like this: One day Buffett went up to his pilot named Steve and jokingly said to him that "the fact that you're still working for me tells me I'm not doing my job." "You should be out going after more of your goals and dreams," Buffett reportedly said.  To help him with that, Buffett asked Steve to list the 25 most important things he wanted to do in his life. Then Buffett asked that he review each goal and choose the five most crucial ones. After considering a moment, he drew circles around five fantastic goals, confirming with Buffett that yes, indeed, they were his highest priorities.  And the rest?  "What about these other 20 things on your list that you didn't circle?" Buffett asked. "What is your plan for completing those?"  Steve knew just what to say.  "Well, the top five are my primary focus, but the other 20 come in at a close second," the pilot said. "They are still important, so I’ll work on those intermittently as I see fit as I'm getting through my top five. They are not as urgent, but I still plan to give them dedicated effort."  Buffett suddenly turned serious.  "You've got it wrong, Steve," he said. "Everything you didn't circle just became your 'avoid at all cost list.' No matter what, these things get no attention from you until you've succeeded with your top five." Here, Buffett shows that he doesn't just understand the value of companies, but also the value of time. Similarly, he once urged Bill Gates to keep his schedule as clear as possible, keeping himself free of the crush of requests that come to a person with the stature of Gates and Buffett.  "You've gotta keep control of your time," Buffett said, "and you can't unless you say no. You can't let people set your agenda in life."  And with figuring out your priorities — and sticking to them — you can set your own agenda. So decrees the Sage of Omaha.  Thanks to Lifehacker, where we first saw the story.    FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Justin TallisMajor social networks Facebook and Twitter have unveiled plans to start using "buy" buttons on their sites, which could start having an impact on "social shopping" in the coming holiday seasonWashington (AFP) - They're not just for sharing any more: Facebook and Twitter are now looking to play a bigger role in shopping. Both major social networks have unveiled plans to start using "buy" buttons on their sites, which could start having an impact on "social shopping" in the coming holiday season. The idea of using social networks such as Facebook to promote e-commerce has been around for some time, but so far has failed to deliver much. Facebook had some short-lived programs for "digital gifts" and another program selling virtual goods via Facebook games. "Social commerce," stemming from reviews or referrals from social networks, is expected to hit $15 billion by 2015, according to the research firm Invesp. Some analysts see a natural connection between social networks and shopping, since users often discuss products and brands in the messages. "Sharing is a fairly reliable indicator of what people are going to buy," says Andy Stevens, head of strategy and research for Share This, a company which produces a sharing button for websites and analyzes social media trends. A study by Share This found that among "Millennials" born in the 1980s or 1990s, 55 percent will click on content shared by their peers, and often use these social media recommendations to decide what to buy. "People are waking up to the possibility that regular customers are using social networks as part of the decision-making process," Stevens told AFP. A Harris survey released last month by the marketing firm DigitasLBi found just five percent of Americans have made a purchase on a social media site, but that 20 percent would consider doing so.  "Our study reveals tremendous untapped potential for growth in social commerce, especially among younger consumers," says DigitasLBi chief executive Tony Weisman. Weisman said that the amount spent on social shopping could hit $56 billion if 20 percent of Americans participate. But he noted that concerns holding back social commerce include "security around financial data, privacy, and a seamless buying process." The survey found 42 percent were likely to make a purchase on social media if they knew their credit information was secure. Until recently, social media marketing has been mainly about "softer" strategies such as brand awareness, which are difficult to measure. Greg Sterling, an analyst at Opus Research, said moving toward social commerce is "a smart thing" for networks like Facebook and Twitter because of the sheer volume of users online, but that marketers need a well-defined strategy. "Just putting a 'buy' button out there is not going to be effective," he said, unless it is targeted in the right way "The challenge is building enough context around that 'buy' button." Sterling said a buy button may be best combined with research on users' browsing habits -- an effective if controversial tool. In a technique called "retargeting," consumers see ads for products or services they have been viewing. Someone researching vacations might see a hotel ad, and one checking out shoes might see footwear from earlier browsing. "People have a complicated reaction to retargeting," said Sterling. "Some people will be alarmed, others might see it as a welcome personalization." Sterling said that without this type of tracking ads may be delivered that are irrelevant or inappropriate for different consumers. And even though retargeting is often criticized, "people do respond to these ads," he said. Social media will need to be aware of these trends and find ways to deliver ads and purchase opportunities without turning members off, said Sterling, who predicted slow adoption of direct retail sales through Facebook and Twitter. "I would be surprised if there are a lot of people buying things on Facebook or Twitter in this quarter," he told AFP. "They are being used as part of a discussion, but I would be surprised to see much sales volume." FREE AppDownload
WSJ Live Paulson, who shot to fame after making billions betting against subprime during the housing crisis, was part of a panel at NYU Stern called the "Future of Finance" with Citigroup CEO Michael Corbat and Warburg Pincus' Joe Landy. The Wall Street Journal's Francesco Guerrera was the moderator.  Early on in the panel, Paulson discussed how the hedge fund industry had changed since he launched Paulson &amp; Co., which now manages over $20 billion in assets. It's a big number even by today's standards, but compared with previous decades, it's absolutely massive. Paulson pointed out that in the early 1990s, a large fund would have about $100 million to $200 million. These days, the largest funds have billions in assets. The increase in assets also contributes to a manager's yearly take-home pay.   When Paulson discussed the massive paychecks some of the top fund managers take home, you could see folks in the audience grin. Fund managers are paid through a compensation structure commonly known as the "2 and 20," which stands for a 2% management fee and a 20% performance fee charge. More specifically, “2 and 20<U+2033> means a hedge fund manager would charge investors 2% of total assets under management and 20% of any profits. "So hedge funds have grown, the fee structure has stayed the same," he said. "The capital of the partners has become a more and more significant part of the earnings of the hedge fund managers. The total compensation to hedge fund managers has really grown enormously."  Paulson pointed out that Institutional Investor's Alpha magazine had a list featuring estimates of the top 25 highest-earning managers. He said the lowest paid, No. 25, took home about $300 million, and the top five averaged more than $2 billion.  "After this little ah quick John Paulson math, I am tempted to send my résumé," panel moderator Guerrera joked. Paulson ranked No. 3 for the "rich list." His take-home pay in 2013 was $2.3 billion. He was just behind Steven Cohen and David Tepper.  Here's the clip:   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA picture illustration shows U.S. 100 dollar bank notes taken in TokyoNEW YORK (Reuters) - The suddenly unstoppable U.S. dollar is posing a triple threat to American companies' profits: driving up the costs of doing business overseas, suppressing the value of non-U.S. sales and, perhaps most worryingly, signaling weak international demand. The dollar has been on a tear, with an index tracking it against six other major currencies notching roughly an 8 percent gain since the end of June. Few analysts see its breakout performance stalling out anytime soon since the U.S. economy stands on much firmer footing than most others around the world, Europe's in particular. For companies in the benchmark S&amp;P 500, that's a big headwind because so many are multinationals, and as a group they derive almost half of their revenue from international markets. "You will get some companies that have failed to meet expectations based on the weakness we're seeing overseas, so it is going to be a source of disappointment," said Carmine Grigoli, chief investment strategist at Mizuho Securities in New York. Moreover, that weakness, especially in Europe, "is going to be critical here," he said. "It's an important component of (U.S.) earnings going forward." And while investors and analysts have begun to figure in the negative effects of a fast-strengthening dollar with regard to the approaching third-quarter reporting period, the risk to the fourth quarter and 2015 remains largely unaccounted for. For instance, third-quarter profit-growth expectations for S&amp;P 500 companies have fallen back to 6.4 percent from about 11 percent two months ago, Thomson Reuters data showed. By contrast, the fourth-quarter growth forecast is down just slightly, to 11.1 percent from a July 1 forecast of 12.0 percent. And profit-growth estimates for 2015 have actually increased in that time from 11.5 percent to 12.4 percent. "If you try and extrapolate out to the fourth quarter and how much that currency effect is going to be, your guidance is probably going to come down for a good slug of the multinationals on the S&amp;P," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at Wunderlich Securities in New York.   WARNING FROM FORD While the dollar’s strength is a sign of better economic prospects in the United States compared with the euro zone and other parts of the world, it makes U.S. goods and services more costly overseas. Data this week showed German factory activity shrank for the first time in 15 months, while European Central Bank President Mario Draghi disappointed stock investors when he failed to provide a specific stimulus program for the euro zone's flagging recovery. In China, data showed the country's manufacturing sector is barely growing. Grigoli said third-quarter profit estimates for U.S. companies with the most overseas sales have fallen more than estimates for the entire S&amp;P 500 and also compared with companies with almost no overseas sales. Mizuho data shows a 1.5 percentage point decline in estimates from July 31 to Sept. 29 for companies that derive 60 percent or more of their sales from overseas compared with a 1.0 point decline in estimates for the S&amp;P 500 and a 0.4 point decline for companies with almost no overseas sales exposure. Ford Motor Co.'s disappointing forecast this week may be a hint of what's to come. The No. 2 U.S. automaker cut its forecasts for pretax profit this year, citing steeper losses in Russia and South America. "Not to extrapolate too broadly from one company, but I think the negative sentiment . . .has been pretty dramatic," said Michael James, managing director of equity trading at Wedbush Securities in Los Angeles. Ford shares lost 10.7 percent last week. The potential hit to earnings follows a nearly flat quarter for the market performance of the S&amp;P 500. The index gained just 0.6 percent, although it remains near its record high. Equity valuations are also tipped to the high side. From a forward 12-month perspective, the price-to-earnings ratio on the S&amp;P 500 is 15, just above its historic average of 14.9, according to Thomson Reuters data.   REPORTING PARADE SET TO START The onslaught of quarterly results begins soon, and the next two weeks bring reports from U.S. companies with some of the highest levels of overseas sales. Among them, fast-food restaurant operator Yum Brands, which derives roughly 77 percent of its sales overseas, is due to report on Tuesday, while results from chipmaker Intel, with about 83 percent of its sales coming from overseas, are due on Oct. 14. In the last 30 days, analysts have slashed Yum's estimates, lowering the average earnings per share forecast by 5.4 percent, according to Thomson Reuters StarMine. At the same time, though, Intel's estimates have been nudged up by 0.2 percent. Among sectors, tech has the highest percentage of foreign sales, at 57 percent, and analysts say it may take the biggest hit from the dollar this earnings season, according to S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices data. Qualcomm, whose shares fell 5.6 percent in the third quarter, derives 97 percent of its sales abroad, the data showed. There's been little recent forecast revision activity for Qualcomm, which will not report earnings until early November. Accenture tops the list of companies with the most sales abroad within the S&amp;P 100, while Fabrinet leads the list of companies with the most sales abroad within the S&amp;P small-cap 600. Twenty-one of the 23 analysts to revise their Accenture forecasts in the last month have cut their outlooks, while no analysts have changed Fabrinet's forecasts in the last 30 days. Tech also has the highest number of profit warnings for the third quarter, though its ratio of negative-to-positive preannouncements, at 2.1 to 1, is lower than the S&amp;P 500's ratio of 3.3 to 1, Thomson Reuters data showed.     (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch. Additional reporting by Chuck Mikolajczak. Editing by Dan Burns and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBill Gross, co-founder and co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment Management Company (PIMCO), adjusts his sunglasses as he arrives to speak at the Morningstar Investment Conference in Chicago(Reuters) - Bill Gross, in his first interview since quitting asset manager Pimco, told Barron’s magazine he was “uniquely exuberant” about giving up management responsibilities and was excited to get back to his investment roots. “Managing money is in my blood,” Gross, who is the co-founder of Pacific Investment Management Co., told Barron’s this weekend. “I like to get up at 5:30 in the morning and make money for clients and compete against other money managers. That’s something that doesn’t go away. I am obsessed with delivering value to investors and winning the game from a personal standpoint. Retiring at this point in my career just doesn’t suit me.” Gross, the bond market's most renowned investor, quit Pimco for distant rival Janus Capital Group Inc &lt;jns.n&gt; on Sept. 26, the day before he was expected to be fired from the huge Newport Beach, Calif. investment firm he co-founded more than 40 years ago. Pimco is a unit of Germany's Allianz SE &lt;alvg.de&gt;. Gross, 70, had been clashing with the firm's executive committee and had threatened to resign multiple times, a source familiar with the situation said. “I was always an investment guy, and the other stuff: hiring, paying people, planning, and so on, became a problem for me,” he told Barron’s. “I am uniquely exuberant about clearing all that stuff off my dish.” Gross has been given control of the tiny $13 million Janus Unconstrained Bond fund in the expectation that at least some of the clients who invested in his $200 billion Pimco Total Return fund will follow him to his new home. “I’ll still be intense,” Gross said. “I figured out long ago that I can’t change that. But the intensity and decibel level drop a bit in a smaller place. Also, common sense suggests that it will be easier to implement ideas in a $100 million portfolio than in a fund with more than $200 billion." “The bond paparazzi will be less interested in Janus than they were in Total Return,” Gross said. Pimco clients withdrew a record $23.5 billion from the Pimco Total Return fund in September, the vast bulk in the three days after Gross announced his shock departure. Gross’s move from Pimco was the equivalent of an earthquake in the fund management industry, potentially threatening the company’s dominant position in bond investing. It had almost $2 trillion in assets under management at the midpoint of this year, but institutional investors in particular have been alarmed at stories of infighting prompted by Gross’s allegedly imperious management style. Gross’s departure, coming eight months after his co-chief investment officer Mohamed El-Erian walked out, has prompted pension funds and consultants to re-evaluate their use of Pimco funds.   (Reporting by Jennifer Ablan; Editing by James Dalgleish) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThis is the Bunyan Muffler Man, named after Paul Bunyan. You can find it in Rocky Mount, North Carolina.Everyone's always talking about the insanely high rents in the New York City and San Francisco housing markets. But that doesn't mean people with money should scoop up a 5th Avenue condo and rent it out. Landlords seeking returns need to consider the difference between the cost of the property and the rent they can potentially bring in. A report by RealtyTrac found that the average returns were actually the highest in high-risk markets, where unemployment and vacancy rates are higher than national averages. RealtyTrac ranked these US housing markets based on gross rental yield, which is "the average fair market rent of three-bedroom homes in each county, annualized, and divided by the median sales price of residential properties in the third quarter." Although rents are high in New York and San Francisco, the property prices are also high, which means that returns are low. On the other side, these smaller markets have low property prices but relatively high rents — which means that returns are high. FREE AppDownload
