Was it wise for the Mariners to spend $240 million for 10 years on Robinson Cano? Were the Yankees insane to write a check for $155 million to a pitcher who’s never stepped onto a Major League Baseball mound? How can anyone — even Clayton Kershaw — deliver value on a contract worth over $30 million per year? Only time will tell, though it’s been incredibly hard for clubs to get an honest return for the wild investments they’ve made in star players over the past 15 years. You only need to glance at the contract terms of Alex Rodriguez, Albert Pujols, and Barry Zito to recall a few free agent deals that became nightmares for management. If there is anything at all to learn from these deals, it’s not to pay big money for star players who will end up over 40 (as the Mariners did with Cano), don’t invest heavily in an unproven entity (as the Yankees did with Tanaka), and don’t saddle your franchise with an enormous contract, no matter the player (as the Dodgers did with Kershaw). Yet, there’s a flip side to free agent signings. Whether they involve players who exceeded their promise or ballyhooed stars who met their sky-high expectations, there are several examples of MLB players who delivered a real return on the investment their teams’ owners made in them. One recipient of this rare gift was George Steinbrenner. Here are five baseball players who managed to shut out the pressure and perform at the level they were paid to do. Contracts considered were from 1999 or later. Ichiro Suzuki may have tormented Japanese pitchers for the greater part of a decade (once hitting .387 in Japan), but in 2001 he had never faced a Major League pitcher. The Mariners were taking somewhat of a risk by signing Ichiro to a 3-year deal worth $27 million, as no everyday player had ever made it in the big leagues. That was about to change. Ichiro became an instant sensation playing in Seattle, hitting .350 with 242 hits in his first year and leading his team to the American League Championship Series. He won both AL Rookie of the Year and Most Valuable Player awards that year, shocked the game with his base-running skills, and proved to be the a bona fide force in the outfield. He followed it up with two more seasons averaging 210 hits, batting .317 overall. While $9 million per year would be more than justified for those three years, the vagaries of Japanese contracts make it a far more valuable investment. Included in the $27 million was the $13 million posting fee the Mariners paid Ichiro’s team for the right to negotiate. That means Ichiro made $14 million for those three brilliant seasons. He’d probably earn over $70 million for the same performance on today’s market. The New York Yankees were fresh off their third straight World Series win in 2000 before deciding to add a few choice logs to the dynasty’s fire in hopes of getting a few more titles. That led to the signing of Mike Mussina, who baffled the Yankees for years as a member of the AL East rival Orioles. The price tag was high for the time: $88.5 million for 6 years in pinstripes. Over the course of that six-year deal, Mussina was one of the most durable and effective pitchers the Yankees have ever inked to a free-agent deal. You could hear the familiar “Moose” call just about every fifth day at old Yankee Stadium as the righthander put together a record of 93-53 while averaging 200 innings and 30 starts per season, winning two Gold Gloves and placing fifth in Cy Young voting in 2001. The Yankees offered a similar deal to A.J. Burnett in his prime, only to be rewarded with a disaster. Mussina’s signing was one of the most valuable. When the Red Sox had Manny Ramirez in left field at Fenway Park, there were many negatives to juggle on a daily basis. They all went away once Ramirez stepped to the plate. Ramirez turned out to be one of the most lethal hitters of his generation, which is what the Red Sox paid for at $160 million over 8 years. Contracts in the $20 million range simply didn’t exist for players not named Alex Rodriguez in 2001. That meant the Red Sox had to deal with “Manny being Manny” for eight long years. It included violent confrontations with team staff, lapses where Ramirez seemed to disappear, and one report where he was said to urinate inside the Green Monster in the middle of a game. Yet Ramirez was an All-Star every year he played for Boston, winning a batting title in 2002 and placing in the top five in MVP voting from 2001 through 2005. The Red Sox would have gladly thrown all that out the window in exchange for his 2004 World Series performance, for which Ramirez nabbed MVP honors. In fact, they wouldn’t have taken home their second title in 90 years, either, were it not for Manny Being Manny throughout the 2007 season. Though the relationship between the Red Sox and Manny spiraled out of control in the contract’s final year, Ramirez had by then solidified his place as one of Boston’s all time greats. He earned every penny the Red Sox paid him. Vladimir Guerrero delivered his show-stopping performances as “Vlad the Impaler” for the now-defunct Montreal Expos through 2003. When his time came for a free-agent deal, the Angels jumped at the chance to add the high-average, big-power player to their team in 2004. Guerrero signed a 5-year deal worth $70 million. In retrospect, that sum was a steal. Vlad quickly made his presence felt in 2004 when he hit .337 and blasted 39 home runs in his AL MVP campaign. Throughout the remainder of his contract with Anaheim/L.A., Guerrero averaged well over 30 home runs and 100 runs batted in every season while hitting .322 for the five years. At $14 million per season, his production made the salary seem low. Guerrero was always known for his aggression, which exemplified the old saying that you “hit your way off the island” rather than show patience to attract scouts in the Dominican Republic. Vlad the Impaler crushed the ball for five years in Anaheim and paid Angels owner Arte Moreno back handsomely for his investment.  When the Diamondbacks inked Randy Johnson to a 4-year deal worth $53 million in 1999, the Big Unit’s legend was only partly written. Question marks lingered, especially considering it was a high sum for any player, let alone a pitcher who was 34 years old and had injury problems. Johnson’s utter domination of National League hitters after being traded to Houston in his walk year of 1998 helped bump up the price, but it was never close to his real value. The Big Unit proceeded to win four straight Cy Young awards in the four years he spent in Arizona, averaging over 350 strikeouts per year while posting a record of 81-27. He had the best earned-run average in the National League for 3 of those 4 years, but to drive the value of his contract home, one can simply look at his 2001 World Series performance. On the game’s biggest stage, Johnson won 3 games in the 7-game series with the Yankees, including the deciding game, which he managed in relief. At about $13 million per season, that’s one of the greatest returns on any free agent signing of the past twenty years. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesWell-known activist investor and billionaire Carl Icahn tweeted that he has now boosted his stake in Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL  ) by $500 million to $3.6 billion, calling the company a no-brainer investment, and is continuing his fight for increased share buybacks. He has now issued an open letter, calling his fellow shareholders to arms. In his seven-page letter, he notes that the S&amp;P 500 trades at a 71% premium to Apple, which he calls a "dramatic valuation disconnect." Icahn's annoyance with Apple's enormous cash hoard is obvious, but does his proposal make sense? In this segment of Tech Teardown, Erin Kennedy discusses Carl Icahn and Apple with Evan Niu, CFA, our tech and telecom bureau chief. The number of Apple bears has been on the rise recently ever since the stock fell from its high in 2012 and lagged the market considerably in 2013, but Icahn has defended Apple's prospects. He believes the company's unrivaled customer loyalty will be the key to it maintaining pricing and margins going forward, and he's still bullish on Tim Cook's leadership. He also sees Apple getting into Ultra HD televisions, which he thinks could generate as much as $40 billion in revenue annually. With Icahn having backed off from his initial call for $150 billion in buybacks and revising down to $50 billion, Evan sees that number as reasonable. He agrees that Apple does have too much cash on the books, and could see a $50 billion share repurchase before the end of the fiscal year in September as making sense. But is Apple the best play to get rich off the smartphone explosion?Want to get in on the smartphone phenomenon? Truth be told, one company sits at the crossroads of smartphone technology as we know it. It's not your typical household name, either. In fact, you've probably never even heard of it! But it stands to reap massive profits no matter who ultimately wins the smartphone war. To find out what it is, click here to access the "One Stock You Must Buy Before the iPhone-Android War Escalates Any Further."  Erin Kennedy and Evan Niu, CFA, both own shares of Apple. The Motley Fool recommends and owns shares of Apple. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools don't all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
He has designed some of the biggest and most spectacular yachts ever to set sail and can offer just about anything a seafaring billionaire's heart desires – from tennis courts to personal submarines, waterfalls and even special stability features for those prone to feeling a little bilious on the high seas. But most of superyacht designer Ken Freivokh's clients are primarily concerned with where the telly's going to go as they sit on their $100m-plus yacht cruising the Caribbean or the Med. "The tricky ones are clients that come and say, 'I want a big boat with a big saloon and a very big TV', and they're almost not interested in the rest," said Freivokh, who designed the £90m, 88-metre, three-mast Maltese Falcon owned by hedge fund billionaire Elena Ambrosiadou. Freivokh, who has made millions designing yachts for world leaders and businesspeople, said he "finds it weird" that many of his customers are preoccupied with watching television while sailing among paradise islands. Last week he was in London, at a glitzy superyacht party in the five-star May Fair Hotel, to tempt more billionaires to splash out on the ultimate badge of wealth. "Some of the things people aspire to make total sense; some of them make a bit less sense to me," he said. Freivokh said some clients, such as Tom Perkins, the billionaire US venture capitalist and experienced sailor who originally commissioned the Maltese Falcon, were adventurous and exacting. But other members of the super-rich set just want a yacht to complete their sweep of trophy assets. "If the guy just has the money and already has the aeroplane, and he has cars and houses and now he wants a yacht and it's not totally clear what he needs on it, it makes it harder for us to respond," Freivokh said. Advances in naval architecture and materials mean Freivokh can create "pretty much anything" if the client has unlimited imagination. Usually, they don't, he said, "but, hopefully, they have unlimited money". Recent imaginative commissions include a 145-metre "exoskeleton" yacht, while the owners of the Mövenpick hotels empire commissioned a one-off design for a seasickness-proof yacht. Freivokh's answer to that request was a 41m "penthouse apartment" which floats above the waves on four torpedo-like structures. "It's all panoramic views, all the real estate is incredible, and [there's] no seasickness because it's very stable." That boat is 4.5 times as long as a London Routemaster bus, but it would look like a dinghy floating next to some of the largest superyachts on the water. Roman Abramovich's Eclipse, which boasts 24 guest cabins, two helicopter pads, two swimming pools and a missile defence system, is 162.5 metres long and was the world's largest yacht when it was launched in 2010. But the Eclipse has been eclipsed. Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the emir of Abu Dhabi and the president of the United Arab Emirates, is shortly to take delivery of Azzam, a 180-metre German-built yacht. The boat was built in Bremen by the 139-year-old family-owned Lürssen shipyard. Peter Lürssen, the chief executive and great-grandson of the founder, Friedrich Lürssen, refused to confirm that Sheikh Khalifa was the buyer of the yacht, saying only that it is being delivered to a "rich Middle Eastern family". Azzam, which cost a rumoured £400m, took 1.5 million working hours to build and its teak decks are big enough to cover half a football pitch. "There's a decent-sized main cabin, nine guests cabins, a few saloons, a dining room – it's not outrageous," Lürssen said of the yacht. "This is the best family escape you can have." The family will be joined by 60 crew, including chefs, engineers and "hostesses". Lürssen has been building yachts for the rich and famous for decades and is the company behind Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen's Octopus, Media tycoon Barry Diller's Eos and entertainment executive David Geffen's Rising Sun and Pelorus. Its main rivals in the superyacht industry are Blohm &amp; Voss in Hamburg, builder of U-boats and the Bismarck , which is creating a futuristic "exoskeleton" yacht, with a fluid, web-like structure, with prize-winning architect Zaha Hadid, and Italy's Fincantieri, which made the 134-metre Serene for Russian vodka tycoon Yuri Scheffler. Gary White, co-founder and chairman of yacht brokerage firm Y Co, said superyacht sales were "very buoyant, but only in the very high end. At that level, you are really talking billionaires – whether they run countries or the world's largest companies." He said superyacht owners were, however, becoming younger and more adventurous. "Some clients want to cruise the world to some amazing places with a marine biologist onboard. And some clients want to party on the beach in Saint-Tropez." White said that while "only a privileged few" can buy a superyacht, he is trying to "get our message across to the public that it is affordable" to charter a superyacht for a summer holiday. That would be those members of the general public who can hand over £35,000-£40,000 a week, but White says: "That's affordable if you're spending a week with four friends. Waking up in a different place every morning is an extreme luxury and should be experienced by those that can." Azzam and Eclipse are not available for charter, but Serene is – for anyone with a holiday budget of £3.1m a week, not including food, drinks, mooring fees and tips. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk FREE AppDownload
The International Monetary Fund is closely monitoring recent events in the world's emerging markets amid concerns that the withdrawal of monetary stimulus by the US will add to the turmoil caused by the sudden slump in Argentina. The IMF believes that the next phase of the gradual removal of stimulus to the US economy by the Federal Reserve, due later this week, could be the trigger for fresh turbulence in countries seen as vulnerable to capital flight, such as Turkey and Indonesia. Christine Lagarde, managing director of the IMF, told participants at the World Economic Forum in Davos that the so-called tapering by the US central bank was a potential problem. "This is clearly a new risk on the horizon and it needs to be closely watched," Lagarde said. "How tapering takes place, at what speed, how it is communicated and what spillover effects it has, particularly in emerging markets." Markets sold off on Friday after the Argentinian peso had its biggest one-day fall since 2002. Larry Fink, chairman of fund manager BlackRock, told the WEF that one of his concerns was the large positions held by investors in various emerging markets. Fink added that tapering was not the main problem. "It's going to require much better domestic policy in these emerging markets," he said. The governor of the Bank of England, Mark Carney, said the UK economy was one-fifth smaller than had the "great recession" of 2008-09 never happened. He said stronger banks and less indebted consumers meant the UK was now in better shape, but listed an array of weaknesses that would inhibit the Bank raising interest rates. He said UK banks might need to build up their defences against further problems. "As good as the numbers have been in the last three quarters, we're talking about household-driven growth, where the economy is 20% below its pre-crisis trend level, that has not yet rebalanced and is still vulnerable to problems in its neighbour [the eurozone]." Carney indicated that the UK would impose tougher rules on its banks than those agreed internationally. "I do think home markets in several cases, including the UK, need to supplement them as appropriate." Meanwhile, the president of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, said he was prepared to use all possible weapons to avoid the eurozone sinking into Japanese-style deflation. Interest rates could be cut from their already low level if necessary. Draghi was speaking shortly after senior eurozone finance ministers were forced to defend the plans intended to avoid eurozone banking failures after Lord Turner, the former chairman of the Financial Services Authority, raised concerns about their effectiveness. Turner said that while a collapse of a large bank was less likely than in the past, the eurozone needed to know how to handle a bank that needs more capital after stress tests conducted this year. "You've got to be able to put in public capital and that's the resolution fund. The big danger for the eurozone over the next 10 years is that until that fund is in place you are still running a risk," Turner said. He provoked a strong reaction from Wolfgang Schäuble, the German finance minister, and his Dutch counterpart Jereon Dijsselbloem, who is also president of the group of eurozone finance ministers, who insisted the European Stability Mechanism could be used to bail out banks. Following criticism that stress tests of banks in the past have not been tough enough, Dijsselbloem said he hoped that problems were uncovered. "I rather hope it will unveil some unpleasantness, as that will give me a good feeling that is being done properly," the Dutch minister said. Schäuble admitted that he had wanted the ESM – to be £55bn in 10 years – to be bigger and kept up the pressure for structural reform in the French and Italian economies after progress made by Spain, Ireland and Portugal. Turner exposed differences with Schäuble by making references to the way the US had tackled in banking system, forcing banks to take bailouts if they could not raise money on their own. "We are not the United States of America, we are not the United States of Europe were are the European Union, quite complicated by we are rather successive," Schauble said. On a panel discussing what impact technological changes were having on the workforce, Larry Summers, now a professor at Harvard, said: "We pay people too much not to work and not enough to work." Philip Jennings, who runs the UNI Global Unioncorrect, praised the Bank of England for using unemployment as a guide for the next rate rise. "It's changed the narrative," he said. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research This chart illustrates the complete history of the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing program, along with the Goldman Sachs forecast for how "QE3" will be wound down. "The January FOMC should be fairly uneventful, following significant policy changes made at the prior meeting," writes Goldman economist Kris Dawsey in a preview of next week's monetary policy decision. "The FOMC will likely continue to taper the pace of its asset purchases by a further $10 billion — split equally between Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities — as hinted at in Chairman Bernanke’s press conference following the December meeting. While the Committee has taken pains to note that the path of asset purchases is 'not on a preset course,' a substantial change in the outlook would likely be required for the Fed to either pause or accelerate the gradual pace of tapering started at the last meeting. We think this relatively high bar has not been met, some weaker recent data notwithstanding. Based on a roughly $10 billion per meeting tapering schedule, the last QE3 purchases should occur in October 2014." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/James Lawler DugganWarren BuffettWhen it comes to making an investment in a company, there is one thing Warren Buffett of Berkshire Hathaway always looks to — and it likely isn't what you think. One vital number With earnings season in full swing, most investors will look to the top-line revenue number or bottom-line income to gauge how well or poorly the company did. After all, almost all coverage of announcements will include some note about how well the earnings per share did relative to "analyst's estimates" to give some indication of the strength of the quarter. And while those numbers are important to watch, there is one thing Buffett always looks to when he considers an investment or acquisition. And that is the company's ability to generate healthy, consistent, and predictable cash flows. In his own words: Our acquisition preferences run toward businesses that generate cash, not those that consume it [...] however attractive the earnings numbers, we remain leery of businesses that never seem able to convert such pretty numbers into no-strings-attached cash.  Beyond earnings Buffett undeniably comes from the Benjamin Graham school of value investing. So often people believe ideology only accounts for price to earnings and other similar valuation ratios, but Buffett almost throws all of those out the window, noting: Common yardsticks such as dividend yield, the ratio of price to earnings or to book value, and even growth rates have nothing to do with valuation except to the extent they provide clues to the amount and timing of cash flows into and from the business.  Consider for a moment Warren Buffett's second largest investment, Coca-Cola. If Buffett has held onto his 400 million shares — which is an easy thing to assume considering he's said he'll "never sell," a share — the market value of his Coca-Cola position would stand at $15.8 billion. Yet among the biggest companies, Coca-Cola isn't necessarily a compelling consideration from a traditional "value perspective" that focuses on P/E ratios. A quick glance at the price-to-earnings ratio shows that Coca-Cola at 20.4 trades higher than both PepsiCo (19.3) and Dr Pepper Snapple Group (15.7). Coke's stock has looked "expensive" at times, but the business' ability to generate cash has kept Buffett from officially cashing in on his massive profits.  Yet, when you consider the growth in its cash flow over the years, Coke has continually been growing its ability to generate cash year after year: The Motley FoolKO Cash from Operations (TTM) data by YCharts. The takeaway While Buffett's investment consideration of course goes beyond one simple number or metric, the purported value of a company is not simply a multiple of what it says it earns compared to its current price. Instead, investors need to see how those earnings translate to cash generation and the company's overall ability to return that cash to shareholders when making an investment consideration. Although Coke may not pique the interest of many because of its valuation, it turns out when it comes to cash flow generation — what Buffett will "run toward" — it is indeed among the best. Whether its Coke, Procter &amp; Gamble, or ExxonMobil, all three fit Buffett's bill and will likely be in the Berkshire portfolio for a long, long time.  Dividend stocks can make you rich. It's as simple as that. While they don't garner the notoriety of high-flying growth stocks, they're also less likely to crash and burn. And over the long term, the compounding effect of the quarterly payouts, as well as their growth, adds up faster than most investors imagine. With this in mind, our analysts sat down to identify the absolute best of the best when it comes to rock-solid dividend stocks, drawing up a list in this free report of nine that fit the bill. To discover the identities of these companies before the rest of the market catches on, you can download this valuable free report by simply clicking here now. FREE AppDownload
If you are good at math, you’ll be successful on Wall Street. So the saying goes. But how then does one account for people like me? A music major that never set foot in a finance class in college and becomes an Institutional Investor double-ranked analyst? I wasn’t a dimwit, mind you. I scored reasonably well on my college entrance exams, and graduated summa cum laude from university. But, my success clearly hasn’t hinged on my logical-mathematical acumen.   According to Harvard psychologist Howard Gardner’s ground-breaking theory there are at least eight different types of intelligence. The first two aptitudes, logical-mathematical and linguistic, are the most valued by our society; the others— including kinesthetic, interpersonal, musical, searchlight, spatial, and existential intelligence— are less so. Mathematical intelligence involves the ability to calculate numbers. Linguistic intelligence means being adept in written and spoken language. These are the two intelligences measured by most schools and standardized tests, and on Wall Street are “pay-to-play skills,” a hurdle you have to jump to be able to do the job, and are thus vital at the outset of a career. Early in my professional life, for example, it was apparent that if I wanted to play in the Wall Street sandbox, I had to pay by learning financial analysis, coursework not covered by my bachelor of arts in music. I also had to significantly improve my writing skills, to be able to persuasively communicate a "buy" or "sell" opinion on a stock. But these pay-to-play intelligences are not what catapulted me to the top of the Wall Street heap. There were plenty of people who could calculate and communicate as well if not better than me. What propelled me were the intelligences that many might consider non-essential, and even dismiss. Musical intelligence, for example, isn’t just about playing an instrument, or learning a new language, though speaking a foreign language did come in handy working in the emerging markets. Musical intelligence is also about the principles of organization, whether a presentation, conference or event. Many of my clients and colleagues remember well a trip I organized to visit Ing. Carlos Slim. A conversation in his private library about his favorite books gave investors insight into what motivates one of the world’s billionaires, and the controlling shareholder of America Movil, one of the stocks I covered. I also draw on searchlight intelligence, an intelligence that readily discerns connections across spheres and opportunities to cross-pollinate. One of the key methods of analysis used by security analysts is the mosaic theory that involves collecting public, non-public, and non-material information to determine the value of a company’s securities, and then to make a stock call. My searchlight intelligence, no doubt, has helped in becoming a well-regarded stockpicker. I have also relied on interpersonal intelligence: the ability to look outward at the behavior and feelings of others, figuring out their motivations. Whether publicly traded or privately-held companies, I spend a lot of time analyzing the personalities of the controlling shareholders and senior management of the companies. One of my best stock calls of moving from a sell to a buy has been due, in part, to making a determination about the personal motivations of a controlling shareholder. Perhaps most important is intrapersonal intelligence, or the ability to identify personal feelings, goals, fears, strengths and weaknesses. I have blind spots, like everyone does, and so very many failings, but the willingness to look at myself, and to doggedly improve, and to make just one more call, to write one more piece, has helped me to become a high-performer.     Perhaps you, like me, are not notably intelligent in the traditional, academically, testable sense. But each of us is intelligent. And as we learn from the theory of disruption, success in your chosen field isn’t just about figuring out what you do well, but what you do well that others don’t. So whatever your discipline, do what’s necessary to clear the pay-to-play intelligence hurdle. But then, focus on your distinctive strengths. What you do outstandingly well. If the marketplace doesn’t recognize or value this particular intelligence initially, even better — that will become your competitive edge. In Wall Street parlance, that edge is what turns stocks – and people – into a table-pounding "buy." FREE AppDownload
Joe Weisenthal, Business InsiderAt the World Economic Forum in Davos this year, geopolitics took center stage, while concerns about the economy faded into the background. But the global market gyrations of the last two days are a reminder that big economic stories are continuing to play out. I talked to famed economist Nouriel Roubini to get his take on what's been going on recently, as well as the big, broader stories. He described the market events of the past week as a "mini perfect storm" due to the fact that we're seeing weak data in China, fresh currency market turmoil in Argentina, and a worsening chaotic situation in Ukraine, the combination of which has triggered this market response. He also touched on one of the other big themes of the year, which was the relationship between technology and inequality. Like others, he fears that without smart policy, the benefits of new technology will go to a very small part of the population, threatening capitalism itself. Our Q&amp;A is below. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- What was the main theme at Davos this year? Probably the biggest one was the rising tension between China and Japan. People are starting to make comparisons to 1914: You have a rising power facing an existing power, and in the past that has led to war. Of course, it's not inevitable, but both the Japanese side and even the Chinese side have made bellicose statements. So I hope diplomacy can succeed but I'd say that that was one of the big stories. How big of a risk to the world economy are the troubles we've seen in emerging markets recently? I was in a panel in plenary session about emerging markets, and I said that I think what happened last year might repeat itself this year. You still have, on the one side, concerns about the Chinese economic slowdown, there are concerns about how fast the Fed tapers and raises interest rates, commodities prices are becoming softer, many of these countries have not done structural reforms, and many of them have a lot of fragility, have lax monetary credit and fiscal policy. And now there is a layer of political uncertainty, with the "Fragile Five" having parliamentary or presidential elections: India, Indonesia, Turkey, Brazil, South Africa. There's also additional political uncertainty coming from other places like Ukraine, places like Argentina, places like Thailand, that affects markets. So what happened this week was a bit of a mini perfect storm between Chinese PMI of 50, Argentina letting its currency go, noises coming politically from Ukraine, Turkey, and Thailand … so the contagion is not just within emerging markets but also affects advanced economies' equity markets. What do policy makers need to address going forward? They need to have polices that restore stronger growth. There is a risk that if people are unemployed long enough they atrophy, they lose skills, so I think we have not done enough on boosting aggregate demand by using appropriate monetary and fiscal policies or even credit easing. I think the long-term issues that the tech gurus here all excited about — innovation from IT to energy technology to biotech to new manufacturing technology like robots automation, and so on — the problem with all these great innovations is that they tend to be capital intensive, skill biased, and result in labor savings. We have a structural problem with job creation, so I would think about changing the taxation of labor versus capital, how we invest in better educational systems, vocational schools, and reducing payroll taxes as a way to increase demand for labor. Otherwise you have vicious cycle of little job creation, a rise in the share of profits and GDP, redistributing form those spending to those saving, that further reduces aggregate demand. So inequality was also a theme. You have here not just the top 1% but the top 0.01%, So between technology, globalization, trade, the winner-take-all superstar effect, inequality is rising. This is not just a "moral" issue but also an issue of too little consumption too little savings that is bad for global growth. So it becomes vicious cycle. It's a bit like the old Marxist idea that if profits grow too much compared to wages, there's not going to be enough consumption, and capitalism is going to self destruct. So I think that insight of Karl Marx is as useful today as it was 100 years ago. FREE AppDownload
The Turkish lira (TRY) fell to new record lows on Friday. Many of Turkey's current problems relate to risks that even novice emerging market investors should know about. So in many ways, Turkey is arguably the epitome of what can go wrong in an emerging market. "One way to illustrate what can go right in DM and what can go wrong in EM is to use the UK versus Turkey narrative," wrote Morgan Stanley's Joachim Fels. A corruption probe launched in December, which led to the resignation of three Turkish cabinet members and eight MPs from the ruling party, is among the events that have raised investor concerns. But Turkey's political sphere has been rocky since the demonstrations in Istanbul's Gezi Park last year, which  mushroomed into wider anti-government protests.  Economic concerns Turkey's woes go beyond political concerns too. The country had long been one of the most exciting emerging markets in the world thanks to favorable demographics and attractive interest rates for bond investors. But now growth is slowing and investors are worried about the country's wide current account deficit, which stands at around 7% of GDP. In a note written earlier this month, Morgan Stanley's Tevfik Aksoy writes that he has been approaching Turkey with caution "due to its sizable external funding need and its dependence on low-quality funding simply because of the anticipation of Fed tapering." And of course there are concerns that Turkey's central bank could move to raise interest rates to shore up the lira even as economic growth is slowing "Broad deterioration in market sentiment is of course leading to the TRY’s decline, but the problem is being compounded by the lack of more aggressive monetary tightening from the Central Bank of Turkey," writes Morgan Stanley's Rashique Rahman. Where does this leave Erdogan? For those concerned about Turkey's political crisis, Nomura's senior political analyst Alistair Newton thinks "the risk to medium-term political stability is being overstated in some of the media – a tendency, which is likely to persist near-term as events continue to unfold." He expects the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP) party to do well at the March 30 elections and expects Erdogan "to remain the dominant political figure for the foreseeable future, as either prime minister or the country’s first directly elected president." Financial market volatility, high debts, and elevated corruption risks are all taught in emerging market risks 101. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesThis week, the prestigious J.P.Morgan Tournament of Champions squash event took place in Grand Central Station's Vanderbilt Hall.   Squash happens to be one of the more popular sports played by finance professionals.  They play it after work and on weekends.  Forbes magazine once called the racquet sport the "preferred sport on Wall Street" because it doesn't take long to complete a match. Those who played in the JPMorgan tournament in NYC are full-time professional squash players. There are also bunch of talented squash players on Wall Street. We've decided to highlight them here. Many of these folks were national champions, All-Americans and internationally ranked.  Some of them are playing professionally still, while others are remembered as legends from their squash days.    FREE AppDownload
By combining sexy lingerie with one the sexiest emerging technologies, what more could I guy want. The outfit if you’ve seen it, would not be that comfortable lying down, but then again I don’t think that’s the point. What is the point though is that 3D printing is slowly making its way from an application that is useful for prototypes of aircraft parts or production of hearing aids, to becoming a transformative technology for design and lifestyle brands. 3D printing is starting to make its way into our every day lives and we are at the beginning of a revolution that will transform our society in ways we can’t even imagine. It will give rise to thousands of new businesses; new ways of distribution, new processes of intellectual property management, and create an entrepreneurial and financial tidal wave that could one day dwarf the Internet in its scale and disruptive power. The world will transform from a macro-manufactured supply chain to a micro-manufactured supply chain, or what is known as distributed manufacturing.  And this supply chain will not be thousands of miles long. Rather than one factory producing 10 million toys a month, there could be 10 million factories producing one toy a month, and those factories will not be overseas, but in your kitchen, your garage or wherever you feel like putting your 3D printer.Today’s desktop machines can print your phone case, your sunglasses, or your favorite coffee cup. Your printer can also make the jewelry line you always wanted to make but couldn’t afford to produce. Not only is it more convenient, it’s cheaper.  <U+2028><U+2028> Recently CNN did a study that compared buying 20 items that included orthotic insoles, an iPhone case, garlic press, safety razor, perogi mold, and spoon holder. They found that printing all 20 objects took about 25 hours and cost a grand total of $18 in plastic and electricity. The savings came out to between $294 and $1,926, depending on the quality of the comparable retail products. And that is in 2013. Imagine in 2020 when if we are to take Moore’s Law into effect, it will take one hour and cost $5.I recently launched a collection of Stainless Steel Mens accessories using 3D printing from Shapeways, the world’s leading 3D Printing marketplace and community. Shapeways also produced the Victorias Secret wings. The NY startup harnesses 3D Printing to help anyone turn ideas into reality, making product design more accessible, personal, and inspiring. Working with their team based in New York I was able to realize my collection quickly and efficiently. The process is every designers dream. For one thing, the prototype stage is dramatically shortened to several days and not several months, as is the usual process. Even more compelling is that we don’t have to plan months of inventory and purchase it up front, we only print on demand. And to top it off, Shapeways prints and delivers the products to our customers directly without our need for warehousing or any overhead for that part of the supply chain. Peter Weijmarshausen, CEO and Co-Founder of Shapeways.  “Last year we helped the fashion industry take 3D printing from runway to retail, from the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show to our collaboration with Nick Graham. And this is just the beginning: as materials and technologies improve, and as creative imaginations run wild, we'll likely see an explosion of 3D Printing in fashion. 3D printing makes custom and couture accessible for everyone." So how will 3D printing change our lives and the traditional supply chain in fashion and design?  In 1942, the economist Joseph Schumpter coined the phrase “creative destruction,” how free markets lead to progress. Progress may not be pretty, but it is progress just the same. There probably isn’t a better example of creative destruction than what is happening in the world of 3D. <U+2028><U+2028>Companies that make three-dimensional objects (and there are a few of those!) need to start looking at their products in terms of digital delivery. It is no different from how music downloads changed the music business. Songs are really just a bunch of ones and zeros, that when played back, are songs; but in their delivery they are simply code.<U+2028><U+2028>“Products” as we know them, are heading in the same direction. Mattel may eventually never produce toys, but simply sell the format to print Ken and Barbie. Consumers would pay a fee to download and print the renderings, much as they do with songs.Putting this in perspective, according to some estimates, 10% of all consumer products by the year 2025 will be made by the 3D process.Because of this, brands will need to be more compelling than ever. In the hands of thousands more designers who can produce an enormous variety of objects and who can by pass the traditional forms of both production and distribution, there will be thousands of toy companies competing with Mattel. The Internet has created superstars overnight, so you know full well there will be a Justin Bieber or two of the 3D world. The Internet has already upended many traditional business models. Retailers who were once giants in their channel are no longer dominant. Tower Records. Blockbuster. Stores that 15 years ago we would have never guessed would disappear. But they have. What have remained untouched so far are physical products; but their transformation is not far behind.And so how will this change the fashion world? Well to start with the process as I described for objects such as jewelry and accessories will be the first to be most affected. It is not going to change that world overnight, but it will change it significantly. The ability for designers everywhere to compete on a global basis using companies such as Shapeways technology evens the playing field for those designers to go direct to the market and by-pass traditional channels. As to producing fabrics and textiles that we can wear comfortably its still a ways off, but it will happen.  We will see apparel made from 3D that is soft to the touch and perhaps even more resilient than fabrics we know of now. It will not upend the fashion industry, there is just too much apparel in the world to be made, but it will make inroads.  So how far can all this go?  Recently I’ve been talking to some very talented 3D designers in New York who have a lot of insight in the future of the process. Among our many conversations, the idea of 4D printing was brought up.  4D printing is creating programmable matter, which will allow us to print objects that then reshape themselves or self-assemble over time.This means you could program your bracelet to become a fork, and then it could change itself back again to your bracelet once you’re done eating. Or perhaps taking the idea of Victorias Secret idea even further, we could program jeans to become lingerie and then back again. Now that would be something.  That’s a long way off, of course, but its fun to play with the possibilities. But this whole subject should give us pause and excite us at the same time. We are on the cusp of something new and amazing, and it’s an open source discussion on how it will affect our lives.But the best part of all of this is if you lose your mind thinking about it, you can always print another one. Nick Graham is the CEO of NGO Inc, a company that will produce, license and distribute Mens apparel and accessories under the Nick Graham brand starting in 2014.  He is also the Founder and former Chief Underpants Officer of Joe Boxer. nick@nickgraham.com This article originally appeared at NickGraham.com.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ruben Sprich Instead of collecting invitations and business cards I was driven to attend academic discussions with riveting topics such as "Is Europe Back?" "The Reshaping of Japan: Global Consequences," and "Changing the Climate for Growth and Development." Consequently, I missed some of the interactions necessary to be with the cool kids of Davos. Where some of my news colleagues spoke of inboxes flooded with invitations to all sorts of wonderful parties, I mostly tagged along to the ones that would have me. While I know full well somebody, somewhere was having Champagne and caviar or something else delectable, I ate way too many of the ubiquitous bologna sandwiches served here every day—the Swiss stuff is actually pretty good—and late-night pizza. (Read more: What's wrong with Davos) For all its supposed glitz and glamour, Davos is in many respects sparse. The town itself is cute but really nothing extraordinary from what I could see—sort of like a more rustic version of New Hope, Pa. The streets are clumped with ice and snow, and the quaint cafes I expected were nowhere to be found—not like the posh ski resort portrayed in the media. (The Alps, of course, are God's imagination run wild.) Many of us stay in tiny flats on the edge of town. One panel moderator joked about being put up in a renovated version of "what Americans would call a nuthouse." A Chinese official said he was tempted to build a five-star hotel "so more Chinese would come." This official rued that it was an expensive trip to Davos "to sleep in a narrow bed." (Read more: Scenes from global elite's exclusive ski retreat) This nonglamorous side of Davos is what you don't see in all the fawning press reports. "Daily Show" host Jon Stewart lit up the airwaves Thursday with a diatribe on how Davos is "an orgy of self-congratulatory excess." He should have spent the last five days with me. He would have had a much different opinion. FREE AppDownload
jurvetson/Flickr Capital Economics' Paul Ashworth is taking the view that wage growth is about to pick up. In a new research note, Ashworth argues that "the current rates of wage and price inflation may be unusually low, but we are becoming increasingly concerned that the dwindling slack in the labor market will trigger a rise in wage inflation this year." FREE AppDownload
Talking about debt really only makes sense when you talk about it relative to the ability to finance that debt. When it comes to economies, one of the more popular ways to measure debt is to consider it as a percentage of GDP. Vanguard's new 2014 outlook note included this debt heat map for the major economies around the world. Debt allows economies to leverage growth. But it also makes them a credit risk. And when debt is high during a period of slow or negative growth, debt maintenance costs can become quite onerous. Vanguard FREE AppDownload
The dollar fell to JPY102, its lowest level since early December. Near-term potential extends to JPY101.50 area, which corresponds to a 50% retracement objective of the dollar's rally from the the early November low near JPY97.60. A break of there opens the door to JPY101.00, the 100-day moving average and JPY100.60 another retracement objective.    The JPY103.50-75 area marks resistance.   Renewed yen weakness would seem to require a move back up in US yields and/or recovery in the equity markets (and both may take place simultaneously). The Swiss franc was the second worst performer among the majors until last week.  It had fallen almost 2% against the US dollar.  Last week it was the second strongest of the major currencies, appreciating about 1.75% against the greenback.    This seems appears to be largely a function of short-covering and partly in response to greater capital requirement for mortgage lending, which sparked some concern that Swiss banks would repatriate funds from abroad.    The SNB is most assuredly not going to change its currency cap any time soon.  This means that a new opportunity may present itself shortly to buy euros against the Swiss franc on a move below CHF1.2200.  The dollar held CHF0.8900 before the weekend.  A convincing break warns of retest on the two-year low seen in late December near CHF0.8800.  Technically, the dollar posted an outside down week against the Swiss franc, trading above the previous week's high, and then finishing below the previous week's low.   A move back above CHF0.9000-30 would stabilize the technical tone.  For its part, the euro recovered smartly, after spending four sessions below the 100-day moving average, the longest amount of time below it in six months.    The euro's recovery, counter-intuitively, took place at the same time as the largest decline in the US stock market since last August.  Often during the crisis, the euro was often positively correlated with the S&amp;P 500.  Now it is flirting with going inverted (on 60-day rolling basis, using percentage change).    The euro traded on both sides of the previous week's range, but failed to finish above the previous week's high.  The euro recorded a two-year high just after Xmas near $1.3900.  It posted a low at the start of the past week near $1.3500.  The euro's recovery ran out of steam near $1.3740, just shy of a Fibonacci retracement (61.8%) of that down move.    Initial support is seen near $1.3640.  The 100-day average is found just above $1.3580.  More than the euro, sterling's technical tone deteriorated markedly.  It posted a key reversal before the weekend by making new multi-year highs in Asia near $1.6670 and then selling off sharply, as Carney indicated no rate hike any time soon.  It finished the North American session well below the previous day's low.  Sterling had traced out a similar pattern on January 2 and proceeded to fall another cent before finding stronger bids.   The RSI is shows a bearish divergence and is pointing down, while the MACD has been showing divergence since mid-December.  A break of the $1.6465 area, which corresponds with the 20-day moving average,  the uptrend line drawn off last July and November lows, and a Fibonacci retracment (~$1.6450) would be an ominous technical development.  It could spur a move toward $1.6200-50 in the coming weeks, ahead of the February 12 Bank of England inflation report.  BOE Governor Carney has indicated that forward guidance will be updated then.  The dollar-bloc currencies were the weakest of the majors over the past week.  The Canadian dollar eclipsed the Australian dollar to hold on to its place as poorest performing of the majors.  The central banks from both countries seemed to push the market in the direction it was already moving.  The Bank of Canada regarded the Loonie as strong (still),  even though it was near a four year low after depreciating around 6.5% over the past six months.    Governor Poloz heightened concern about the persistently low inflation was also seen as encouragement to sell the Canadian dollar.  Momentum stalled in front of CAD1.12.  Technical indicators allow for additional US dollar gains, but are concerned that the extended speculative short positions may want to book some profits on the very sharp decline now that momentum appears to have stalled.  Initial support for the US dollar is seen near CAD1.1000-30.  A break there could see a move toward CAD1.0850.  The somewhat firmer than expected Australian Q4 CPI figures dampened speculation of another rate cut by the RBA.  The Aussie bounced a cent, but ran out of steam as it approached $.0.8900.  The drop in global markets gave the Aussie bears immediate gratification as new multi-year lows were recorded.  However, any effort to stabilize, like the Canadian dollar managed, was dashed by an RBA official's call for an $0.80 Australian dollar.  The market took the bait and pushed the Aussie to $0.8660, not far from the $0.85 target suggested the the RBA governor late last year.   There is no technical sign that a low of any significance is in place, but some near-term consolidation should not be surprising.  During this time, we envision the Australian dollar to meet fresh selling closer to the $.08770 area.  The dollar rose to its highest level against the Mexican peso since July 2012.  The peso lost 1.5% on the week.  It is, though, the second week of sharp losses.  Over this period, the peso lost 3.6%.  We suspect the Mexico was tarred with the same brush that undermined the emerging market asset class.  There was not a significant deterioration of Mexico's macro economic fundamentals.  It is true that the bi-weekly inflation figures were slightly elevated, but fear of an economic slowdown were eased by the considerably stronger than expected November retail sales (1.9% instead of the 0.8% expected by the consensus).    The technical indicators do not show the dollar has topped out, but we suspect the move has been excessive.  We expect the peso to bounce back among the quickest when markets  stabilize.  Initial dollar support is seen MXN13.36 and then MXN13.28.  Observations from the speculative positioning in the CME currency futures: 1.  The net speculative position swung to the short side for the euro for the first time since last July (with an exception for a week in Nov, the net position was short less than 500 contracts).  The net speculative position swung to the short side for the Mexican peso for the first time since last September.  That leaves only sterling among the currency futures we track with a net long speculative position.   Given dramatic price action before the weekend, it would not be surprising if the net sterling position swings to the short side in the next report. 2.  Most position adjustment in the latest CFTC reporting period were minor.  Eight of the gross positions we track changed by less than 5k contracts.  The adding of nearly 18k short Australian dollar contracts and 11.6k new short peso contracts were largest adjustment and the only ones where there was a change of 10k or more contracts. 3.  The gross long euro position has been cut almost in half from the peak seen Q4 13.  Yet that gross long position, at almost 80k contracts is the largest among the currency futures we track here.  The gross short position has steadily, though slowly increased and at 83k contracts is the largest since early last August. 4.  The gross short yen position (115k contracts) has been cut by a little more than 30k contracts since peaking last year.  This has almost solely been accounted for a reduction of gross shorts.  The strong yen gains seen in the second half of last week likely reflected more of this short covering.         Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
The EconomistOur bun-loving guide to currencies LAST summer mere talk from the Federal Reserve about "tapering" (ie, phasing out) its monetary stimulus through asset purchases was enough to fry emerging-market currencies. The exchange rates of the "fragile five"--Brazil, India, Indonesia, South Africa and Turkey--fell sharply. Now that tapering has, belatedly, commenced this month, which currencies look susceptible to further grilling? The Big Mac index, The Economist’s gauge of exchange rates, offers some food for thought. The index is based on the theory of purchasing-power parity (PPP), which holds that currencies should in the long run adjust to rates that would make a basket of goods and services cost the same wherever they were bought. Our basket contains just one item, a Big Mac, since its ingredients are the same the world over, except in India, where the Maharaja Mac is made of chicken. Because buying a Big Mac in Norway, for instance, costs $7.80 at market exchange rates compared with $4.62 in America, our index suggests that the Norwegian krone is almost 70% overvalued. Of the fragile five, Brazil looks the most vulnerable, because a Big Mac there costs $5.25, implying that the real is overheated by 13%. The other four all have undervalued currencies, to varying degrees. The Indonesian rupiah, the South African rand and the Indian rupee are undercooked by 50% or more. In the short term, however, it is financial and economic factors, together with confidence or lack of it, that hold sway in currency markets. Brazil is running a current-account deficit of 3% of GDP, but it has a healthy stockpile of foreign-exchange reserves to call upon if necessary. Though the credibility of the Brazilian government has been eroded, the central bank has clawed back some respect by pushing through interest-rate rises. In contrast, both Turkey and South Africa are running current-account deficits (as shares of their GDP) that are twice as large as Brazil’s. Their foreign-exchange reserves are much smaller than Brazil’s when gauged against their external-financing requirements. The Turkish lira, which has been plummeting in recent days, has also been affected by the central bank’s stubborn refusal to raise interest rates, along with a more general loss of confidence in the Turkish government. The lira has been among the worst performers of the currencies in our index over the past year; as a result, it has swung from 9% overvalued to 19% undervalued. Although new forecasts from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) this week envisage an increase in global growth from 3% in 2013 to 3.7% in 2014, the demand for commodities is likely to remain restrained. That has already been affecting the currencies of economies that are rich in resources, such as Australia and Canada. Declines in the Australian dollar since it peaked in 2011 mean that it is now undervalued, by 3% according to our index. By contrast the Canadian dollar, which has been dropping sharply in recent weeks, remains overvalued, by 8%. The IMF is predicting growth for the euro area of just 1% this year. That forecast chimes with the message from the Big Mac index, which finds that the single currency is overvalued, by 7%. The strength of the euro is unwelcome for exporters and casts a shadow over a recovery in the 18-country zone that is already proving to be feeble and faltering. By contrast the British pound is at the right level, according to the index, which should help the much sturdier growth the IMF now expects in Britain this year, of 2.4%. Our Big Mac index will soon be beefed up with the addition of the Vietnamese dong as McDonald’s is soon to open its first branch in Vietnam, the first new country to welcome the golden arches in 15 years. Ketchup on this new entry to our index online next month. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jose Luis GonzalezDemonstrators burn an effigy of Mexico's Finance Minister Luis Videgaray during a protest against the federal government's economic and tax reforms in Ciudad Juarez October 22, 2013.DAVOS/LONDON (Reuters) - Top emerging market policymakers moved to allay concerns about their economies on Friday after investors sold off their currencies, raising fears of a broad market rout. The U.S. Federal Reserve's plan to gradually withdraw its stimulus has long been expected to lead to a pullout from emerging markets. But the prospect of an economic slowdown in China added to concerns on Friday that emerging markets, particularly those with large current account deficits, may struggle to support their currencies this year. Argentina said on Friday it would relax currency controls it had long defended as essential, in a policy reversal forced by high inflation and a tumble in the peso. Turkey's lira hit a record low despite an estimated $3 billion of intervention by its central bank the previous day. The rouble and the rand also languished at levels not seen since the 2008-2009 financial crisis. Turkey's deputy prime minister, Ali Babacan, played down the lira's slide, however, describing it as a "re-pricing process" due partly to the Fed and partly to recent political turmoil in the country. He said that the central bank was taking the necessary steps to deal with the situation, adding that Turkey was protected against market swings by its sound finances. "The balance sheet of the government, the banks and households are quite well protected against market volatility," he told a panel at the World Economic Forum in Davos. Mexican Finance Minister Luis Videgaray told Reuters Television in an interview at Davos that the current volatility would not be a major disruption for his country. "Mexico is an emerging market, so all volatility is going to have some effect. But Mexico is well-positioned to weather the currency storm," Videgaray told Reuters TV on the sidelines of the gathering of business and political elites in the Swiss mountain resort. Policymakers and analysts at Davos also said that all emerging markets are not equal and that the market turbulence will drive investors away from economies that are suffering, but not from the stronger ones. "Differentiation will be important," Videgaray said. CURRENCIES SLIDE In Turkey, the central bank has refused to raise interest rates even though the lira has fallen almost 9 percent this month, raising fears of mounting inflation and an investor exodus. It has relied instead on auctioning dollars, and on Thursday resorted to what analysts said were its first direct interventions since early 2012. Despite these sales, estimated to total almost a tenth of its reserves, the lira dropped almost 2 percent, falling through the key 2.30 level. The lira is only one of many currencies feeling the heat from investor worries over China and over the reduction in U.S. stimulus, expected from this month. Central banks of several emerging markets were believed to have intervened to defend their currencies on Friday including India, Taiwan and Malaysia. Russia again moved the rouble's trading band after $350 million in hard currency sales. There was little respite, however. The rupee, Brazilian real, rouble and rand all fell more than 1 percent to the dollar. The Russian currency also hit a record low to the euro. "I think we may see some actions from central banks, they will try to curtail the sell-off ... They are unlikely to be able to stabilize the currencies," said Lars Christensen, chief emerging markets analyst at Danske Bank in Copenhagen. Christensen said currency weakness would ultimately help lift growth, but in the meantime, pain would be intense. "If you are an emerging markets investor, you are seeing a lot of pressure on your positions," he said. Investors have been fleeing - almost $4 billion has exited emerging equity funds so far this year. The week to January 22 saw them lose $2.4 billion, banks said, citing data EPFR Global released to clients late on Thursday. Bond funds were more resilient, with just $0.4 billion of outflows, but they too have lost $1 billion so far in 2014. There are also growing signs of contagion. The losses in the more vulnerable emerging markets with big current account deficits have now spread to relatively robust assets such as the South Korean won and Polish zloty. The won suffered its worst weekly loss since mid-2013 They are also reverberating across stock markets in Europe. Spanish shares lost 1.7 percent because of their exposure to Latin American revenues. Funds such as Aberdeen Asset Management and Ashmore, with large emerging-market investments, led losses in London, falling 4-5 percent on the day &lt;ADN.L&gt; &lt;ASHM.L&gt;. The moves come after a day of losses across emerging markets, with Argentina's peso seeing its worst one-day trading session since the country's 2002 financial crisis. "GET USED TO IT" After stunning the world by clocking over 10 percent growth on average for three decades, China took the bold step last year to wean itself off credit and investments and instead try to boost domestic consumption. As a result, its growth rate has steadily dipped, and data this month showed its economy grew 7.7 percent in the last quarter of 2013. But Lin Boqiang, director of the China Center for Energy Economics Research at Xiamen University, said at Davos that investors couldn't expect China to keep growing at the rates it has until now. "There is a substantial slowdown in China, and we just have to get used to it," he said in an interview. Several of Friday's sessions at the Davos forum focused on the future of emerging markets and how long the turbulence they are experiencing would last. Corporate executives said they still viewed these markets as big growth opportunities despite the currency volatility. Renault-Nissan chief Carlos Ghosn said he was not alarmed by the latest forex market moves. "You have to be ready when you invest in emerging markets for ups and downs," he told one Davos panel on Friday evening. Mexico's Videgaray said emerging markets knew 2014 would be volatile as the Fed scales back its stimulus. But he added that Mexico's currency, the peso, was currently quite liquid. "I don't see any problems of liquidity in the market for the Mexican peso," he said. (Additional reporting by Axel Threlfall in DAVOS, Sujata Rao and Natsuko Waki in LONDON; Writing by Alessandra Galloni; Editing by Hugh Lawson) FREE AppDownload
Things are looking up in the UAE, and not only the skyscrapers rising from its desert sands. Index provider MSCI announced it would reclassify the UAE (along with Qatar) from frontier market to emerging market status, commencing in May of this year. The most significant potential benefit of this reclassification could be the dose of added confidence it may give investors. We think this could boost portfolio inflows, with the entry of foreign institutional investors and passive or index-tracking investors. The prospect for additional liquidity may provide policymakers with an ongoing impetus to reform their markets—which we have already seen taking place. Among the reforms under discussion is the possible merger of the UAE’s two stock markets: the Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange Market (ADX) and Dubai Financial Market (DFM). I think the UAE’s future looks bright for a number of reasons. For ease of doing business, the UAE is one of the best in the region; the World Bank’s 2014 index ranks it 23rd among 189 countries in this regard.1 The UAE is a member of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), along with Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Qatar and Kuwait, a grouping which I believe could surprise on the upside in terms of growth rates in the years ahead. For 2014, the International Monetary Fund forecasts GDP growth for the UAE at 3.9%.2 Tax rates are generally low in the GCC, and the UAE is a standout in this regard. In Dubai, income tax is zero and profits are taxed at zero which makes things very attractive not only for individuals but for companies. Each of these countries pegs its currency to the US dollar except Kuwait, which pegs to a basket or group of currencies, so the impact of the US Federal Reserve’s slowing or ending of its longstanding asset-purchasing program on these currencies should be more muted than in some other emerging markets. Dubai has also set its sights on becoming a global center for Islamic finance, which features Shariah-compliant investment vehicles. I think this development is only in its infancy, as there is much interest in these products globally. The Dubai Real Estate Boom After a boom in 2008 and a crash in 2009, the real estate market in Dubai has recovered. Projects are on the rise along with real estate prices; home prices in Dubai surged 21% in the third-quarter 2013 on a year-on-year basis, after increases of 18% in the second quarter and 18% in the first.3 Is Dubai’s real estate market headed for a bubble? While this is a valid concern, right now I still see good demand as investors from Saudi Arabia, Iran, Egypt, India, Pakistan and other parts of the Middle East as well as other parts of the world have come to Dubai in increasing numbers. The government is aware of the possibility of a bubble, and is being cautious. Compared with 2008, the real estate boom in Dubai today looks more solid, in part because measures have been put in place to limit speculation, including limits on mortgages. Most purchases during the prior crash were bank financed and off plans, not completed buildings. This time, most transactions are cash-based, and apartments are built and ready for individuals to move in. Who’s buying? The largest buyers are from other GCC countries, evident in the license plates of vehicles parked in Dubai shopping malls and other centers. After the GCC real estate buyers, the next-largest groups are from the subcontinent, namely India and Pakistan, followed by Jordan, Lebanon and Syria, along with Egyptians and other North Africans. The Russians and Iranians have also been investing, and the Chinese have become big real estate buyers in Dubai, too.  The current permanent population of the UAE is roughly nine million, and of that, two million are in Dubai. However, 11 million visitors enter Dubai alone each year, so permanent residents are the minority. People representing hundreds of different nationalities are living in Dubai today. While dining at a French restaurant there, my team and I learned our waiter was from Guinea, but was raised in France. At other dining spots, we encountered workers from Uzbekistan, Russia, Brazil and the Ukraine. At our hotel health club, the attendant was from India. This is what Dubai is all about now – a really cosmopolitan city attracting people from all over the world. I get inspired every time I visit. Dubai Sets its Sights on the World  While my team and I were in Dubai, it was announced in a most dramatic fashion that the city had won the rights to host the 2020 World Expo, beating Izmir, Turkey; Sao Paulo, Brazil; and Yekaterinburg, Russia. I heard a loud bang and jumped out of my seat as fireworks exploded all over the Burj Khalifa, the world’s tallest building and—in my opinion—the most beautiful. From the bottom of the building to the top, fireworks were flying from the balconies at every level. What a spectacular show! Then blue lights covered the building, symbolizing Dubai’s Expo-themed color. Dubai is reportedly putting a lot of effort and resources into making the event a big hit with international visitors. On New Year’s Eve, the same building ushered in 2014 with an even more impressive fireworks display, which attracted visitors from around the world and captivated many more watching it at home. I think this global melting pot known as Dubai should see even more visitors, and investors, as it rises in importance on the global stage in the years to come. 1. Source: World Bank. 2013. Doing Business 2014: Understanding Regulations for Small and Medium-Size Enterprises. Washington, DC: World Bank Group. DOI: 10.1596/978-0-8213-9984-2. License: Creative Commons Attribution CC BY 3.0. 2. Source: IMF World Economic Outlook, October 2013. Copyright © 2013. By International Monetary Fund. All Rights Reserved. 3. Source: Global Property Guide, December 16, 2013. Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets - Notes from Mark Mobius  Mark Mobius, Ph.D., executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, joined Templeton in 1987. Currently, he directs the Templeton research team based in 15 global emerging markets offices and manages emerging markets portfolios. As he spans the globe in search of investment opportunities, his “Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets” blog gives readers a taste for what he does, when, where, why and how. Dr. Mobius has written several books, including “Trading with China,” “The Investor’s Guide to Emerging Markets,” “Mobius on Emerging Markets,” “Passport to Profits,” “Equities—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” “Mutual Funds—An Introduction to the Core Concepts,” ”The Little Book of Emerging Markets,” and “Mark Mobius: An Illustrated Biography." Read more posts on Investment Adventures in Emerging Markets » This article originally appeared at Investment Adventures In Emerging Markets.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Issei KatoKim Tae-yun of South Korea comes from a place where 'the outlook is brightening."It's imprecise, unfair, and almost borderline racist to make sweeping generalizations about the emerging markets. Sure, as an asset class the emerging markets got slammed this week. But the reasons vary. "The real lesson from recent events is that the need for investors to discriminate between individual EMs has never been greater," wrote Capital Economics Neil Shearing. Still, most of us don't have time to read about the complete history of the emerging markets. "[A]t the risk of generalising, there are perhaps five separate groups among the 56 EMs that we now cover," wrote Shearing in his note. Here's our paraphrasing of Shearing's incredibly brief summary: Done. FREE AppDownload
