Warren Buffett has just done something he's never done before. The third richest man in the world just gave $25,000 to "Ready For Hillary," a group raising money to help Hillary Clinton get to the White House, according to Bloomberg. That is the maximum amount of money the organization allows an individual to give. As Bloomberg notes, he's given lots of money in the past to party committees and candidates, but he's stayed away from political action committees — until now. This is his first ever donation to an independent political group.  Back in the last election cycle, super-PAC's supporting the president's re-election tried to get Buffett to support them financially. As Bloomberg notes, Buffett said "I don't want to see democracy go in that direction," when asked about the issue at an annual shareholders meeting. Apparently he's changed his tune. This is not, however, the first we're hearing about Buffett's support for Clinton. As CNN notes, he told them in 2012 that she was the most qualified candidate for 2016. "I don't see how you could have anybody better qualified," Buffett told CNN's Poppy Harlow. "I like what she believes in ... I think she's extraordinarily able and energetic for that matter in pushing those beliefs." FREE AppDownload
LONDON (Reuters) - U.S. bank JPMorgan retained its crown as the top performing investment bank in the first nine months of the year, having made revenue of $17.1 billion in the year-to-date, new data showed on Friday. In a ranking compiled by industry analytics firm Coalition, U.S. banks dominated the top spots, with Goldman Sachs &lt;gs.n&gt; coming second. The only European bank to make the top three was Deutsche Bank &lt;dbkgn.de&gt;, which shared third place with Citigroup &lt;c.n&gt; and Bank of America Merrill Lynch &lt;bac.n&gt;. Coalition, which only reports revenue figures for the top-ranked banks, said that total investment bank revenue earned so far this year was 6 percent lower than a year earlier, driven largely by a downturn in fixed income, currencies and commodities (FICC) divisions. The top two investment banks in FICC - JPMorgan and Citi - have earned $8.9 billion this year from those divisions, compared to $10.1 billion in the same period last year, Coalition's data shows. Most investment banks have seen trading revenues slump over the past year amid a low interest environment and tougher regulations requiring them to hold more capital, which have driven down returns. Equities divisions have performed much better, with the top bank Morgan Stanley making revenue of $4.5 billion in the year-to-date, 15 percent more than the top bank did a year earlier. Last year's leaders JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs dropped to second. Revenue at investment banking divisions, whose staff advise on deals, also rose. First-place JPMorgan's year-to-date revenue was $4.4 billion, almost 5 percent more than the Wall Street bank made by the same time last year. Coalition tracks the performance of Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Barclays &lt;barc.l&gt;, BNP Paribas &lt;bnpp.pa&gt;, Citi, Credit Suisse &lt;csgn.vx&gt;, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley and UBS &lt;ubsg.vx&gt; - the 10 largest investment banks globally.     (Reporting by Clare Hutchison; Editing by Vincent Baby) FREE AppDownload
The price of oil is the overriding economic theme at the moment. Oil prices have declined to their lowest level in more than four years and I believe they could continue to tumble. The market implications are positive in the near term, but there is a dark side to the decline in oil prices that is beginning to negatively impact a number of countries around the world and which could ultimately come home to roost in the United States. First, the positive: falling oil prices and the subsequent decline in gasoline prices act like a tax cut, transferring cash into the pockets of consumers, leaving more money for discretionary spending. The combined benefit of declining gas prices and lower interest rates is likely to provide American consumers, and subsequently the U.S. economy, with a boost as we head into the all-important holiday shopping season. The darker side to falling oil prices is that they signal that the global economy isn’t growing fast enough to absorb the growth in oil production. The slump in oil prices has led to a weakening in the currencies of some major oil-exporting nations. Russia, for example, has witnessed a 24 percent decline in the value of the ruble against the dollar since the beginning of November. Russia needs oil at $100 a barrel to support its economy, and many other oil-dependent economies rely on oil prices well north of current levels. Over time, as foreign currency reserves run dry, the likelihood is that we will see economic contraction and possibly recession in these countries. A recession in countries such as Russia will have significant knock-on effects, particularly for European exporters, creating another headwind for beleaguered euro zone economies. An oil-price-induced negative feedback loop would stifle global growth and could even lead to political instability in any number of oil-dependent nations. Beginning as early as the first quarter of 2015, investors should be wary of the potential for a setback in U.S. equities as the adverse impacts of lower growth and weaker foreign currencies begin to show through in the results of leading multinational companies. In Europe, it doesn’t seem likely the European Central Bank is going to be able to reach the necessary consensus to begin quantitative easing through the purchasing of sovereign debt until the end of the first quarter or possibly into the second quarter, and perhaps never. ECB President Mario Draghi is running into roadblocks with the German Bundesbank over the sovereign bond-buying option, which will probably end up in the European courts. The problem is, the longer this situation drags on, the worse the situation in Europe is going to get. The clock is ticking and policymakers are running out of time. One option the ECB still has left is to buy gold. If European inflation data comes in weaker and the European economy continues to sputter, I think we could see the ECB consider gold purchases, but if we do it will be an act of desperation. Gold may prove the ultimate hedge against a financial crisis in Europe should the ECB fail to act quickly. FREE AppDownload
The November US job report will be released on Friday morning, and most observers are pretty optimistic, with consensus expectations of 230,000 new nonfarm payrolls. However, it's quite possible that we'll see a much lower number tomorrow morning, and we might not know the real story until February. Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Sheperdson points out in his daily US Economics Monitor that "whatever you think really happened to November payrolls, you need to temper your forecast for the initial print by about 70K." One big factor that could influence the jobs number is the recent tendency for November payroll revisions to be quite a bit larger than those in other months, as can be seen in the chart below. Sheperdson points out that "over the past five years, the median revision between the first estimate for November and the third, published two months later, is a hefty 71K. The median for the other 11 months of the year is just +23K." If that trend continues, we could see the November jobs number increase by tens of thousands in the revisions early next year. Pantheon Macroeconomics    FREE AppDownload
Jason Lee/ReutersColombia's trade deficit ballooned by 579% from last year, all other things being equalThe oil crash will hit Colombia hard. The South American country was already in trouble before last month’s sudden drop in oil prices: as of September, the trade deficit had exploded to $449.6 million this year, up from $66.2 million in that period last year, Reuters reported. That’s an expansion of 579 percent, all other things being equal. Oil exports are Colombia’s number one source of foreign exchange, according to Reuters. It's the fourth-largest oil producer in the region, the Financial Times reported, and crude makes up more than half of the country’s exports. So the crash is likely to have harmful long-term effects. The trade deficit was already up to 4.4 percent of GDP in the first half of this year, from 3.4 percent last year, Reuters reported, and it’s unlikely that the government’s 2.4 percent target will be met in 2015. Colombia could also face a drop in foreign direct investment, as investors lose interest in oil projects there — or capital flight on expectations of higher interest rates to come, Reuters reported. Analysts predict the government will begin issuing more external debt to help meet fiscal targets. The 2015 budget does not account for a drop in oil prices below $98 per barrel, the FT reported. Right now prices are hovering closer to $70 per barrel. It looks like the government will have to make some changes soon. FREE AppDownload
On Friday morning, the BLS will release the November jobs report. And in addition to Wall Street economists, folks on Twitter have also been sharing their expectations for the jobs report using #NFPGuesses. Bloomberg collects this data ahead of the jobs report, and via Bloomberg's Joe Weisenthal and Michael McDonough we find that Twitter users are expecting nonfarm payrolls grew by 238,000 in November. So, a slightly more bullish expectation than Wall Street's 230,000 consensus estimate, but nothing too crazy.   Bloomberg Calculated Twitter Consensus Forecast for NFP, 5D Chart: {BTWTNF Index DES&lt;Go&gt;} pic.twitter.com/7DzIS5yqoO   Via @m_mcdonough, here's the distribution of #NFPGuesses pic.twitter.com/b0NfvMIaQ3    As a quick reminder, here is an overview of what Wall Street is expecting on Friday morning.   You can read our full preview of the report here. FREE AppDownload
Andrew Burton/Getty ImagesEven the Federal Reserve knows Chipotle is crushing McDonald's.  On Wednesday, the Fed released its latest Beige Book report, a collection of anecdotal economic observations gathered by Fed officials in each of the central bank's 12 regional districts.  In the San Francisco district, Fed officials noted that "Restaurant sales climbed, especially in the quick-service segment.  Consumers shifted away from hamburgers, towards chicken, pizza, and Mexican food." In its third quarter earnings report, Chipotle reported same-store sales that grew 19.8%, while McDonald's same-store sales fell 3.3% during the same quarter. And Business Insider's Ashley Lutz reported that in a recent call with investors, McDonald's CEO Don Thompson noted the shift in consumer attitudes that have plagued the fast food giant, and almost exactly described what it's like to eat at Chipotle.  "Customers want to personalize their meals with locally relevant ingredients," Thompson said. "They also want to enjoy eating in a contemporary inviting atmosphere. And they want choices; choices in how they order, choices in what they order and how they’re served." There are more than 600,000 ways to order food at Chipotle.  In the Beige Book, Fed officials also noted that in the San Francisco district, "Demand for business and consumer services grew moderately during the reporting period." So consumers want to spend their money. It just looks like that money is flowing away from traditional fast-food options like McDonald's and towards restaurants like Chipotle.  FREE AppDownload
For those looking to one-up everyone at the annual ugly sweater party, look no further than Opposuit's ugly Christmas sweater suits. Inspired by the patterns of sweaters best left on the racks of Value Village, these suits are just about the most attention-getting piece of clothing that money can buy. They're really, really ugly — but that's kind of the whole point.  Each of the 26 suits has its own unique pattern, from stars and stripes to playing cards. They're made out 100% polyester (which, as the box says, is 200% amazing) and are machine washable, making them the perfect thing to wear to the holiday party where things are known to get a little crazy. The three Christmas themed suits include the blue snowflake- and reindeer-patterned "The Rudolph," the red and green Christmas tree patterned "Treemendous," and the red Christmas snowman explosion of "Christmaster."   The company claims that the suits are definitely not just silly costumes, and assures customers that they're made with high-quality construction and materials as well as a well-fitting design. The pants are even made slightly longer to accommodate wearing it with casual shoes. The suits are produced by an offshoot brand of Amsterdam based clothing retailer, shinesty.com. They retail between $99 and $110, and come with a matching jacket, pants, and a patterned tie.    Unfortunately, the company sold out of its entire Christmas inventory in 48 hours on Black Friday, according to SF Gate, so your hopes may be dashed if you were planning to wear one to your next seasonal get-together. Still, you can choose one of any number of other styles Opposuits offers, like the New Year's star suit or Halloween's Jack o'Lantern version.  But for the most part, the Opposuits are very loud and garish. Plus for $100, it might be better to just buy a nice button-down shirt or pair of pants.  FREE AppDownload
When you're the one in charge of your money, it's best to have some understanding of basic financial concepts. But where to start?  Save some Googling with this list of what to know about money by age 30, created with the help of certified financial planner Mary Beth Storjohann, founder of Workable Wealth. "Your net worth is a measure of your financial health," Storjohann says. It's the result of your total assets minus the total amount you owe. You're in good financial health if your net worth is well into the positives, and you have some work to do if your net worth is anywhere in the negatives. "Net worth can also be used to measure how far you've come over time," Storjohann says. Inflation refers to the sustained increase in the price of goods and services. As prices rise due to inflation, you'll be able to afford less and less. Storjohann points out that the historical inflation rate is 3% per year. "What's most important is whether your income is rising at the same rate as inflation," Storjohann says. If your pay is not keeping up with inflation, you won't be able to afford much a few years down the road. "Liquidity is how accessible your money is," Storjohann says. Cash is the most liquid your money can be, because you can access it immediately. While the inaccessibility of certain assets, such as your home or your retirement accounts, gives them time to gain value, there are some cases where you want money at your fingertips. "Your emergency fund should be in a cash account since it needs to be readily available in case of an emergency," Storjohann says. "Money you have invested in the stock market is not as available, because you risk losing some of it if you take it out." A bull market refers to a market that is on the rise, which is a good thing. That means that prices of shares in the market are increasing. Usually a bull market also means the economy is in a good state, and the level of unemployment is low. The US is currently in a bull market. A bear market is the opposite of bull. In other words, the market is declining. Share prices are decreasing, the economy is in a downfall, and unemployment levels are rising. It sounds like a bad thing (and it certainly isn't good), but Storjohann says the most important thing to keep in mind is that the market is a "rollercoaster," meaning it's bound to go up and down and people shouldn't panic every time the market looks a little ursine. "Millennials have time on their side," she explains, "and over time money has the ability to grow."   Remember that roller coaster we were discussing a moment ago? According to Storjohann, risk tolerance refers to how comfortable you are with these swings. "It's about whether you understand the cycle or stress out about it," she says. How high your risk tolerance is determines how aggressive you can be with your investments. Risk tolerance isn't just emotional — it depends on how much time you have to invest, your future earning potential, and the assets you have that are not invested, such as your home or inheritance. Major banks such as Wells Fargo, Merrill Lynch, and Vanguard provide online tools to help determine your own. Flickr / André BenedixYour net worth says a lot about your financial situation. Asset allocation — where you keep your money — depends on your individual needs and goals. It's also the basis of diversification.  The goal of diversification is managing the risk we touched on in point six — if you keep your eggs "all in one basket," as Storjohann describes it, what happens to your wealth if the basket falls and breaks? You're going to want some wealth stored elsewhere. "Diversification allows for balancing," Storjohann says. "You give up some upsides, but you lower some downsides."  Be aware that simply scattering your investments around might not be effective. To be effectively diversified, you have to be strategic about where you invest. Interest can work for or against you, depending on the context. When it comes to saving money, "Interest means your money is going to work for you," Storjohann says. When you put your money in a savings account at a bank, you're letting that bank borrow your money. Interest is what they pay you to borrow it; it's a percentage that can go up or down depending on the state of the economy. On the other hand, when you borrow money from someone — think your credit card issuer — you pay interest to them for borrowing that money, just like the bank paid you to borrow yours. You'll keep paying interest until you've paid that money back, which is why it's important to stay out of debt, or if you're in debt, to pay it off as quickly as possible. Compound interest is interest that you earn on a "rolling balance," and not on the initial principle, Storjohann says. Here's an example: If you start off with $100 earning 7% interest annually, after your first year you'll have $107. The next year, you'll be earning 7% interest on $107 and not $100 (you'll earn $7.49 instead of $7). It doesn't sound so impressive when we're discussing $7 at a time, but compound interest is the concept that powers the exponential growth of retirement savings. As Business Insider's Sam Ro puts it, "It's the deceivingly simple force that causes wealth to rapidly snowball." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Muzaffar SalmanA pupil yawns as he sits in a classroom at the start of the new school year in the city of Aleppo, September 16, 2013.FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Most Americans Are Totally Clueless About Retirement (Investment News)  "In a recent survey by The American College of Financial Services, only 20% of those surveyed can pass a basic quiz on the steps they need to secure their finances after retiring," reports Bianca Flowers. Most Americans don't have a proper understanding of the risks associated with common stocks and bonds, and the two-thirds of Americans don't know about the 4% safe-withdrawal rate rule. Oddly enough, 91% of those survey were at least "moderately confident" in their ability to save for retirement. In other words, there's a huge disconnect between what they think they know and what they know. Plunging Oil Prices Could Hurt The Muni Market (Charles Schwab) Falling oil prices could hurt municipal bonds, and local governments, where oil and gas are big parts of the economy, will be more seriously affected than states, according to Schwab analysts. "[L]ocal governments may suffer due to a potential decline in employment and the lost revenues associated with oil and gas production," writes Cooper J Howard and Rob Williams. "This can affect bondholders because shrinking revenue leaves less financial flexibility to meet debt payments." That being said, the overall muni market should not be drastically affected, according to Schwab analysts, but "investors should consider the risks of owning bonds issued by smaller local governments." A Coalition Wants More Regulation For Financial Planners (Financial Advisor Magazine)  The Financial Planning Coalition is pushing for more regulation across the board for financial planners. According to the coalition, the average person doesn't know what they're paying for and believes that the adviser is always acting with the investor's interest at hand. "What we want to see are regulatory standards that would require financial planners to meet competency and ethical standards," said Marilyn Mohrman-Gillis, a managing director for the CFP Board of Standards. "People benefit from holistic financial planning, but they not able to identify who is a true financial planner." Washington Wealth Poached Two RBC Advisors (Financial Planning)  "Washington Wealth Management has poached another pair of RBC advisors — one other nearby peer — in its ongoing quest to attract more wirehouse advisors," reports Ann Marsh. "That brings the rapidly growing firm's total of new advisors to 12 since it was acquired by independent B-D National Financial Partners in March." The two new advisers, Eddie Barber and Russ Tobler, have assets under advisement of $140 million and $42 million, respectively. About $30 million of those assets are shared. Oil A Symptom Of What's Happening In The Markets (Advisor Perspectives)  Although the stocks have been rallying, the crashing oil and gold markets are reflecting what's happening in all the markets, writes Alex Merk. The markets have started to experience volatility again, and some have completely crashed. Advisor Perspectives"Be that in the currency markets where we've seen big swings in select currencies to the commodity markets," writes Merk. "But while the Russian ruble has been on nosedive and other commodity currencies haves suffered in the most recent bout, the spikes in volatility have no always been in the most obvious places. To us this suggests not all is well in the markets." As a result, he cautions investors to proceed carefully — noting that a late-term bull market could yield "spectacular gains" or horrible losses. FREE AppDownload
The traditional linear TV model doesn't make sense in the digital, streaming age. And now the Netflix model is well on its way to destroy it. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Alex Kuzoian. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
 Balding men and anyone else with thinning hair: It's time we had a talk. Let's face it, you're not fooling anyone with that comb-over, that weave doesn't look right, and the toupee will always look crooked. But take heart, because there are a few things you can do to your hair and head that will lessen the notability of the hair loss as well as boost your confidence. The first mistake men make, according to barber Richard Bresson of Fellow Barber, is keeping their hair on the longer side. As a rule, shorter is always better. This is because, as hair grows out it becomes "stringy and limp on top" and bushy on the sides.  Instead, get the sides cropped close with scissors or clippers and the top short with the hair brushed to the side. Don't get any kind of part since you don't want any hard lines drawing eyes to the "problem area." "It's all about creating an illusion, moving the eyes away from the thinning top, instead of to the whole cut that's pleasing to look at," Bresson told us. As for styling, stick to clays and pastes (you can see our recommendations here) that will give your hair lift and body, according to Bresson. AP/Charles SykesActor Will Arnett uses his hairline and forehead to his advantage with closely cropped sides and top brushed to the side. And if all else fails, just buzz it. It's up to you and your scalp to make this relatively drastic decision, but more men should definitely consider it, Bresson told us. It can make you look younger and feel more confident. Plus, you don't have to shave down to nothing. A No .2 setting or lower on the clippers to shave your head will drastically minimize the appearance of any bald spots or receding hairlines. But remember, now your head is fully exposed to the elements, so use sunscreen.    FREE AppDownload
Mario Tama/Getty ImagesStocks declined on Thursday ahead of the November jobs report, set for release at 8:30 am ET Friday morning. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Thursday: 1. The European Central Bank made its final monetary policy announcement of the year on Thursday, keeping interest rates unchanged. ECB Mario Draghi also held his final press conference of the year, disappointing the market with his comments on the future of ECB stimulus measures. The ECB also released updated projections for growth next year, taking its 2015 GDP growth outlook to 1% against prior expectations for 1.6% growth. Draghi also said that the ECB will address the possibility of additional stimulus "early" next year, but specified that "early" did not mean January. Following his comments, the euro rallied.  2. We got the final piece of employment data this week before Friday's big jobs report, with the weekly report on initial jobless claims showing that claims fell back below 300,000 last week. Claims totaled 295,000 last week, down from 313,000 last week, though the four-week moving average of claims rose slightly, to 299,000, up about 5,000 from last week.  3. Friday's main event is the jobs report, which Wall Street expects will show the economy added 200,000 jobs for the tenth-straight month, extending its streak which is already the longest since 1993-1995. The unemployment rate is expected to remain at 5.8%, the lowest level since 2008 and wage growth is expected to remain tepid at 0.2% month-on-month and 2.1% year-on-year.  4. The recent decline in oil prices has been argued as a net positive for the US economy, as most of the economy is comprised of consumers, who are getting a big tax break from declining gas prices. At a media event on Thursday, Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders offered three sentences putting the math behind why this is good for the US in perspective: "Consumer spending represents 68% of the US economy. Oil and gas capex represents about 1% of US GDP and less than 9% of US total capex (which in turn represents about 12% of US GDP). Therefore, the benefit of lower energy prices to the consumer and many businesses greatly outweighs the significant hit to energy companies and/or energy-oriented capex, especially in energy-oriented states." 5. Bill Gross released his latest investment outlook on Thursday, and asked whether or not our grandchildren will look back at the economic policies pursued following the financial crisis and ask, "how could they?" Gross, who is always an interesting read, concluded his outlook on a cautious note, writing that, "Investors may want to begin to take some chips off the table: raise asset quality, reduce duration, and prepare for a halt of asset appreciation engineered upon a false central bank premise of artificial yields, QE, and the trickling down of faux wealth to the working class."  6. Sears announced on Thursday that it lost almost $300 million in the third quarter and that it plans to close hundreds more stores. And Business Insider's Ashley Lutz, citing retail analyst Robin Lewis, reports that now, it appears that the company's collapse is "inevitable."  7. DoubleLine's Jeffrey Gundlach called for the dollar to break out from a multi-year decline back in the summer. The dollar has staged a huge rally over the last several months and has been one of the hottest trades in the world. Gundlach's call for the dollar going forward: it is headed higher. Don't Miss: 30 Stocks Traders Are Shorting Like Crazy » FREE AppDownload
Rich Caplan/Douglas Elliman Real Estate Quite the "deal." Chelsea’s infamous Walker Tower, where apartments sell for record-breaking prices, has its newest listing.  The $44.5 million dollar combo apartment is the most expensive residence in the building after the $50.9 million Penthouse One, according to the Wall Street Journal .  The 18th-floor apartments were previously on the market separately, selling for $34 million and $10.52 million respectively. But owner Elliott Joseph decided to combine the two units to make one massive 6,975-square-foot apartment.  The new listing is actually bigger than the Penthouse One, but is selling for only $6,380 per square foot, which is a much better value than the $8,547 per square foot price of the Penthouse.  The buyer of this apartment will join notable neighbors such as Cameron Diaz and Sex Pistols produce Mike Thorne.  Michael Graves of Douglas Elliman Real Estate has the listing. 
  Mitt Romney held meetings with donors in New York this week that left one attendee convinced he is running for president again in 2016. A member of Romney's inner circle who spoke to Business Insider said the former governor of Massachusetts traveled to New York City on Monday where he met with key financial backers of his past campaigns to lay the groundwork for a 2016 White House bid. The source, who was at one of the meetings, said other attendees included developer Stephen Ross, New York Jets owner Woody Johnson, and hedge funders Julian Robertson and Paul Singer. A representative for Romney did not immediately respond to a request for comment about the meetings from Business Insider.  Romney, a former Republican governor of Massachusetts, previously ran for president in 2008 and in 2012, when he was the GOP nominee. In addition to potential donors, the source said Romney met with New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R) this week. Christie endorsed Romney during his last race. However, he is expected to mount his own White House bid in 2016. Christie's office did not immediately respond to a request for comment about his meeting with Romney. During his time in New York, the source said Romney also attended Monday night's football game between the Miami Dolphins — owned by Ross — and Johnson's New York Jets. Dom Cosentino, a Jets beat writer, reported seeing Romney and Johnson walking across the field together before the game.  Romney's meetings this week are not his first efforts to reconnect with former donors and campaign staff. In October, The Washington Post reported on a "flurry of behind-the-scenes activity" that Romney's "friends" said was leading him to "more seriously consider" running for president again. This activity included multiple meetings with donors and "supporters in key states" as well as an October dinner in Boston that Romney and his wife hosted for "former campaign advisers and business associates." Romney made a series of campaign appearances for Republicans around the country ahead of last month's midterm elections. Publicly, Romney has insisted he has no interest in a third presidential campaign. In an interview with radio host Hugh Hewitt in August, Romney said he "loved running for president," but his past losses made him think another Republican might have a "better shot.""I love the country enough to know that I’m not as good a candidate this time around as I think the other guys would be, because they’re new and not defined," Romney said. "I want the country to win. I do not want to see Hillary Clinton as our next president." In spite of these comments, in that very same interview he indicated "circumstances can change." "Let’s say all the guys that were running all came together and said, 'Hey, we’ve decided we can’t do it, you must do it.' That’s the one of the million we’re thinking about," said Romney. In September, Romney's wife, Ann, indicated Romney would be discouraged from mounting another White House bid if former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush (R) enters the 2016 field. Both Bush and Romney are relatively moderate Republicans who would likely compete for the same voters, and donors. They are also especially appealing options for Wall Streeters in a GOP field that is otherwise likely to be dominated by the libertarian leaning Sen. Rand Paul (R-Kentucky), Tea Party darling Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), and the infamously combative Christie. Bush has said he is thinking about launching a campaign. In an October interview, Ann said Romney was "done" running for president. However, the source who spoke to Business Insider said she would be fully supportive if her husband does decide to run in 2016. A Quinnipiac poll released late last month showed Romney and Bush were the two potential 2016 presidential candidates with the most support from Republican voters. Romney led Bush by eight points in that survey.    FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsSears is closing hundreds of stores around the country. The parent company of Sears and K-Mart announced Thursday that it is accelerating store closings to 235 this year, 100 more than previously planned.  Sears' total net loss for the quarter was $296 million. Sears' and K-Mart's collapse is "inevitable" and could happen by the year 2016, retail analyst and author Robin Lewis writes on his blog.  "These two retail brands are dead men walking," Lewis writes.  Sears spokesman Chris Brathwaite pointed out that the company still operates thousands of stores. "We will still have more than 1,700 Sears and Kmart big-box stores in operation, representing about 200 million square feet throughout the United States to serve our members," he said. "Few companies have this scale." Brathwaite also noted that the company is committed to investing in e-commerce platforms and the Shop Your Way loyalty program. But industry experts expressed doubt that Sears' attempts would pay off.  "As a retailer they're at the point of no return," David Tawil, cofounder of Maglan Capital and an expert in distressed retail companies, told Business Insider earlier this year. "The real question now is when does it all end?"  The company has lost $6 billion since 2012. Suppliers are growing concerned that they won't receive payments for merchandise.  Lewis believes Sears Holdings' inevitable decline started decades ago.  He says that executives spent too much time investing in side businesses and ignored the competition. "This did not have to be fatal; however, it actually starved those resources (capital and management) from the retail business, leaving it unable to respond and adapt to the needs of the evolving consumer and marketplace," Lewis writes. To offset losses in the retail department, the company is planning to ramp up e-commerce and make the most of its extensive real-estate properties.  Sears has been leasing store space to other retailers and is considering "spinning off hundreds of its properties as a real estate investment trust," Lauren Coleman-Lochner reports at Bloomberg News.  Selling and then leasing back retail space would be a way for Sears to generate some quick cash, analysts told Bloomberg.    FREE AppDownload
Boosted BoardNo one really wants another scarf this holiday season.  We polled the men of Business Insider to see what gifts would put the biggest grins on their faces, and then picked our favorite items to match their wishes. From kitchen gadgets to electronics, here are the gifts guys really want for the holidays. FREE AppDownload
 The price of oil has crashed to multiyear lows. Falling energy prices are good for the US consumer. But they're bad for the big US energy producers. Remember, technological advances in hydraulic fracturing have sparked the US shale energy boom, which has been a source of economic growth thanks to capital expenditures and job creation in the industry. Low oil prices may put this story at risk. So on net, are falling prices good or bad? Charles Schwab's Liz Ann Sonders offers some simple math that puts it all into perspective. In three sentences: Consumer spending represents 68% of the US economy. Oil and gas capex represents about 1% of US GDP and less than 9% of US total capex (which in turn represents about 12% of US GDP). Therefore, the benefit of lower energy prices to the consumer and many businesses greatly outweighs the significant hit to energy companies and/or energy-oriented capex, especially in energy-oriented states. So unless you're heavily exposed to energy capex, falling energy prices are overwhelmingly good. At a media event Thursday, Sonders' colleague Jeffrey Kleintop noted that historically consumers spend every penny of the savings they get from energy. Regarding capex, keep in mind there are all sorts of industries that aren't in the oil-drilling business. If anything, lower energy costs will encourage them to spend more. "US domestic capex has grown by more than $600 billion over the past four years, with $100 billion of that being energy-oriented," Sonders said. "One can argue that much of non-energy capex would benefit from reduced operating costs courtesy of lower energy prices." And the list of positives goes on. "Lower energy prices also hold down overall inflation, which is a plus for both the US economy and stock market," Sonders added. "Lower inflation has historically meant higher equity valuations. In fact there is a direct inverse correlation between the energy sector's weight in the S&amp;P 500: a lower weight, typically as a result of lower energy prices, has led to higher overall S&amp;P 500 P/E ratios and vice versa." In aggregate, lower prices are clearly very good for both the US economy and the overall stock market. FREE AppDownload
Stack Commerce Every home should have a great sound system, and bonus points if it looks great, too. This is the first levitating Bluetooth speaker. It looks kind of like the Death Star with a brushed steel and chrome finish, and packs a punch in terms of sound: a full, crisp, clear 105 decibels.  The speaker, which was designed by a team out of Oakland, California, uses magnetic levitation to get the speaker to float about an inch off of the base, and it spins while it plays. It even has a microphone, so you can use it to take calls.  You can grab it here with a discount thanks to Insider Picks and our friends at Stack Commerce. Get 9% off The Om/One Bluetooth Speaker ($179.99+Free Shipping). Check out the video and full specs below.  OM/ONE Speaker Orb OM/ONE Base: Get 9% off The Om/One Bluetooth Speaker ($179.99+Free Shipping). Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
 The US dollar has been ripping higher.  In the last six months, the dollar index has pushed to a six-year high, and it's at a seven-year high against the Japanese yen and a record high against the Russian ruble.  DoubleLine Capital's Jeffrey Gundlach, who has been on the right side of this call for months, doesn't think the rally is over yet. "Currency trends are long in the making and longer in playing out," Gundlach said in an email to Business Insider on Thursday. "Most investors challenged me when I informed them the dollar bottomed a long time ago. But look it up. The dollar is headed higher." In his June 10 webcast, Gundlach said, "I think the dollar is likely to move — break out here on the upside." But in making that call, Gundlach was following up on something he'd said back in 2010 and 2011, which is that the dollar, which had been in a nearly 30-year bear market, was finally reaching a bottom. Gundlach, who was one of the few on Wall Street calling for interest rates to fall at the beginning of this year, said the strong dollar was likely a driver of this decline in interest rates.  "US interest rates are higher than European interest rates, and the currency is moving favorably," he said in June. "So, there's a lot of good reasons, if you're a European, to want to own US debt. It has higher yields and you might just continue to get a currency appreciation for a sort of double-positive reason to own it." Since then, being long on the dollar has been the trade in global markets. Speaking with CNBC last week, Gundlach said that while the dollar trade might be crowded, this doesn't particularly worry him: "Sometimes the consensus is right." FRED    FREE AppDownload
The end of the year is a time to thank the people who make our lives easier, whether that's your building superintendent or your babysitter. But how much? We spoke with etiquette expert Patricia Napier-Fitzpatrick of The Etiquette School of New York to find out more about holiday tipping and gifting. Here's our helpful infographic on who to tip this season. Mike Nudelman/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
In August, the US Agriculture Department estimated that having and raising a child in America costs  over $245,000. You could argue that the steadily rising price tag is due to the violin lessons, summer camps, and organic cheese sticks that seem to have become mandatory in recent years, but a chart from the Brookings Institution boils the rise down to one thing in particular: the disproportionate cost of childcare and tuition as it relates to US median income. Researchers compiled data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics' Consumer Price Index to create the chart below, which illustrates the alarming rate at which two of parents' biggest costs — childcare and tuition — are increasing. We first came across it over at Jezebel. The researchers write (bolding ours): The prices of a number of goods and services have outpaced median income. For example, the price of hospital services and childcare and tuition has grown by an astounding 200% faster than median wage. Here's what that looks like: The Brookings Institution FREE AppDownload
Parts of Caracas, the capital of Venezuela, are experiencing blackouts, according to Reuters. It's not the first time the country has experienced serious problems with its electrical grid. In June a presidential ceremony was interrupted and transit grounded to a halt when widespread blackouts hit the country. In that instance, the darkness was due to a power plant failure. This round of outages are hitting at a crucial time for Venezuela. Oil prices have plummeted over the past several weeks, and the commodity makes up 95% of Venezuela's exports. Officials advocated for a cut in oil production at last week's OPEC meeting but were rebuffed. Now traders fear that, without enough oil revenue, default is the end game. The country has few options in terms of how it can cut spending. The government has committed to continuing expensive social programs started by late-President Hugo Chavez. Venezuela's foreign minister has also said the country will continue with its Petrocaribe oil program for neighboring states, in which oil is sold to members at a steep discount. Raising oil prices at home is also an uncomfortable option. Venezuelans get a massive discount on the commodity, but groceries and other goods are already very scarce and expensive in a country with an inflation rate over 60%. Citizens wait hours to enter stores to buy rationed goods. All of this will most likely lead to major political instability. Hundreds of thousands protested President Nicolas Maduro's regime this winter and spring, but the situation calmed down after leader Leopoldo Lopez turned himself in to authorities. Now the government appears to be on the hunt for enemies again, as opposition leader Maria Corina Machado on Wednesday was accused of plotting to kill Maduro. So actually, it's been dark in Caracas for some time. FREE AppDownload
 Does becoming rich make you a jerk? Or do jerks just have the right personality type for getting rich?  Either way, research shows that wealthy people are more likely to behave in unethical, self-serving ways. "Flash Boys" author Michael Lewis detailed as much in a recent article in the New Republic.  He cites a few telling examples from the research: • Rich people are more likely to shoplift than the poor. • People who make less than $25,000 a year give away 4.2% of their income, while people who make more than $150,000 give away only 2.7%. • Brain scans find that wealthy people have less activity in brain areas associated with empathy. Some of the most vivid research comes from University of California psychologist Dacher Keltner. The experiments his lab ran are pretty astounding.  The most telling example might be this one: [R]esearchers invited a cross section of the population into their lab and marched them through a series of tasks. Upon leaving the laboratory testing room the subjects passed a big jar of candy. The richer the person, the more likely he was to reach in and take candy from the jar — and ignore the big sign on the jar that said the candy was for the children who passed through the department. So if we take being a "good person" as "caring for other people," then the rich, for some reason or another, seem more likely to lack those humanitarian qualities. "As you move up the class ladder," Keltner tells Lewis, "you are more likely to violate the rules of the road, to lie, to cheat, to take candy from kids, to shoplift, and to be tightfisted in giving to others."  What's troubling is that organizations are commonly — and unintentionally — structured for narcissists to flourish.  Psychologists have discovered that the reason narcissists rise to leadership positions is because they're masters of managing people's impressions of them. Confident and charismatic, narcissists know how to prod people with a mixture of credit and blame.  So in a nauseating way, having a "me-first" personality tends to breed the skills needed for economic ascension.   FREE AppDownload
ReutersMilitant Islamist fighters take part in a military parade along a street in northern Raqqa province on June 30, 2014German newspaper Zeit just published a fantastic in-depth look at how ISIS makes its money.  The Islamist terrorist group, which has taken control of the huge portions of Iraq and Syria, was called the richest in the world by Foreign Policy. There are four big revenue streams for ISIS, listed by Zeit: And on the liabilities side, they've got some serious outgoings too: That's not even counting the non-pay costs of waging a war against a lot of different governments, militias and terrorist groups. So although ISIS is referred to as "the richest terrorist group in history", not everyone is convinced. Here's Zeit:  FREE AppDownload
Prime numbers are one of the most basic topics of study in the branch of mathematics called number theory. Primes are numbers that can only be evenly divided by themselves and 1. For example, 7 is a prime number since I'm left with a remainder or a fractional component if I divide 7 by anything other than itself or 1. 6 is not a prime because I can divide 6 by 2 and get 3. One of the reasons primes are important in number theory is that they are, in a certain sense, the building blocks of the natural numbers. The fundamental theorem of arithmetic (the name of which indicates its basic importance) states that any number can be factored into a unique list of primes. 12 = 2 x 2 x 3, 50 = 5 x 5 x 2, 69 = 3 x 23. Studying numbers, then, basically amounts to studying the properties of prime numbers. Mathematicians have, over the millennia, figured out quite a bit about the prime numbers. One of Euclid's most famous proofs shows that there are infinitely many primes. The basic idea of the proof is that if there were only finitely many primes, and we had a list of all of those prime numbers, we could multiply them all together and add 1, creating a new number that isn't divisible by any of the prime numbers on our list. That number would either itself be a prime number not on our list, or would have a prime divisor not on our list. Either way, we contradict the idea that there could be a finite list of primes, and so there have to be infinitely many. In the nineteenth century, mathematicians proved the Prime Number Theorem. Given some large natural number, the theorem gives a rough estimate for how many numbers smaller than the given number are prime. Primes get rarer among larger numbers according to a particular approximate formula. Despite all the things we know about prime numbers, there are plenty of deceptively simple conjectures about primes that have not yet been either proven or disproven. Here are some of those conjectures. Twin primes are pairs of prime numbers that have just one number between them: 5 and 7, 11 and 13, and 29 and 31. The twin primes conjecture is that there are infinitely many pairs of twin primes among the infinitely many prime numbers. Most mathematicians think that the conjecture should be true: while prime numbers get rarer as numbers get larger, number theorists' experience and intuition with primes suggests that twin prime pairs should still pop up from time to time. Despite this, the conjecture has not yet been proven or disproven. John D. & Catherine T. MacArthur FoundationMathematician and MacArthur Fellow Yitang ZhangAfter remaining a completely open question for centuries, in spring 2013, University of New Hampshire mathematician Yitang Zhang made a breakthrough in the problem, for which he was awarded a MacArthur "Genius" fellowship in September 2014. While still not proving the twin primes conjecture itself, Zhang invented a novel technique that showed that there are infinitely many pairs of prime numbers with no more than 70,000,000 numbers between them. That's a huge number, but it was the first such finite limit on distances between primes that had ever been discovered. In fall 2013, a large group of mathematicians built on Zhang's work and similar results and collaboratively found smaller and smaller bounds, eventually proving that there are infinitely many pairs of primes with at most 246 numbers between them. This is another simply stated problem. Goldbach's Conjecture says that every even number larger than two can be written as the sum of two prime numbers. This certainly holds true for smaller numbers: 4 = 2 + 2, 8 = 5 + 3, 20 = 13 + 7, but it hasn't been proven for all even numbers. Researchers armed with 21st century computers and well-designed programs have verified the conjecture for even numbers up to 4,000,000,000,000,000,000. This is pretty good evidence for the conjecture, but in mathematics, saying that a conjecture holds for all numbers smaller than some ludicrously high finite bound is not enough to say that it holds for all numbers. Palindromes in English are words or sentences that read the same forwards and backwards. The word "radar" and the phrase "A man, a plan, a canal: Panama" are both palindromes. Similarly, palindromic prime numbers are primes whose decimal expansions read the same forwards or backwards. 11, 101, and 16561 are some examples of palindromic primes. My personal favorite prime number is Belphegor's Prime: 1000000000000066600000000000001. That's a 1, followed by 13 0's, followed by a 666, followed by 13 more 0's, followed by a closing 1. Given that 666 is the "number of the beast" according to Revelation 13:18, and 13 has a slew of superstitions attached to it, this is probably the unluckiest prime number possible in the decimal number system. Wikimedia Commons"The Number of the Beast is 666" - William BlakeAs with the twin primes, it's currently unknown if there are infinitely many palindromic primes. The palindromic primes are a less active area of mathematical research than the twin primes, however. Problems like Goldbach's Conjecture and the twin primes conjecture rely solely on the structure and distribution of the primes themselves. But palindromic primes depend on the particular number system being used: binary palindromes are completely different than decimal palindromes. The prime number written in decimal as 31 is written in binary as 11111. In binary, this prime is a palindrome; in decimal, it is not.  While mathematicians do study the palindromic primes, and have come up with results like that primes are rare among palindromes regardless of the number system being used, more effort in number theory is dedicated to problems that focus mostly on the properties of primes independent of their representations. The Riemann Hypothesis is one of the Millennium Prize Problems, a set of the most important open problems in mathematics. Solving one of these problems brings with it a prize of $1,000,000. The Riemann Hypothesis involves an extension to the Prime Number Theorem mentioned above. That theorem gives a formula for the approximate number of primes smaller than some given large number. The Riemann Hypothesis gives a more specific result, providing a formula showing how accurate that estimate will be. Wikimedia CommonsBernhard RiemannThe great nineteenth century mathematician Bernhard Riemann connected that accuracy bound to a special function on the complex number plane. The actual Riemann Hypothesis states that all of the points on the complex plane where that function equals zero fall along a particular line in the plane. Should that be the case, the accuracy bound would also be true. As with the other problems on this list, there is a good amount of numerical evidence for the Riemann Hypothesis, and most mathematicians believe it to be true. Mathematicians have tested billions of the zero points of the function and found all of them to fall on that line. Also like the other problems we've looked at, there is not yet a full blown proof of the hypothesis. In each of these cases, while most mathematicians believe these conjectures to be true, and there is a good bit of empirical evidence for the conjectures, the search for a full blown proof continues.  This seemingly obsessive behavior on the part of mathematicians is partially because rigorous proof is one of the main goals of mathematics, but also because any proof of the twin primes conjecture, or of the Riemann Hypothesis, would likely involve radically new mathematical techniques and insights, potentially leading to entirely new avenues of research and ideas to explore. In mathematics, it's often the case that the journey to finding a proof is at least as interesting as the result itself. FREE AppDownload
Google Street ViewAt last. Behold, the land of $2 a gallon gas.  Gas hasn't been this cheap since 2010 in the U.S. And it was this OnCue Express station in Oklahoma City that led us pas that critical mark on Wednesday, according to GasBuddy.com, a site that tracks gas prices nationwide. Other stations in the region have now followed suit. One station, as of Thursday, is selling a gallon of regular unleaded for $1.98. (For the record, the Google Street view photo above was taken back when gas was around $2.50 a gallon in Oklahoma City.) As a kid growing in the post-1970s gas-crisis era of relatively inexpensive petrol, I can remember people saying that Americans would never — never — pay $2 a gallon for gas.  Well, we zoomed past $2 just about everywhere a long, long time ago. But the crashing price of oil globally is translating into major savings at the pump. In the past decade, the lowest price I can remember paying for gas was about $1.25 a gallon — and at the time, given that I was living in Los Angeles (gas is always more expensive in California, for tax and regulatory reasons), that wasn't all that cheap compared to other places in the U.S. Cheap gas is something that makes the average American feel rich in a hurry — even they aren't rich. The savings at the pump are turned into spending on other stuff, which is good for the overall economy.  When I was gassing up a few years ago, it was costing me upwards of $60 per tank to keep rolling (in my admittedly not-very-fuel efficient 1998 Saab 900S). The recent gas price drop wouldn't have me shelling out $2 per gallon versus $3.50-4.00, but it would save me about $25 every time I refueled.  $100 a month, $1,200 per year? That's probably not money that I would save — it's money that I would spend, at someplace other than the gas station. It will be interesting to see how much stimulus to the rest of the economy cheaper gas will deliver. For some, it will mean more eating out. For others, a couple of flatscreen TVs. If you're more forward-looking, you might grab some shares of Apple stock. On thing is for sure: Carmakers are going to be able to sell a lot more big trucks and SUVs to people who, back when gas was pricier, wouldn't have gone for such vehicles. FREE AppDownload
Andrew Burton/Getty Images The price of crude oil in the Bakken shale region fell below $50 per barrel for some producers on November 28, according to a report from Bloomberg's Dan Murtaugh. Prices touched $49.69, nearly 30% cheaper than the roughly $70 that Brent crude is currently trading for in the global market. North Dakota is one of the epicenters of the shale boom that some are blaming for plunging oil prices. Weaker global demand and an OPEC decision to maintain supply at current levels have also driven the price oil lower. But as Murtaugh reports, the difficulty of moving the oil from the Bakken region to refiners is putting more pressure on Brent prices there. Oil producers typically give refiners near the coast a discount to cover transport costs. As Andy Lipow, president of Lipow Oil Associates, told Murtaugh, "You have gathering feeds, trucking, terminaling, pipeline and rail fees ... If you're selling at the wellhead, you're getting a very low number relative to WTI." Producers are now wary that booming oil production may strain the existing pipeline system and cause further price declines. The Bakken shale produces 1.12 million barrels a day, but Murtaugh reports there is only pipeline capacity for 583,000 barrels, although that’s expected to grow by about 200,000 by the year's end. Here’s more from Bloomberg on how this could affect producers: One possible effect of lower prices is that companies may focus their spending on places where the infrastructure already exists or is on the way, said Carl Larry, a Houston-based director of oil and gas at Frost &amp; Sullivan. "Places that are just starting to build up are going to be hit the worst," Larry said by phone yesterday. "They’re going to get hit the hardest because it’s harder to get the oil out. Not out of ground, but out of the area." Last week, Business Insider’s Myles Udland reported that according to Citi, $60 per barrel of Brent crude is the price point at which "a significant amount of shale production would be challenged." Some producers are already working below that mark. You can read the full report from Bloomberg here »    FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Mike TheilerCitigroup CEO Michael Corbat will attend. The duke and duchess of Cambridge, who first met in college, will have dinner with celebrities and Wall Street luminaries at the posh event scheduled for next Tuesday, Dec. 9. According to the New York Post, those expected to be in attendance from the finance world include private-equity executive Olivier Sarkozy and his actress girlfriend Mary-Kate Olsen; Citigroup CEO Michael Corbat, whose daughter attends St Andrews; and Alastair Borthwick, head of global commercial banking for Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The 600-person dinner will be held inside the hall housing the Temple of Dendur. A VIP table for 10 costs $100,000.  AP ImagesOlivier Sarkozy and Mary-Kate Olsen. St Andrews says it has a "tiny endowment" and is working to raise £100 million ($156.7 million).  "Funds raised during the evening will support student scholarships and bursaries, new student sports facilities in St Andrews, investment in the university's medical and scientific faculties and a lectureship in American Literature at St Andrews," the university said on its website.   Sounds like fun.   UPDATE: Sean Connery and Sting will not be present. Connery is an honorary co-chair of the event, but won’t be present, and Sting is committed to perform in his Broadway show.      FREE AppDownload
 Bill Gross is out with his latest investment outlook, and in it he asks one main question: "How could they?" Gross starts his letter with a discussion of some social norms that were accepted in the 20th century that we now find abhorrent. And now, when we look back at things to which people used to turn a blind eye — domestic violence, racial and sexual discrimination, and smoking almost everywhere — the question we often ask is, "How could they?" Referring to our current efforts to fight huge debt loads by adding more debt, Gross wonders if our grandchildren will look at the actions of today's policymakers and say, "How could they?" Gross writes: How could policymakers have allowed so much debt to be created in the first place, and then failed to regulate their own system accordingly? How could they have thought that money printing and debt creation could create wealth instead of just more and more debt? How could fiscal authorities have stood by and attempted to balance budgets as opposed to borrowing cheaply and investing the proceeds in infrastructure and innovation? It has been a nursery rhyme experience for sure, but more than likely without a fairytale ending. Gross writes that now, "it is difficult to envision a return to normalcy within my lifetime."  "Markets are reaching the point of low return and diminishing liquidity," Gross writes. "Investors may want to begin to take some chips off the table: raise asset quality, reduce duration, and prepare for at least a halt of asset appreciation engineered upon a false central bank premise of artificial yields, QE, and the trickling down of faux wealth to the working class." A stern warning from Gross, the man formerly known as the Bond King.      FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBill Gross, co-founder and co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment Management Company (PIMCO), speaks at the Morningstar Investment Conference in ChicagoNEW YORK (Reuters) - When Bill Gross bolted Pimco in late September after months of mediocre performance in his Total Return Fund, clients including Wells Fargo &amp; Co. and Charles Schwab Corp pulled over $61 billion from the Newport Beach, California-based money manager. Where the money landed may be no better than where it left. The reaction to Gross's sudden exit has put some money in rival bond funds that charge higher fees, produce lagging returns, have limited track records and in some cases, riskier holdings. "Investors have made a knee jerk reaction away from Pimco, but in doing so they need to make sure that what they are buying is a better alternative," said Todd Rosenbluth, director of mutual fund research at S&amp;P Capital IQ. Some funds with very short track records have shown inflows that coincide with the Pimco money exodus. For example, the two-year-old, $576 million JPMorgan Global Bond Opportunities Fund, received $346 million in inflows since Sept. 26, the day Gross quit, according to Morningstar Inc. The fund has returned 4.54 percent for the past year, ranking it among the top 30 percent of its peers, according to Morningstar. Still, the fund's year-to-date total return of 3.56 percent lags the 4.74 percent total return of the $162.8 billion Pimco Total Return Fund, which Gross ran for 27 years. And the JPMorgan fund costs more, with a net expense ratio of 0.66 for its institutional shares. It is rare to see a less established fund gather that much in assets so quickly, Rosenbluth said. "Usually investors like to see a three year track record," he said.   JPMorgan attributes the flows to its performance, low volatility and investor comfort with the manager, Bob Michele, who has been managing unconstrained funds for 10 years, a spokeswoman said. Wells Fargo Advisors moved assets in its Freedom managed account platform from Total Return to at least three portfolios: the MetWest Total Return Bond Fund, the AMG Managers Bond Fund and the Fidelity Advisor Strategic Income Fund, sources told Reuters. Schwab dropped the Pimco Total Return Fund from its 10 target date funds and collective trusts, temporarily reallocating the Pimco assets to the Schwab Total Bond Market Fund and the Loomis Sayles Investment Grade Bond Fund. A Wells Fargo spokeswoman declined to comment on the changes, but said the decisions were made based on "the long term view for clients." At Schwab, the temporary reallocation to the two funds aimed at maintaining the overall risk/return characteristics of the Schwab Target Funds' fixed income portfolios rather than pick the "historically best performing" replacement funds, a spokeswoman wrote in an e-mailed statement. The firm expects to choose a permanent replacement for the Pimco fund in the first quarter of 2015, she wrote. Pimco declined to comment. In November, the Pimco Total Return Fund, under a new team led by long-time Pimco portfolio manager Scott Mather, posted returns of 1.00 percent, beating 99 percent of its category, according to Morningstar. By contrast, in the 18 months ending in September, Total Return gained 0.49 percent, trailing 83 percent of its peers, according to Morningstar. The bulk of money leaving Pimco went to reasonably priced and top-performing funds managed by BlackRock, TCW's Metropolitan West Asset Management, DoubleLine Funds and The Vanguard Group.   LAGGING PEERS But Wells Fargo, for example, chose to replace Pimco offerings with Fidelity's strategic income fund and its short fixed income fund that have lagged a majority of their respective peers for the past three years, according to Morningstar. And while the MetWest fund has outperformed 94 percent of its peers for the past three years, with a total annualized return of 5.76 percent, the Wells Fargo clients who had money in the Pimco Low Duration Fund, which Gross also managed, were moved to the Fidelity Advisor Short Fixed-Income Fund. That has lagged the Pimco fund for the past 10 years, according to Morningstar. The Fidelity short fixed income fund has beaten its benchmark for the past five years and is less volatile than most of its peers, a Fidelity spokeswoman said. Though the AMG Managers Bond Fund has outperformed over the past 10 years, total expenses for institutional shares of the fund, which are usually the cheapest class, are 91 basis points, almost double the 46 basis points of Pimco Total Return. "Right now investors have been rewarded despite the higher costs, but there have been times, like in 2008, when the fund has significantly underperformed its peer group," Rosenbluth said. The AMG fund fell 16.31 percent in 2008, compared to the category which dropped only 4.7 percent, according to Morningstar. Schwab's decision to put Pimco assets into its own Total Bond Market Fund and the Loomis Sayles Investment Grade Bond Fund has had mixed results – while the Loomis Sayles fund is a top performer for the past one, three and five years, the Schwab fund has underperformed its peers for the past three, five and 10 years. However, the fund is only 29 basis points, analysts note. "Because it is cheap it might make sense on a short-term basis, but the performance is weak and it raises questions on whether it was chosen only because it is its own fund," Rosenbluth said.                        (Reporting By Jessica Toonkel; Additional reporting by Jennifer Ablan; Editing by Tim McLaughlin and John Pickering) FREE AppDownload
The euro has had a wild ride on Thursday. European Central Bank president Mario Draghi held a news conference on Thursday explaining the ECB's most recent monetary policy decision, which saw the ECB keep interest rates unchanged, as expected. The euro's surge took off after Draghi gave a longer-than-expected timeline for potential additional stimulus measures from the ECB. Draghi said the central bank would reassess its stimulus program "early" next year, but specified that "early" didn't mean January. And so Business Insider's Mike Bird reported, it looks as if we might have to wait a few months for more easing from the ECB, which comes as a disappointment to the market. Draghi also announced that the ECB had slashed its growth and inflation expectations for the economic bloc, taking its GDP growth expectation for 2015 to 1% from 1.6% while also cutting next year's inflation outlook to 0.7% from 1.1%.  As Draghi spoke, stocks in Europe took a hit, with stocks in Italy falling 2% while equities in Spain, France, and Germany all fell at least 1%. Here's a quick view of the euro's volatility on Thursday. FinViz FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ralph Orlowski The European Central Bank held its main interest rates completely unchanged this month. ECB president Mario Draghi just spoke at a media briefing, outlining the ECB's stimulus plans and the central bank's view of the European economy. Here are his full set of opening remarks. The major points to take away are: The ECB thinks GDP growth will be 0.8% this year, against 0.9% before, 1% next year against 1.6% before, and 1.5% in 2016 against 1.9% before. Growth was expected to be low before, but the latest outlook is even bleaker.  Inflation is expected to be just 0.7% in 2015, against 1.1% expected before. Inflation will rise to just 1.3% by 2016.  Though Draghi said the ECB would look again at stimulus, he added that the "early" in "early next year" did not mean January. We could have to wait two or three months for more easing, by the sound of it. Draghi also said the effect of lower prices was "unambiguously positive." That's despite the fact that markets are now pricing in deflation for Europe in January because of falling oil prices. A "vast majority" of the governing council was in favour of the ECB's new balance sheet target/expectation, but the decision was not unanimous. No prize for guessing which ECB governing council member might have voted against that commitment. The euro jumped on Draghi's comments, and every major European stock index is now sinking.  The ECB is convinced that QE is legal, as Draghi said it, "would not be best use of our time to discuss things that are illegal." A lot of analysts had already expected the ECB to announce a bigger programme of asset purchases in the first few months of next year. That's one way the ECB could try to boost economic conditions, either by buying government bonds (usually known as QE) or a wider range of corporate bonds.  FREE AppDownload
Ilya Naymushin/Reuters/Amanda Macias/Business InsiderAn artwork depicting a portrait of Russian President Vladimir Putin based on a layer of US dollars and Russian roubles.In his annual address to the nation on Thursday, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced that the country's reserve funds, usually earmarked for investment in state projects, should be used to bail out troubled Russian banks. In doing so he revealed just how grim the prospects for financial institutions have become following the rouble's collapse. The Russian private sector appears to be on state-funded life support. In particular, the move strongly suggests that the Russian banking system has been running out of collateral that can be used to get dollars from the central bank. Access to dollars is critical because the banks took out foreign-currency loans from investors that they have to pay back in the same currency. Current estimates suggest Russian businesses need to repay $35 billion this month. But Russian banks face major challenges funding this, with Western sanctions freezing them out of global capital markets on the one hand and a weakening domestic economy putting pressure on profits on the other. These issues have been compounded by a fall of about 40% in the value of the rouble since June. As the rouble loses ground to foreign currency, those debts become increasingly difficult to pay back. Usually it is the job of the central bank to provide emergency funding for a country's financial institutions. In Russia this is typically done through what are known as "currency repo auctions," in which banks offer collateral (like high-quality bonds) in exchange for access to currency, especially dollars, that they need to meet foreign-currency obligations. However, this facility has seen limited use by Russian banks despite the rouble falls. The central bank had tried to explain this by saying low demand was a consequence of there being plenty of dollar liquidity in the financial system. Putin's statement that the country's reserve funds should be used instead to back its banks strongly suggests that this claim was wrong. There was not a lack of demand — rather, the banks' collateral was insufficient to get dollars in exchange. On Thursday the Russian central bank cut the foreign exchange repo rate, the interest rate it charges on the currency it gives to banks. The rate fell from 1.5% above the London Interbank Offered Rate (Libor) — the benchmark interest rate at which banks lend to one another — to 0.5% above Libor. A lower interest rate should make it less expensive for banks to borrow from the central bank and therefore more appealing. The rate cut illustrates that the central bank is growing concerned about the ability of Russian banks to meet their debt repayments. If they fail to pay, it could trigger a wave of defaults that would further hit the fragile Russian economy, which is already expected to fall into a recession in 2015. Yet if the problem is a shortage of collateral, these measures are unlikely to be enough. Back in February, JPMorgan analysts warned of just such a scenario: about 60% of available collateral was already pledged of an  upper limit of about 75%. That top level is the point at which JPM says the stress in the banking system, in the form of increased risk of default, may start rising rapidly.  We appear to be near that point. Judging by Thursday's news, banks appear to have been forced instead to seek help from the state. This would explain Putin's move to divert money usually earmarked for infrastructure investment (for example, in Russia's ageing road and rail network) into a bank bailout. Here's the passage from his speech: Kremlin Reuters reports that VTB and Gazprombank have already applied for 250 billion roubles ($4.7 billion) and up to 100 billion roubles in additional support. This would put a further dent in Russia's reserves after the country saw total international reserves drop some $90 billion so far in 2014, mostly in failed attempts to buoy the rouble. It might also open the door for non-bank companies to lobby for additional support. The oil company Rosneft requested 2 trillion roubles last month but was turned down. FREE AppDownload
The latest cover from The Economist says it all: There's a standoff between US shale producers and OPEC. The Economist Last week, OPEC, the 12-nation cartel that includes oil-exporting nations including Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, and Iran, voted not to cut oil production, which caused oil prices to tank. And while the sluggish global economy is partially to blame for the dropping oil prices, there's a bigger story here. Following the shale revolution, the US is now a competitor in the global oil market. US production has significantly increased over the past few years. Deutsche Bank Additionally, the US is on its way to energy independence: Americans are increasingly consuming oil that was produced in the US (meaning the US doesn't need to import as much). AEI, Mark Perry As a result, some believe that OPEC's recent decision might be viewed as a deliberate strategy to fight off the competition from the US shale oil industry — and to maintain its share of the US market. Prices below $100 a barrel could hurt some of the higher-cost US shale producers. Additionally, OPEC's decision suggests that the group isn't as dominant of a player in the oil market as it used to be after the surge in US oil production, according to a Goldman Sachs research note. "For now, my conclusion is that the US oil industry intends to play the Saudis' game of chicken," Ed Yardeni wrote on Wednesday. "The contest between the shalemen and the sheikhs has tipped the world from a shortage of oil to a surplus," writes The Economist. "Even if the 3m extra b/d that the United States now pumps out is a tiny fraction of the 90m the world consumes, America’s shale is a genuine rival to Saudi Arabia as the world’s marginal producer. " In other words, it's US shale versus OPEC. And things don't look like they're going to calm down any time soon.    FREE AppDownload
YouTube / PredatorShorting a stock can be a huge loss of its price goes up. The major stock indices are up this year, with the Dow up nearly 8% year-to-date, and the S&amp;P 500 up 12%. But there are a number of stocks that traders have consistently shorted, or bet will fall. We compiled a list of 30 stocks with market caps over $2 billion that investors are still betting against big time. We ranked the stocks by percentage of shares outstanding held short, going from the least shorted to the most. FREE AppDownload
Ethan Miller/GettyYahoo CEO Marissa Mayer. As 2014 draws to a close, you can catch up on some of the year's best business books, like Peter Thiel's "Zero to One" and Sophia Amoruso's "#GIRLBOSS." But it's also time to start looking forward to some of next year's big releases. We've looked through the books that have been announced for 2015 and picked out the highlights, from a history of money to the story of Marissa Mayer's rise to the top. FREE AppDownload
The Japanese yen just broke 120 against the US dollar.  This the first time since July 2007 that the yen has fallen below 120 against the dollar.  Over the last two years, the yen has lost nearly half of its value against the dollar as Japan has embarked on aggressive monetary easing in an effort to boost its economy, which has been mired in mediocrity for the last two decades.  This latest leg lower for the yen comes amid a volatile morning in the currency markets, with the euro surging against the dollar as European Central Bank president Mario Draghi holds a press conference to discuss the ECB's latest monetary policy decision.  Here's the chart. FinViz FREE AppDownload
Crude oil is falling again. In morning trade Thursday, the price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil was back down to around $66.50 a barrel. The decline in oil comes as European Central Bank president Mario Draghi speaks following the ECB's latest monetary policy decision, which saw the ECB keep rates unchanged. During his news conference, Draghi said that the declining price of oil was "unambiguously positive," a comment that seemed to be putting oil under a bit of pressure Thursday morning. The euro is also surging as Draghi speaks, as the timeline for a potential change in the ECB's easing measures disappointed the market, with Draghi saying the ECB would reassess its program "early" next year, which he specified did not mean January.  Oil prices have partially rebounded since a huge crash last week, with WTI prices pushing back above $69 a barrel briefly. But on Thursday, oil was resuming its move lower.  FinViz FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mark Blinch Initial jobless claims fell slightly last week to 297,000. Expectations were for claims to total 295,000, down from last week's 313,000. Last week's number was also revised up to 314,000. The four-week moving average of claims also rose slightly, to 299,000 from last week's revised average of 294,250.  Following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: The trend probably is not rising, despite appearances to the contrary." Shepherdson added, "We have no reason to think the trend is claims is turning higher, so we expected a further decline next week. That said, the trend probably has now flattened off, but at an extraordinarily low level, consistent with very strong payroll numbers." Thursday's claims report comes after Wednesday's ADP private payrolls report showed US companies added 208,000 jobs in November, and comes ahead of Friday's big November jobs report. FREE AppDownload
Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos explains the importance of "bold bets" with Henry Blodget at Business Insider's Ignition 2014. He says they've actually helped cover billions of dollars in failures. Edited by Devan Joseph. Special thanks to Justin Gmoser and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions.
Thomson ReutersA price sign is displayed at a Dollar General store in Arvada(Reuters) - Dollar General Corp  reported a 7.8 percent rise in quarterly sales and said it remained committed to buying Family Dollar Stores Inc , which has already agreed to be acquired by Dollar Tree Inc . Dollar Tree will unseat Dollar General as the No. 1 U.S. deep-discount retailer if it closes the deal with Family Dollar. Dollar General's net income slipped to $236.3 million, in the third-quarter ended Oct. 31 from $237.4 million a year earlier. [ID:nBw4q6Dbra] Earnings per share, however, rose to 78 cents from 74 cents a year earlier due to fewer outstanding shares. Revenue rose to $4.72 billion from $4.38 billion.  (Reporting by Sruthi Ramakrishnan and Yashaswini Swamynathan in Bengaluru; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty) FREE AppDownload
Global stock and bond markets have been impacted by a couple of big themes of late: monetary stimulus overseas and the plunge in oil prices, with both trends creating winners and losers, as I write in my weekly commentary. Cheaper Oil and its Effects Oil prices have been trending downward in recent months, and after OPEC took no action to curtail oil output at last Friday’s meeting, prices fell to multi-year lows. This creates additional pressure on energy companies, and could lead U.S. oil exploration and production companies to cut capital spending. Ultimately though, this will only slow production growth, not cut supply. With oil prices stuck and capital spending likely to fall, we would be cautious on both the stock and the credit of explorers and oil servicing companies. However, we do see opportunities in integrated global oil companies given their relatively low valuations and diversified business models. In addition, cheaper oil is good for some emerging markets. We see the best opportunities in emerging markets Asia, with oil importers India, Indonesia and Thailand all benefiting from lower oil prices. Bond Yields Continue to Plunge Central bank activity is having an impact on bond yields, which continue to grind lower. The fall has been most acute in Europe, as German bund yields broke through record lows and the 10-year yield traded around 0.70% last week. Key reasons: speculation that the European Central Bank will expand its asset-purchase program to include sovereign bonds; soft growth; and falling inflation and inflation expectations. While the drop in yields has been most acute in Europe, the trend is visible in almost every developed country. Part of the cause is slower economic growth, now a global phenomenon. But even in the United States, despite an accelerating economic recovery, a lack of bond supply is keeping downward pressure on long-term yields. The yield on the 30-year bond dipped back below 3% while the yield on the 10-year note fell below 2.2%, the lowest level in a month. As we’ve discussed previously, U.S. yields are being suppressed by low global yields (which increases demand for the relatively higher U.S. yields) as well as persistent demand from institutions and banks. But a lack of supply relative to demand is also having an impact. JP Morgan estimates that in 2015, global demand will outstrip supply by $400 billion thanks to stepped up purchases by central banks in Japan and Europe. Still, we expect U.S. short-term rates to climb next year as the Federal Reserve initiates hikes in the federal funds rate. That said, the overall rise in yields is likely to be inhibited by: 1) low yields in the rest of the world, which encourage foreign buying of U.S. Treasury securities, and 2) the persistent imbalance between demand and supply. In short, while long-term rates are likely to rise next year they will remain low relative to historical standards. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's Blog Does low inflation justify higher valuation multiples? There are many valuation models for stocks. They mostly don’t work very well, or at least not consistently well. Over the years, I’ve come to conclude that valuation, like beauty, is in the eye of the beholder.  For many investors, stocks look increasingly attractive the lower that inflation and interest rates go. However, when they go too low, that suggests that the economy is weak, which wouldn’t be good for profits. Widespread deflation would almost certainly be bad for profits. It would also pose a risk to corporations with lots of debt, even if they could refinance it at lower interest rates. Let’s review some of the current valuation metrics, which we monitor in our Stock Market Valuation Metrics &amp; Models:  (1) Reversion to the mean. On Tuesday, the forward P/E of the S&amp;P 500 was 16.1. That’s above its historical average of 13.7 since 1978. (2) Rule of 20. One rule of thumb is that the forward P/E of the S&amp;P 500 should be close to 20 minus the y/y CPI inflation rate. On this basis, the rule’s P/E was 18.3 during October. (3) Misery Index. There has been an inverse relationship between the S&amp;P 500’s forward P/E and the Misery Index, which is just the sum of the inflation rate and the unemployment rate. The index fell to 7.4% during October. That’s the lowest reading since April 2008, and arguably justifies the market’s current lofty multiple. (4) Market-cap ratios. The ratio of the S&amp;P 500 market cap to revenues rose to 1.7 during Q3, the highest since Q1-2002. That’s identical to the reading for the ratio of the market cap of all US equities to nominal GDP.  Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Inflating Inflation. (1) Dudley expects Fed to hit inflation target next year. (2) It all depends on resource utilization. (3) What if demand-side models are flawed? (4) Supply-side models explain persistence of deflationary pressures. (5) Inflationary expectations falling in TIPS market. (6) Bond market has gone global. (7) Valuation and beauty contests. (8) Rule of 20 says stocks still cheap. (9) Other valuation models find no bargains. (10) Cheaper stocks abroad, but for lots of good reasons. (11) US economy humming along. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Philippe Wojazer Mario DraghiJonesTrading's Dave Lutz has what traders are buzzing about right now: Good Morning!   US Futures are up slightly as the BoE stays unchanged (expected) – The main attraction of the morning belongs to Draghi (ECB Announcement at 7:45/Presser 8:30) – and Europe is thinking QE as their markets rally 60bp (near 6Y highs) in light volume.  Consumer stocks are your main winners, while EU industrials and Fins are lagging.   We had headlines from Putin defending the Ruble, but that did little to halt it’s slide, but the MICEX remains in the green.  Over in Asia, China leaps 4%, nearing 4Y highs in record volumes as 17 Securities firms closed limit up – all dovish hopes.  Shanghai has now rallied 18% since the surprise rate cut 2weeks ago - $/Y hit 119.97 last night, helping Nikkei jump to a 7Y peak as Japanese polls show a landslide victory coming for Abe’s LDP party, and Aussie popped 1% as retail sales came in better and the Miners had a strong day.  Consumer stocks globally are outperforming as the price of Gasoline collapses.  The US 10YY is up small, but watch German Bunds under a little pressure into the ECB – The Euro is flat, but hovering around 2Y lows, but the DXY is higher with gains coming against Yen.   With the higher $, commodities have a headwind, and we are watching Gold retrace back to $1200/oz, but dovish China hopes have Copper adding nearly 1% and Ore stabilizing (VALE comments helping).   All eyes on the Oil patch, where headlines saying Saudi cuts selling prices to US and Asia and Iraq adding 300k bpd to the global supply just hit WTI into the red after being up 1%+ overnight.   Natty gas remains under pressure into Inventory data as warmer weather hits the USA.   Scheduled Catalysts include Challenger Job Cuts at 7:30, The ECB rate Decision at 7:45 followed by the Draghi presser at 8:30.  Also at 8:30, we get weekly Jobless Claims data and Fed's Mester speaks.  At 10:30 we get Natty gas Inventory data (Rig count has been dropping), at Noon we get ICSC Chain Store Sales Trends – finally at 12:30 Fed's Brainard Speaks on Financial Stability FREE AppDownload
John Moore/GettyMarkets React To Fed Policy AnnouncementRob Rennie, Westpac’s head of market strategy, has just spent the last two weeks in the US and Canada talking to clients about a huge range of topics. He’s given Business Insider the green light to share the highlights. Here are the key takeaways: When will the Fed raise rates?“There seemed to be no clear consensus.” But, “it did feel that the majority view was that low inflation would be the key factor driving the Fed to start the tightening cycle later rather than sooner”. Some investors even thought US dollar strength and commodity weakness might see deflation for a few months. “But the consensus view here was a period of softer data did not really matter – absolute growth divergence between the US economy and G10 would continue strongly through next year,” Rennie wrote. “Year-end weakness was simply an opportunity to buy into 2015.” On bank lending in the USThis is really interesting with many clients arguing that bank leverage remained low “because banks are not getting return on assets… Once the Fed starts to raise rates and the return on debt increases, banks will be incentivised to put cash to work and lend. This might see credit multipliers rise and leverage ratios increase. Thus, this argument goes, the Fed might have to hike rates more aggressively/withdraw stimulus earlier than markets were pricing. This could be an important driver of sentiment through 2015.” Oil and OPEC“With OPEC showing no clear signs of cutting quotas, crude prices were likely to stay weak.” Investors thought that “even if OPEC was ultimately successful in stabilizing prices, stable prices would be the most we could really see until we saw clearer signs of global growth strengthening through late 2015 and into 2016<U+2033>. Japan and liquidityRennie said that investors agreed with his view that “risk sentiment in the Japanese household had clearly stepped up a gear and this was a positive for risk sentiment/ global liquidity”. “GPIF portfolio changes and the recent iteration of BoJ policy would continue to drive a weaker yen and targets of 120, 130 and even 140 vs USD were discussed,” Rennie said but added that “many believed this was a story for next year and this was dependent on the path of reform being clear”. Importantly, the view from the States was that the “US administration was unlikely to support further aggressive yen weakening as a means to an end without fresh impetus on reform. So the outcome of the Japanese election and the reform timetable post the election would be important for the ¥.” Draghi and the EUR“On the EUR, it was seen as just a matter of time before Draghi reached and bought government bonds. A structural weakening in the EUR lies ahead and targets as low as 1.00 were possible according to some of the more bearish clients.” China and iron ore“On China, most tended to agree that recent macro and monetary policy developments were designed to shore up 7.25 to 7.5 growth rates rather than lift growth sharply into next year.” Rennie argued the supply shock would ease but noted that “it was the demand shock that was the key driver here. For iron ore to move back into the $80/100/tonne equilibrium region we see, Chinese demand would have to recover. This makes real estate and credit data key in the near term.” Aussie dollar outlookInvestors had mixed views but “there was a consensus on the RBA… it was that rates would not be touched at all next year. And clearly, most felt that with iron ore soft and oil slumping, small short AUD was the default.” But investors think Japanese demand will keep the Aussie not far below 85 cents against the US dollar and the view was then that “that AUD offered excellent value in the 0.80 to 0.85 region and that it would outperform through next year as the goods and services balance started to move into secular surplus and the current account headed back to levels last seen in the late 1990s”. There was a small cabal who “argued the next rate move would be down as the housing market stimulus was set to wane and with mining investment set to roll over hard and the AUD to stay frustratingly above most measures of fundamental value, the RBA would have little choice but to cut rates. However, this was very much the minority view.” This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Romeo RanocoAs the long term shareholders of Comstock Capital Value Fund are aware, we warned about the dot com bubble during the late 1990s, and the housing bubble of 2004 to 2008.  We admit to being very early in both bubble predictions.  Presently, we strongly believe that we are in the process of building yet another bubble.  It may well be called “The Central Bank Bubble”.  It was very painful for Comstock to warn about these bubbles so early, but we must call the markets as we see them.  Recall that Alan Greenspan recognized the dot com bubble as early as December 1996 when he warned investors about “irrational exuberance”.  The warning roiled the stock markets both here and abroad before reaching a trough in early 1997, but the bubble resumed and continued for the next 3 years.  In fact, the NASDAQ Index doubled from 1998 to early 2000.  Dr. Greenspan subsequently reversed his feelings of “irrational exuberance” and instead proclaimed “no one is able to recognize a bubble until it bursts”. The reason we bring up these two bubbles is because we warned our investors about them years in advance of their bursting.  We now have been warning our investors about the Central Bank (CB) bubble for the past 3 years.  While we did go neutral on the market in 2009, it was after the market rose by about 50% that we began shorting stocks again.  We will continue warning our investors about the CB bubble until it bursts no matter how painful it is during the last stages of the bubble.  We fully expect another crisis to come down on stock investors for the third time in the past 14 years. Most investors were pleased with the announcement of another 200,000+ employment report, and a 5.8% unemployment rate for October.  The 200,000 barrier was reached for the 9th time in a row.  However, please consider what the Federal Reserve did to get the employment number over the 200,000 barrier.  Consider that in 2008 the Fed’s started with QE 1; in 2010 came QE 2, and in 2012 came QE 3, or some would call it QE to infinity.  QE 2 and QE 3 were separated by “Operation Twist” (the purchase of long Treasury bonds while selling short term Treasury bills).  The Fed’s balance sheet ran up from $800 bn in 2008 to close to $4.4 tn presently.     It is a statistically significant fact that with this entire monetary stimulus, along with $800 bn of fiscal stimulus, this economic recovery is less than half as strong as the average recovery from recessions over the past 60 years.  Each average GDP recovery since 1983 has been progressively weaker; with the last 3 being 3.6 % following the 1991 recession, 2.8% following the 2002 recession, and 2.2% following the 2008 recession.  This decline in recession recoveries was directly attributable to the continuous build-up of debt.  All this in the face of potential insolvencies in Medicare, Social Security, and the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation’s high probability of going under within 15 years.   It stands to reason that an economy that is weak in the face of unprecedented easy money and zero interest rates will be even weaker when the Fed unwinds its balance sheet. Please also consider that the other major central banks in the world are attempting to stimulate their economies in much the same manner as the Fed in the face of extremely large debt loads.  While US Debt to GDP stands at 330%, the EU and Japan stand at over 460% and over 655% respectively.  It is also significant that these large debt loads are also present in the emerging economies.  We therefore, continue to believe that until the large debt overhang in the world economies is substantially reduced that growth will be limited or potentially negative. It is the facts stated above, combined with extremely expensive stock market valuations across all major markets of the world that compels us to warn our investors about the potential for a third bubble busting in about 14 years. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Sergei KarpukhinThree major FX pairs are closing in on rates where the big figures start with 120. The ones that have my interest are: USDJPY = 119.40 EURCHF  =1.2030 EURUSD = 1.2335 USDJPY looks like it wants to cross 120 in a matter of hours. The question is what happens when it does. My guess is that the folks at the Bank of Japan don’t want the dollar/yen to rise much above the 120 level for the time being. The Abe snap election is just ten trading days away. An element of the election is the central bank’s policy of weakening the currency. Japanese voters understand FX rates; they know they are paying more for imports and paying a ton more when they travel abroad. If the BoJ wants to buy some votes by  micro managing the FX rate with a temporary “lid” on USDJPY it certainly could.  We shall see soon enough. But assume that Abe gets his vote of confidence on 12/14. What does that mean? Adios 120. Another 20 big figures to 140 is a reasonable estimate. Another big move up in USDJPY will be the fuel for a currency war. Korea and China will not just sit back and let it happen. EURCHF is a wild card (it might be a Black Swan). The head of the Swiss National Bank, Thomas Jordon, was drinking Kirschwasser after his big win on the gold vote last weekend. The vote was 4-1 in his favor! But where is the EURCHF today? 13 measly ticks above the close before the key vote. This lousy bounce from that vote? And Jordon felt it was necessary to issue an unusual Sunday SNB Press Statement that reaffirmed the SNB’s commitment to “Do what it takes” including negative interests rates and unlimited intervention to support the 1.20 peg I, for one, believe Mr. Jordon. I think he’s willing to write an enormous check to back up his promise. I think he has enough ammo to hold the Alamo for a while longer. But I never believed that “Unlimited” was a realistic description of the powers of the Swiss Central Bank. If Mr. Jordan’s phone starts ringing over the next few months, and he’s forced to put in bids for $250B Euros, he might have to blink. A 50% increase in reserves in a short period of time would force the unpleasant question, “What does unlimited really mean?” I put a break of EURCHF 1.20 as a low probability. But, on the other hand, a 1/4 Trillion Euros is not all that much money these days – so this has fireworks potential. What is at stake is not just the Swiss peg promise. If the SNB adjusts the peg to a dirty float, then the market would, in a matter of seconds, redirect its sights on Mr. Draghi’s promise of “Anything”.  This scenario may be unlikely, but it’s a bad road to go. What could trigger a move on the SNB? A weak Euro would be the ticket to this show. How likely is that? Very! At 1.2330 the EURUSD seems miles away from a break through 1.200. I think it could happen by Christmas. The best reason I can give for this is that all of the ‘Deciders’ (especially Draghi) want it to happen. We’ll see if the markets give Draghi what he really wants for a Yule celebration. The problem comes shortly thereafter when the talk runs, “We blasted through 1.20, the next stop is 1.10, better get in now or miss it!”   These potential breaks of the One Twenty levels are milestones that will trigger more volatility. They are somewhat correlated as a major driver of this is the weak Yen. A cheap Yen puts pressure on the Euro, and that will influence CHF demand. There is a factor in this that has me wondering. What is the status of the FX Interbank market? Is it solid? There are thousands of FX players, but the top 50 financial institutions make up most of the volume. The big guys are market makers, the rest of the actors are price takers. Where do the top 20 players in the FX market stand today? Many of the top spot traders have been fired or forced to resign. Others have seen the light and moved on to greener pastures. Trading desks have been thinned, position limits cut. Prop trading has been cut back. Robots do most of the pricing. Auditors look at every trade. Compliance types are peering over shoulders. All communications are monitored. I’m concerned that the ‘Second String’ is manning the desks. Put that together and ask, “Is this weakened system able to absorb a spike in one-directional volume? Will it step up and keep order? Or will it back off and allow volatility to roar? “ We’ll find out when the One Twenties get crossed. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Adrees LatifA police officer near activists who staged a "die-in" during rush hour at Grand Central Terminal in the Manhattan borough of New York on Wednesday following a grand jury ruling in the death of Eric Garner.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. Get Ready For The European Central Bank. At 7:45 a.m. ET, the latest decisions from the ECB will be announced, followed 45 minutes later by an hour-long news conference with Mario Draghi. Analysts are expecting more dovish noises but less firm action from Frankfurt.  Markets Are Up. US futures are in the green with Dow futures up 18 and S&amp;P futures up 1.9 points. Asia closed higher with Japan's Nikkei up 0.9% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 1.7%.In Europe, Britain's FTSE is up 0.1%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.5%, and Germany's DAX is up 0.5%. Get Ready For US Jobs Data. The US Department of Labor will release its latest weekly tally of initial unemployment insurance claims. Economists estimate the pace of weekly claims fell to 295,000 from 313,000 a week ago. "The four-week moving average of initial claims has been below the 300k threshold for almost three months, a sign that involuntary separations have reached their nadir," Nomura economists said. Toyota Is Recalling Another 190,000 Cars In Japan And China. Toyota will recall 190,000 vehicles in Japan and China to replace potentially defective front passenger-side air bags made by Takata Corp., the latest in a long line of recalls for the embattled auto safety parts supplier. Best Buy Is Getting Out Of China. "US retailer Best Buy Co Inc said on Thursday it will sell its struggling China business, Five Star, to domestic real estate firm Zhejiang Jiayuan Group in order to focus on its North American operations," Reuters' Adam Jourdan reported. "Best Buy has struggled to fend off Chinese rivals in a crowded market, as other US firms have complained that operating in the country has become more of a challenge." Intel Is Cranking Up Its Investments In China. "Intel Corp will invest $1.6 billion to upgrade its factory in the city of Chengdu in western China, the latest sign of how the chipmaker is deepening ties in a market that is proving increasingly troublesome for some US technology peers," Reuters' Gerry Shih reported. "As part of the upgrade, Intel said in a statement on Thursday it would bring its most advanced chip-testing technology to China. In exchange it will receive local and regional government support for construction." SoftBank Is Betting On An Uber-Style Taxi Service In Asia. The Japanese telecoms firm SoftBank Corp. has pumped in $250 million to become the top investor in the Southeast Asian mobile taxi-booking application GrabTaxi, its biggest investment in a Southeast Asian internet firm. Brazil Hiked Interest Rates. The central bank lifted Brazil's benchmark interest rate to 11.75%, as investors expected, in an attempt to control inflation, according to the Financial Times.  Europe Will Struggle To Reform, But China Will Manage, According To Jamie Dimon. JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon spoke in Washington on Wednesday, saying that growth would be "sub-optimal" and reforms would be hard. Dimon added that Chinese authorities could "macro-manage and they can meet their short-term growth objectives, which is good for everybody else," according to Bloomberg. Qatar Just Swapped Out The Head Of Its Massive Wealth Fund. The $300 billion fund is getting a new chief, according to the Financial Times. Sheikh Abdullah bin Mohamed bin Saud al-Thani, a member of the Qatari royal family, will take over from Ahmed al-Sayed, just a year after Sayed took the role. FREE AppDownload
The US retailer Best Buy Co Inc. said Thursday it would sell its struggling China business, Five Star, to the domestic real estate firm Zhejiang Jiayuan Group to focus on its North American operations. The world's largest consumer electronics chain didn't disclose financial terms of the sale of the 184-store network, announced in a statement. Best Buy has struggled to fend off Chinese rivals in a crowded market, as other US firms have complained that operating in the country has become more of a challenge. "The sale of Five Star does not suggest any similar action in Canada or Mexico. Instead, it allows us to focus even more on our North American business," Hubert Joly, Best Buy's president and chief executive officer, said in the statement. Joly added that Best Buy would continue to invest in its private label operation in the country. Best Buy's China operations accounted for around 4% of its sales in the most recent financial year, ended Feb. 1. Jiayuan Group did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Best Buy pulled out of the European market last year when it sold its stake in Carphone Warehouse Group for less than half its initial investment. At the time, many analysts suggested the firm should also consider exiting China. The deal, which is subject to regulatory approval, is expected to close in the first quarter of fiscal 2016.  (Reporting by Adam Jourdan and SHANGHAI newsroom; Editing by Kenneth Maxwell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos Barria A businessman looks at his mobile phone as he walks in the financial area of Pudong in Shanghai May 30, 2013.BEIJING (Reuters) - Chinese police have arrested an employee of commodity trader Trafigura as part of an investigation into an alleged $32 million gasoline trade fraud, according to an official arrest warrant seen by Reuters. Tian Meng, 39, who works at Trafigura's oil marketing team in Beijing, has been held without charge in the northern city of Cangzhou since August, three sources with direct knowledge of the situation said. Under Chinese law, police can arrest suspects and detain them for up to seven months without charge. Tian could not be reached for comment, while a spokeswoman for Trafigura, which is the world's second-largest metals trader and third-largest oil trader, declined to comment. Commodity financing deals in China are already under the spotlight after a billion-dollar scandal at Qingdao Port, where a private Chinese trading firm has been accused of duplicating warehouse certificates to secure bank loans. The investigation into Tian was launched after private Chinese trader Qingdao United Energy (QUE) filed a complaint to police in early August, alleging it had lost $32 million via trade financing deals arranged without its knowledge between Tian and local trader Zhang Wei, according to two sources with direct knowledge of the investigation. Zhang was arrested in May, according to a warrant seen by Reuters. He could not be reached for comment.A spokesman for the Cangzhou police bureau declined to comment when asked to confirm the investigation into Tian and Zhang. A senior Trafigura source said Zhang, who had been trading derivatives with Trafigura since 2011 using collateral and credit backed by a local-government-backed firm, had accumulated losses of $32 million by late 2013 and agreed to a financing scheme with Tian and his Singapore-based gasoline team to settle the losses.  Zhang bought 700,000 barrels of gasoline from Trafigura at market price using letters of credit issued by QUE and then sold them back to Trafigura at a discount of $32 million, two official sources with direct knowledge of the investigations said. Li Yixing, founder of QUE, told Reuters he was not aware of the loss-covering agreement made by Zhang, who was a shareholder in his company but was not authorized to enter into such deals. The senior Trafigura source said Tian believed Zhang was the authorized agent of QUE, adding that Zhang had represented other companies in previous transactions without problems.   (Editing by Fayen Wong, Ed Davies and Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
NASATyphoon Hagupit in the western Pacific Ocean captured by NASA's Aqua satellite on Wednesday.Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Thursday. 1. Protests have paralysed parts of New York City after a grand jury announced its decision Wednesday to not indict a white officer involved in the death of a Staten Island man, who was black.  2. North Korea has officially denied that it was involved in the massive hack of Sony Pictures. 3. The European Central Bank will announce its latest monetary policy decisions at 12:45 p.m. GMT on Thursday, followed by a news conference with ECB president Mario Draghi.  4. A major Philippines city is being evacuated as Super Typhoon Hagupit heads toward the island.  5. Japanese newspaper polls showed Thursday that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's ruling Liberal Democratic Party may expand its majority in the Dec. 14 election.  6. Kmart has become the second major retailer, after Target, to pull the "Grand Theft Auto" video game from its Australian stores because of complaints over violence against women.  7. A lawsuit in California accuses Apple of using iTunes to fix prices.  8. A Thai court has charged two Burmese men with killing two British tourists, 23-year-old Hannah Witheridge and 24-year-old David Miller, in Thailand in September.  9. Unilever will separate its spreads division, which includes brand like Flora and Bertolli margarine, into a separate company after acknowledging it was bringing down the business, The Wall Street Journal reports. 10. An international group of scientists has warned that asteroids are one of the biggest threats facing humanity and has called for increased efforts to detect and track killer space rocks.  And finally ... London has released new images of its Crossrail project, the largest infrastructure project in Europe.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachEuropean stocks are mostly flat ahead of the European Central Bank's announcement today at 12.45 p.m. GMT, followed by a press conference at 1:30 p.m.  Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40: +0.06% Germany's DAX is the best performer, +0.33% UK's FTSE 100: -0.01% Spain's IBEX: +0.12% Italy's FTSE MIB: +0.16% Asian markets rallied before close. Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.94%, Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 1.72%, and the surging Shanghai Composite Index closed up 4.31%. US futures are flat: The S&amp;P 500 is down by 0.25 points, and the Dow is up 5 points.  Today, the ECB meeting in Frankfurt is the biggest economic event. Analysts are expecting a lot of dovish noises, and hints at more easing, but less concrete action. At 1:30 p.m. GMT, we've also got initial jobless numbers from the US, for the week ending on Nov. 29. Analysts are expecting fewer than 300,000 initial claims for unemployment benefits. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTrafigura logo is pictured in the company entrance in GenevaLONDON (Reuters) - Trafigura, one of the world's biggest commodities trading firms, played a pivotal role in helping Iraq's semi-autonomous Kurdish region export oil, which the Iraqi government considered illegal, three sources familiar with the trades said. This week Iraq and its Kurdish region reached a landmark deal designed to resolve a dispute over oil exports which had threatened to break up Iraq, after seven months during which the Kurds defied Baghdad to sell oil on their own. The Kurds have long argued that they are permitted to sell oil under Iraq's 2005 constitution, provided the revenue is shared with the rest of Iraq according to an agreed formula. The government in Baghdad says only the central authorities can sell oil, and threatened to sue buyers who deal with the Kurds. Swiss-based Trafigura's role in the trade has not been revealed until now. A Trafigura spokesman declined to comment, as did a spokesman for the Iraqi Kurdish regional government. According to the three sources, who revealed the commercial information on condition of anonymity, Trafigura became involved in Kurdish oil sales after the Kurds achieved poor results from initial attempts at exports early this year. Ships had been loaded but ended up sailing aimlessly, with few buyers willing to brave Baghdad's anger to take delivery. Since Trafigura began handling some of the sales in recent months, all of the 30-plus tankers have found buyers, apart from one for which Trafigura was not responsible, the sources said. Trafigura struck its deal to sell Kurdish oil with the Kurdish regional government this summer after meetings in London and the Kurdish capital Arbil, the sources said. At the time, a lightning advance of Islamic State militants in northern Iraq threw the Kurds into front-line battle. The oil was delivered to destinations such as Israel, Croatia and to buyers off the coast of Malaysia, according to trading sources and publicly available ship-tracking data. A series of ship-to-ship transfers and temporary storage arrangements was put in place, often making it difficult to track final destinations. Iraqi oil ministry officials were not available to comment on the role of Trafigura in the trade. Baghdad has not made clear whether it will lift its threat to sue firms involved in past transactions with the Kurds following this week's deal to resolve the dispute. Asked at a press conference two weeks ago about plans to sue over past deals, Iraqi oil minister Adel Abdel Mehdi declined to comment, saying he did not want to spoil the positive relations between the Kurds and the new Iraqi government which took power three months ago. Kurdish officials said they had no choice but to sell oil this year because Baghdad had halted payments to the region of its share of total oil revenue. Resolving the dispute became more urgent in recent months as the Kurds ramped up their oil sales, even as both sides faced a resurgent threat from Islamic militants. Kurdish leaders threatened to seek independence, breaking up Iraq. Washington, which is helping both the central government and the Kurds battle Islamic State fighters, put pressure on them to resolve their differences. Under this week's deal, the Kurds will receive 17 percent of Iraq's oil revenue and the central government will pay the salaries of the Kurds' security forces known as peshmerga. By the time Baghdad and the Kurds reached their agreement this week, Kurdish exports had risen to around 300,000 barrels per day, more than a tenth of Iraqi output. Some industry sources predicted the Kurds could be selling 1 million bpd by next year. The identity of the trader behind the sales has until now been a closely-guarded secret, with Baghdad threatening not only to sue but to bar any company that assisted the Kurds from handling Iraq's sizeable exports from the south. Trafigura does not handle any of Baghdad's own oil sales from state marketer SOMO, unlike some of its biggest rivals. Trafigura was not behind the one Kurdish vessel still stuck in limbo off the coast of Texas, the United Kalavrvta, the source familiar with the trades said. A Texas judge has said the state lacks the jurisdiction to rule on the ownership of the oil. (Additional reporting by Raheem Salman in Baghdad; Editing by Peter Graff) FREE AppDownload
French unemployment hit 10.4% in the third quarter of the year. That puts the rate back at its mid-2013 levels (when France was still officially in recession), wiping out a year's modest progress in cutting jobless numbers. Here's how that looks:  INSEE It's an eye-watering situation for France: though it's not the hardest hit-country in Europe, while the UK and US unemployment rates have descended significantly, France's is stubbornly high. The US rate has dropped from nearly 10% at the end of 2009 to below 6%, while France has seen unemployment rise by about one percentage point over the same period. France's unemployment rate has stayed high in large part because of its poor growth. And according to recent business surveys, there's not much joy on the horizon: France's PMI came in at a nine-month low yesterday, suggesting the economy is in a mild recession. Businesses are unlikely to hire for the future because conditions aren't really expected to improve: without some sort of economic boost from government action or any sort of positive shock, this is the grim outlook that France is stuck with.  FREE AppDownload
