Thomson ReutersA security personnel on duty stands next to the reception desk at a branch of China Everbright Bank in HefeiBy Engen Tham and Lawrence White SHANGHAI/HONG KONG (Reuters) - Squeezed between cut-throat competition from online financing firms and rising funding costs, China's midsize banks are falling out of investors' favor as they increasingly lag behind the country's top five lenders. While margins generated from lending have remained broadly stable at the larger banks, they have shrunk considerably for the second-tier lenders like China Everbright Bank  and China Merchants Bank  over the past six months, a Reuters data analysis shows. And like some of their European peers, those smaller lenders are also lagging behind the big banks in terms of balance sheet strength, analysts say, a factor that is likely to be highlighted in the banking sector's third-quarter earnings. China's five biggest banks are Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Ltd  (ICBC), China Construction Bank Corp  (CCB), Agricultural Bank of China Ltd , Bank of China (BoC)   and Bank of Communications Co Ltd  . "The divergence between big and medium or small-sized banks will increase, as the latter see higher fundraising risks due to their weaker capital base," said Fan Cheuk Wan, chief investment officer Asia Pacific in Credit Suisse's private banking and wealth management unit. CCB is due to kick off the banking sector's third-quarter earnings season on Thursday. Second-tier lenders, also known as joint stock banks, have, on average, a market capitalisation of less than 300 billion yuan, significantly smaller than the big five lenders. Chinese banks' net interest margins (NIMs), or the gap between what the lenders pay out for deposits and rake in from loans, have come under pressure from aggressive competition from online financing firms such as e-commerce group Alibaba's  Yuebao platform. This is particularly a problem for smaller banks, which have to pay more to fund themselves as their regulatory capital ratio - a measure of balance sheet strength - is on average 1.5 percentage points weaker than that seen at the larger players. "Net interest margins are likely to decline faster for smaller banks in China going forward, as they face rising costs of funding," said Vincent Chan, head of China research at Credit Suisse. The average net interest margin for China's top five banks, has remained stable at around 2.6 percent over the last year. In contrast, the next seven banks saw this key indicator of profitability drop to 1.86 percent in the second quarter from levels previously comparable to the big banks. The margins are seen falling further in the third-quarter. To counter the profit squeeze, investors say second-tier lenders may look to innovate by embracing online finance. "Online e-commerce is one area where the small- and mid-sized banks are a lot more flexible in partnering with a lot of the e-commerce retailers," said Tony Chu, who manages a portfolio for RS Investments, a fund with $24 billion of capital and positions in Chinese banks. The big five banks also benefit from closer ties to the country's top state-owned companies, known as SOEs. Lending to these conglomerates is considered much safer because of implicit government guarantees. "Large SOEs will emerge as winners and you want to be the bank that's lending to them, not the guys that are going to be driven out," said Matthew Smith, a banks analyst at Macquarie. Smith said he was positive about ICBC and CCB versus the smaller lenders since they count more large public companies among their clients.  (Editing by Lisa Jucca and Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsMorgan Stanley has released a new report on secular growth stocks. The 42 stocks are companies they believe will grow irrespective of fluctuations in the business cycle. Tech companies like Facebook and Google dominate the list. There are also a lot of healthcare companies, which are benefiting from the aging population. "We believe that the names selected for this report can grow strongly even if the global economy grows more slowly than our current GDP forecasts," the report states. "Indeed, growth stocks on the whole tend to be less impacted by cyclical forces, one of the reasons that, over time, they’re more likely to meet or beat estimates than their value counterparts." Note: The EPS growth is the projected compound annual growth rate (CAGR) from 2013-2016, the PE estimates are based on 2014 Morgan Stanley research expectations, and the PEG ratio refers to the price-earnings to growth ratio which is an indicator of the stock's valuation. Growth stocks with lower PEGs are generally considered cheaper. FREE AppDownload
BIIThe relationship between consumers and their banks is in a period of dramatic upheaval brought on by the rapid pace of technological innovation. Bricks-and-mortar banks are losing relevance among consumers — particularly millennials.  Fifty percent of North Americans say they would be likely to bank with tech start-up Square should the company offer a banking service, for example.  In a new report from BI Intelligence, we analyze how consumer banking habits have changed, how its affected retail banks and we explore a number of things banks can do to stay ahead of the curve.  Access the Full Report By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt; Here are some of the key elements from the report: In full, the report: For full access to all our charts, data, and analysis on the payments industry — including downloadable Excel files — sign up for a free trial. FREE AppDownload
The price of a barrel of light sweet crude oil has tumbled from over $100 per barrel this summer to just around $80 per barrel this week. Analysts have attributed this to slowing demand due to the decelerating global economy and higher supply in large part due to the US shale energy boom. However, the US shale basins are relatively expensive to tap. And when the price of oil falls below a certain breakeven level, fracking for oil in these unconventional plays becomes uneconomical. "[O]n a reserve weighted basis, the average breakeven for unconventional plays in the US is $76- 77/bbl, at an asset level," Morgan Stanley's Martijn Rats, Haythem Rashed and Sasikanth Chilukuru write. "At the corporate level, this breakeven is likely to be higher. This too suggests that if oil prices persist at current levels, this would likely lead to a slow down in spending. " The analysts characterized the downside scenario of persistently low oil prices as the "capex cliff," a scenario in which energy companies cut back sharply on spending. And that in turn could ripple through the economy. Their report included this chart of the breakeven oil prices for the various US shale basins. Morgan Stanley
 Only 39% of American adults have a budget and keep close track of their spending, according to the 2014 Financial Literacy Survey conducted by the National Foundation for Credit Counseling. Not to mention that 32% of households don't save for retirement, and 60% haven't looked at their credit score in the last year. However, that same survey finds that 59% of us give ourselves grades of "A" or "B" when it comes to financial literacy. Maybe we don't know as much as we think we do. Microsoft cofounder Paul G. Allen and movie director Morgan Spurlock want to change that. Allen's Vulcan productions and Spurlock's Cinelan produced a series of short films called "We The Economy: 20 Short Films You Can't Afford To Miss." The 20 short documentaries, directed by a handful of well-known directors, tackle everything from Wall Street ("The Street," directed by Joe Berlinger) to the Federal Reserve ("Fed Hed," directed by Catherine Hardwicke) to what the government has to do with our money ("Taxation Nation," directed by Jessica Yu). "I think we live in a country and we live in a time, where, you know, a lot of us are economically illiterate," Spurlock told Marketplace's Kai Ryssdal. "I think that our eyes glass over, we kind of go into a slump hearing about derivatives or market fluctuation or the Federal Reserve. I think having a basic understanding of how these things work, and how they impact our lives, is important." Take, for instance, the first film in the series: Spurlock's own roughly seven-minute "Cave-o-Nomics," which explains how the market economy began. We start off with the formal definition of the economy (yawn): Cave-o-nomics / We The Economy But are soon introduced to (most likely historically inaccurate) cavemen Ugg and Glugg, who realize that by trading the things they have with each other, they can get the things they need. 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						We The Economy / Cave-o-Nomics				 When Ugg and Glugg realize that they can trade the things they have for things other people have, their cave market is born, a place where "skilled tradesmen could sell their goods to more and more people."  Those marketplaces led to businesses, which led to industries, which allowed the cave-businesspeople to sell their wares far beyond the cave. We The Economy / Cave-o-Nomics But, as the narrator points out, markets are about other people trying to improve their interests, too. "After all," he says, "competition drives innovation."  Soon, an interloper has begun to siphon off Ugg's spear clients with a new and improved spear model. "Innovation drives productivity," continues the narrator, "and productivity drives profit." 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						We The Economy / Cave-o-Nomics				 "The greater the supply, the cheaper the price," the narrator says. "The cheaper the price, the greater the demand. The greater the demand, the higher the productivity. The higher the productivity, the cheaper the price."  The film points out that factors like scarcity, quantity, and quality will also affect the value of any given product. We The Economy / Cave-o-Nomics The sale of goods soon became the sale of services, and the government took on the role of policing the marketplace. "Free markets function best if a playing field is level," the narrator tells us. "If any one individual, group, or company has an unfair advantage, people lose faith and the whole thing can crumble." Although the government, meant to regulate the markets, can be a source of corruption itself, the film explains that the markets only work if the people participating in them think they benefit. "In the end, markets are only as strong as the confidence people have in them," the narrator says. Watch the entire film below, and see the rest of the series on Youtube or at Wetheeconomy.com.  FREE AppDownload
Note from dshort: With this morning's release of the Consumer Price Index for September, we can now calculate Real Retail Sales for last month. Official recession calls are the responsibility of the NBER Business Cycle Dating Committee, which is understandably vague about the specific indicators on which they base their decisions. This committee statement is about as close as they get to identifying their method. There is, however, a general belief that there are four big indicators that the committee weighs heavily in their cycle identification process. They are: The Latest Indicator Data With this morning’s release of the September Consumer Price Index, we can now calculate Real Retail Sales. I reported the nominal Advance Retail Sales last week, which showed September at -0.3% (-0.32% at two decimals) month-over-month, down from 0.6% in August. That was much worse that the mainstream forecasts. When we adjust for inflation, September sales came in even worse at a -0.41%. The chart below illustrates the series since 2009 with a linear regression to help us analyze the trend.  The contraction in sales attributed to an unusually severe winter is clearly evident. April through July performed below trend. August saw a positive bounce that put us back to trend, but September appears to have reverted to the substandard summer growth. The Census Bureau's Retail Sales series is, as I've pointed out elsewhere, subject to substantial revisions, to the latest month shouldn't be taken too seriously. The Generic Big Four The chart and table below illustrate the performance of the generic Big Four with an overlay of a simple average of the four since the end of the Great Recession. The data points show the cumulative percent change from a zero starting point for June 2009. We now have the three indicator updates for the 61th month following the recession. The Big Four Average is (gray line below).  Current Assessment and Outlook The overall picture of the US economy had been one of slow recovery from the Great Recession with a clearly documented contraction during the winter, as reflected in Q1 GDP. Data for Q2 supported the consensus view that severe winter weather was responsible for the Q1 contraction -- that it was not the beginnings of a business cycle decline. However, the average of these indicators in recent months suggests that, despite the Q2 rebound in GDP, the economy remains near stall speed. We'll need some near-term improvement to avoid rolling over.  The next update of the Big Four be the month-end Real Personal Income less Transfer Payments. Background Analysis: The Big Four Indicators and Recessions The charts above don't show us the individual behavior of the Big Four leading up to the 2007 recession. To achieve that goal, I've plotted the same data using a "percent off high" technique. In other words, I show successive new highs as zero and the cumulative percent declines of months that aren't new highs. The advantage of this approach is that it helps us visualize declines more clearly and to compare the depth of declines for each indicator and across time (e.g., the short 2001 recession versus the Great Recession). Here is my own four-pack showing the indicators with this technique.   Now let's examine the behavior of these indicators across time. The first chart below graphs the period from 2000 to the present, thereby showing us the behavior of the four indicators before and after the two most recent recessions. Rather than having four separate charts, I've created an overlay to help us evaluate the relative behavior of the indicators at the cycle peaks and troughs. (See my note below on recession boundaries).  Click for a larger image The chart above is an excellent starting point for evaluating the relevance of the four indicators in the context of two very different recessions. In both cases, the bounce in Industrial Production matches the NBER trough while Employment and Personal Incomes lagged in their respective reversals. As for the start of these two 21st century recessions, the indicator declines are less uniform in their behavior. We can see, however, that Employment and Personal Income were laggards in the declines. Now let's look at the 1972-1985 period, which included three recessions -- the savage 16-month Oil Embargo recession of 1973-1975 and the double dip of 1980 and 1981-1982 (6-months and 16-months, respectively).  Click for a larger image And finally, for sharp-eyed readers who can don't mind squinting at a lot of data, here's a cluttered chart from 1959 to the present. That is the earliest date for which all four indicators are available. The main lesson of this chart is the diverse patterns and volatility across time for these indicators. For example, retail sales and industrial production are far more volatile than employment and income.  Click for a larger image History tells us the brief periods of contraction are not uncommon, as we can see in this big picture since 1959, the same chart as the one above, but showing the average of the four rather than the individual indicators.  Click for a larger image The chart clearly illustrates the savagery of the last recession. It was much deeper than the closest contender in this timeframe, the 1973-1975 Oil Embargo recession. While we've yet to set new highs, the trend has collectively been upward, although we have that strange anomaly caused by the late 2012 tax-planning strategy that impacted the Personal Income. Here is a close-up of the average since 2000.  Click for a larger image   Appendix: Chart Gallery with Notes Each of the four major indicators discussed in this article are illustrated below in three different data manipulations: Industrial Production The US Industrial Production Index (INDPRO) is the oldest of the four indicators, stretching back to 1919, although I've dropped the earlier decades and started in 1950.  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Real Personal Income Less Transfer Payments This data series is computed as by taking Personal Income (PI) less Personal Current Transfer Receipts (PCTR) and deflated using the Personal Consumption Expenditure Price Index (PCEPI). I've chained the data to the latest price index value. The "Tax Planning Strategies" annotation refers to shifting income into the current year to avoid a real or expected tax increase.  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Transfer Payments largely consist of retirement and disability insurance benefits, medical benefits, income maintenance benefits (more here). The chart below shows the Transfer Payment portion of Personal Income. I've included recessions to help illustrate the impact of the business cycle on this metric.  Total Nonfarm Employees There are many ways to plot employment. The one referenced by the Federal Reserve researchers as one of the NBER indicators is Total Nonfarm Employees (PAYEMS).  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Real Retail Sales This indicator is a splicing of the discontinued retail sales series (RETAIL, discontinued in April 2001) with the Retail and Food Services Sales (RSAFS) and deflated by the seasonally adjusted Consumer Price Index (CPIAUCSL). I used a splice point of January 1995 because that date was mentioned in the FRED notes. My experiments with other splice techniques (e.g., 1992, 2001 or using an average of the overlapping years) didn't make a meaningful difference in the behavior of the indicator in proximity to recessions. I've chained the data to the latest CPI value.  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image  Click for a larger image Note: I represent recessions as the peak month through the month preceding the trough to highlight the recessions in the charts above. For example, the NBER dates the last cycle peak as December 2007, the trough as June 2009 and the duration as 18 months. The "Peak through the Period preceding the Trough" series is the one FRED uses in its monthly charts, as explained in the FRED FAQs illustrated in this Industrial Production chart. FREE AppDownload
APFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisers.  Advisers Make Critical Mistakes With Female Millennials (Investment News) Female millennials are going to earn way more and will take greater roles in household financial decisions than did past generations. However, some advisers often end up inadvertently alienating female millennials. One major mistake that advisers make is focusing only on long-term financial goals, like retirement. Nowadays, because women are taking greater financial responsibilities, they have short-term financial goals to achieve as well, like merging finances after marriage. Additionally, advisers are sometimes inaccessible to women. Advisers need to be more flexible and available on social media platforms, writes Mary Beth Storjohann. Investors Need To Start Thinking About Risk Tolerance Differently (Financial Planning) The typical approach to risk tolerance involves looking at two factors: the client's attitude toward risk and his or her financial ability to do so. For example, if a client has "positive attitudes" toward risk and has the financial ability to take risks, financial advisers put together an aggressive portfolio. The problem with this, however, is that there is a difference between a client's attitude toward risk and his or her need to take it. "As a result, wealthy clients who don't want or need risk are still given (unnecessarily risky) moderate growth portfolios," and "young clients who have a long time horizon but no desire for risk end up with equity-centric portfolios that may scar them for life," Michael Kitces writes. Investors Should Retool Their Bond Exposure (Alliance Bernstein) "It's certainly going to be a more challenging world for fixed income," Alison Martier writes. "As with many segments of the global markets today, there aren't many broad swaths of the bond market that are still cheap. This should keep bond returns generally modest going forward." However, fixed income isn't dead. The key for investors is to increase global exposure (except in currency) in their portfolios. Additionally, "investors should diversify credit exposure across the broad set of market segments, including traditional high yield, emerging market debt and even investment-grade credit."  And finally, investors should manage liquidity risk. "The cost of liquidity expands or contracts based on market conditions. In times of stress, liquidity costs are higher," Martier adds. Look At Both Large Cap And Global Stocks Following Last Week's Sell-Off (BlackRock Blog) "The recent sell-off is a mid-cycle correction rather than the start of a bear market and, as such, I'd maintain exposure to global equity markets," Russ Koesterich writes. "If anything, the recent drop in interest rates, coupled with the decline in stock valuations, provides an even more compelling case for the asset class as offering better long-term return prospects than bonds." Additionally, investors should look at large and mega-cap stocks, because these market segments have recently done better than the small- and mid-cap ones. Additionally, large-cap and mega-cap stocks have a better cushion for volatility. Morgan Stanley Just Hired 5 Advisers From Merrill, UBS, And JPMorgan (The Wall Street Journal) Morgan Stanley just went on a major hiring spree and added five advisers to the firm. The hires, who come from Merrill Lynch, UBS, and JPMorgan, managed more than $565 million in client assets at their previous firms. Michael Wursthorn reports that the new hires will join various offices including Hartford, Connecticut; Louisville, Kentucky; and Aventura, Florida. Spokespeople declined to comment on the moves. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsVintage sports memorabilia can be a store of wealth. This Honus Wagner baseball card is worth over $2 million."Gold gets dug out of the ground in Africa or someplace. Then we melt it down, dig another hole, bury it again and pay people to stand around guarding it. It has no utility. Anyone watching from Mars would be scratching their head." That's what Warren Buffett said back in 1998. Gold has long been considered a safe-haven investment. However, the price of gold has performed dismally in recent years. For those who don't trust the conventional financial markets, there are alternative more unorthodox ways to put away wealth. We put together a list of some odd assets that have performed relatively well. But be warned. These assets are very illiquid, and there's no guarantee that their values won't plunge as gold has before them. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Alan CleaverYes, it's about timing — but not the timing you think. We’ve illustrated this rule with one of the longest-running index data sets available: the daily returns of the S&amp;P 500 from January 2, 1928, through 2014. You can explore the difference that a few years makes by changing the slider or pressing the play button.  The interactive presents the distribution of returns an investor would have received for an investment of $100 for a given holding period in the S&amp;P 500. 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						Betterment				 To interact with the tool, view it on Betterment. x-axis: This represents the final value of a $100 investment over a given period in the S&amp;P 500. To change the investment period, use the slider in upper left corner. y-axis: This percentage shows the historical proportion of outcomes. For example, 99.3% of investment periods lasting one day resulted in a final investment value between $95 and $105. Example: From 1928 to 2014 there were 21,502 possible holding periods that lasted 12 months (e.g., January 2, 1928, to January 2, 1929; January 3, 1928, to January 3, 1929, etc.). Of those 21,502 holding periods, 74% resulted in positive returns with a median return of $13 on a $100 investment. On the other end of the slider, there were 18,730 possible holding periods that lasted 12 years. The returns for these holding periods were more widely dispersed and overwhelmingly positive, with a median return of $240 on a $100 investment. The graph below focuses on the relationship between probability of loss and holding period. After one year, the proportion of losses drops substantially. This is one key part of the time-in-the-market advice.   If investing in the S&amp;P 500, the risk of loss is much higher for the short-term investor than the long-term investor. Betterment Conversely, let’s look at the median total cumulative return for every given holding period. It’s a stable and steady line, rising over time. Betterment In combination, we can see clearly the imperative to keep the focus on time. The broader market is, and will almost always be, riskier for the short-term investor than the long-term investor. We previously wrote about the benefit of time in the market and maintaining a long term focus during downturns. We hope this analysis bolsters those points. Lastly, given the importance of time in the market, Betterment tailors your stock allocation to match your personal investment timeframe. Learn more about how our goals work with your timeframe. This blog post was produced with Joe Jansen. <U+200B>NOTE: This information is based on the historical analysis of the S&amp;P 500, not a Betterment account. Historical S&amp;P 500 data is available at Yahoo Finance and from Robert Shiller. The above charts do not factor in trading or transaction costs. <U+200B>Investing in securities involves risks, and there is always the potential of losing money when you invest in securities. Before investing, consider your investment objectives and Betterment’s charges and expenses. Past performance does not guarantee future results, and the likelihood of investment outcomes are hypothetical in nature. This article originally appeared at Betterment.  Copyright 2014. Follow Betterment on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Margin Call screenshotThe life of a banker is about to get a little bit harder. Firms have long banned employees from entertaining clients in strip clubs, but now they're cracking down even more. Several London banks have decided to ban employees from buying their clients shots and "pricey" bottle service, according to a Bloomberg report. And on top of that, one London bank has started to impose curfews: senior bankers won't be allowed stay out with clients past midnight. But that's not so bad, considering the fact that junior bankers won't be allowed out past 10. All of these bans and restrictions show that banks are "becoming increasingly specific about what's tolerated and what won't be," the report states. In the last year, Barclays banned its employees from receiving gifts from brokers and Goldman Sachs declared that investment bankers aren't allowed to trade individual stocks and bonds. And there's more where that came from. Overall, the latest bottle service and shots bans are expected to have a "positive impact." "A sober staff member is less likely to make an error of judgment, whether in conversation with a client on a night out or on the trading floor the next day," said Paul Quain, a GQ Employment partner.  Here's hoping. FREE AppDownload
APAT&amp;T just reported earnings and revenue that missed expectations. In immediate reaction in after hours trade, the stock was down as much as 3%.  AT&amp;T reported third quarter adjusted EPS of $0.63 against expectations for $0.64 on revenue of $33 billion against expectations for $33.24 billion.  The wireless carrier also announced that it added 785,000 net postpaid subscribers in the third quarter, bringing its net adds to more than 2.4 million year-to-date.  The company also said that it expects full-year consolidated revenue growth of 3%-4% this year, including the impact from fewer AT&amp;T Next gross adds and a larger than expected number of wireless subscribers who brought their own device to the company.  The company had previously expected revenue to grow 5% this year.  Wall Street's expectations were for revenue to come in at $133.1 billion.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Chris WattieArmed RCMP officers approach Centre Block on Parliament Hill following a shooting incident in Ottawa October 22, 2014. A Canadian soldier was shot at the Canadian War Memorial and a shooter was seen running towards the nearby parliament buildings, where more shots were fired, according to media and eyewitness reports. Stocks fell on Wednesday for the first time in four days, with some traders blaming the selling on reports of multiple shootings near the Canadian Capital. The decline in stocks also came amid weakness in oil and followed Tuesday's gains, which were the best of the year for the market. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. The biggest story on Wednesday came out of Canada, as police in Ottawa were looking for at least one gunman after several shootings in the Canadian capital. Reports said that one soldier who was shot at Canada's National War Memorial died from his injuries, and at the market close the capital building remained on lockdown. In an afternoon email, NYSE floor governor Rich Barry wrote, "In a clear sign that the overall sentiment in the market remains fragile and cautious, we saw a sharp turn in the market to the downside early this afternoon on reports of 'multiple rogue gunmen' opening fire upon citizens in the Canadian capital city of Ottawa... Make no mistake, the Dow and S&amp;P sold off in reaction to reports of the shootings." 2. Oil was back in focus again, falling more than 2% to below $81 for the first time since last week when oil made multi-year lows. Last week, oil, along with the broader market, sold off hard before rebounding sharply, but Wednesday's weakness again brings the commodity back into focus. And while the falling price of oil might be a positive to some US consumers, Business Insider's Tomas Hirst reports that Russia will be facing recession if prices fall below $80 a barrel.  3. Inflation remains tepid in the US, as the consumer price index for September showed prices rose just 0.1% on a month-over-month basis, though this was slightly better than the flat increase expected by economists. "Core" inflation, which strips out the more volatile cost of food and energy, also rose 0.1% month-on-month. Following the report, Ian Shepherdson, chief US economist at Pantheon Macro, said that headline inflation will likely decline further in the fourth quarter due to the falling price of gas, and said that with these inflation data, faster wage gains are likely to be Fed's trigger for raising interest rates. Year-over-year, headline inflation came in at 1.7%.  4. Apple shares surged to a fresh all-time, split-adjusted high of $103.95. There was no apparent news for the iPhone maker on Wednesday, but the move follows Apple's stronger than expected earnings report on Monday.  5. Dow member Boeing reported an 18% increase in its quarterly earnings on Wednesday, and the aerospace giant also raised its full-year profit outlook to $8.10-$8.30 per share from a prior view of $7.90-$8.10.  6. Among the big losers on Wednesday was 3D printer maker 3D Systems, which fell more than 15% after the company on Tuesday said that its third quarter and full-year revenue would come in below expectations. 3D Systems didn't blame demand for its printers, but a shortfall from manufacturing restraints as hampering its results. The company also slashed its profit expectations for both the third quarter and the full year.  7. Shares of Federal-Mogul Holdings fell more than 8% after the Carl Icahn-controlled company reported an $18 million loss in the quarter. Another Carl Icahn holding, Herbalife, fell about 4% on Wednesday. On Tuesday, LA Magazine published a video interview with Herbalife CEO Michael Johnson, who spoke about the company's fight with Bill Ackman, which he characterized as a "war."  8. In Business Insider news, executive editor Joe Weisenthal, better known as The Stalwart, spent his last day at BI on Wednesday, and wrote a short post on why covering the markets can be so fun. We tend to agree.  Don't Miss: Here Are 11 Odd Items People Use To Store Their Wealth » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jason Lee(Reuters) - JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co &lt;jpm.n&gt; executives in New York were aware of potential problems tied to its recruitment practices in China well before U.S. regulators launched a probe into the issue, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing sources and documents it reviewed. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is examining the extent to which JPMorgan executives at its headquarters were involved in overseas hiring, the report said. A JPMorgan executive in Asia alerted the bank's New York officials in 2011 of concerns that the bank had hired a son or daughter of a senior Chinese government official, a recruitment that helped it win an investment-banking assignment, according to company emails reviewed by the Journal. JPMorgan officials proposed changes to its hiring practices in Asia and the changes formed a part of a set of anticorruption measures approved by its board directors on the bank's audit committee in late 2011, according to the report. Chief Executive Jamie Dimon also knew of the anticorruption measures as they were unveiled, according to the report. U.S. authorities have not accused the bank of any wrongdoings yet. A JPMorgan spokesman declined to comment on the story.   (Reporting by Amrutha Gayathri in Bangalore; Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
Last month we published a blog post examining the economics behind, and the challenges for, the Uber ridesharing company. We now want to consider how Uber might have been affected by opposition from vested interests – in Uber's case, taxi drivers – and by regulation to restrict Uber. We take into account major events involving the company, and use Germany as a case study. Uber arrived in Germany in February 2013. In April 2014 the first regulation imposing restrictions on its activity was passed, prohibiting the company from offering its services in Berlin. In June 2014 there was a pan-European demonstration by taxi drivers against the company, possibly contributing to its ban in Germany later in August. The ban was revoked in September. The following graph shows the individual index of Google searches for "Uber" (orange line) and the index of searches for "Taxi" (blue line), both in Germany. Here we see two points of interest: Increasing volume of searches (increased curiosity) and greater correlation between the two indicators (potential greater usage). The three main events affecting Uber in Germany (regulation, demonstration then ban/lifting of ban) are clearly identifiable along the orange line. As people became curious about what drove these events, Google searches for "Uber" sky-rocketed. The lines show that after the first event the correlation between the Uber and taxi indexes became stronger. This could mean that, instead of simply googling it to have more information, people are increasingly searching for Uber in the same situations as they search for taxis The lines show that after the first event the correlation between the Uber and taxi indexes became stronger. This could mean that, instead of simply googling it to have more information, people are increasingly searching for Uber in the same situations as they search for taxis. This could be evidence of an increase in Uber’s prominence in terms of the actual service that it provides. Further supporting evidence comes from our computation of a 20 period window correlation (in bars), showing a low or even negative correlation in the early periods, and its explosion after the main Uber-related events. If this is the case, public authorities and taxi drivers have done a great marketing job for Uber, and have underlined again that there is no such thing as bad publicity. FREE AppDownload
  On Sunday morning at 9:15, I met up with investment banker Jeffrey Appel in Manhattan's Upper East Side. It was my second week in a row accompanying Appel for the ritual of Sunday morning tennis on Randall's Island to play with some of Wall Street's biggest names.  The previous week, Appel took two young investment bank analysts — who had both played Division I tennis — on the quick, seven-minute ride out to the courts. Shortly after we arrived at the Sportime club at Randall's Island, Pershing Square Capital CEO Bill Ackman walked in wearing shorts and a fleece with his tennis racket in tow. He immediately began to stretch. Appel is affectionately known as the "Mayor of New York Tennis," bringing together the titans and some of the younger generation on Wall Street. He's also credited for bringing Ackman back into tennis world. Ackman played in high school at Horace Greeley in the 1980s, but he did not play in college at Harvard. Ackman returned to the tennis world after Appel sent him a blind email in 2005 inviting him to play with his Wall Street tennis crew. Within four hours, Ackman responded and joined him the following week. He played with Appel; Kyle Kliegerman, former No. 1 at Princeton and the current head of the equity portfolio at Taconic Capital; and Jeffrey Sloves, former No. 1 at Dartmouth and current managing director of Jones Trading. Horace Greeley High School 1986 yearbookBill Ackman played tennis in high school. Appel and Ackman share a court at the Sportime center on Randall's every Sunday. Ackman was absent last Sunday, though, because he was in Amsterdam for Pershing Square Holdings' initial public offering. "It's a ritual," Ackman told Business Insider. "What I like is it's competitive and [Appel] puts together the best tennis in New York." This week, Appel, who was recently ranked No. 12 in the US for his age group and No. 1 in the east, was recovering from a calf sprain. He had to sit this match out. There never seems to be a shortage of players wanting to join Ackman and Appel's court, though. There was a last-minute substitution of Rob Pohly, the CIO of Samlyn Capital Management, a multibillion-dollar long/short equity hedge fund. Pohly was the 1991 "Rookie of the Year" in Ivy League tennis. He played No. 1 for Yale University, and he's part of Appel's tennis network. A minute later, the former pro tennis player James Blake, who was ranked No. 4 in the world in 2006, walked into the club. Blake and Ackman both headed off to the courts to warm up before the other players arrived.  					Your browser does not support the video tag.						Julia La Roche				Ackman decided to play against Blake in the first match, rather than be his partner as Appel had suggested. A few minutes later professional poker player Stephen Bass arrived. Bass recently joined Larry Penn's hedge fund Ellington Capital.  Bass, who was ranked as high as No. 354 in the world, in 2009, met Penn — Appel's high school tennis teammate — while playing tennis. Penn and Bass have been a top doubles team in the charity circuit on Wall Street.  "Stephen and Larry make a great team because their combined mental game is far superior than their competitors'," Appel said. On Sunday, Bass partnered with Ackman for the first match against Pohly and Blake. 					Your browser does not support the video tag.						Julia La Roche				Blake and Pohly won the first two sets in a heated battle. Then they switched teams, and Ackman and Blake, the two Harvard alums, won the third set against Bass and Pohly. They were on serve in the fourth set when the two hours were up and it was time to leave the court. Ackman was hungry to play more. "Bill Ackman is the only guy over 40 when playing the young guys that I know that gets better as the hours go on," Appel said. "The guy can never get enough tennis. If he could, he would play five hours a day." On the next court over was billionaire hedge fund manager Marc Lasry, who runs Avenue Capital, and his regular Sunday game crew.   Photo courtesy of Tom Newton Hedge fund manager Marc Lasry is on the court next to Ackman.  He continued: "No, it's actually great tennis. It's phenomenal tennis. They always have different guys who come. It's also a lot of fun to watch everybody play. You see the caliber is actually really good. Sometimes it's James [Blake]. It's always different guys." One of Ackman's usual doubles tennis partners is former No. 1 University of Pennsylvania tennis player Jason Pinsky, who is now an analyst at Wexford Capital. Wexford Capital is a Greenwich, Connecticut, hedge fund/private equity firm run by Charles "Chuck" Davidson. Wexford actually employs a handful of top tennis players. Brandon O'Gara, who played tennis for UPenn with Pinsky, is also a research analyst there. Former NCAA doubles champion/pro player Kaes Van't Hof works there, too. Photo courtesy of Tom Newton Wexford Capital analyst Jason Pinsky plays a lot of doubles with Ackman. According to Appel, Davidson's first words to Van't Hof, jokingly, were, "You're playing with Jeff and you already have a job?" He hired him within five months to work on the private equity side of Wexford Capital. Another member of the Wexford tennis team is Jon Pastel. Pastel, a former professional tennis player, used to practice with Davidson's son Patrick, who is currently playing professional tennis. Pastel and his wife, Marjorie, also host "The Wall Street Challenge" tennis tournament that raises funds for Ovarian Cancer research.  It's clear that there's a strong bond between tennis and finance. Julia La Roche for Business InsiderJeff Appel is nicknamed "The Mayor of New York Tennis."  Just last week, I observed a match taking place on Appel's court. One of the guys was an extremely tall 22-year-old, who was a former top-ranked NCAA doubles player with a 4.0 GPA at a southern university more known for its football. Appel has taken a liking to this young man and has already brought him to play with Howard Lutnick, the CEO of Cantor Fitzgerald, and Ackman. "He's developing a fabulous reputation amongst the business titans," Appel said. "I really like this kid. He's smart and mature beyond his years. I believe he has what it takes to be very successful and I am trying to help him transition into a career on Wall Street." You can see why they call him "The Mayor of New York Tennis."    FREE AppDownload
Knickerbocker MotorsportsMost college kids are probably spending their weekends studying like crazy or partying into the night. But for around 40 Columbia University students, a typical Friday night consists of welding metals and writing budget reports in the basement of an engineering building. The Knickerbocker Motorsports team is hard at work building a race car that'll go from 0 to 60 mph in 4 seconds over the course of one year. Team members split the work between engineering and managing the car's budget. This year the whole project will cost an estimated $30,000. The financing primarily comes from donations from sponsors and the university itself. The project starts in September and goes all the way through finals week at the end of the spring semester. In May, the team enters the Formula SAE collegiate racing competition. Five team members are taking a related 1-to-3 credit course to have more time to work on the car. But for the rest of the team, this is purely an extracurricular activity with no financial payoff and no class credit. They do it because they it's fun. The team has improved in terms of both engineering skill and budget management over the last few years. It's also grown in numbers. Back in 2012 there were only 17 members on the squad. FREE AppDownload
Danny Tamberelli ruled kids television in the 1990s. He's well known as Little Pete on Nickelodeon's "The Adventures of Pete &amp; Pete" and was a cast member in "All That," "Figure It Out" and Disney's "The Mighty Ducks". After his career at Nickelodeon, he attended Hampshire College in Massachusetts. He now performs with his band Jounce where he sings and plays bass. He produces sketch comedy with Man Boobs Comedy, and you can listen to him on his podcast The Adventures of Danny &amp; Mike (with Pete &amp; Pete co-star Mike Maronna aka Big Pete). Produced by Sam Rega Follow BI Video: On Twitter  
REUTERS/Joachim HerrmannNervous traders on the Frankfurt stock exchange try to make last minute deals July 29, 1993. After 6 fantastic years, today is my last day at Business Insider. Nich Carlson wrote about that here. While my responsibilities have broadened some over the years, I've really developed a love of covering the markets, and that's what I'll be doing at my next job. A tweet I saw the other day reminded me why market coverage is so great. Here's what that means. 6 days ago, when that tweet was made, markets all over the place were plunging. Market volatility was surging to levels we haven't seen in a long time. And everyone was worried about whether this was "it," the big selloff everyone was waiting for.  Now it's obvious that for a markets reporter, volatility makes for better stories. This past summer, when there was basically no movement in stocks, interest rates, and currencies, there wasn't much to say. When the volatility surges, the stories flow.  Also weird things sometimes happen, and relationships you're used to seeing start to go in reverse. Now lately, what you'd expect, is that when good economic data gets reported, the US dollar rises. Why? Because strong economic data is seen as bringing forward the first interest rate hike. And higher interest rates tend to lead to stronger currencies. (And anyone should be able to understand this. You're going to want to put your money in a currency that pays a higher interest rate, all things equal). Anyway, the flipside is weak data weakens the currency, since that's seen as pushing Fed rate hikes further into the future. But when it gets really interesting is when people REALLY freak out about the economy and markets. While market panics are seen as delaying Fed rate hikes, the US dollar tends to perform very well in these environments, because it's a safe haven. When people panic they want CASH. And they don't want just any cash. They want the one currency that's dominated the globe for ages and ages and that's the dollar. So bad news, rather than being seen as negative for the currency becomes a positive. Cause everyone just wants safety. And then in this environment, strong economic data can be seen as soothing people's concerns about the bottom falling out, and so that actually causes the panic bid for dollars to fade. So dollars weaken on good news. Anyway, this is when thinking about the markets is really fun. You sometimes see that with respect to other safe havens, like precious metals.When things start getting bad, people buy gold, because duh, that's what you do when there's panic: you buy gold! But when people REALLY start to freak the heck out, they dump gold, because if everything's falling apart, and you're worried about losing your job, and and your bill collector is going to be calling you up soon, are you going to pay your debts and rent in gold? No, you need cash. So you sell gold and get dollars. Financial markets are filled with non-intuitive relationships, and what's awesome is things are always changing. It's kind of like that poem about the blind men feeling different parts of the elephant and coming to different conclusions about what they're touching. Except in this case, they're touching some kind of shape-shifting animal, so that not only are they all only getting small parts of the picture at any moment, the picture never stays the same. And that's why covering financial markets will always be fascinating. FREE AppDownload
Oil is falling again. On Wednesday, oil futures settled at $80.52, down $1.97, or more than 2%, according to data from Reuters. The decline in oil also came amid some broad market weakness on Wednesday that, according to an afternoon email from NYSE floor governor Rich Barry, was related to the ongoing situation in Canada. "In a clear sign that the overall sentiment in the market remains fragile and cautious, we saw a sharp turn in the market to the downside early this afternoon on reports of 'multiple rogue gunmen' opening fire upon citizens in the Canadian capital city of Ottawa... Make no mistake, the Dow and S&amp;P sold off in reaction to reports of the shootings," Barry wrote. Here's the chart of oil's decline on Wednesday. FinViz FREE AppDownload
Associated PressKroger's strategy is helping it buck trends in the industry.Kroger is thriving in a difficult market for grocery stores.  The supermarket chain is expected to surpass Whole Foods Market within two years and become the nation's top seller of organic and natural food, according to a recent report by JPMorgan. Kroger's strategy of offering more specialty and organic food is helping it overtake other chains despite an industry-wide trend away from supermarkets, JPMorgan analysts write.  Traditional supermarkets have been losing market share to high-end grocers, warehouse chains, and dollar stores because customers are seeking either specialty assortments or great value, according to a recent report by the real estate investment firm JLL.  "Millennials and Boomers alike are focusing more on healthy eating choices and creatively prepared meals," the analysts write. JLL Alternative retailers are taking market share from grocery stores.   Selling more organic food will attract high-end customers and help drive profits at Kroger, according to JPMorgan.  Kroger, which has more than 2,000 locations, could also take potential customers from Whole Foods.  Whole Foods has 287 locations but continues to expand into new markets. Associated Press Kroger has been stepping up sales of organic food. In addition to offering more organic food, Kroger is expanding into affluent markets in Baltimore and Washington DC. FREE AppDownload
 Herbalife's CEO Michael Johnson said the company is at war with Bill Ackman. In a video interview with LA Magazine, Johnson said that Ackman's' assertions that the company is a pyramid scheme and that its stock will fall to $0 are, for Herbalife, "a war." "For any of us [at Herbalife] to think otherwise would be a mistake, because [Ackman] has spent $50 million trying to take us down... Name another company that this has happened to before, and the tactics that have been used against us," Johnson told LA Mag's Giselle Fernandez. Johnson also said that Ackman's campaign against Herbalife is, "uninformed, and to us unintelligible," and he is confident the FTC's investigation into the company will result in the Commission finding that Herbalife is a "pretty good company." Johnson said that Carl Icahn, who is Herbalife's largest shareholder and has five seats on its board, is a wise investor and that his involvement in the company was a good move for him, and a good move for Herbalife.  When asked what current shareholders can do, Johnson said they should remain focused on the fact that the company is still profitable, and ignore the "knuckleheads in bathrobes" who write about the company. In afternoon trade on Wednesday, Herbalife shares were down about 5%. You can watch the full interview below.    FREE AppDownload
GoogleData centers are typically shrouded in secrecy because they are the brains behind tech companies.  But not Google. The search giant has shared with the world photos that lift the veil off its massive and beautiful data centers around the world, in places both domestic, including Iowa, Oregon, Georgia, South Carolina, and Oklahoma, and abroad, in Finland and Belgium. Google says when you're on its website, you're accessing one of the most powerful server networks in the known universe. Looking at these images, it's hard to disagree. Google has been working on building its data centers for over 12 years. The search giant's centers are efficient, take advantage of renewable energy, and are as environmentally friendly as possible. The following tour is a glimpse inside a few of Google's data centers, which it calls the "physical internet." Kevin Smith wrote an earlier version of this post.
Stocks are falling. Near 2:30 pm ET on Wednesday, stocks were near their worst levels of the session as more details regarding the situation in Canada emerge. The Dow was down 127 points, the S&amp;P 500 was down 11 points, and the Nasdaq was down 27 points. Tuesday marked the best day of the year for the S&amp;P 500, which gained more than 1.9%, the most since October 2013.  The biggest piece of economic data on Wednesday was the latest consumer price index report that showed inflation in September remained tepid. The report showed that inflation rose 0.1% month-on-month in September, which was slightly better than expectations for no inflation in September. "Core" inflation, which excludes the more volatile cost of food and energy, also rose 0.1% month-over-month which was in-line with expectations. In early trade on Wednesday, shares of 3D Systems were down as much as 12% after the 3D printer marker on Tuesday night said that its third quarter and fiscal year profit and revenue would come in below expectations.  In his third quarter letter to investors, activist hedge fund manager Dan Loeb summed up some of the problems that plagued hedge funds in the third quarter, which included a drop in oil prices and the breakdown of the AbbVie-Shire merger, among other things.  Last night, Yahoo reported earnings, and CEO Marissa Mayer used the conference call to defend some of her decisions as CEO, and Business Insider's Jay Yarow has the full breakdown here.  Also in earnings news, Dow member Boeing reported third quarter earnings that were better than expected.  FREE AppDownload
Evone Brown, a 55-year-old former machine operator, survives on $850 a month from retirement and disability checks, which wasn't enough to cover the roughly $8,000 she owed in property taxes on her home on the east side of Detroit. This year, because she was at least three years behind on her tax payments (most of which she inherited when she bought the house in 2011), Wayne County's treasurer foreclosed on her. As a result, her house is up for sale this week in Wayne County’s online foreclosure auction, at a starting bid of just $500. She will most likely be evicted this January. She’s not alone: As Detroit seeks to leave bankruptcy behind and get back on its feet—ramping up development with construction of a light rail and a new hockey arena that will cost the city hundreds of millions of dollars—it is simultaneously bearing witness to a process that could evict up to 142,000 of its residents, many of whom are too poor to pay their property taxes. Detroit is 83 percent African-American, and 38 percent of its population lives below the poverty line. But the older, blacker Detroit starkly contrasts with a whiter, wealthier new Detroit that's been wooed in by tax breaks and living incentives—which gives these evictions a heavily racial subtext. “Do you think they are going to take my home away from me?” Brown asks, breaking down in tears. A few feet from her lies her brother, sleeping. He has just come back from the hospital after being diagnosed with prostate cancer. Brown herself suffers from arthritis and has mobility issues. A knee-replacement surgery gone wrong last year left her with one leg shorter than the other. “If they kick us out, we won’t have anywhere to go. We will have to go to a shelter. I don’t want to go to a shelter. I want to stay in my home,” she says. This year in Detroit, there have been 22,000 foreclosures on properties whose owners failed to pay property taxes three years in a row. Of those, 10,000 are estimated to be occupied, meaning this year's foreclosures are set to oust about 27,000 Detroiters from their homes. That’s a large number in a dwindling city with fewer than 700,000 residents, but the figures are set to get even worse. In the next couple of months, Wayne County's treasurer will be serving foreclosure notices on 110,000 more properties, 85,000 of which are in Detroit, according to its chief deputy treasurer David Szymanski. With half of those Detroit properties estimated to be occupied, this means a further 115,000 Detroiters might lose their homes next year. Rebecca Cook/ReutersIt's not just unoccupied houses being foreclosed.In a city supposedly trying to attract residents rather than lose them, this means a potential 142,000 Detroiters—one-fifth of the city’s population—will be shown the door within the next year and a half. The city has yet to announce plans for accommodating those who get evicted. Detroit’s tax-delinquent residents, who together occupy more than half of the city’s properties according to local data firm Loveland Technologies, are frequently blamed for the city’s underfunded, poorly functioning public infrastructure and are considered part of the reason the city went bankrupt in the first place. The city’s still relatively new mayor, Mike Duggan, likes to say at press conferences and town-hall meetings that he wants to work with Detroit’s “good” residents—those who seek to pay their bills and mow their lawns. But with little active effort put into retaining residents who are behind on their bills and facing foreclosure, some are beginning to feel like the evictions are a part of a bigger ploy to rid the city of large chunks of its poorer residents—a modern-day form of forced relocation. “It’s a tragic and extreme version of a familiar pattern,” says Cheryl Harris, a professor of civil rights and civil liberties at the UCLA School of Law. Harris calls the Detroit auction a massive form of “racial dispossession.” Forced relocation is a sensitive subject in Detroit, where, in the 1950s, large chunks of poorer, black neighborhoods were razed to make way for highway development. Black residents were violently kept out of whiter areas of the city until the '60s. Harris says that these evictions should be viewed alongside the “legacy of specifically racialized housing policies that put these [black-owned] properties and these [black] property owners at a distinct disadvantage within the relative marketplace, and located them as devalued to begin with.” In a seminal book on Detroit's inequality, Thomas Sugrue, a professor of history and sociology at the University of Pennsylvania, highlighted the long-lasting effects of postwar housing-discrimination policies, including redlining, which categorized neighborhoods with even a small handful of black people living in it as unfit for investment or mortgage loans. (In the July issue of The Atlantic earlier this year, Ta-Nehisi Coates extensively mapped how these practices played out in Chicago.) The establishment of two segregated housing markets strongly favored white people, blocking black people from federally sponsored low-interest housing loans and making them vulnerable to extortion from opportunistic lenders. These dual markets set the scene for Detroit’s 1967 race riots and accelerated the pace of white flight. Ongoing, growing wealth disparities between white and black families—a recent estimate is that white families are an average of six times wealthier than their black counterparts—can in part be explained by a continuing history of housing discrimination. To many former and current homeowners in Detroit, this history is at the heart of their relationship with the city. Arquesha Esters, a 32-year-old mother of two, who formerly worked as a political organizer around the country and is now studying social work, returned to Detroit five years ago with her husband DeAndre after inheriting her great-grandfather’s house. It's the only house her family has ever owned. “This is the house my grandfather grew up in, my mother grew up in, and the one I remember being in as a child. I want my daughters to grow up in this house too. This is our home,” she says. And yet Esters, who wants to eventually turn her home into a haven for teenage girls transitioning out of foster care, may forfeit it in the next few months. When she first got back to Detroit, finding work was near impossible, Esters says. The only jobs she could find were at dollar stores and fast-food restaurants. Eventually, she went back to school and her husband found a job in construction as a forklift driver. Still, they struggled to make ends meet and fell behind on bills. After their basement had a water leak, Esters was hit with a $4,000 water bill she was unable to pay. The debt was transferred over to her property taxes—a common practice, one that links Detroit's water-shutoff crisis directly to these foreclosures. When her house was foreclosed on this year by Wayne County's treasurer, she owed more than $12,000 in taxes, a bill that had skyrocketed because of fees and an 18 percent yearly interest rate. The sum was unreachable for Esters and her family, as was any payment plan made available to her.   Many homeowners are unaware that they could erase their debts and regain ownership by bidding on their own homes for prices as low as $500. Esters may keep an eye on her lawn, and even plant flowers, but to those in charge, that doesn’t quite cut it. “If they can’t afford to pay their taxes, they really can’t afford to own a home. Therefore rather than being a homeowner, they should be a renter,” says Szymanski, the chief deputy treasurer. Perhaps because so many believe that poor people are ill-equipped to be homeowners, very few people losing their homes to foreclosure have been informed that they can re-buy their homes. A given house’s unpaid property taxes can amount to thousands of dollars, yet many homeowners aren’t aware that they could erase their debts and regain ownership by bidding on their own homes for prices as low as $500. When Michele Oberholtzer, a Detroit-based writer and engineer, surveyed a thousand foreclosed properties on a private contract last month, she noticed that few of the residents knew about their options. She says around 90 percent of the people she spoke with were either unaware of the auction’s existence or of their ability to at least try to buy back their foreclosed houses, canceled of all debt. Community-based organizations are doing as much as they can to redress this information gap, but resources are limited. Properties for sale in the Wayne County auction went up in a first round in September for the total cost of taxes and liens owed. The second October round irreversibly expunges all debt and sells houses at a starting bid of $500, covering Wayne County’s estimated administrative costs for one house. The second round of the auction started on October 9 and runs through October 28, but its most heated days are in its final week. Starting yesterday, final bids are closing on 100 houses every 15 minutes. Harris says that these evictions should be viewed alongside the “legacy of specifically racialized housing policies." Since her discovery that families with young children live in foreclosed houses and are often ill-informed about what can be done to reclaim them, Oberholtzer began seeking funds. She created the ‘Tricycle Collective” and has managed to raise money for 10 families, including Esters’s, with the aim of buying their homes back at auction. Many of Oberholtzer’s friends—young, white, college-educated professionals like her—are bidding in the Wayne County tax foreclosure auction on houses for themselves, she says. Tragically, the most desirable homes to be bought up at auction are those that are still occupied, like the houses Esters and Brown are living in. Abandoned properties, on the other hand, tend to quickly get stripped of all their valuable parts and are therefore very expensive to get back up to livable conditions. There are other, larger-scale efforts to help. Ted Phillips, the director of the United Community Housing Coalition in downtown Detroit, has been leading the charge to inform people about their options once their houses have been foreclosed on. If they aren’t granted an extension or put on a payment plan, the coalition will do its best to bid on their homes. Phillips says he and his team of seven will be cramming round a conference table this week, seeking to buy back around 500 houses at an estimated average price of $1,250. When a wave of foreclosures hit the city a decade ago, the United Community Housing Coalition was able to prevent most evictions, but there are too many foreclosures now for the organization to fight all of them. People like Brown, the former machine operator on the east side, inevitably fall through the cracks, putting them at risk of opportunistic lending schemes. The only person who has offered to help so far is a “foreclosure specialist” who phoned Brown last week offering her a last-minute loan, she says.   Predatory lenders and speculators circle around like vultures during the tax foreclosure process. Two years ago, a 96-year-old woman who was taking care of her 65-year-old disabled daughter was, unbeknownst to her, foreclosed on. Her house was bought by a speculator at auction for just $1,300, Phillips says. The following January, the new owner of her former house threatened her with eviction but offered to sell her the house back for $19,000. With the help of Phillips and his team, who managed to negotiate the price down a little, the house was eventually sold back to its original elderly occupant and daughter at a price of $13,000. This is common practice, Phillips says, with many houses being bought at auction by “investors” and sold back to poorly informed occupants at inflated prices—five to 10 times that of the auction sale. Esters seems hopeful that she’ll get a last-minute reprieve, but second chances for people like her do not currently seem to figure within city policy. A recently revamped Detroit Land Bank Authority is focusing on attracting new residents to the city, not retaining old ones. The authority is selling homes owned or reclaimed by the city of Detroit through a much more curated online auction of its own—“Neighbors wanted,” its website chirpily declares. Rebecca Cook/ReutersAn occupied house sits next to two of fifteen empty lots on Desoto Street. This house was on the auction block when this photo was taken back in 2009.The second part of the Detroit Land Bank Authority’s mandate—apart from attracting a desirable kind of resident—is to execute a plan to completely eradicate blight in Detroit over the next five years at a total cost of between $500 million and $1 billion. The money initially being used for blight removal is $52 million in federal funds that was originally marked for foreclosure relief. Craig Fahle, a spokesperson at the authority, called demolition efforts some neighborhoods’ “most pressing need.” The only person who has offered to help is a “foreclosure specialist” who phoned Brown last week offering her a last-minute loan. But Esters, whose block in East Detroit only has six occupied houses left out of around 26, says that in the past five years, three occupied houses have become vacant as a result of foreclosure. All three houses are now completely dilapidated, fit for demolition. “Don’t you think the best way to stop blight is to keep people in their homes?” she wondered. Esters points to the house next door to hers, which had belonged to a family named the Longs for three generations. The Longs were foreclosed on two years ago, and now the house has become a magnet for crack users, she says. Still, Esters wants to stay. “This may look like a third-world country, but we’re a tight-knit community,” she says. Regardless of whether she manages to keep her house, the future of Esters’s neighborhood may not be in her hands. Detroit's movers and shakers have widely accepted an urban-planning report and "strategic framework" released by Detroit Future City last year. Mayoral 10-point plans, city reports, and grant applications all self-consciously keep in step with Detroit Future City's agenda, which includes provisions for the emptying out of certain neighborhoods over others. Detroit Future City's maps show that Esters’s and Brown’s neighborhoods are set to be emptied out, with the recommendation that they be “steadily depopulated.” This would be to make way for “innovation productive” use, which seems to refer to land being used for water containment and possible aquaculture. The Detroit Land Bank Authority will be given all of the un-purchased lots from the Wayne County auction, meaning that the authority may soon begin to have what it needs to realize the Detroit Future City plan. For Harris, the civil-rights law professor at UCLA, pushing residents out and blaming their lack of ability to pay is ignoring the larger, structural issue of racial discrimination. “I do want to resist the notion that this is about individual behavior of individual Detroiters when what’s been happening in the city is a kind of slow hollowing out for the purposes of a re-takeover,” Harris says. “They have no intention of locking the gates on Detroit and walking away. That is not what is happening here. What is happening is a kind of clearing on the ground for its reconstitution.” FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsDon't mind the pickpocket.Does your paycheck feel lighter this month?  Real average hourly earnings decreased 0.2% in September from August, the BLS reported today, due to flat wages and a 0.1% increase in CPI. Real average weekly earnings, on the other hand, increased by 0.2% thanks to a 0.3% increase in weekly hours. Year-over-year, both real average hourly earnings and average weekly hours are up 0.3%, resulting in a 0.6% increase in average weekly earnings.  The story remains the same: even as the economy recovers, wage growth is basically non-existent — and that's bad for the vast majority of Americans. Here's the full BLS release:  All employees Real average hourly earnings for all employees fell 0.2 percent from August to September, seasonally adjusted, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported today. This result stems from unchanged average hourly earnings combined with a 0.1 percent increase in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U). Real average weekly earnings increased by 0.2 percent over the month due to a 0.3 percent increase in the average workweek more than offsetting the decline in real average hourly earnings. Real average hourly earnings increased by 0.3 percent, seasonally adjusted, from September 2013 to September 2014. This gain in real average hourly earnings, combined with a 0.3 percent increase in the average workweek, resulted in a 0.6 percent increase in real average weekly earnings over this period. Production and nonsupervisory employees Real average hourly earnings for production and nonsupervisory employees decreased 0.1 percent from August to September, seasonally adjusted. This decline stems from no change in average hourly earnings combined with a 0.1 percent increase in the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W). Real average weekly earnings decreased 0.4 percent over the month due to the decline in real average hourly earnings combined with a 0.3 percent decrease in the average workweek. Real average hourly earnings increased 0.7 percent, seasonally adjusted, from September 2013 to September 2014. The increase in real average hourly earnings, combined with a 0.3 percent gain in the average workweek, resulted in a 1.0 percent increase in real average weekly earnings over this period. FREE AppDownload
If there's one thing entrepreneurs and other professionals want to do, it's accomplish their goals while continuing to grow and improve. We spoke with behavior science expert and Entrepreneur.com contributor James Clear about habit formation. In this video, he explains the one habit that can help us be just a little bit smart with all the things we want to do. Watch all the latest Entrepreneur video here.
Federal-Mogul Holdings, an automotive parts company, is getting stomped on Wednesday. The stock is down 8% after reporting an $18 million loss in the third quarter. This is bad news for Carl Icahn, who has been the non-executive chairman of Federal-Mogul's board since 2008 and owns 80% of the company. This drop in the stock price cost him almost $150 million. In its earnings release, Federal-Mogul said that the losses were attributable to "restructuring charges of $25 million as well as $12 million related to recent acquisitions, preparing for the spin-off of the Motorparts division and headquarters relocation costs."   Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
Chipotle executives believe that traditional fast food, such as McDonald's, Burger King, and Wendy's, are "going away."  What will replace them are more upscale chains like Chipotle "and others like us," the burrito chain's co-CEO, Monty Moran, said in a recent interview.  It's easy to see where Moran is getting that idea.  Chipotle reported 19.8% same-store sales growth in the US in the most recent quarter. By comparison, McDonald's, the largest fast food chain in the US by sales, recorded a 3.3% drop in domestic same-store sales last quarter. That contrast is representative of a broader trend in the US toward fast casual chains, which promise higher-quality, healthier foods at a slightly higher price than traditional fast food.  Traffic at fast food vendors was flat last year compared to a year earlier, while fast casual chains — such as Chipotle and Panera — saw 8% average growth in guest counts, according to The NPD Group. So Americans' tastes are clearly changing. But is the shift broad enough to kill the Golden Arches? ThrillistA $5 meal from McDonald'sThe answer is no, according to several analysts we spoke to. "I don't think you'll see, within our lifetimes, fast casual completely replacing traditional fast food," said Mark Kalinowski, a restaurant analyst for Janney Capital Markets. Fast casual chains will continue to steal market share from more traditional fast food outlets, but McDonald's, Burger King, Wendy's, and others still have two major advantages that will keep them afloat. 1. Chipotle and other fast casual chains are too expensive for a large segment of the population. A typical meal from a traditional fast food chain ranges between $3 and $6, according to Trefis. By comparison, the typical range for fast casual meals is $6 to $15. In order to completely replace fast food, Chipotle would have to open "some form of cheap chic restaurant either under its own name or create a new brand in low income areas," says Brian Sozzi of Belus Capital Advisors. "Those restaurants would offer Chipotle's healthier fare, just at cheaper prices, rendering a trip to McDonald's for a mom on a budget useless." WikiMedia Commons2. Fast food restaurants already have thousands of locations in the US. McDonald's, Subway and Wendy's have more than 46,000 locations in the US. Just in the last year, McDonald's opened nearly as many new restaurants as Chipotle operates in total (1,595), according to Yahoo Finance's Chris Nichols.  For further perspective, Nichols points out that McDonald's domestic sales last year totaled nearly $36 billion, which was greater than the entire fast casual industry's sales ($34.5 billion), according to Technomic. To fend off growing competition from more upscale rivals, traditional fast food chains are remodeling restaurants, adding more quality ingredients to their menus and trying to improve customer service.  "Elements of fast casual are being incorporated into traditional fast food," Kalinowski says.  So fast casual probably won't kill fast food. Instead, we'll start to see a blurring of the lines between the two.  FREE AppDownload
Facebook/The-Franklin-Mortgage-Investment-CoThe Franklin Mortgage Company in Philadelphia made our list.It's not just great drinks that make a great bar — it's also great service, great ambience, and fair prices that complete the experience. We looked at six notable bar rankings compiled by critics and experts and aggregated the rankings to come up with our own list of the Best Bars in America. The rankings we used were James Beard Foundation's 2014 Restaurant and Chef Award Semifinalists for Outstanding Bar Program; Esquire's Best Bars in America; Food &amp; Wine's Best Bars in America; Zagat's Hottest Bars in 15 US Cities; The World's 50 Best Bars from Drinks International; and Liquor.com's Best Bars in America. We gave each bar a numerical rating based on how many lists the bar appeared on and how high it appeared on lists that were ranked. We used the number of five-star Yelp ratings as a tiebreaker, where a bar with more five-star Yelp ratings outranked another bar when a tie occurred. You can read more about our methodology here. FREE AppDownload
"Critical-thinking skills" are frequently listed in the requirements of job postings advertised by top companies, but it's a talent that is often hard to define. The Wall Street Journal reports that hiring managers at Goldman Sachs, recently ranked by LinkedIn as one of the world's 100 most in-demand employers, are looking for someone who is able to "make use of information that's available in their journey to arrive at a conclusion or decision." The investment bank's global head of recruiting Michael Desmarais tells The Journal that to determine whether a job candidate is in fact a critical thinker, the company likes to ask interviewees to evaluate a company's market valuation or a stock pitch. By explaining how applicants arrived at their conclusion about the worth of a company's stock, Desmarais says, the applicants reveal their critical-thinking processes. Goldman explains in a 2011 post on its company blog that it also likes to judge creativity and problem-solving in its prospective employees. It does this by asking brain-teasers like, "How many manhole covers there are in New York City?" and requiring interviewees to design a procedure for finding a solution. "This answer may or may not be correct, but the important thing is to demonstrate one's approach to problem-solving," the company writes.  FREE AppDownload
Business Insider's 2014 IGNITION: Future of Digital, conference is being held in Times Square and we've got a block of rooms at a special rate for conference attendees. Book your room now at the Tryp By Wyndham Times Square South at 345 West 35th Street, which is located less than 10 minutes walking from the Times Center. December is a wonderful time to visit NYC, so why not bring your significant other and make the conference into a quick getaway? You don’t have to venture far beyond Tryp to experience some of the best sights in New York City. Broadway shows, Times Square, and Columbus Circle are all just around the corner.  If you’ve "been there, done that" with New York’s tourist spots, there are great restaurants and luxurious spas to entertain you during your stay. Foodie picks like Bar Masa, Don Antonio, Hakkasan, and Aureole offer top-notch dining experiences. Mandarin Oriental Spa and Elizabeth Arden's Red Door Spa are nearby. Conference-room rates at Tryp By Wyndham Times Square South start at $379. To book, call 212-600-2440 and ask for the Business Insider-IGNITION group rate. Haven’t purchased your IGNITION ticket yet?   P.S. If you're interested in joining the IGNITION community by sponsoring, contact ignition@businessinsider.com. Follow @BI_Events on Twitter and join our LinkedIn Group for IGNITION updates. FREE AppDownload
A tempest of controversy erupted in journalism circles last week when the Guardian newspaper published an expose of privacy practices at Whisper, a hot social-media app. The Guardian's story was compelling and newsworthy:   The paper described disturbing privacy abuses and attitudes at Whisper that likely startled and angered many of its millions of users. The Guardian also calmly deflected an initial explosion of umbrage and denials from Whisper, pointing out, among other things, that Whisper wasn't actually denying much of what the Guardian alleged. Several days after the story appeared, Whisper's CEO, Michael Heyward, finally acknowledged that the company had made mistakes and would improve its practices going forward.  So the Guardian's story was an informative and important one, the kind that most journalists would be proud of. And, as many great stories do, the story also led to positive change. It was the way in which the Guardian gathered the information for the story that raised some questions. According to the initial telling, a Guardian team was invited to Whisper's headquarters for three days to discuss the expansion of an existing journalism partnership. While at Whisper's offices, the paper said, Guardian reporters "witnessed" the privacy abuses and attitudes that the story later chronicled. In other words, it seemed, at some point during private partnership discussions, Guardian journalists appeared to have switched roles: From partners discussing a partnership expansion to journalists reporting a story. This description of events made me and other fans of the story wonder aloud about the ethics of the Guardian's actions. Had the paper's reporters used private partnership discussions to gather information for a story?  If yes, this seemed ethically troubling. If the Guardian gathered facts while pursuing private partnership discussions — and then single-handedly decided to switch roles and write about what it saw — then this would seem to have at least deserved a clear explanation of the logic and ethics of the decision. ("Yes, we switched roles — because what we saw was so troubling that we felt we had to report it. We therefore made the decision to violate the implicit agreement we had with our partner and tell the story.") Or... Had Whisper simply invited a bunch of reporters to its offices without any implicit understanding or restrictions and then behaved in a newsworthy manner? In the latter case, there were no ethical questions at all. After hashing out these questions, the journalism community appears to have concluded that the second scenario is the correct one. Whisper invited some reporters to its offices, "committed news," and then got what it deserved.  And if that's what happened, there is indeed no issue at all. During the controversy, however, several journalism pundits suggested that it was irrelevant how the Guardian gathered its information. The Guardian's reporters had witnessed newsworthy behavior, these pundits said, and the Guardian therefore had a duty to share that behavior with readers — regardless of any agreements, implicit or otherwise, that had enabled them to gather facts. It was this assertion that struck many of us as troubling. Yes, there are probably some stories that are so important that their publication might warrant the one-sided "burning" of an agreement. But these stories should be few and far between. And the hurdle to publishing them should be very high. Meanwhile, great journalists strike deals and agreements to get important information all the time. And these great journalists remain great journalists — with great access to information — because they don't violate these agreements. Ever. It's worth noting that the great Ben Bradlee was one of these journalists. In one of a series of great articles on Bradlee, the Washington Post included some tweets from Post editor Carlos Lozada relaying quotes from Bradlee's memoir.  Bradlee, famously, had a very close relationship with President Kennedy, a relationship that, Bradlee noted, helped Bradlee prosper as Kennedy prospered. This relationship no doubt gave Bradlee access to a lot of information about Kennedy and the Kennedy Presidency that was newsworthy. But the relationship continued, in part, because Bradlee had an agreement with Kennedy not to publish anything Kennedy didn't want published until so much time had passed that it was likely irrelevant: "Kennedy and I agreed that he could keep anything he wanted off the record--at least until 5 years after he left the White House." To my knowledge, Bradlee never violated this agreement.  Some of today's journalism pundits must be appalled. FREE AppDownload
In the fight between Amazon and publishers—a brutal corporate war that has only gotten uglier over the last six months—there is no real underdog. When Amazon boosts the price of books from publisher Hachette or even outright hides them from search results, it might seem like the world’s largest online retailer bullying a creative industry leader like a mob boss might do to a local butcher. Or maybe you see Hachette, which has $9.2 billion in revenue and hosts such blockbuster authors as J.K. Rowling and James Patterson, as the dying light of a felled behemoth striking out its last blows against Amazon (who has arguably made a future for books possible at all). There is a fair claim to be made that the book industry—like the film and music industries before it—must conform to our digital lives or perish. From this perspective, Hachette’s struggles with Amazon could sound like the cries of an aging, stubborn company suffering from Luddism. Either way, two things are clear: Amazon doesn’t care about books as much as it cares about selling them—Jeff Bezos only chose books as his as Amazon’s initial primary focus because they’d be easiest to ship. Through the sufferings of their own publishing arm as well as their habitual mistreatment of publishers—some would say it verges on extortion—Amazon has shown a near disdain for the suppliers that helped it become the success it is today. For us, the readers, there’s a cognitive dissonance created by the variety and ease of buying books over Amazon combined with their monopolistic behavior over the last few months. AmazonAmazon has shown a near disdain for the suppliers that helped it become the success it is today.If publishers wish to cure us of that confusion, a different path other than Amazon must be considered. Since its founding, Amazon has always been more interested in the value of user data over the value of any level of quality. Publishers, which as an industry must care about funding new talent and producing interesting content for a wide range of audiences, need to prove they can exist outside the yoke of a retailer uninvested in the priorities of the suppliers they rely upon. Perhaps we could see Amazon a different way if this were the first time they had unfairly used their leverage to punish a publisher for demanding fair treatment. But back in 2010, Amazon pulled all books—physical or digital—from publisher Macmillan after the company demanded Amazon treat them like Apple had, allowing the publisher to set their own price. Macmillan actually won that stalemate, with Amazon stating the publisher “has a monopoly over their own titles”—which is a lot like saying they own what they own. REUTERS/Kim White Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos only chose books as his as Amazon’s initial primary focus because they’d be easiest to ship.While it’s true that any creative industry is beholden to middlemen (see: The music industry’s unshakeable dependence on gatekeepers like Apple or Ticketmaster), the book and ebook industry is in a particularly strong position to manage its own life. People who read are a niche market. According to a 2013 Pew study, a quarter of Americans will go a year without picking up a book at all. Ebooks rest on an even smaller audience, with only 28 percent of Americans having read an ebook. While those might seem like bleak numbers—and, in larger financial and cultural sense, they are—a small audience is more likely to be devoted to the products it wants. According to a HuffPo/YouGov poll, 28 percent of Americans read at least an average of a book per month, while 8 percent consume over 50 books per year. As famed literary agent Andrew Wylie told The New Yorker, “What gave publishers the idea that this was some big...business? It’s not—it’s a tiny little business, selling to a bunch of odd people who read.” Flickr / Juhan Sonin28 percent of Americans read at least an average of a book per month.Publishers should be able to seek relief from these devoted readers. This is the hope of OR Books, an independent publisher that only sells books online through its own site. Using small printers, OR only creates a physical book when one is ordered. But far from being a boutique, OR Books has nabbed several big-name hits, such as the latest book from Julian Assange. In its fourth year (a relatively brief time for independent publishers), OR netted its first profit in an industry that is notoriously unfriendly to newcomers. “What if publishers were to sell e-books and print books direct, straight to consumers—and consumers were to get used to the idea of buying direct?” co-founder John Oakes wrote in Publisher’s Weekly, comparing Amazon to departed or soon-to-be-departed giants like Borders and Barnes &amp; Noble. “Amazon is not the last word in bookselling.” Which is true. With its book sales, Amazon is far, far more dependent on publishers than it would ever admit. The retailer’s own foray into the theater,Amazon Publishing, has largely been a dud. Amazon was found to lack the exact level of discernment that makes publishers like Hachette successful, throwing huge advances at books by James Franco and Penny Marshall with little concern as to what the public wanted; Marshall’s book sold a paltry 17,000 copies while Franco’s memoir sold an outright-embarrassing 5,000 copies. Last year, the man put in charge of the imprint left the company amid a flurry of disappointing internal reviews. Despite its admittedly massive network of independent authors amid its ebook sales, Amazon cannot replicate the good publishers do for the book industry . Publishers, however, can easily replicate what Amazon does for them. A transition to straight-to-consumer sales would be very painful for some time. But when in just 17 years a centuries-old industry can be yanked around by a company it supplies, Amazon may be leaving them little choice. Part of this necessary change can come from authors themselves. Traditional online etiquette has led most authors to link to their book’s Amazon page when promoting it, and that only empowers Amazon more. When Jezebel editor Anna Holmes found The Book of Jezebel had been tacked down in shipping (meaning buyers would have to wait weeks instead of a few days), she called the tactic “shameful behavior” but noted its potential impact. “We were always sending people to Amazon, more than any other retailer,” Holmes toldThe Guardian. Book promotion as a whole would need to change in the face of an Amazon boycott by publishers. This was the thinking in June when satirist Stephen Colbert, himself a Hachette author, began actively promoting other Hachette authors on his highly rated show and selling their books on his own website. It worked, turning Edan Lepucki’s novel California into a bestseller. Business InsiderNobel laureate Paul Krugman compared Amazon to Gilded Age robber barons like Standard Oil. While such publicity stunts will have diminishing returns, Colbert and Hachette are proving they do not need to be as beholden to Amazon as they currently are. Amazon, as its primary goal, wants you to buy nothing else from anywhere else. Their outright censoring of authors because of a publisher pricing dispute is not only outrageous but telling of Amazon’s confidence in its mastery of the retail market. Earlier this week, Nobel laureate Paul Krugman compared Amazon to Gilded Age robber barons like Standard Oil and urged the federal government to mandate Amazon’s fair treatment of suppliers. “Don’t tell me that Amazon is giving consumers what they want, or that it has earned its position,” Krugman writes. “What matters is whether it has too much power, and is abusing that power. Well, it does, and it is.” While Krugman’s comparison isn’t entirely without merit, publishers themselves could hurt Amazon more than the federal government ever could. Hachette and others could prove Amazon is beholden to those who produce what is sold, not the other way around. Such a victory could expose Amazon’s own addiction to controlling every good it sells, reminding other industries they can lead Amazon as much as Amazon can lead them. FREE AppDownload
As heretical as it sounds, there’s a downside to America’s success, and that’s a stronger dollar. Although our currency has softened recently, it has put pressure on two commodities that we consider our lifeblood at U.S. Global Investors: gold and oil. It’s worth noting that we’ve been here before. In October 2011, a similar correction occurred in energy, commodities and resources stocks based on European and Chinese growth fears. But international economic stimulus measures helped raise market confidence, and many of the companies we now own within these sectors benefited. Between October 2011 and January 2012, Anadarko Petroleum rose 58 percent; Canadian Natural Resources, 20 percent; Devon Energy, 15 percent; Cimarex Energy, 15 percent; Peyto Exploration &amp; Development, 15 percent; and Suncor Energy, 10 percent. Granted, we face new challenges this year that have caused market jitters—Ebola and ISIS, just to name a couple. But we’re confident that once the dollar begins to revert back to the mean, a rally in energy and resources stocks might soon follow. Brian Hicks, portfolio manager of our Global Resources Fund (PSPFX), notes that he’s been nibbling on cheap stocks ahead of a potential rally, one that, he hopes, mimics what we saw in late 2011 and early 2012. A repeat of last year’s abnormally frigid winter, though unpleasant, might help heat up some of the sectors and companies that have underperformed lately. On the left side of the chart below, you can see 45 years’ worth of data that show fairly subdued fluctuations in gold prices in relation to the dollar. On the right side, by contrast, you can see that the strong dollar pushed bullion prices down 6 percent in September, historically gold’s strongest month. This move is unusual also because gold has had a monthly standard deviation of ±5.5 percent based on the last 10 years’ worth of data.  Here’s another way of looking at it. On October 3, bullion fell below $1,200 to prices we haven’t seen since 2010, but they quickly rebounded to the $1,240 range as the dollar index receded from its peak the same day.  There’s no need to worry just yet. This isn’t 2013, when the metal gave back 28 percent. And despite the correction, would it surprise you to learn that gold has actually outperformed several of the major stock indices this year?  As for gold stocks, there’s no denying the facts: With few exceptions, they’ve been taken to the woodshed. September was demonstrably cruel. Based on the last five years’ worth of data, the NYSE Arca Gold BUGS Index has had a monthly standard deviation of ±9.4, but last month it plunged 20 percent. We haven’t seen such a one-month dip since April 2013. This volatility exemplifies why we always advocate for no more than a 10 percent combined allocation to gold and gold stocks in investor portfolios. Oil’s slump is a little more complicated to explain. Since the end of World War II, black gold has been priced in U.S. greenbacks. This means that when our currency fluctuates as dramatically as it has recently, it affects every other nation’s consumption of crude. Oil, then, has become much more expensive lately for the slowing European and Asian markets. Weaker purchasing power equals less overseas oil demand equals even lower prices. What some people are calling the American energy renaissance has also led to lower oil prices. Spurred by more efficient extraction techniques such as fracking, the U.S. has been producing over 8.5 million barrels a day, the highest domestic production level since 1986. We’re awash in the stuff, with supply outpacing demand. Whereas the rest of the world has flat-lined in terms of oil production, the U.S. has zoomed to 30-year highs. In a way, American shale oil has become a victim of its own success.  At the end of next month, members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) are scheduled to meet in Vienna. As Brian speculated during our most recent webcast, it would be surprising if we didn’t see another production cut. With Brent oil for November delivery at $83 a barrel—a four-year low—many oil-rich countries, including Iran, Iraq and Venezuela and Saudi Arabia, will have a hard time balancing their books. Venezuela, in fact, has been clamoring for an emergency meeting ahead of November to make a plea for production cuts.       Although not an OPEC member, Russia, once the world’s largest producer of crude, is being squeezed by plunging oil prices on the left, international sanctions on the right. This might prompt President Vladimir Putin to scale back the country’s presence in Ukraine and delay a multibillion-dollar revamp of its armed forces. When the upgrade was approved in 2011, GDP growth was expected to hold at 6 percent. But now as a result of the sanctions and dropping oil prices, Russia faces a dismally flat 0.5 percent. The current all-in sustaining cost to produce one ounce of gold is hovering between $1,000 and $1,200. With the price of bullion where it is, many miners can barely break even. Production has been down 10 percent because it’s become costlier to excavate. As I told Kitco News’ Daniela Cambone last week, we will probably start seeing supply shrinkage in North and South America and Africa. The same could happen to oil production. Extraction of shale oil here in the U.S. costs companies between $50 and $100 a barrel, with producers able to break even at around $80 to $85. If prices slide even further, drillers might be forced to trim their capital budgets or even shelve new projects. Michael Levi of the Council on Foreign Relations told NPR’s Audie Cornish that a decrease in drilling could hurt certain commodities: “[I]f prices fall far enough for long enough, you’ll see a pullback in drilling. And shale drilling uses a lot of manufactured goods—20 percent of what people spend on a well is steel, 10 percent is cement, so less drilling means less manufacturing in those sectors.” At the same time, Levi places oil prices in a long-term context, reminding listeners that we’ve become accustomed to unusually high prices for the last three years. “People were starting to believe that this was permanent, and they were wrong,” he said. “So the big news is that volatility is back.” On this note, be sure to visit our interactive and perennially popular Periodic Table of Commodities, which you can modify to view gold and oil’s performance going back ten years. With fresh volatility in oil production comes the fear that the most price-sensitive states will be hurt the most. Exceptionally vulnerable states include Oklahoma, Wyoming and North Dakota. Texas, the nation’s leading oil producer—one of the world’s top producers, in fact—is diversified well enough to not feel the pain as much. What’s bad for oil producers, though, turns out to be good for American consumers, who are already benefiting from lower gasoline prices. As of this writing, the national average for a gallon of gas is $3.10, down from $3.35 a year ago, according to AAA’s Daily Fuel Gauge Report. As a result, American consumers are looking at huge savings—$40 billion this year alone. According to Deutsche Bank’s Joe LaVogna, every penny that’s saved at the pump equates to a billion dollars in household energy consumption that can be put back into the economy in other ways.          I like to think of this as an unexpected and very welcome tax break. Automobile sales are already up from 2009. Lower gas prices might encourage some families to spring for that Suburban instead of a Prius.  As I said earlier, gold stocks have been hurting lately. One mining company that’s managed to not only survive in this uncertain climate but actually thrive is Klondex Mines, our largest holding in both our Gold and Precious Metals Fund (USERX) and World Precious Minerals Fund (UNWPX), with additional exposure in our Global Resources Fund (PSPFX). Headquartered in Vancouver, Klondex has complete ownership and control of the Fire Creek Project and Midas Mine, both in Nevada. The chart below, based on our own research, shows Klondex’s relative strength to its peers and why we find the company so attractive in the long term. The y-axis indicates profit margin, the x-axis, enterprise value. The size of the spheres represents the amount of revenue generated by each one of these companies in the second quarter of 2014, Klondex’s first quarter of full commercial production.  What the chart conveys is that, in relation to its peers, Klondex has a significantly higher profit margin than companies with a market cap two to three times its size. “This is going to be very positive for Klondex shareholders as we go into the year-end,” portfolio manager Ralph Aldis said during our webcast. “The third quarter should be another great quarter, and that’s when people will say, ‘Hey, that second quarter report wasn’t a fluke.’ They’re going to start buying the stock and get it moving.” Indeed, Klondex has managed to stay above the Market Vectors Junior Gold Miners ETF for the 12-month period, delivering a positive return of 7 percent versus the index’s -7.5 percent.  On numerous occasions I’ve written about our research on the typical lifecycle of a mine, most recently in my whitepaper “Managing Expectations: Anticipate Before You Participate in the Market.” Below you can see the relationship between a mine’s lifecycle and the company’s share price.    As experts in mining stocks, it’s imperative for us to know which production stage the mine is in to manage our exposure to the company. In the case of Klondex, its price action mimics the movements in share price based on the chart above, confirming our research.  It also supports the benefits of active management. “When you buy an indexed fund, you’re basically just buying the market capitalization of those companies,” Ralph said. “You’re not getting the benefit of active management where we go out, meet the company’s management team and know its history. We’re familiar with the lifecycle of the mine in question, the money, the burn rate and the minerals the company is involved in.” I couldn’t have said it better myself. Last week I expressed my concerns disapproval of how the European Union is handling (or not handling) its fiscal and monetary mess. Because the EU is such an important region for the global economy, investors have become impatient with the bickering that’s stalled any clear solution to its slowdown. Last week I was in Italy meeting with other global business leaders, while U.S. Global’s Director of Research John Derrick was visiting and assessing Greek and Turkish companies such as Tsakos Energy Navigation, JUMBO, Türk Telekom and Turkcell. Watch for our firsthand accounts of and insights on the European situation this week. Please consider carefully a fund’s investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses. For this and other important information, obtain a fund prospectus by visiting www.usfunds.com or by calling 1-800-US-FUNDS (1-800-873-8637). Read it carefully before investing. Distributed by U.S. Global Brokerage, Inc. Foreign and emerging market investing involves special risks such as currency fluctuation and less public disclosure, as well as economic and political risk. Gold, precious metals, and precious minerals funds may be susceptible to adverse economic, political or regulatory developments due to concentrating in a single theme. The prices of gold, precious metals, and precious minerals are subject to substantial price fluctuations over short periods of time and may be affected by unpredicted international monetary and political policies. We suggest investing no more than 5% to 10% of your portfolio in these sectors. Because the Global Resources Fund concentrates its investments in specific industries, the fund may be subject to greater risks and fluctuations than a portfolio representing a broader range of industries. The S&amp;P 500 Stock Index is a widely recognized capitalization-weighted index of 500 common stock prices in U.S. companies. The Nasdaq Composite Index is a capitalization-weighted index of all Nasdaq National Market and SmallCap stocks. The Dow Jones Industrial Average is a price-weighted average of 30 blue chip stocks that are generally leaders in their industry. The Russell 2000 Index is a U.S. equity index measuring the performance of the 2,000 smallest companies in the Russell 3000. The Russell 3000 Index consists of the 3,000 largest U.S. companies as determined by total market capitalization. The Market Vectors Junior Gold Miners Index is a market-capitalization-weighted index. It covers the largest and most liquid companies that derive at least 50 percent from gold or silver mining or have properties to do so. The NYSE Arca Gold BUGS (Basket of Unhedged Gold Stocks) Index (HUI) is a modified equal dollar weighted index of companies involved in gold mining. The HUI Index was designed to provide significant exposure to near term movements in gold prices by including companies that do not hedge their gold production beyond 1.5 years. Fund portfolios are actively managed, and holdings may change daily. Holdings are reported as of the most recent quarter-end. Holdings in the funds mentioned as a percentage of net assets as of 09/04/2014: Alamos Gold, Inc. (0.04% World Precious Minerals Fund); Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (2.11% Global Resources Fund); Argonaut Gold (0.00%); AuRico Gold, Inc. (1.85% in Gold and Precious Metals Fund, 0.41% World Precious Minerals Fund); B2Gold Corp. (0.00%); Canadian Natural Resources, Ltd. (1.59% Global Resources Fund); Cimarex Energy Co. (1.80% Global Resources Fund); Detour Gold Corp. (0.00%); Deutsche Bank (0.00%); Devon Energy Corp. (1.82% Global Resources Fund); JUMBO S.A. (0.00%); Klondex Mines, Ltd. (7.76% Gold and Precious Metals Fund, 7.51% World Precious Minerals Fund, 1.22% Global Resources Fund); Market Vectors Junior Gold Miners ETF (0.16% Gold and Precious Metals Fund, 0.17% World Precious Minerals Fund); Peyto Exploration &amp; Development Corp. (1.31% Global Resources Fund); Primero Mining Corp. (0.05% Gold and Precious Metals Fund, 0.02% World Precious Minerals Fund); Suncor Energy, Inc. (2.13% Global Resources Fund); Tsakos Energy Navigation, Ltd. (0.00%); Türk Telekom (0.00%); Turkcell (1.79% Emerging Europe Fund). The Consumer Price Index (CPI) is one of the most widely recognized price measures for tracking the price of a market basket of goods and services purchased by individuals.  The weights of components are based on consumer spending patterns. Standard deviation is a measure of the dispersion of a set of data from its mean. The more spread apart the data, the higher the deviation. Standard deviation is also known as historical volatility. All opinions expressed and data provided are subject to change without notice. Some of these opinions may not be appropriate to every investor. By clicking the link(s) above, you will be directed to a third-party website(s). U.S. Global Investors does not endorse all information supplied by this/these website(s) and is not responsible for its/their content. Past performance does not guarantee future results. FREE AppDownload
Yahoo Finance As of this writing it's at $103.95, leaping past the previous high of $103.74, according to Bloomberg. There's no specific reason for the shares to be soaring. If anything, it's a continued reaction to strong earnings on Monday and a solid overall market for the day.  Investors' favor toward Apple comes down to one thing: the iPhone 6.  Apple says it is selling all the iPhones it can make. It says supply and demand aren't even on the same planet. Apple is the iPhone company, and iPhones are selling well. Apple still isn't near its record market cap value, though. The company has bought back shares, so its market cap still lags its all-time high.   FREE AppDownload
Gus Ruelas/ReutersBill Gates, takes part in a panel discussion titled "Investing in African Prosperity" at the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California May 1, 2013. For the 21st year in a row, Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates topped theForbes list of the wealthiest Americans. Gates now has an estimated net worth of $81 billion, putting him well ahead of his runner-up and good friend, Warren Buffett, who has an estimated $67 billion net worth. Here's the thing: Gates makes more in a single day doing nothing than the average person makes in a lifetime. By a long shot. Bill Gates Still Owns Tons Of Microsoft SharesFor the longest time, Gates was the single largest individual Microsoft shareholder. Earlier this year, he passed that title to his longtime friend and CEO successor, Steve Ballmer, who himself resigned as CEO earlier this year. Still, as of Gates' most recent SEC Form 4 disclosure, he still owns nearly 298 million shares of Microsoft. (This doesn't include the 425,000 shares that his wife, Melinda Gates, owns.) The software giant has just increased its quarterly dividend to $0.31, or $1.24 per share per year. That puts Gates' annual dividend income from his Microsoft position at a whopping $368 million. That translates into just over $1 million per day. Gates doesn't have to do anything other than hold his shares to earn that money. Additionally, this doesn't include Gates' investment income, interest income, or various other forms of compensation. Bill Gates Is Actually Selling His SharesMany years ago, Gates actually set up a prearranged 10b5-1 trading plan to slowly cash out his sizable holdings in the company he founded. Gates sells approximately 20 million shares per quarter. That's why Ballmer is now Microsoft's largest individual shareholder, with over 333 million shares. At this rate, Gates will sell all of his holdings by mid-2018. That means that over time, Gates' annual dividend income will also decline, but I don't think he'll have any trouble paying his electric bill anytime soon. Bill Gates Doesn't Do Nothing Most importantly, just because Gates doesn't have to do anything doesn't mean he isn't doing anything. Quite the contrary. While Gates officially transitioned away from daily operations back in 2008, he continued to serve as chairman of the board for many years. When Microsoft named Satya Nadella as its new CEO earlier this year, it also said Gates would assume a new role as technology advisor, helping Nadella with product decisions while relinquishing the chairman title. Gates said Nadella asked him to "pitch in," and Gates is expected to take a more active role at the company again as a result. But the bulk of Gates' time these days is spent pursuing philanthropic endeavors through the Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation. Through the Foundation, Gates is able to tackle humanity's most challenging problems. Few people in the world have the wherewithal to fight malaria and poverty on such a massive scale, and there's perhaps no better person to responsibly and generously dedicate such a fortune to helping mankind. Evan Niu, CFA has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool owns shares of Microsoft. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. FREE AppDownload
CNBCMark Cuban on CNBC's "Squawk Box."Billionaire investor Mark Cuban has some advice for the Republican Party: Drop the social issues. "If I was going to give guidance to the Republican Party ... I'd say, 'Stay completely out of social issues,'" Cuban said Tuesday morning on CNBC's "Squawk Box." The "Shark Tank" star and Dallas Mavericks owner said this would allow the GOP to communicate a strong message on the economy. "If you stay out of social issues, then the conversation from that side will only be about economics, and business, and growing business, and ideas," he said. "It should be easy!" Cuban also said he would have expected today's policymakers to agree with him, given that many of them grew up in the 1960s and 1970s. "The generation of sex, drugs, and rock and roll didn't turn out quite like we planned, right?" he said. "We thought we'd be like, 'Live free. Stay out of the bedroom. Stay out of everybody's lives. Let's just focus on business.' It turned out to be the exact opposite." View Cuban's remarks below.  FREE AppDownload
This week, former US Federal Reserve chief Ben Bernanke gave his first speech in Japan, to a group of more than 100 institutional investors, covering his thoughts on deflation, global monetary policy, and job creation. Hedge fund manager John Paulson, founder of Paulson &amp; Co., also spoke at the event — The SkyBridge Global Symposium Tokyo sponsored by the investment firm SkyBridge Capital. Bernanke told attendees that he believed central banks around the world had the power to fight our current No. 1 economic fear —  deflation. He told attendees that Japan's "Abenomics" policy was working, and that he liked that the Bank of Japan was generating more inflation than the European Central Bank. ECB head Mario Draghi, he added, should continue to expand the ECB's balance sheet. As for US policy, Bernanke thinks the Fed still needs to see more job creation before completely altering its policy. According to a source who was at the speech, Bernanke sounded positive about global prospects in a general sense. The former Fed Chair doesn't believe in secular stagnation, holding that industries like biotech, tech, and energy are poised to create more jobs to the global economy than we expect. FREE AppDownload
Here's a true conversation I had with my dental hygienist, meandering through our usual banter about life, money, and investing. This is the less garbled version. "Are you using ETFs?" I ask. "No," she answered, "I only use funds. My husband just bought us a cool one but I think it's a bit different than what we usually buy. It had a three-letter symbol and my husband bought it in our brokerage account." "That's an ETF," I reply. "No," she says, "it is a fund." We're both right. She bought an ETF, which is also a fund. (ETF stands for "exchange traded fund.") After having this conversation, it struck me that despite a solid two-decade history, ETFs remain a bit of a mystery to many investors. I'll even go so far to say that it is an area where some investors fear to tread. My sense is that a lot of people aren't as comfortable in their knowledge of these simple investments — even if they already own them. And this may be a real miss. These funds are used every day by millions of investors around the world. There's an ETF available for virtually every investment need, from broad markets to single countries, industries and sectors. I strongly believe ETFs should be an option in every investor's toolkit. To help you get grounded in the basics and let go of any fears, here are three things I want you to know about ETFs: ETFs are a mix of stocks or bonds combined into a single portfolio. Both vehicles have their uses: actively managed mutual funds generally seek to outperform a market or index, while most ETFs aim to track an index as closely as possible*. ETFs are required to disclose their holdings daily, meaning you always know what you're invested in. Cost matters — particularly for funds you plan to hold for the long term. ETFs not only tend to have lower annual expenses than an actively managed mutual fund, they are generally more tax efficient, meaning you may get to keep more of what you earn. You can buy and sell them like a stock. But just because they're easy to trade doesn't mean you have to; they make sense for both long and short term investments. *While most ETFs seek to track an index, there are ETFs that are actively managed. FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Boeing Co. reported an 18 percent increase in quarterly profit and raised its full-year core earnings forecast for the third time, reflecting booming commercial aircraft demand. The company earned $1.36 billion, or $1.86 per share, for the third quarter ended Sept. 30, up from $1.16 billion, or $1.51 per share, a year earlier. Core earnings, which exclude some pension and other costs, rose to $2.14 per share from $1.80. Revenue rose 7 percent to $23.78 billion. Commercial aircraft deliveries rose 9 percent to 186. For 2014, the company said it expects core earnings to be between $8.10-$8.30 per share, up from its earlier forecast of $7.90-$8.10. (Reporting by Sweta Singh in Bangalore; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila) FREE AppDownload
REUTERSWarren Buffett, like nearly 20% of billionaires, made his fortune in finance. And they control 4% of the world's wealth. According to a new report from the research firm Wealth-X, about 13% of billionaires inherited their fortune, 27% became billionaires from re-investing inherited wealth, and a full 60% of billionaires made their money themselves. Let's drill into how they made all that cash.  "Opportunities for significant wealth gains can be found across most, if not all industries," the report reads, "but certain industries have been particularly important sources of billionaire wealth generation."  Here are the top five:  Wealth-X and UBS Billionaire Census 2014 Unsurprisingly, most billionaires make their dough in finance.  The fascinating trend here is just how much wealth industrial conglomerates are creating, which Wealth-X chalks up to globalization.  "Billionaires are increasingly gravitating towards diversified business ventures such as industrial conglomerates, especially in emerging markets," the reports says. "For Latin America and the Caribbean, Asia, Africa, and the Middle East, the largest proportion of new billionaires made their fortunes in industrial conglomerates."  The takeaway: If you want to achieve ridiculous wealth, go to Wall Street — or the developing world.  And attending one of these schools can't hurt, either.  FREE AppDownload
Greenlight Capital, David EinhornGreenlight Capital CEO David Einhorn gave two ideas on Monday at the Robin Hood Investors Conference. One was a long position — in the solar company SunEdison. And the other was a long/short — long Greek banks, short French government debt. We've got the full presentation for you here. It starts off with Einhorn's long thesis on SunEdison (slide Nos. 1 to 37). It's the best-performing solar company of the year, and he thinks it can only get better. The stock currently trades at $19.22 per share, but he thinks it's worth $32 per share.  At about slide 38, Einhorn sorts out some of the mess that is Europe, focusing on Greece first. He argues that the worst is behind the country. The hardest decisions about austerity and the country is now "living within its means." He recommends going long Greek banks — *Alpha and Piraeus. France, on the other hand, is just starting to look ugly (that starts on slide 67). It's overbudget, suffers from high unemployment, and needs reform. Once the bond market realizes all of that, Einhorn says, it's time to short French government debt. *This post was edited to reflect a correction. Greenlight Capital recommended only Alpha and Piraeus, not Alpha, Piraeus, NBG, and Eurobank.   FREE AppDownload
All eight Ivy League universities have officially announced their endowment returns for the past fiscal year — Yale has the highest with 20.2% return and Harvard has the lowest with 15.4% return. A university's endowment is typically invested each year to increase the funds an institution has to offer financial aid, attract professors, and construct new buildings on campus. All the Ivies have endowments in the billions of dollars, with Harvard holding the largest endowment in the country, currently valued at $36.4 billion. Here's how all of the Ivy League endowments performed in fiscal year 2014, ranked high to low: Here's how the Ivy endowments rank in overall size, ranked largest to smallest: FREE AppDownload
Paul Krugman is furious about Amazon. The Nobel-prize winning economist used his New York Times column to issue a harsh assessment of the company saying that it "has too much power, and it uses that power in ways that hurt America." Ouch. Krugman sides with publisher Hachette in its bitter dispute with Amazon over the share of book sales that should be given to the latter. He suggests Amazon has been using its "robber-baron-type market power" in the book world to squeeze its suppliers until the pips squeak at the cost of both authors and readers. Except, here he runs into a problem. While it is clear how authors are being impacted negatively by the squeeze on publishers, it is far from clear that end customers are being disadvantaged. Quite the contrary — Amazon's apparent refusal to turn substantial profits despite its dominant market position suggests it is content to work to the benefit of its customers in order to gain market share. Here The Economist's Ryan Avent jumps in with a stinging attack of his own: Mr Krugman reckons Amazon is a monopsonist: a firm big enough within its market to set pricing terms to its suppliers. It is using that power, he says, to relentlessly squeeze publishers. One might ask who (apart from publishers) cares. If suppliers are squeezed and the savings are passed on to consumers that seems like a grand thing. Krugman says "it's not just about the money", but on an important level it really, really is. Amazon enjoys its market position precisely because it offers low prices for the books, films and other assorted items that people want. It is able to offer those discounts by aggressively bargaining with suppliers. In theory, as Avent points out, unlike a monopoly end customers are benefiting hugely from Amazon's strangle hold of the market so why jeopardize a good thing? The central disagreement between Krugman and Avent here, however, is not about whether Amazon is acting like a monopsonist (both concede that it fairly clearly is) but whether you can sustain a monopoly in the digital space. Avent argues that it is "incredibly easy to go around Amazon" to find alternative outlets and that publishers with an axe to grind could even go direct to consumers as "setting up online stores is not rocket science". I'm not so sanguine about the digital world, however. It is true that the barriers to entry for digital companies are much lower than setting up a new shop on the high street. But that doesn't make maintaining a harmful monopoly (or monopsony) impossible. It may not be akin to Krugman's example of Standard Oil's control of key infrastructure, but digital distribution behemoths can still wield unhealthy levels of power through their monopoly of convenience. Perhaps a better historical example of the dangers of monopsony is the supermarket price war in the middle of the last century. Once supermarkets had wrung out a large chunk of the initial efficiency gains that scale brought to the sector, they started to focus much more aggressively on their bottom line costs. This meant turning their attention to negotiations with suppliers. Though they were hugely successful in bidding down prices due to their dominant market position the squeeze on suppliers did appear to come at a cost. Here's what the National Commission of Food Marketing's 1966 report on the supermarkets had to say about it: Chain store supermarket expense rates (labor, et cetera) are often higher than independent grocers' and they appear to lack the vigor of local companies run by owner-managers. Moreover, even if you believe these inefficiencies would eventually be ironed out through competition the risk of squeezing suppliers too hard is that distribution monopsonies can end up creating monopolies on the other side. While consolidation in the supermarket industry has been impressive, it pales in comparison to what has been seen in the food processing and packaging industry. In some cases the top four firms control as much as 80% of the market in, for example, the beef industry. One consequence of this consolidation is that it becomes harder for producers to "discover" a fair market price and ensure that it is paid. It also leaves markets more open to manipulation over the long term. Avent does agree that in the case of its dispute with Hachette Amazon has acted in a manner that is "certainly nasty and possibly unethical" but doesn't read from that any need for regulators to act. However, if watchdogs wait for suppliers to fail and monopolies to develop before acting what purpose do they really serve? Acting in such an aggressive manner against a supplier should be a prima facie reason for regulators to be concerned about the market power of a company, even if they elect not to act. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
Mohamed El-Erian is getting into the peer-to-peer lending business.  The former PIMCO CEO is the lead investor in the first $12 million equity raising for a new, Orange County-based peer-to-peer lending company called Payoff, according to the Financial Times. Payoff says it will make online loans more efficiently than traditional banks using a combination of behavioral science and big data.  Unlike other P2P companies like Lending Club and Prosper, which began by connecting retail lenders and borrowers, Payoff is restricting itself to accredited investors (as that's where its competitors have mostly ended up, anyway). According to another article in the FT, Payoff has a sense of humor about its plan to disrupt the industry: its headquarters is full of art making fun of the traditional financial system: "A picture of the New York Stock Exchange has been scribbled over with blue pencil to resemble a casino and titled 'Gamblers Anonymous'. A snapshot of buttoned-up bankers in Kansas City is called 'Not Well-Suited'. And a photo of a bank cashier behind an old-fashioned teller cage is labeled 'Gated Community'." FREE AppDownload
Zagat has officially released its 2015 restaurant guide for New York City. The honor of New York’s best restaurant went to Eric Ripert’s Le Bernardin with a 29 out of 30 on Zagat’s food ranking. It also won for best service, and this is its 13th year as Zagat's #1 restaurant. Zagat polled nearly 30,600 surveyors and covered more than 2,000 restaurants in its guide. That included 160 new openings and 613 restaurants with dinner for under $30, and 391 establishments with dinner for under $25. Keep reading to see the best restaurants this year. (Numbers indicate the restaurant’s ranking in the 2014 survey.) Top Food 1 Le Bernardin | French/Seafood (1) 2 Bouley | French (2) 3 Jean Georges | French (6) 4. Gotham Bar &amp; Grill | American (14) 5 Eleven Madison | French (5) 6 Daniel | French (4) 7 Sushi Yasuda | Japanese (8) 8 Gramercy Tavern | American (10) 9 Peter Luger | Steak (16) 10 La Grenouille | French (9) Top Decor 1  Daniel (3)  2  Asiate (1)  3  Le Bernardin (7)  4  La Grenouille (6)  5  Eleven Madison Park(4)  6  Bouley (8)  7  Per Se (2)  8  Four Seasons (5)  9  Jean-Georges (14)  10  Tao (10)  Top Service 1 Le Bernardin (2) 2 Bouley (7) 3 Eleven Madison (3) 4 Daniel (4) 5 Jean-Georges (6) 6 La Grenouille (5) 7 Per Se (1) 8 Gramercy Tavern (8) 9 Gotham Bar &amp; Grill (10) 10 Sea Fire Grill (-) FREE AppDownload
Shares of 3D printer maker 3D Systems were down 11% in pre-market trading on Wednesday after the company slashed its revenue guidance on Tuesday night. In the third quarter, 3D expects revenue to come in between $164-$169 million, below Wall Street expectations for about $186 million. 3D also said it expects adjusted EPS in the third quarter to be $0.16-$0.19, below expectations for $0.21. In a statement, 3D Systems said, "Strengthening sales of the company’s design, manufacturing and healthcare products and services were not enough to overcome the revenue shortfall from the continued manufacturing capacity constraints for its direct metals printers and delayed availability of its newest consumer products." 3D CEO Avi Reichental added that, "We are disappointed that we failed to fully capitalize on the robust demand for our direct metal and consumer products during the quarter. While we worked very hard to deliver these products sooner, achieving manufacturing scale, quality and user experience targets took significantly longer than we had anticipated." 3D also cut its full-year revenue and profit outlook, saying that it expects revenue to total $650-$690 million, below Wall Street expectations for about $708 million. Following 3D's revenue cut, other 3D printing companies, including Stratasys, Voxeljet, and ExOne were lower in pre-market trading. FREE AppDownload
 The past two weeks have been absolutely wild in the financial markets. We've heard of hedge fund folks sharing stories about having an uncharacteristically tough time getting this market right.  Trading in this new volatility regime can be very challenging. Activist investor Daniel Loeb, the founder of Third Point LLC, summed up this nightmare of a month perfectly in just two paragraphs in his fund's new letter to investors.   According to Loeb, there's just an incredible amount of uncertainty in the country both in regards to the political situation and corporate governance. There's also a great deal of uncertainty about big M&amp;A deals getting done. Regulatory uncertainty "will be a wet blanket on top of investors until transparency and a level playing field are restored to the markets." From Loeb's letter: Before October, both market corrections and rallies back had been quick and dramatic this year. We feared that there had been a paradigm shift until the last few days, but it now seems the market may be continuing this established pattern. Pinpointing the cause of the initial sharp market movement downward is conjecture at best. Daniel Kahneman, the Nobel Laureate Economist and expert in heuristics, has written extensively about the dangers of our tendency to attribute causation to associated events. Keeping his research in mind, we caveat our explanations for October's correction and volatility. In early October, a confluence of events transpired in relatively short order, including weaker economic data, political uncertainty, a potential global plague, and bureaucratic meddling, which caused fear to spike, sentiment to decline, and investors to de-leverage. The month got off to an especially rocky start for hedge funds when a court dismissed a claim in connection with the Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac GSE complex. Many investors were oversized in this trade and their forced selling kicked off the "de-risking" cycle. Next, oil prices declined sharply and many funds who had large positions in E&amp;P companies suffered enormous losses. Then last week, AbbVie halted its announced inversion transaction with Shire, inflicting great pain on the arbitrage community. Opaquely blaming mysterious "meetings with the Treasury Department," AbbVie walked away from an entirely lawful deal that had been touted as enormously accretive and strategic as recently as two weeks ago, incurring a substantial $1.6 billion break-up fee. A rational conclusion is that instead of a legislative solution that might require comprehensive tax reform, this Administration has decided to unilaterally curb inversions using whatever means are available. Needless to say, this regulatory uncertainty (along with prior detours from the rule of law) will be a wet blanket on top of investors until transparency and a level playing field are restored to the markets. Loeb spoke on two panels at Tuesday's Robin Hood Investors Conference and he pretty much said the same sentiment. The conference was closed to the press, but we had a source present inside the event.  According to our source at Robin Hood, one of the panelists (we're not sure if it was Larry Fink, Lee Ainslie, or Carl Icahn) pointed out that Loeb got long the market last Wednesday. If that's the case, it could have been a monster trade for Loeb or for anyone who got long the market, but of course, we don't know the context.   FREE AppDownload
We all have annoying tasks to tackle during the day  – call the cable company and be on hold forever until you get someone on the phone, or look for parking in a busy neighborhood. Here are 5 great apps that can do the heavy lifting for you. Produced by Matthew Stuart Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Getty ImagesInflation remains tepid. Inflation in September rose 0.1% month-over-month both for headline and "core" CPI. On a year-over-year basis, headline inflation rose 1.7% and "core" inflation rose 1.7%. Expectations were for the report to show inflation was flat month-over-month in September and rose 1.6% on a year-over-year basis. "Core" inflation, which excludes the cost of food and energy, was expected to rise 0.1% month-over-month and 1.7% year-over-year.  The latest inflation report from the BLS showed that the food index rose 0.3% and five of six major grocery store group indexes increase, while the energy index fell 0.7% as gas, electricity, and fuel oil all declined. Last month, the CPI report showed headline inflation fell 0.2% month-over-month, but rose 1.7% on a year-over-year basis.  "Core" inflation in August was flat and rose 1.7% year-over-year. In a note to clients following the report, Ian Shepherdson at Pantheon Macro said, "In one line: Core trend is steady; headline set for further gas-induced decline in Q4... With core inflation steady, faster wage gains will be the key Fed trigger." FREE AppDownload
(Reuters) - Dow Chemical Co &lt;dow.n&gt;, the No. 1 U.S. chemical maker by sales, reported a better-than-expected quarterly profit for the fourth time in a row, helped by higher sales in its plastics and performance materials business units. The company's shares rose nearly 6 percent before the bell. Dow's performance plastics unit, which makes products for toy manufacturers, builders and car makers, has benefited from access to relatively cheap natural gas, thanks to the shale boom in the United States. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) at the unit, the company's biggest by sales, rose 31 percent to $1.27 billion in the third quarter ended Sept. 30. Dow is adding capacity in the U.S. Gulf Coast and in Saudi Arabia to keep feedstock costs low. The first units of Dow's $20 billion joint venture with Saudi Aramco are expected to come online in the second half of 2015. EBITDA at the company's performance materials grew 61 percent to $506 million. Dow's net income available to common shareholders rose 43 percent to $852 million, or 71 cents per share, in the quarter ended Sept. 30. Adjusted profit was 72 cents per share, higher than the average analyst estimate of 68 cents, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Dow, which makes everything from insecticides to plastics, said revenue rose 5 percent to $14.41 billion, beating the average analyst estimate of $14.31 billion. Up to Tuesday's close, Dow's shares rose nearly 17 percent over the past 12 months. They closed at $48.21 on the New York Stock Exchange.   (Reporting by Swetha Gopinath in Bangalore; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/HardmanLately, black gold looks more like black pyrite. The price of Brent crude began falling in late June, and dropped below $100 a barrel in September – and it’s on track for a double digit quarter average for the first time since January 2011. All-in, the price of oil has declined 25 percent from a June 19 peak of $115.19 to $86.36 in mid-October. What’s behind the plunge? The price of a commodity can fall for two reasons—too little demand or too much supply. Or both. While demand from Europe and Japan has been sluggish of late, oversupply is what’s really driving prices lower. A remarkably successful effort over the last five years to extract oil from previously untappable shale beds in North Dakota and Texas has flooded the U.S. market with oil. The U.S. shale revolution, no longer just a local phenomenon, is putting downward pressure on global oil markets, and Credit Suisse believes it will continue to do so for at least the next three years. Oil production outside the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) has grown an average of 800,000 barrels per day each year since 2009. The United States, where oil production rose from 5.3 million barrels per day in 2009 to 7.4 million in 2013, is the single biggest driver of that growth. The Obama Administration is considering lifting a ban on crude oil exports, but for now, American crude stays at home. As a result, the U.S. needs less foreign oil. Imports fell from 12.9 million barrels per day in 2009 to 9.9 million in 2013, even as the economy improved dramatically. (They may not be exporting crude, but American refineries have built a booming business shipping out diesel fuel and other refined products.) All that said, all signs pointed to a global supply crunch as recently as June, when the militant group ISIL launched a devastating offensive in the key oil-producing region of northern Iraq. As a result, says Credit Suisse Global Energy Economist Jan Stuart, speculators bid up prices. But oil production in southern Iraq was never affected, and the Iraqi Army (with foreign assistance) began to make headway against ISIL. Meanwhile, Libyan oil exports, which had stopped entirely since the summer of 2013 as the post-Gadhafi  civil war intensified, began to re-enter markets in July. By  August with the country’s largest export terminal re-opened for business after a year offline, flows averaged more than 500,000 barrels per day. Through it all, global crude oil inventories actually rose rather than fell, as they usually do in summer, partly due to increasingly efficient refineries. In August, as it became clear that markets were actually oversupplied, oil prices that had been slowly weakening since late June suddenly began to sell off dramatically. Markets remain bearish. Oil prices for future delivery remain higher than spot prices, a so-called contango situation that reflects a supply surplus and the ongoing incentive to build inventory. Credit Suisse energy analysts expect average Brent crude prices of $92 in the fourth quarter. Weak economic data out of Europe and China augurs softer demand, while both Libya and Iraq delivered higher oil production than previously estimated  in August and September. Further out, Stuart expects the growth pace of the U.S. oil boom to level off in 2015 and 2016, but says crude oil production alone should still grow by more than 1 million barrels per day each year. Energy analysts have lowered their forecasts for Brent crude to an average of $91.50 in 2015, $90 in 2016, and $88 in 2017. Meanwhile, the price of West Texas Intermediate (WTI) oil produced in the U.S. is expected to average $86 in the fourth quarter of 2014, $84.50 in 2015, $82 in 2016, and $81 in 2017. Those forecasts are a radical departure from the triple-digit prices of the last four years, but prices could slide even further if Saudi Arabia maintains current production levels. If Saudi Arabia doesn’t cut production, WTI prices could fall to $70 a barrel. At that level, Stuart says, U.S. exploration and production activity would decline quickly, with the number of completed wells falling by at least 11 percent and production growth falling by a third to 740,000 barrels per day. Crucially, however, growth wouldn’t deflate entirely, and would re-accelerate quickly once prices rise again.  In the end, Stuart believes the kingdom will cut oil production as soon as next month, and will keep production toward the bottom end of its comfort range in 2015. Saudi officials have repeatedly said that they  prefer stability above all else, and that oil prices close to $100 per barrel makes everyone “happy.” FREE AppDownload
REUTERSJonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a roundup of what traders are chatting about right now: Good Morning!  US Futures are mixed, with Nasdaq and Russell in the green, while the S&amp;P is off small.   Overnight Macro headlines were relatively benign, save reports 3 Greek banks, 3 Italians, 2 Austrians, 1 Cypriot, 1 Portuguese and 1 Belgian set to fail stress tests (results Sunday) – That said, the EU Fins are holding a bid, with the SX7E in the green.   The DAX is up 30bp, but volumes remain light on the content, with volumes down 25-50% to 5day averages (school holiday) – Financials seem to be the outperformers, while tobacco stocks are among the worst.    Over in Asia, Russia’s MICEX is off almost 1% as Ruble pressure continues as no resolution in the gas crisis developing.   Most other Asian markets took their cue from strong US tech earnings, as Nikkei climbed 2.5% (still GPIF tailwinds) - Aussie popped 1% on benign inflation data as Banks outperformed again, and Strong tech helped Hang Seng jump 1.4%.    Save Korea, volumes across Asia were roughly 20% light as well. The US 10YY is under pressure, dropping below 2.2% as it follows Bund yields south (Citi saying 10Y bunds going to 65bp) – US Treasuries have been losing their bid later into the afternoon after the Euro players head home – so look for rates to possibly pop into the afternoon.   The DXY is higher, gaining ground against Sterling on dovish BoE comments, and Euro hit as EU's Juncker pledges to unveil major investment plan this year.    Despite the headwinds, commodities are generally higher, with Brent up 60bp and near session highs, Copper up 45bp – while the Grains and Beans are seeing continued covering. Scheduled Catalysts today include MBA Mortgage Applications at 7:30, CPI at 8:30, Bank of Canada Rate Decision and Bank of Portugal's Neves speaks at 10, we have DOE data for Crude at 10:30.  There is NO POMO at 11, but sometime before the opening we should get the AIA's Architecture Billings Index for September.   While focus is on earnings, I’ll be watching Tech today – YHOO up 3.5%, while TSLA, AAPL, FB seem to be holding yesterday’s gains – while It will be important for Semis to build on yesterday’s 3% gain.   Airline stocks are retreating 1% after yesterday’s surge, yet I saw no fresh Ebola headlines overnight, that’s still a risk for the bulls.  Homebuilders have surged higher, gaining over 10% in the last week, but the ITHB hit a wall at the 200dma – look for some profit taking.  Finally we have been seeing sharp covering in OIH, XOP and XLE this week – Let’s see how WTI acts into DOE today (3million barrel build expected) - now that contracts have rolled. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersVehicles drive through field of heliostats at the Ivanpah Solar Electric Generating System in the Mojave Desert near the California-Nevada border(Reuters) - For years, the utilities responsible for providing electricity to the nation have treated residential solar systems as a threat. Now, they want a piece of the action, and they are having to fight for the chance. If utilities embrace home solar, their deep pockets and access to customers could transform what has been a fast-growing, but niche industry. Solar powers only half a million U.S. homes and businesses, according to solar market research firm GTM Research. But utility-owned rooftop systems represent a change the solar installation companies who dominate the market don't want, and whether the two sides can compromise may determine if residential solar truly goes mainstream. In Arizona, the state's largest utility has proposed putting solar panels on 3,000 customers' homes, promising a $30 monthly break on their power bills. In New York, regulators are weighing allowing utilities to get into the solar leasing business to meet the state's aggressive plan to incorporate more decentralized, renewable power onto the grid. That's a change from the industry's recent skepticism of residential solar. Last year, for example, the Edison Electric Institute, a utility trade group, in a report described rooftop solar as a "disruptive challenge" that could squeeze revenue and profits as customers defected, leaving companies forced to maintain grids that serve all. Residential solar grew 45 percent in the second quarter from the previous year and installations are expected to exceed 1 gigawatt this year, or about enough for 165,000 homes, according to GTM Research. That growth has been underpinned by government subsidies and falling equipment costs that have allowed startups to underprice utilities. No-money-down solar leases also have made rooftop systems much more financially accessible, boosting demand. Some utilities, like Edison International and NRG, already have entered the rooftop solar market through unregulated divisions, and many utilities have bought huge solar arrays. But a regulated utility rolling out large amounts of rooftop solar is a new idea. Pinnacle West Capital Corp unit Arizona Public Service (APS) in July proposed to spend up to $70 million on systems for about 3,000 homes. Also in Arizona, Fortis unit Tucson Electric Power proposed this summer to give customers a fixed power rate in exchange for putting panels on their rooftops. The plans first must be approved by the utility regulator, and the solar industry is fighting. The issue, according to The Alliance for Solar Choice (TASC), a coalition of solar leasing companies that includes SolarCity, SunRun and Verengo Solar, is that regulators set rates that guarantee profits for utilities, giving them a financial advantage, in addition to their access to customers. They say APS' record of trying to impose fees on solar customers is a reason to question the utility's motives. "Are they actually trying to deploy lots of rooftop solar or are they just trying to kill off the only competition they've ever had?" said Will Craven, a spokesman for TASC. To be sure, solar companies get their share of government support through subsidies, and New York state recently agreed to invest $750 million in infrastructure and equipment purchases for a SolarCity solar panel factory. SolarCity, backed by Tesla Motors CEO Elon Musk, is the largest U.S. residential installer with about a third of the market. APS argues that its program isn't intended to supplant other means of going solar and is good for rate payers. For instance, the utility can place panels in locations that will most improve grid stability. "This isn't intended to be the one size fits all for solar," said Marc Romito, manager of renewable energy at APS. Arizona is currently ground zero in the debate over utility ownership of rooftop solar, but the concept is being considered elsewhere. New York is weighing allowing utilities to own residential rooftop systems, and regulated units of National Grid, Fortis, Iberdrola SA and Consolidated Edison Inc support the idea. An early draft of the plan issued last month said, however, that utilities must demonstrate why their rooftop solar would be better than the alternatives. Other states have faced resistance to utilities getting into rooftop solar as well. South Carolina earlier this year allowed utilities to offer solar leases, although they cannot recover costs from ratepayers and therefore will have to run such programs through an unregulated division, a condition insisted on by solar installers. And in Washington, a bill that would have given utilities control of the leasing market failed this year. The bill's author, Representative Jeff Morris, said he expects to introduce a compromise between the solar and power sectors next year. Utilities and installers could also join forces. Former U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu said utilities should partner with installers, offering financing while installers put on systems, though he acknowledged risks. "Safeguards against utilities squeezing out competition are important," Chu said. (Reporting By Nichola Groom, editing by Terry Wade and Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThierry Desmarest, Chairman of French oil company Total, speaks during the company's annual shareholders meeting in ParisPARIS (Reuters) - French oil major Total &lt;totf.pa&gt; said on Wednesday Patrick Pouyanne, head of refining up until now, would take over as chief executive and Thierry Desmarest as chairman. The nominations come a day after the brutal death of Christophe de Margerie in a plane crash in Russia. The appointments were announced in a statement issued after a Total board meeting. The statement said Desmarest would keep his new position until the end of 2015, whereafter the roles of CEO and chairman would be combined again. Pouyanne had a key role in merging Total's loss-making refining and petrochemical units in recent years, and also had senior roles at the group's exploration units in Angola and Qatar. A graduate of France's elite Polytechnique and Mines engineering colleges, he was also an advisor in ministerial offices under previous conservative governments.   (Reporting by Raoul Sachs and Michel Rose; Editing by Brian Love) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTo match Special Report PIMCO/GROSSLONDON (Reuters) - Pimco's head of global banking, Philippe Bodereau, said he expects 18 banks to fail a stress test of regional lenders when results are published by the European Central Bank on Sunday. Bodereau, who runs $4.3 billion in the Pimco GIS Capital Securities Fund, said the failures would likely include some German and Austrian cooperative and public sector banks, as well as weak regional lenders in the periphery. Given recent market volatility, he said it was more likely there would be a positive than negative shock after the results are released, and added that he did not expect to see any big rights issues as a result of the euro zone tests.   (Reporting by Simon Jessop; Editing by Nishant Kumar) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeBy Ryan Vlastelica NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures were flat on Wednesday, implying that buyers were taking a pause following the biggest four-day rally for the S&amp;P 500 since January 2013. * Major indexes jumped about 2 percent on Tuesday, lifted by strong corporate results, especially in the tech sector, and a Reuters report that the European Central Bank was considering buying corporate bonds. * The S&amp;P 500 has gained 4.2 percent over the past four sessions, putting it about 3.5 percent from its closing record, and up more than 6 percent from its session low last Wednesday, when the benchmark nearly reached correction territory. It closed Tuesday above both its 14-day moving average and its 200-day average, a sign of improving near-term momentum. * Earnings continue to be in focus. Late Tuesday, both Yahoo Inc  and Broadcom  posted better-than-expected revenue growth. Yahoo rose 3.3 percent to $41.52 in premarket trading and was the Nasdaq's most active premarket stock. * While earnings have largely come in strong so far this quarter, concerns continue to swirl over the pace of global economic growth and the timing of central bank policy changes. * Investors will be looking ahead to the consumer price index, which is seen as flat in September. The report, due at 8:30 a.m., is the first read on CPI since August's 0.2 percent dip, the first time prices fell in near 1-1/2 years, which was seen as lessening the urgency for the U.S. Federal Reserve to raise interest rates. Futures snapshot at 6:55: * S&amp;P 500 e-minis  were falling 3.25 points, or 0.17 percent, with 180,299 contracts changing hands. * Nasdaq 100 e-minis  were down 1.75 points, or 0.04 percent, in volume of 23,940 contracts. * Dow e-minis  were down 3 points, or 0.02 percent, with 26,384 contracts changing hands.  (Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
ReutersRussia's Gazprom.Ukraine should be able to find ways of paying for Russian gas supplies within a week, Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said on Wednesday, suggesting a standoff would end once Moscow received financial guarantees from Kiev. The latest round of gas talks between Moscow and Kiev ended late on Tuesday in Brussels with no agreement in a dispute that prompted Russia to cut off gas supplies to its neighbor in mid-June, potentially hurting flows west to the European Union. But while Novak said he was optimistic for new talks on Oct. 29, Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk said he was skeptical about building ties with Russia, underlining how efforts to reach a deal are hampered by a wider political conflict between the two countries. On Tuesday, Russia increased the pressure on Ukraine, which is dependent on Western aid, demanding assurances on how Kiev, would find the money to pay Moscow. Earlier Ukraine asked the European Union for a further 2 billion euros in credit. via AFPNovak told reporters at an energy conference in Moscow that the two sides had almost reached a deal but that the talks came unstuck "by another issue - where will Ukraine get the money to pay in advance for gas supplies in November and December". "If the Ukrainians have the money, then the documents will be signed. If not, then we will wait." Sergei Kupriyanov, a spokesman for Russian gas exporter Gazprom told Reuters that gas flows to Ukraine would be restarted once Kiev received financial aid. "If Europe gives them the money, then gas will flow," he said. In Kiev, Yatseniuk said Kiev was negotiating with its European partners on re-exporting gas to Ukraine and was not optimistic about the talks, overshadowed by a pro-Russian uprising in eastern Ukraine and Russia's annexation of Crimea. "I am rather skeptical about building relations with Russia, but will see what happens on the 29th," he told a government meeting. Kiev and Moscow have agreed on a price for Russian gas supplies during the winter at $385 per thousand cubic meters, but the two sides have stumbled over other issues, including whether Ukraine should be asked to pay up front. The deputy head of Ukraine's state energy company Naftogaz. Serhiy Pereloma, said Ukraine expected to get 5.7 billion cubic meters of gas in reverse flows from Europe between October and March. The country needed 26.7 bcm between those two months, down 24.5 percent from last year, he added. Those needs Ukraine wants to cover by its own gas production and gas from storages.   (Reporting by Katya Golubkova; Writing by Elizabeth Piper, editing by William Hardy) FREE AppDownload
US consumers remain jittery. As expected, households actually paid attention to last week's market volatility and the Ebola fears. As many have pointed out, some of what we've heard last week was blown out of proportion. But any increased uncertainty, perceived or real, can have an immediate and a very real impact on the economy these days. Sober LookICSC's Weekly U.S. Retail Chain Store Sales Snapshot  currently is based on the ICSC-Goldman Sachs weekly index, which measures nominal same-store or comparable-store sales excluding restaurant and vehicle demand. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ueslei MarcelinoBrazil's President Dilma Rousseff. Good morning! Here's what you need to know.  Eleven Banks Are About to Fail Europe's Stress Tests. Spanish news wire EFE says that that at least 11 of the 130 banks the European Central Bank is now in charge of testing have failed their reviews. Japan's Trade Picture Is Collapsing. Japan's shaky economy was dealt another blow Wednesday, as official data showed a widening September trade deficit that puts the world's number-three economy on track to log a record annual shortfall. 6.1 Million US Cars Are Being Recalled Over Defective Airbags. The US highway safety regulator expanded its warning Tuesday about faulty airbags made by Japanese auto-part maker Takata to include 6.1 million vehicles in the United States. Daimler Made $800 Million Selling Its Tesla Stake. The parent company of Mercedes is selling its 4% stake in Tesla.  Heineken Blames The Weather For Poor Sales In Q3. The Dutch brewer, which makes Heineken lager as well as Sol, Tiger, and Strongbow cider, said it sold 0.2% less beer in the July-September period with declines in both eastern and western Europe. Europe's Biggest Airline Is Close To A Major Outsourcing Deal With IBM. German airline Lufthansa says it is close to selling its IT infrastructure division and completing an outsourcing deal with IBM. Brazil's President Gains On Neves Ahead Of Sunday's Runoff. President Dilma Rousseff has gained 1 percentage point on her rival Aecio Neves ahead of a runoff to Brazil's presidential election, a new poll showed on Wednesday. The leftist incumbent has 47% of voter support. European Markets Are Pretty Flat After A Rally In Asia. The FTSE 100 is currently down 0.12%, Germany's DAX is up 0.03% and France's CAC 40 is down 0.05%. Both the Nikkei and Hang Seng had strong days, closing up 2.64% and 1.37% respectively.  Hong Kong's Leader Warns Vigilantes May "Take The Law Into Their Own Hands" Against Protestors. Hong Kong chief executive CY Leung told international reporters that patience is wearing thin with the pro-democracy protestors who have occupied large parts of central Hong Kong. Inflation Data Is Out Later. At 8:30 a.m. ET, US CPI data for September will be released, the only major economic data out Wednesday. Analysts are expecting a 1.6% print, comfortably below the Fed's target of 2%. FREE AppDownload
While stocks recouped some of their losses on Friday, last week was another difficult one for equity markets. Volatility – as measured by the VIX Index – traded at its highest level since December 2011, and stock markets experienced their worst three-day stretch in years. As I write in my new weekly commentary, “The Era of Low Volatility Ends,” last week’s sell-off illustrated two important facts about the global economy. That said, even with these challenges I see equity opportunities for long-term investors. First, here are the two things investors need to know: Investors are re-calibrating their expectations for global growth, particularly in Europe. As was the case in prior recent weeks, selling derived largely from fears over economic growth (or lack thereof). Consistent with the past few months, much of the worry remains centered on Europe, as last week brought more evidence of the slowdown in the eurozone. In addition, even the U.S. is not immune to the threat of slower growth, as evident in last week’s weaker-than-expected September retail sales data. However, in my opinion, the United States, whose growth remains in relatively good shape, is still one of the bright spots in a global economy characterized by diverging growth, and while global growth is slowing, another recession is likely not on the horizon. It should be noted, for instance, that beyond the disappointing sales data, other U.S. economic reports last week, specifically industrial production and initial jobless claims, came in strong. Low inflation is a real risk. Beyond the pace of growth, investors are also justifiably nervous over inflation, or more accurately, the lack of any. While low inflation is typically a good thing, when it crosses the line into deflation, companies lose pricing power, debt becomes a bigger burden and, as Japan has demonstrated over the past 20 years, central banks have a difficult time getting prices to rise. While most deflationary concerns are focused on Europe, recent readings suggest that unusually low inflation is a global phenomenon impacting the U.S. as well. The drop in inflation has led to a corresponding decrease in U.S. inflation expectations since August, which in turn has resulted in a decline in U.S. Treasury yields over the same period. As for what this all means for investors going forward, while investor sentiment has clearly shifted, economic fundamentals remain relatively stable. As such, recent losses have also resulted in two potential opportunities for long-term investors. Maintain exposure to global equities. In my opinion, the recent sell-off is a mid-cycle correction rather than the start of a bear market and, as such, I’d maintain exposure to global equity markets. If anything, the recent drop in interest rates, coupled with the decline in stock valuations, provides an even more compelling case for the asset class as offering better long-term return prospects than bonds. Favor large- and mega-cap stocks. These market segments have held up better than their small- and mid-cap counterparts in the last few weeks, providing a bit of cushion from the volatility. And with the recent sell-off having made them more attractively valued, I suggest investors continue to emphasize larger capitalizations, particularly with more volatility likely on the horizon. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA generic picture of a Xerox logo on a photocopier.(Reuters) - Xerox Inc  reported a 2 percent fall in quarterly revenue, hurt by slowing demand in its printing business. Net income attributable to Xerox fell to $266 million, or 22 cents per share, from $286 million, or 22 cents per share, a year earlier. Revenue fell to $5.12 billion from $5.24 billion a year earlier.  (Reporting By Sai Sachin R and Supantha Mukherjee in Bangalore) FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogOver the past few weeks, as stock prices plunged, investors all focused on the reasons behind the rout. It wasn’t too hard to come up with a worry list. Now that stock prices have been rebounding over the past few days, the worry list seems a bit less worrisome, as I noted on Monday. After falling as much as 2.3% below its 200-day moving average last Wednesday, the S&amp;P 500 rebounded to 1.8% above it yesterday. On a closing basis, the S&amp;P 500 dropped 7.4% from its record high on September 18 to its recent low last Wednesday. That’s more of a dip than a correction. Even on an intra-day basis, the drop was 9.8%, just shy of the 10% definition of a certifiable correction. The S&amp;P 500 Transportation index actually held its 200-dma last week, and rebounded dramatically since then above its 50-dma and yesterday to within a whisker of its September 18 record high. It had sold off, led by airline stocks, on fears that Ebola would depress passenger traffic. Now that Ebola fears are subsiding, investors are focusing on the positive impact of lower fuel prices on transportation companies. So far, buying on dips remains in fashion. That’s because the news about the most worrisome issues of the past few weeks has become less worrisome, while stocks have gotten cheaper. The panic over Ebola seems to be subsiding as it becomes more apparent that the virus isn’t easily transmittable. The US economy continues to perform very well. Members of the Federal Open Mouth Committee are chattering about possibly delaying raising the federal funds rate next year. The ECB has started buying Eurozone bonds sooner than expected. The region’s auto sales continue to recover. China’s economy is experiencing a soft rather than a hard landing. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Accentuating the Positives. (1) V-shaped stock rebound toys with moving averages. (2) Transportation stocks flying high again. (3) Buying on dips still in fashion. (4) Oil provides a nice windfall for consumers. (5) US federal income tax revenues up big. (6) S&amp;P 500 forward revenues in record-high territory. (7) Forward earnings still moving forward. (8) The current earnings season is mostly upbeat. (9) What about Q4? (10) ECB is back in the game. (11) China continues to emerge. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Russia will struggle to avoid falling into a recession if oil prices are allowed to drop to $80 a barrel — and could face calamity if prices fall below that level. Brent crude oil prices have fallen from a June high of $115 a barrel to just over $86 a barrel Wednesday. This poses a huge problem for Russia as oil and gas account for around two-thirds of total exports from the country: Morgan Stanley Morgan Stanley estimates that "every $10 fall in the oil price means a $32.4 billion fall in oil and gas exports, which is equivalent to about 1.6% of GDP" and around a $19 billion fall in government budget revenues. Morgan Stanley So using these rules of thumb, the recent oil price falls could have wiped out 4.8% of potential GDP growth and knocked almost $60 billion off Russia's budget revenues.  So what if it were to continue? Morgan Stanley estimates that at $80 a barrel — which the investment bank gives a 45% probability — the government's budget deficit would increase to 2% of GDP next year, while inflation would continue to climb to 9%. The country would most likely fall into recession with GDP falling by 2% over 2015. Under the far less likely scenario that oil were to fall even lower — to around $50 a barrel — it could cause widespread disruption. Inflation would leap up to between 13-15%, while GDP would contract by as much as 6%. Russian policymakers appear to think that the worst is over and that growth will start to pick up again next year, albeit at a gradual pace. This is what Morgan Stanley has to say about that: We expect growth to stagnate, as uncertainty restrains investment and consumption, with the public-sector wage freeze posing a downside risk to consumption. We expect inflation to remain above target, as a result of import restrictions and the weaker RUB pushing up inflation and inflation expectations. We expect reserves to continuing contracting as a result of high capital outflows, and the use of the Reserve Fund to finance the deficit. It looks set to be a cold winter indeed for the government in Moscow.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFrench Prime Minister Valls holds a dossier during the questions to the government session at the National Assembly in ParisPARIS (Reuters) - France has long called for a European economic government to harmonise the bloc's policies, but it is baulking now at that governance being applied to its own fiscal indiscipline. After defying European Union rules by putting forward a budget far short of the deficit cuts promised to its peers, Paris reacted angrily to the prospect of having it sent back for redrafting by the European Commission, which polices the rules. "It is we who decide on the budget," Prime Minister Manuel Valls declared. "Nothing today can lead to ... demands for France to review its budget. That's not the way it happens. France should be respected. It's a big country." Germany, France's historic partner in European leadership, is pressing for the rules to be upheld but it is eager to avoid having to vote for sanctions against Paris or undercutting the EU executive's authority by opposing them. The issue of Europe's economic policy mix will be on the menu when leaders of the 18-nation euro zone hold summit talks over lunch on Friday in Brussels, although any solution may take until mid-December to thrash out. French President Francois Hollande, a Socialist supported by Italy and with much sympathy in struggling southern states, says he is trying to reorient Europe towards growth-promoting policies and away from German-driven austerity. The International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the U.S. Treasury broadly agree on the objective. But France's influence in Europe is diminished by its economic weakness and perceived immobility. French officials say Hollande has also shied away from confronting German Chancellor Angela Merkel on economic policy at bilateral meetings or EU summits since he took office in 2012. The budget dispute highlights French schizophrenia towards Europe. French leaders of the centre-left and centre-right were long a driving force behind post-war European integration, but public opinion has turned sceptical in the last decade due to unease over globalization and the EU's eastward expansion. France rejected a proposed EU constitution in a referendum in 2005 in which fear of the "Polish plumber" displacing French workers played a big role. Marine Le Pen's far-right National Front has gained ground on an anti-EU, anti-euro platform. Le Pen's growing inroads into the left's working class electorate - her party currently leads the mainstream centre-left and centre-right in opinion polls - help explain why Paris has struck a nationalist tone in the budget dispute. With his approval rating languishing at a mere 13 percent, Hollande can ill afford to be seen to back down to Brussels or Berlin, or even to acknowledge the loss of full sovereignty over national budgets within the euro zone. Hence Paris is trying to shift the focus by urging Germany, Europe's economic powerhouse, to loosen its purse strings to stimulate a stagnant euro zone economy, while France pledges more economic reform. The Germans, determined to balance their budget for the first time since 1969, are in no mood for a major debt-funded public works program despite international pressure. Intensive diplomacy by EU and German officials failed to persuade the French to tighten the budget before they submitted it to Brussels on Oct. 15. In structural terms, adjusted for the business cycle, the deficit reduction is just 0.2 percentage points next year, compared to an agreed target of a 0.8 percent. Finance Minister Michel Sapin has disputed the Commission's right to reject national budgets and insisted Paris would neither cut public spending beyond the 20 billion euros in savings already planned in 2015, nor raise taxes. Sapin wants two more years, until 2017, to bring borrowing down below the EU treaty limit of 3 percent of GDP, although Paris was granted a two-year extension until 2015 only last year. Economists polled by Reuters doubt it will meet even the later deadline.   TRADE-OFF To avert a confrontation that could undermine the currency area's fragile recovery, French and German ministers agreed this week to put forward joint proposals on Dec. 1 on structural reforms and strengthening investment. Berlin is sceptical of Hollande's ability to go beyond timid reforms adopted so far and take bolder steps to ease hiring and firing, cut jobless benefits and reduce the cost of the state. "The government's argument is that socially, we cannot ask more of the French people," said Francois Lafond, executive director of the left-leaning EuropaNova think-tank. "We know what reforms are needed. It's a recalibration of the French welfare state. But the president says he cannot do more now ... So he is asking the EU and Germany for help and understanding." Paris wants Berlin to commit to increase public investment in roads, railways, broadband and energy networks by 50 billion euros ($63.6 billion) in the next three years to match a planned 50 billion euros in French budget savings. "The problem is not that Germany is too strong but that France is too weak," said French political analyst Dominique Moisi. "Our economic weakness is the result of political non-choices. We no longer feel we are playing in the same division." Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, engaged in a more radical overhaul of labor law, politics and the legal system, warns that forcing austerity on France could drive it into the arms of the extreme right. "I prefer to have a France with 4.4 per cent (deficit-to-GDP ratio) today than a France with Marine Le Pen tomorrow," he told the Financial Times in an interview this month. Such arguments carry little weight with the fiscal enforcers in Brussels, who see Paris as a repeat offender, but they resonate in government circles in Berlin. "If France's schizophrenia is used intelligently at the European level, it could help the EU to change direction for everyone's benefit," Lafond said.   (Editing by Mike Peacock) FREE AppDownload
STRASBOURG France (Reuters) - The incoming head of the EU executive, Jean-Claude Juncker, told the European Parliament on Wednesday that he would present his 300-billion-euro plan for investment to bolster growth and jobs by the end of this year. Switching significantly to German during a keynote address ahead of a parliamentary vote to endorse his new European Commission, Juncker said investment was vital to restoring growth and creating jobs. Germany, Europe's dominant economy, is resisting calls for it to spend more to kick-start growth. Juncker, a conservative former prime minister of Luxembourg, stressed, however, that, as German Chancellor Angela Merkel has said, that much of the 300 billion euros should come from private investors and that governments should continue to contain their budget deficits. "If you give us your support today, we will present the jobs, growth and investment package before Christmas," Juncker told parliament in Strasbourg, adding that investment should focus on improving economic efficiency, not short-term spending. Berlin has been resisting calls from other euro zone states and beyond for it to increase public investment spending to rekindle economic growth on the continent. Juncker also said that the European Union's budget rules that limit the size of government deficits and public debt will not be weakened. The Commission is preparing a review of the rules and their effectiveness with a report due by the middle of December, while France and Italy are pushing for more leniency in required budget consolidation efforts. "The rules will not be changed," Juncker said. "But they can be implemented with a degree flexibility." Investment, he said, was only one part of a three-pillar strategy, along with structural reforms of national economics and renewed fiscal credibility for governments.  The major parties in parliament are set to endorse the 28-strong new Commission in a vote after noon (1000 GMT) and the new executive will take office on Nov. 1, replacing that led by outgoing President Jose Manuel Barroso. Juncker pledged a "very political" team that would focus during its five-year mandate on carrying out major programs while leaving lesser matters to national governments - a key demand from Britain, where there are strong demands for the country to quit the EU. He said a new, two-tier hierarchy Commission whose number has soared with the expansion of the EU to 28 member states, was designed to make it more efficient and to break down "parochial attitudes" in which commissioners pursued individual projects. A new layer of vice-presidents would coordinate them. Acknowledging the surge in anti-EU sentiment during elections to the parliament in May, Juncker said the Union had to show Europeans it was working in their interests. "Citizens are losing faith," he said. "Extremists on the left and right are nipping at our heels. Our competitors are taking liberties. It is time we breathed a new lease of life into the European project." He stressed that economic improvement was vital: "Either we succeed in reducing unemployment. Or we will have failed." (Reporting by Robin Emmott, Alastair Macdonald and Jan Strupczewski in Brussels; Writing by Alastair Macdonald; editing by Robin Emmott) FREE AppDownload
Jeremy Bender/Business InsiderHome buyers deterred by talk of Mansion Tax and impending general election Luxury homes in prime central London, worth between £1m ($1,606,640) and £2m ($3,213,280), have seen a drop in sales of 20pc over the past six months, as buyers are deterred by the talk of Mansion Tax and the impending general election. New data from high end estate agent, Strutt &amp; Parker, have shown that the number of sales in the £2m to £5m bracket, therefore over the £2m Mansion Tax threshold, fell by 27pc for the third quarter of this year compared with July to September in 2013, as the market dramatically corrects. Exclusive homes worth more than £5m in prime central London - defined as Knightsbridge, Belgravia, Chelsea, South Kensington, Fulham, West Chelsea, Kensington and Notting Hill - performed slightly better with a decline of 15.2pc. This shows that super high networth individuals are less concerned about talk from Labour and the Liberal Democrats of a new tax on wealthy householders. A similar pattern emerged in terms of volume sales, which were down 26.8pc overall, with all price bands seeing a reduction in the number of transactions. “Whilst total values transacted in central London are markedly down on this time last year, we must have a sense of perspective and accept that 2013 was an exceptional year. It is really not surprising that prices are stabilising after the dramatic price increases we saw over the past 12 months," said Stephanie McMahon, head of research at Strutt &amp; Parker. “Sales volumes are also showing a slowdown and two quarters of data do suggest a trend of decline...We have seen these conditions before in the run up to a general election when speculation mounts." Mansion Tax proposals have re-emerged this week following more details from Ed Balls. The shadow chancellor said middle-class families will be barred from deferring Labour's mansion tax if they earn more than £42,000 ($67,478). Higher rate taxpayers who own properties worth more than £2m will have to pay the tax immediately. Only those earning less than £42,000 will be able to defer the payment until they sell the property or transfer ownership. A Potted History of Mansion Tax - read the whole story from @PrimeResihttp://t.co/2EPGLUNedr#MansionTax This tax proposals have faced criticism from the property industry. Real estate group, JLL, released a statement that said: "Valuation of properties will be borne by the owner once every five years, unnecessarily increasing costs for thousands of homeowners at or near the £2m threshold." "It imposes a significant ongoing cost to high-value property owners, many of whom will be on relatively modest incomes and/ or pensions." The firm also said that it would chase high earners and investors out of the UK.  FREE AppDownload
Spanish news wire EFE says that that at least 11 of the 130 banks the European Central Bank is now in charge of testing have failed their reviews. That's across six countries.  Three of the banks are Greek, three are Italian, two are Austrian, one is in Cyprus, one is Belgian and one is Portuguese, according to the report. It definitely looks like there was a market reaction: here's the euro falling against the dollar just as the report broke at 3:46 a.m. ET. Bloomberg Full results on the stress tests are out this Sunday, deliberately timed out of market hours. There's some confusion as to whether these are the results of the European Central Bank's asset quality review (which includes a stress test), or the European Banking Authority's stress tests. The two run concurrently. There are some people who are even more pessimistic about the stress tests. Philippe Bodereau, head of global banking at PIMCO, says he expects 18 banks to fail, according to Reuters. The stakes on the tests are huge. Capital Economics' Jessica Hinds explains here (emphasis hers):   Given that previous stress tests failed to expose serious problems in a number of key financial institutions - some were given a clean bill of health only to need rescuing just months later – there is a lot at stake, not least the ECB’s reputation and confidence in the entire euro-zone banking sector. There's some confusion as to whether these are the results of the European Central Bank's asset quality review (often referred to colloquially as stress testing), or the European Banking Authority's stress tests. The two run concurrently, adding to the muddle. Twitter's Dan Davies provides a helpful hint: the lack of any Irish names is an indicator that it might be the EBA. It has been widely reported that Irish bank PTSB has failed the ECB side of the tests. The ECB have now responded to the report, but they're not really denying it:  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersAn investor looks at an electronic board showing stock information at a brokerage house in JiujiangBy Michelle Price HONG KONG (Reuters) - Some of the world's biggest banks and asset managers have asked the Hong Kong securities regulator for more time to prepare for a landmark China stock trading link due to uncertainty over the rules of the scheme, according to a letter seen by Reuters. The Hong Kong-Shanghai stock connect scheme was widely expected to go live on Oct. 27, but the letter sent on Friday by the influential Asia Securities Industry &amp; Financial Markets Association could delay the debut of trading until late November. In the letter, ASIFMA said its members could not begin trading next week because of uncertainty surrounding some technical issues and a lack of clarity over taxation. It asked for its members to be given a month's notice before the launch of the Hong Kong-Shanghai link-up. The letter added that banks would need time to calibrate trading systems and prepare client documentation once the details had been finalised.  (Reporting By Michelle Price; Editing by Lisa Jucca; Editing by Will Waterman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiA businessman sits near a cargo area at a port in Tokyo July 30, 2014Tokyo (AFP) - Japan's shaky economy was dealt another blow Wednesday, as official data showed a widening September trade deficit that puts the world's number-three economy on track to log a record annual shortfall. The worse-than-expected deficit of 958.3 billion yen ($8.96 billion) adds to a string of weak figures and follows a sharp economic contraction in the second quarter after an April sales tax rise slammed the brakes on growth -- fuelling fears of a recession.  The latest numbers translated into a trade deficit of 10.47 trillion yen for the first nine months of the year, a 35 percent leap from a year ago. Earlier this month, the International Monetary Fund nearly halved its 2014 growth projections for Japan -- to 0.9 percent from 1.6 percent -- underscoring the damage that the tax increase inflicted on the economy. And on Tuesday the Japanese government downgraded its outlook for the economy for the second month in a row, raising more questions about whether Tokyo will raise the levy again next year to 10 percent from 8 percent. "The government and Bank of Japan (BoJ) have assumed that the domestic economy may be weak due to the consumption tax rise, but that it would be offset by foreign demand," said Takeshi Minami, an economist at Norinchukin Research Institute. "That scenario may be collapsing. China is slowing down and there are risks of Europe entering recession." However, improving shipments to Asia -- which rose 8.1 percent in September -- could help smooth out Japan's trade picture, according to SMBC Nikko Securities. "Asian production has been slack since 2011 and was part of the reason that Japanese exports stalled," it said in a research report. "But it is increasing gradually now and may lead to a recovery in Japanese exports."  The gloomy figures will heap more pressure on the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and his economic growth plan dubbed "Abenomics". The plan stalled when Tokyo raised the sales tax on April 1 -- for the first time in 17 years -- to help pay down one of the world's biggest public debt burdens. Abe's economic plan helped sharply weaken the yen as the central bank launched massive monetary easing stimulus. But the currency's drop has not translated into a strong pick-up in exports as Japanese companies shift production to lower-cost venues abroad. Japan's September trade deficit of 958.3 billion yen was a record for the month, up from 943.2 billion yen a year earlier, and was much worse than a market median forecast of a 768-billion-yen deficit. The shortfall was up 1.6 percent year-on-year. The finance ministry said exports rose 6.9 percent to 6.38 trillion yen helped by higher shipments of cars, steel and ships.  Shipments to China rose 8.8 percent, while exports to North America rose 4.7 percent and were nearly flat to the European Union, inching up 0.7 percent.  Imports climbed 6.2 percent to 7.34 trillion yen, boosted largely by purchases of liquefied natural gas and telecommunications equipment, which was partly tied to the launch of the newest iPhone in Japan last month. Natural gas buying has remained high as Japan tried to plug a yawning energy gap after the 2011 Fukushima crisis forced the shutdown of nuclear reactors, which once supplied more than one-quarter of the nation's power. Japan's economy contracted 1.8 percent on-quarter in the three months to June -- or 7.1 percent on an annualised basis -- its steepest quarterly drop since the quake-tsunami disaster, raising concerns about another downturn in the July-September period. FREE AppDownload
Reuters//Luke MacGregor Christophe de Margerie, who died on Monday in a plane crash in Moscow, was Total's chairman and CEO since 2007. He will have two successors.PARIS (Reuters) - The board of French oil group Total will meet on Wednesday to consider splitting the chairman and chief executive roles previously held by Christophe de Margerie, who died in a plane crash in Moscow on Monday, Les Echos newspaper reported. Former Chief Executive Thierry Desmarest, currently honorary chairman, will propose that he become non-executive chairman of Total while head of refining, Patrick Pouyanne, would become chief executive, the newspaper said on its website. If the appointments are accepted by the board at the meeting, due to start at 4:30 a.m. EDT, they will then have to be approved by shareholders, as Pouyanne is not yet a member of the board, Les Echos said. A spokesman for Total declined to comment. De Margerie, 63, was killed when his private jet hit a snow plow as it was taking off from Moscow's Vnukovo airport on Monday night. His death leaves a void at the top of one of the world's biggest listed oil firms at a difficult time for the industry, as oil prices fall and state-backed competitors keep them out of some of the best oil exploration territory. (Reporting by Michel Rose; Editing by Clara Ferreira Marques) FREE AppDownload
FlickrGood morning! European markets are mixed after a rally in Asia.  Here's the scorecard at the moment: France's CAC 40 is up 0.07% Germany's DAX is up 0.48% Spain's IBEX is down 0.11% Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.39% The UK's FTSE 100 is down 0.17% It’s been a good night for major Asian markets. The Nikkei closed up 2.64% and the Hang Seng is currently 1.09% above yesterday’s close.  S&amp;P and Dow futures are down a notch, 0.18% and 0.15% lower, respectively. Early Wednesday, one of the European Central Bank’s policymakers threw cold water on rumors that the ECB would buy corporate bonds. Luc Coene said that the central bank does not have a plan to buy a wider range of bonds, and that they haven’t discussed it seriously.  At 4:30 a.m ET, the Bank of England’s minutes for the latest meeting will be released, giving an indication of any more disagreement on the monetary policy committee.  From the US, at 8:30 a.m. ET, September’s CPI figures are out the only big data release today. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michael DalderBRUSSELS (Reuters) - Heineken &lt;hein.as&gt;, the world's third largest brewer, reported lower than expected beer sales in the third quarter as wet weather reduced drinking in Europe, but retained its full-year outlook. The Dutch brewer, which makes Europe's best-selling Heineken lager as well as Sol, Tiger and Strongbow cider, said it sold 0.2 percent less beer in the July-Sept period with declines in both eastern and western Europe, but increases elsewhere. Third quarter revenue rose 0.2 percent on a like-for-like basis to 5.10 billion euros ($6.49 billion), below the average 5.32 billion euro forecast in a Reuters poll of 10 analysts.  (Reporting By Philip Blenkinsop) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBarrier tape of German airline Lufthansa is seen at Munich airportFRANKFURT (Reuters) - German airline Lufthansa &lt;lhag.de&gt; said on Wednesday it was close to selling its IT infrastructure division and completing an outsourcing deal with IBM &lt;ibm.n&gt;, which will result in a 240 million euro ($305.57 million) pre-tax charge in 2014. "This impact will not be recognised in the operating result, which is relevant for the financial guidance, but in the IFRS net result of the Lufthansa Group," the airline said in a statement. The deal, which is expected to close at the end of the first quarter of next year, will yield an average of 70 million euros in annual savings, the airline said. (Reporting by Harro ten Wolde, editing by Thomas Atkins) FREE AppDownload
Francois Lenoir/ReutersBrazil's President Dilma Rousseff speaks at a joint news conference with European Council President Herman Van Rompuy and EU Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso (unseen) during an EU-Brazil summit in Brussels February 24, 2014.BRASILIA (Reuters) - President Dilma Rousseff has gained 1 percentage point on her rival Aecio Neves ahead of an Oct. 26 runoff to Brazil's presidential election, a new poll showed on Wednesday. The leftist incumbent has 47 percent of voter support, according to the survey by polling firm Datafolha, up from 46 percent in the previous poll published on Monday. Support for Neves was unchanged at 43 percent. While Rousseff has widened her numerical lead to four percentage points, the difference between them is just within the poll's margin of error of plus or minus 2 percentage points. Excluding undecided voters, spoiled and blank survey responses, Rousseff has 52 percent against 48 percent for Neves, the poll showed, the same result as in Monday's poll. Datafolha interviewed 4,355 voters on Tuesday in a survey commissioned by the Folha de S.Paulo newspaper.  (Reporting by Anthony Boadle; Editing by Robert Birsel) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersGeneral view of helicopter assembly at the Airbus production facility in Donauwoerth BEIJING (Reuters) - Airbus Helicopters, the world's largest civil helicopter maker, expects China and Hong Kong to become its biggest global market within six years as Beijing starts to lift restrictions on the use of low altitude airspace from 2015. The Airbus Group NV's &lt;air.pa&gt; helicopter division expects to increase its annual sales in China to 150 units by 2020 from around 30-40 helicopters now, its China president Norbert Ducrot told Reuters. Sales in the United States, the firm's biggest market, average around 120-150 aircraft per year. "The China market is very small with a big potential," Ducrot said in an interview in Beijing. "I am pretty sure around 2020, China will be the first market for Airbus Helicopters." "Before (our customers) were mostly state companies, police and fire fighting, but now we can see the emergence of civil private helicopter operators," he added. China simplified flight approval procedures for private aircraft late last year, but the fledgling market for helicopters and small aircraft has been constrained by the military's control of low altitude airspace. A dearth of small airports, maintenance facilities, mechanics and pilots have also hampered the sector's growth. Ducrot said he expects demand for helicopters and small aircraft to pick up gradually when China starts to open up its low altitude airspace next year. As infrastructure improves and the military opens up more airspace by 2020, Ducrot estimates there will be 50,000 helicopters in China over the next 30 years. There are only about 330 helicopters currently in operation in China, including Hong Kong. Other small plane makers are also expanding to cash in on China's growth potential. Textron Inc's &lt;txt.n&gt; Cessna Aircraft Company and Embraer SA &lt;embr3.sa&gt; have started assembling business jets in China, while Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation &lt;gd.n&gt; and Dassault Falcon &lt;avmd.pa&gt; are adding service and maintenance centers in China. Airbus Helicopters is currently the market leader in China, with customers that include state-backed Citic Offshore Helicopter Co Ltd &lt;000099.SZ&gt;. In July, it announced an order for 123 helicopters to three privately owned Chinese general aviation companies, a deal that would effectively double the size of its fleet over the next five years. In March, it also signed an agreement with Aivcopter, the firm's long-time government-owned partner, to jointly produce 1,000 EC175 models. Industry observers say more than 200 general aviation companies, mostly privately owned, are lining up for regulatory approval in China. Existing companies are also planning to expand their facilities. Beidahuang, China's biggest general aviation service provider, plans to buy over 40 planes and helicopters, increasing its fleet to around 130 by 2020.   (Reporting by Fang Yan and Matthew Miller in BEIJING; Editing by Miral Fahmy) FREE AppDownload
1. Islamic State militants continue to shell the Syrian town of Kobani after US aircraft dropped weapons, ammunition, and medical supplies to Kurdish forces there.  2. The World Health Organization said it's fast-tracking the testing of two experimental vaccines for Ebola, which could be ready for use on 20,000 health workers in Liberia by January, The Guardian reports.  3. A televised first meeting between student leaders of the pro-democracy movement in Hong Kong and government officials showed little progress.   4. A new poll showed Wednesday that Brazil's president Dilma Rousseff gained 1 percentage point on her pro-business candidate Aecio Neves, ahead of the Oct. 26 runoff to the presidential election.   5. Traders say three major changes — stablizing energy stocks, a possible delay in US interest rate hikes, and subsiding panic over Ebola — have sent markets surging back.  6. Swedish forces reported two new sightings of unidentified vessels in its waters.  7. South African athlete Oscar Pistorius was sentenced to five years in jail for shooting and killing his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp.  8. After reporting a drop in global same-store sales of 3.3% in the last quarter, McDonald's has unveiled a plan to get the burger chain back on top, including "going back to the basics." 9. Daimler, the parent company of Mercedes, will make $780 million by selling off its stake in Tesla. 10. Ben Bradlee, the legendary Washington Post editor who oversaw the newspaper's covers of the Watergate scandal, died on Tuesday at the age of 93. And finally... Sleeping lions have nabbed first place in London's Natural History Museum's wildlife photographer of the year 2014 competition.   FREE AppDownload
