Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesThe luxe electric car company Tesla Motors is not very happy with the Obama administration. Last Friday evening, the White House rejected a petition asking it to "allow Tesla Motors to sell directly to consumers in all 50 states." The company responded with a statement of its own criticizing the White House's response as "disappointing" and "timid." Tesla has been battling multiple local governments over its direct sales model. The position calling on the White House to support the company was posted June 5, 2013 and earned the 100,000 signatures necessary for a White House response within its first month. The White House response, which was written by Dan Utech, a special assistant to the president for energy and climate change, said, "as you know, laws regulating auto sales are issues that have traditionally sat with lawmakers at the state level." Utech went on to cite several initiatives the administration had launched "in promoting vehicle efficiency." Diarmuid O’Connell, Tesla's vice president of corporate and business development, responded with a statement Monday that said the White House was not showing "leadership" on the issue. "138,469 people signed the petition asking the White House to allow Tesla Motors to sell directly to consumers in all 50 states. More than a year later, at 7.30pm EST on Friday as most of America prepared for the weekend, the White House released its disappointing response to those people. Rather than seize an opportunity to promote innovation and support the first successful American car company to be started in more than a century, the White House issued a response that was even more timid than its rejection of a petition to begin construction of a Death Star,"O’Connell said. "Instead of showing the sort of leadership exhibited by senior officials at the Federal Trade Commission who declared their support for consumer freedom of choice, the White House merely passed the buck to Congress and trumpeted its advances in promoting vehicle efficiency. Given the economic and environmental principles at stake, we would have hoped for stronger leadership and more action." View the full White House response to the Tesla position below: Thanks for your We the People petition. We're excited about the next generation of transportation choices, including the kind of electric vehicles that Tesla and others have developed. These companies are taking steps to help spur innovation in the promising area of advanced batteries and electric automobiles. Vehicle electrification and other advanced technologies are vital components ofPresident Obama's Climate Action Plan, and his commitment to addressing climate change and reducing carbon pollution, in addition to reducing our dependence on oil. But as you know, laws regulating auto sales are issues that have traditionally sat with lawmakers at the state level. We believe in the goal of improving consumer choice for American families, including more vehicles that provide savings at the pump for consumers. However, we understand that pre-empting current state laws on direct-to-consumer auto sales would require an act of Congress. We are already making significant progress in promoting vehicle efficiency: new vehicle fuel economy has increased by 12% since 2008 and consumers now can choose from five times more car models with a combined city/highway fuel economy of 30 mpg or more, compared to just five years ago. In December 2013, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced that model year 2012 vehicles achieved an all-time high fuel economy, after increasing seven of the last eight years. The President has taken historic action to spur more consumer choice -- saving consumers money at the pump and reducing our dependence on oil. Here are some of the ways we're helping to encourage the future generation of energy-efficient cars: As these initiatives show, the Administration is in favor of fostering competition in the market to help spur the kinds of innovation needed to support ongoing U.S. leadership in vehicle manufacturing and a potential range of new technologies. Again, thank you for your petition.   FREE AppDownload
DiamanteBelize.comAn artists rendering of the Diamante Belize project. A pair of brothers have been tied to the mysterious social networking company with the stock that surged 25,000% since its inception — and one of them has a history of involvement in questionable businesses. CYNK was founded in Nevada by a businessman named John Kueber in 2008. The company appears to be dedicated to a website called Introbiz that purports to help people connect to celebrities and business leaders for a fee. However, CYNK does not appear to have ever had assets, revenue, or more than one employee. Because of the company's mysterious dealings, its astronomical rise made international headlines. CYNK's surging stock also drew the attention of the SEC, which halted trading in the stock last Friday citing "concerns regarding the accuracy and adequacy of information in the marketplace and potentially manipulative transactions in CYNK's common stock." John Kueber, who is currently the COO of Tiger Oak Media, spoke to Business Insider on Monday about the business he founded. He said he eventually decided to abandon the idea for the company and sold it to "a friend" of his brother, Phil Kueber. John Kueber said he received a "modest consulting fee" that was "like 6,000 bucks" at the time of the sale. "I agreed to sell these shares based on the idea that I didn't have a lot of confidence in the concept and I was busy selling a privately held media company to Tiger Oak," John Kueber explained. Phil Kueber, who is an officer of at least 10 corporations registered in the state of Nevada has a long paper trail of business activity, some of which has run afoul of law enforcement and investors. Users of the stock forum InvestorsHub have extensively criticized Phil Kueber's business dealings. In 2004, the B.C. Financial Institutions Commission in British Columbia, Canada shut down Phil Kueber's business, First Cash Card, after the Royal Canadian Mounted Police were contact by the Beverly Hills, California police department and asked to investigate a claim made by an "elderly" woman who said she received a phone call from the company "advising that she had won $1.2 million" and had to pay $12,200 to First Cash Card to receive the prize. The Canadian investigation subsequently ruled Phil Kueber's business was "unauthorized." John said he agreed to sell CYNK to his brother's friend even though he was "fully aware of some of my brother's history that's on the internet." In October 2011, filings show a man named Kenneth Carter bought 6 million shares of CYNK and became the company's second chief executive and sole employee. On Facebook, Carter uses the alias "Kenny Blaque" and calls himself the "owner and founder" of a Vegas-based "internet marketing company" called Blaque Technology. Carter told Buzzfeed he partnered with John Kueber and purchased the shares from him. John Kueber claimed he could not recall the name of his brother's friend though he was aware he sold the shares to Carter. "This is something where I'm an entrepreneur, I've come up with a bunch of stuff, my brother, it's pretty well documented on the internet how he's made his living," said John. Tiger Oak operates several local glossy publications including Seattle magazine, Arizona Bride, and Minnesota Business. John Kueber said he is currently "not involved in business with any family." He claimed he has received "a lot of phone calls" since CYNK's stock began exploding in mid-June. "I'm as bewildered as just about anyone about my connection to this," said John Kueber. He went on to describe his experience since CYNK's explosion as a "nightmare." "I would say, in 1997 I moved to Seattle. I went to school here and, since I moved to Seattle, I've pretty much done my own thing," he explained. "I've been legitimately employed in building up a privately-held media business in town for the last six years and that's been the focus of my efforts. And, you know, family's, family, but from a business standpoint, I've distanced from my brother and his activities." John Kueber said he "thought that was it" when he sold CYNK to Phil Kueber's friend. He also claimed he does not know what Phil Kueber's current "connection to the company is." "You'd have to ask my brother, to be frank, I haven't seen my brother in probably two years," John Kueber said. Phil Kueber can be directly connected to CYNK in several ways. CYNK Technology Corp. was registered in the state of Nevada on May 1, 2008. At the time, a man named Javier Romero was listed as the company's director, treasurer, secretary, and president. Records show the business is still active. However, on May 30 of last year, someone using the name "Phil Keeber" attempted to reserve the name Cynk Technology Corp. again in Nevada. That reservation expired three months later. "Keeber" used the address 8350 Wilshire Blvd. in Beverly Hills, California. That address has been used by Phil Kueber for multiple other businesses. John Kueber's claims about his brother's role in the company and the use of his business address aren't Phil Kueber's only link to CYNK. Phil Kueber and his family have ties to Belize, where filings show CYNK is currently based. Specifically, court records show Phil Kueber has also previously used the address of The Matalon, a business center where CYNK is located. Additionally, social media pages link Phil Kueber to a luxury resort project in the small Central American nation.  Phil deleted his Facebook page after Business Insider began working on this story. However, a handful of pages that formerly appeared on the site showed him tagged in photos for Diamante Belize — a high-end waterfront luxury resort that's currently under construction in San Pedro, Belize.  Multiple YouTube videos showing the Diamante project were made private on Monday. Business Insider viewed those clips over the weekend, and the narrator identified himself as "Phil." Phil's wife Christa, a recent graduate of Parsons School of Design in New York City, appears to be part of the team working on the development. She's also tagged in several photos on the Diamante Facebook page.  Last month Las Vegas lawyer Harold P. Gewerter, who formerly represented CYNK and has worked with multiple businesses linked to the company's executives wrote a letter to OTC Markets Group indicating a Belizean man named Javier Romero became CYNK's CEO on Feb. 20. A filing with OTC Markets, the platform where CYNK was traded, described Romero as "the President, CEO, Secretary, Treasurer, and Director of CYNK Technologies, Inc." and said, "since 2009 Mr. Romero has been a Fisheries Officer for the Government of Belize." Since last Friday, Business Insider has had multiple bizarre conversations with a former fisheries officer from Belize named Javier Romero. In those conversations, Romero denied being involved in the company or knowing any of its executives although he admitted there was a "proposed transaction" for him to purchase shares from a former CYNK CEO. Romero is from San Pedro, where Diamante Belize is located. He recorded a reggaeton song entitled "San Pedro (I Love You)" about his ties to the town. On Monday, after learning of Phil Kueber's role in CYNK we called Romero again and asked if he could tell us about Phil Kueber. "I'm not going to tell you more than you already know," said Romero. Business Insider specifically asked Romero if he knew Phil Kueber. "This has nothing to do with Phil. I don't know what you're trying to get to,"  he said. Romero then appeared to admit he knew Phil Kueber, though he indicated this was only a result of being from San Pedro and not due to a connection to CYNK. "It's a small island. Everybody knows everybody on the island," said Romero. "OK. I really don't want to get more involved in this crap I swear to God."  In one of his prior conversations with Business Insider, Romero identified a man named Howard Berkowitz as CYNK's top executive. Berkowitz could not be reached for comment, but documents tying him to the company also listed a trio of executives who previously worked together on other ventures. None of them responded to requests for comment from Business Insider. A phone call to a CYNK phone number with a Miami area code also went unanswered. Business Insider made multiple attempts to contact Phil Kueber about his role at CYNK. This included leaving a message with his attorney, Steven Young, and attempting to relay an email message through John Kueber who said he would "consider" passing it along to Phil. As of this writing, we have not received a response. Watch Romero's music video about San Pedro below.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsA current APViewpoint discussion on "The Sad State of Happiness" included an indirect reference to a popular 2010 academic study by psychologist Daniel Kahneman and economist Angus Deaton. Their topic was the correlation between annual household income and day-to-day contentment. They analyzed more than 450,000 total responses to a Gallup weekly survey of households across the 50 states and DC. The survey was conducted in 2009. A report in the WSJ summarized their findings: "It turns out there is a specific dollar number, or income plateau, after which more money has no measurable effect on day-to-day contentment. The magic income: $75,000 a year. As people earn more money, their day-to-day happiness rises. Until you hit $75,000. After that, it is just more stuff, with no gain in happiness." Kahneman and Deaton distinguish between two concepts of happiness. The $75K number is the benchmark for the first of the two. As Deaton explained, "Giving people more income beyond $75K is not going to do much for their daily mood ... but it is going to make them feel they have a better life." Incidentally, according to the Census Bureau, the mean (average) household income in 2009 was $67,976. That's 9.4% below the happiness threshold. The median (middle) household income was a much smaller $49,777. That's 33.6% shy of the magic number. Not surprisingly, the Kahneman-Deaton findings have been controversial. For openers, the size of the household can be a destabilizing variable. The Census Bureau's 2010 survey counted 116.7 million households and put the average size at 2.58 persons. So that $75K benchmark would be quite a stretch for a couple with several additional dependents. Doesn't Debt Spoil Happiness? Certainly a massive ratio of debt service (mortgage, credit cards, college loans) could wipe the smile off the face of an otherwise happy household. That said, Federal Reserve data shows that debt service payments as a percent of disposable personal income peaked at 13% in 2007. It had dropped to 12.2% in 2009, the year that the Gallup survey was conducted. As of Q1 2014 debt service payments had fallen further to 9.9%.  Doesn't the Cost of Living Make a Difference? A more compelling wildcard is the cost of living. Let's assume that the benchmark of $75K in 2009 remains the same today, five years later. Here is a quick look at the equivalent Happiness Threshold for the 50 states and the District of Columbia using the latest cost-of-living indexes from the Council for Community &amp; Economic Research.  The range across the states is substantial: The spread from Mississippi to Hawaii is $56,325. If we look at the granularity by city, it's even wider. Based on the latest numbers for selected cities posted on the InfoPlease website, the equivalent of $75K for Manhattan soars to the pricey neighborhood of $162,500. Is $75,000 Still a Valid Mainstream Happiness Benchmark? The Kahneman-Deaton study appeared in 2010 but was based on 2009 survey data. The latest Consumer Price Index for Urban Consumers (CPI) shows a 10.5% increase from the 2009 average. The equivalent index for Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W) is up 11.7%. Is the Happiness Threshold of $75K still valid if today's equivalent purchasing power requires about $83K?  I believe the answer is ... probably ... "Yes". Why so? Take a look at the monthly Census Bureau's data for real median household incomes since 2000 (the blue line below), courtesy of Sentier Research. The average of the monthly data points for 2009, adjusted to today's dollar, was about 3.5% higher than the current income level. Yes, the cost of living has risen since 2009. But day-to-day contentment is greatly influenced by how we see ourselves in relation to others. In recent years household incomes have been on a treadmill -- nominally in motion, but in real terms essentially running in place. For more on median household incomes, see this monthly update. I'll close this commentary with a snapshot of the Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index and its 12-month moving average.  Click for a larger image If we view this popular confidence indicator as a crude gauge of day-to-day contentment, today's mood is definitely happier than the one that prevailed in 2009.   Note from dshort: The Kahneman-Deaton study mentioned here is entitled "High Income Improves Evaluation of Life but Not Emotional Well-Being." It appeared in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 107, no. 38 (August 2010). The full text can be read on the PNAS website here or downloaded as a PDF file. FREE AppDownload
NARChina became the largest international buyer of U.S. homes (in dollar value) last year, according to a report from NAR, taking over from Canada. In terms of volume of transactions, Canadians still represented the largest foreign buyers. Over the 12 months ended March 2014, Chinese buyers bought about $22 billion worth of properties in the U.S., accounting for about 25% of total international sales. What's more, 76% of sales were all-cash purchases, while 24% required mortgage financing. But what exactly were Chinese buyers looking for and where were they looking? California, Washington, and New York were the biggest markets for Chinese buyers. The median price of homes they purchases was $523,148. 39% of properties purchased were intended to be used as primary residence and 49% were for vacation homes or to rent. Here's a look at where Chinese homebuyers are snatching up the most properties in the U.S. and the types of properties they're looking for. NAR NAR FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Kelsey OhmanPaul Krugman recently wrote a piece about the “remarkable fiscal experiment” undertaken by Governor Sam Brownback in Kansas: “It sharply slashed income taxes without any clear idea of what would replace the lost revenue.” The results in Kansas are not quite on plan, but that did not stop Stephen Moore from launching a broadside on the good professor. Mr. Moore accused him of a tactic “that is all too typical of liberals: Cherry-picking a few events — the occasional high-tax state that is doing better than average, or a low-tax state that is falling behind — to blur the unmistakable pattern that low taxes (along with light regulation, energy production and right-to-work laws) have become magnets for people and businesses and jobs.” Of course, Moore did a little cherry-picking of his own, making a quick comparison of employment in Texas and Florida to that of New York and California. But I digress. So, the question becomes: Do we have data by which we can easily compare states on various economic and fiscal measures on an apples-to-apples basis? Instead of cherry-picking, can we look more broadly at the 50 states and compare them to one another? Can we satisfy Mr. Moore’s desire to take a more comprehensive look at how states are doing economically and fiscally? The answer is a resounding “yes.” Time to revisit the very underutilized States Perform website and do a bit of number crunching. The States Perform database contains information in the following broad categories, within which there are several relevant metrics. Since we’re focused on economics, I selected the following four metrics that I think are among the most significant: The simple methodology: On two metrics — Median Household Income and GDP Per Capita — the higher the value, the better. On the other two metrics — Bankruptcy Filings per 1,000 Population and Percent of Total Population in Poverty in the Past 12 Months — the lower the value, the better. That said, I used the RANK function in Excel so the “best” in every category — higher or lower — garners a “1.” For example, Maryland garnered a “1” for highest median household income, while Alaska took a “1” for lowest Bankruptcy filings. Point being, if you’re the governor, you always want to be #1. Hence, the top aggregate score any state can receive would be 1 x 4 categories = 4. Conversely, the worst aggregate score any state can receive would be 50 x 4 = 200. (I used the same methodology here three years ago when I took a look at Rick Perry’s Texas.) So, with that out of the way, let’s have a look at how the states rank in these metrics among the blue and the red. Offered in descending order of Overall Score (i.e. worst at the top, best toward the bottom). I guess the good news for Mr. Moore is that Kansas is not one of the 15 red states firmly planted in the bottom 20. NOTE: One should not assume that “present term” equates to “first” term; for many governors that is not the case. U.S. Census Bureau/Invictus Note: An earlier version of the table above shaded states by presidential voting instead of the party affiliation of the governor. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Andy WongFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Two Things Advisors Should Remember About Emerging Market Volatility (Vanguard)  Investors and advisors should keep two things in mind when they think about emerging market volatility and ways to diversify their portfolios, according to Jim Rowley at Vanguard. "Number one is an emerging market should be a portion of a broadly-diversified and balanced portfolio and that the primary source of your diversification for that portfolio comes with fixed income and primarily investment-grade bonds." "The second thing to think about is if you looked at emerging markets in particular, you know, sometimes we might hear about tendencies of moving out of broad emerging markets and maybe trying to mitigate risk by picking individual countries or smaller regions. And we’d like to warn that that might actually increase the risk in portfolios because individual countries or smaller subsets might actually have more sector concentration or they might have individual stocks that have a greater amount of risk or a greater amount of proportion in that index…" How Advisors Should Approach Clients That Have Suddenly Come Into A Large Sum Of Money (The Wall Street Journal) When people suddenly get a large sum of money for the first time it usually has an "emotional" impact, writes Cicily Maton, president of Aequus Wealth Management Resources, in a WSJ column. "Advisers should structure meetings in a way that lets such clients absorb the maximum amount of information," writes Maton. "Stay away from the straightforward, "You have a million dollars and here's how we will invest it." "Instead, advisers should also do some kind of triage with recipients of sudden money. Find out what is on the client's mind in terms of the most important things to be done. The adviser might know that the client needs to set up an estate plan or open a new bank account. But if they're not on the same page in terms of the client's needs, these needs won't get accomplished. Have the client create a "bliss list" that prioritizes what they want to do with this new money. …Next, the adviser should get an understanding with the client about not doing anything drastic with the money until they have a better grasp of their long-term financial picture." Global Fund Managers See Skills Shortage (Reuters)  A study from State Street and research group FT Remark has found that global fund managers are facing a shortage of skilled labor, report Olivia Hardy and Yousra Elbagir at Reuters.  The survey of 300 executives across Europe, Asia, and North America, found that 64% think there's a "capability gap" that acted as a setback. "There is recognition that clients are driving the needs of asset managers to move in a certain direction but the industry itself needs to evolve to be able to deliver that kind of product set," Andrew Wilson, Head of Asset Manager Solutions UK at State Street, told Reuters.  Here's What The World Stock Market Will Look Like In 2030 (Credit Suisse)  Credit Suisse expects the global stock market will hit $284.2 trillion by 2030. "The United States retains its ranking as the largest global equity market with a (nominal dollar) capitalization of USD 98 trillion, with a weight of 34.6% (representing a USD 74 trillion gain since 2014), while China advances ahead of both the UK and Japan to become the second largest equity market with a USD 54 trillion capitalization and a weight of 18.9% (representing a USD 50 trillion nominal gain from 2014)," wrote Credit Suisse analysts. @CSResearchThe Past Performance Of A Mutual Fund Is Not An Indicator Of Future Outcomes ... 96% Of The Time (Business Insider) Mutual funds usually come with the disclosure that "past performance is not an indicator of future performance," yet many investors ignore this sage advice. Aye Soe, Director of Global Research &amp; Design for S&amp;P Dow Jones Indices, looked at the past performance of 687 actively managed domestic U.S. equity mutual funds and found that few manage to stay at the top.  "Out of the 687 funds that were in the top quartile as of March 2012, only 3.78% managed to stay there by the end of March 2014," according to Soe. "Further, 1.90% of the large-cap funds, 3.16% of the mid-cap funds and 4.11% of the small-cap funds remain in the top quartile." This means that past performance was not an indicator of future results 96.22% of the time. FREE AppDownload
Jake Rajas/Sotheby'sAnother incredible Hamptons estate is up for grabs. Known as "Angel View," the 15,000-square-foot estate in North Haven is selling for an astronomical $65 million through Harald Grant of Sotheby's. Although the identity of the owners is private, Grant told The Wall Street Journal that they are looking to downsize now that their children are grown up. The home sits on 6.5 acres and has 500 feet of waterfront on Noyack Bay. Amenities include a "grotto" room with an indoor pool, two outdoor infinity pools, and a tennis court.
Around the world, when people think about stocks, they think Wall Street. Worth around $24 trillion today, the U.S. is home to the largest global equity market in the world. However, it doesn't see as much turnover as some other markets. "The value of shares traded at an individual country level is dependent on (other than the size of the equity market) any free-float, liquidity restrictions and transaction costs," write Credit Suisse analysts. "Moreover, variations in local equity culture reflect significant differences in the turnover ratio (total value of shares traded during the period divided by the average market capitalization for the period) even among mature equity markets." According to their research, seven overseas stock markets see more turnover than the U.S.'s. "China and Turkey appear as relative outliers, with a higher turnover ratio than more developed markets such as Japan and the USA, owing to their high levels of retail participation and a strong equity culture among domestic high net worth individuals," they note. "The smaller Latin American markets – Chile, Colombia and Peru – have by far the lowest equity turnover given high ownership of pension funds (especially in Chile), with trading concentrated in only a limited number of large capitalization stocks." Credit Suisse FREE AppDownload
site.introbiz.comA screenshot of the homepage of IntroBiz, the social network associated with CYNK.Some of the people associated with CYNK, the mysterious social networking company that generated headlines last week when its stock surged 25,000% in just 16 trading days, have worked together before. And one of them has been associated with an allegedly shady penny-stock operation. On Friday the SEC suspended trading in CYNK until July 24. The agency attributed the halt to "concerns regarding the accuracy and adequacy of information in the marketplace and potentially manipulative transactions in CYNK's common stock." Though CYNK was technically worth over $5 billion on paper at its peak, filings show the company had no revenue or assets. Its management structure, as pieced together from government filings, was a complex merry-go-round of little-known executives. The trail begins in Nevada where CYNK was first founded as "Introbuzz" in 2008. Documents show the company's first CEO was a man named John Kueber, who is currently the chief operating officer of Tiger Oak Media in Seattle. Last week, Kueber told The Wall Street Journal he no longer has any connection to CYNK and merely "read about it on the news." Kueber did not respond to a request for comment from Business Insider on Sunday. In October 2011, a man named Kenneth Carter bought 6 million shares of CYNK and became the company's next CEO and sole employee. On Facebook, Carter goes by the name "Kenny Blaque" and identifies himself as the "owner and founder" of a Vegas-based "internet marketing company" called Blaque Technology. According to a filing, Carter resigned in March 2013 and his shares in the company were cancelled. In a series of Facebook messages with Business Insider on Sunday, Carter promised he would "give a full story on Tuesday" and promised his team would soon be launching "new software ... the real software that intro buzz was suppose to use." A month after Carter's resignation, in another filing, CYNK said Marlon Luis Sanchez had become CEO, taking a 72% share in the company. Sanchez was identified as a partner in Sanchez Medical Services, which is described on its Facebook page as a company dedicated to helping customers travel to Mexico for "bariatric, plastic and orthopedic surgical procedures." A call to Sanchez Medical Services went unanswered Sunday, but Sanchez spoke to the Wall Street Journal Thursday. He said he was no longer involved with CYNK, but he also boasted about his performance at the company. "I worked my magic for a year, my friend, and now you can see the results," he said. The next person to lead the company was a man named Javier Romero, who was identified in a filing with OTC Markets, the platform where CYNK is traded, which described him as "the President, CEO, Secretary, Treasurer, and Director of CYNK Technologies, Inc." and noted that "since 2009 Mr. Romero has been a Fisheries Officer for the Government of Belize." Gewerterlaw.comHarold Gewerter, a lawyer who has represented CYNK and worked with other company executives in the past.According to a June 11 letter to OTC Markets Group from Las Vegas lawyer Harold P. Gewerter, Romero purchased 210,000,000 shares of CYNK from Sanchez on Feb. 20. Last week, Gewerter told The Wall Street Journal he no longer represents the company. He has not responded to multiple requests for comment from Business Insider. On Friday, Business Insider found a man named Javier Romero who appears to match the description of the former CYNK executive. After originally pretending to be another person by the name of "Jason," Romero confirmed his identity and said he is a former fisheries officer with the government of Belize, now attending flight school in Massachusetts. He also acknowledged there was a "proposed transaction" for him to purchase CYNK shares from Sanchez. "With the advice of my attorney, I'll say. According to the research on this now delicate situation, one Javier Romero was CEO of CYNK Technology from May 9, 2014 to June 18, 2014, served as an interim President, Secretary and Director of CYNK Technologies," said Romero. "During this time, I received no compensation in neither cash nor shares of this company. The proposed transaction whereupon it was contemplated that I purchased restricted shares from one Mr. Sanchez was never completed. Further, I have never owned or purchased a single share of CYNK Technology." Romero went on to name another man — by the name of Howard Berkowitz — who he said is actually CYNK's top executive. Reading from a prepared statement, Romero told us, "According to records, one Javier Romero on June 18, 2014 resigned as President and Secretary and Director of CYNK Technologies, whereupon on Mr. Howard Berkowitz filled these vacancies. At this time, the stock was around $2 per share." Interestingly, the June 18 date Romero identified as Berkowitz's start with the company coincides almost exactly with the surge in CYNK's stock price. Documentation tying Berkowitz to the company includes the names of two additional players, accountant Peter Messineo and consultant Brian Blaszcak, who have worked together multiple times in the past. Messineo, a Florida accountant, has been linked to potentially questionable penny stocks and has already made misleading statements about his connection to CYNK. Berkowitz, who is now identified as CYNK's president on the OTC Markets website and was also listed as the company's president, secretary, treasurer, and director in CYNK's registration with the state of Nevada, could not be reached for comment. The OTC Markets description, which identifies a man named Brian Blaszcak as a CYNK consultant, lists Messineo's firm as CYNK's accountant and auditor. In a letter to the SEC last year, Messineo described himself as CYNK's "chief accountant." Messineo, who did not respond to multiple requests for comment, gave an interview to CNBC last Thursday in which he tried to distance himself from CYNK. "Who knows if insiders are trying to pump it to a high price?" Messineo wondered, adding, "All I know is that I disassociate from this. ... You issue a report on something and then they pump and dump." Messineo told CNBC he last reviewed CYNK at the end of October. Noting that he works in a "very shitty industry," he described himself as a "one-person shop" and said he was, at first, unable to recall CYNK at all without reviewing his paperwork. After doing so, Messineo described it as a "shell company." "They were all but a shell company other than the plan for what they were going to do: Issuing some stocks and paying professional fees, they had some research and development – they were trying to do something on the programming end, so something was going on," he said. "Nothing to generate revenue, nothing like contracts, nothing of that sort." However, Messineo has extensive ties to other CYNK executives. In addition to CYNK, Messineo, Blaszcak, and Gewerter all worked together on another Vegas-based company, Tenaya Acquisition Company. An Aug. 9, 2013, letter from the SEC asking for more information about Tenaya's registration statement identified Blaszczak as the company's president and Gewerter as Tenaya's lawyer. The company's SEC registration, dating from last July, identified Messineo as "the independent auditor." Records show Blaszczak and Gewerter also teamed up at a third company, Blue Wing Business Services Inc. Gewerter is also associated with a fourth business that was headed by a woman named Molly Blaszcak. Records show Molly worked at Blue Wing and has shared an address with Brian Blaszczak. Messineo's services as an auditor have come under scrutiny. After a 2011 inspection by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, a report issued on April 2, 2012, described Messineo as the only staff member of his firm and said "the inspection team identified what it considered to be audit deficiencies" at Messineo's firm. "The deficiencies included failures by the Firm to perform, or to perform sufficiently, certain necessary audit procedures," the report said. Messineo has also been linked to penny stocks that were criticized by investors. He served as CFO and treasurer of a company called IC Places Inc., which was led by chairman and CEO Steven "Steve" Samblis. Multiple users on the forum InvestorsHub criticized that company in a lengthy series of postings. Over the years, Samblis, Messineo's onetime partner, has been disciplined multiple times for his investment activities. In 1990, he received a censure and $10,000 fine from the National Association of Securities Dealers for sending misleading letters to customers. In 2000, he was hit with a $11,000 federal court judgment after the SEC filed a complaint accusing him of "passing himself off as an independent and impartial stock picker when, in fact, he is nothing more than a paid pitch man for the companies he hypes." In an email to Business Insider on Monday, Samblis said he stopped working with Messineo in November 2012. "I have not spoken to him in almost two years," Samblis said. "I worked with him only once." Samblis said he had "no response" to the criticism of his company on InvestorsHub. FREE AppDownload
VimeoThe Doha skyline. Qatar is purchasing $11 billion in Patriot missile batteries and Apache attack helicopters from the United States, according to AFP. It's the largest single sale of U.S. weaponry in 2014, and it's to a country with only 278,000 citizens (and about 1.5 million expatriates). With this purchase, Qatar might be swapping soft power for military might. The gas-rich emirate gambled on the region-wide success of the Muslim Brotherhood in the years after the "Arab Spring" protests. But its strategy toppled with the military coup that removed Mohammed Morsi in Egypt. Qatar's neighbors also became increasingly suspicious of its support for Islamist movements throughout the Middle East, leading to one of the biggest diplomatic crises in the history of the Gulf monarchies. Qatar's been unable to insulate itself from regional chaos through its diplomatic outreach, which has had substantial blowback. But Patriot missiles will do just fine: They're perhaps the most advanced projectile of their type, and have the ability to intercept incoming missiles and destroy enemy tanks and planes. AFP The Qatari monarchy has yet another hard power asset insuring its survival: Qatar is home to Al Udeid Air Base, one of the most important U.S. military installations in the Middle East. This purchase is a sign that Qatar's ambitions haven't dimmed in spite of its inevitably unsuccessful approach to the region's post-Arab Spring turbulence. It's also a sign of how little a price in terms of its relationship with the U.S. Qatar has paid for its support of groups like Hamas, or its citizens' alleged assistance for extremist groups in Syria. Qatar is still a favored U.S. partner in the region, perhaps because of this ability to provide an opening to extremist groups: The emirate played a major role in mediating the Bowe Bergdahl prisoner swap in June. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vincent WestA runner is gored by a Miura fighting bull at Estafeta corner during the eighth running of the bulls of the San Fermin festival in Pamplona July 14, 2014.Stocks finished higher to start the week as Citigroup, the second of the major U.S. banks to report earnings, reported better than expected profit. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories of the day: 1) Citigroup reported second quarter adjusted earnings per share of $1.24, better than the $1.06 that analysts were expecting. Citigroup's revenue came in at $19.38 billion, a bit lighter than expectations. About an hour before the bank announced earnings, it announced a settlement with regulators related to investigations into the bank's handling of mortgage-backed securities ahead of the financial crisis. The bank agreed to pay $7 billion to settle the claims, with $4.5 billion of that being paid in cash and $2.5 billion for consumer relief. In connection with the settlement, Citigroup took a $3.8 billion charge in the second quarter. 2) Citigroup's report wasn't all good, however. In the second quarter, fixed income trading fell 12% and equity trading fell 26% at Citigroup. As we noted repeatedly throughout the spring, volatility drying up on Wall Street was going to lead to declining trading revenues at many major banks. In late May, Citigroup said its trading revenue could plunge 25% in the second quarter, a warning that came after JPMorgan also said markets revenue could decline 20% in the quarter. Citigroup shares, however, closed up about 3% as there had been fears the bank's $7 billion settlement could have been even larger. 3) Ahead of two straight days of testimony on Capitol Hill, Janet Yellen was the subject of a lengthy profile in the New Yorker, where we got a picture not only of Yellen's economic influences, but also some of her broader intellectual and political tendencies. Yellen also gave a revealing quote about what she saw ahead of the financial crisis. Yellen said that she began to be concerned about a housing bubble in 2005 and 2006, but admitted that she didn't see how huge the effects of that bubble bursting could be. "I absolutely did not see it as something that could take the financial system down," Yellen told Nicholas Lemann.  4) Shares of wearable camera company GoPro fell about 5% after Barron's published a cautious article on the company's prospects. Barron's Alexander Eule wrote that the company faces the risks of many tech gadgets: being "subsumed by our phones."  5) Gold had a rough day, falling more than 2% to about $1307 an ounce, its lowest price in almost a month. Gold, as well as silver, had a rough day as equity markets rallied, bonds sold off a little bit, and "safe haven" assets like gold and silver, got punished.  6) In mergers &amp; acquisitions news, drug giant Mylan announced a deal to acquire rival Abbott Labs' non-U.S. developed generics business in an all-stock deal worth about $50.20 per Mylan share. The deal will also allow Mylan to restructure its tax base, which should bring its tax rate to about 21% in the first year after the deal, and into the high teens thereafter. Mylan also said it expects the deal to close in the first quarter of next year an add about $0.25 to earnings per share.  7) Also in M&amp;A, engineering design firm AECOM agreed to acquire engineering firm URS Corporation for $4 billion, or about $56.31 per URS share. The companies said the deal is expected to close in October, and will create, "an industry leader with the ability to deliver more capabilities from a broad global platform to reach more clients in more industry end markets,” said Michael Burke, AECOM president and CEO. URS shares finished the day up about 12%, while AECOM stock rallied nearly 10%.  Don't Miss: CNBC's Rick Santelli Blew Up On Air And It Ended With Him Walking Off » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jessica RinaldiJeffrey GundlachNowadays, the most common road into finance is through an Ivy League college and impressive internship. But some of the biggest names in finance have much more unorthodox and interesting origin stories. For DoubleLine Capital founder Jeff Gundlach, his success in finance can be traced back to one episode of Lifestyles of The Rich And Famous. In a new, pilot segment with Bloomberg View, Barry Ritholtz interviewed the bond expert about the start of his financial career. Gundlach studied theoretical math at Yale, but decided to pursue drumming in L.A. instead. Unfortunately, being a rock star didn't really pan out. "I had basically cardboard boxes for tables, sat on the floor, and I had a black and white TV with a coat hanger for an antennae. And in those days there were basically three channels, ABC NBC and CBS. And I needed a pair of pliers to turn the dial," Gundlach told Ritholtz. "And one day, I think it was on ABC, Lifestyles of The Rich and Famous comes on, and Robin Leach said 'We have a special show this week, we’re going to be counting down the top ten paying professions in the business world.' And I said, 'Hey, I’ll watch this, and let’s see what my career is going to be.'" In 1984, the top paying profession was investment banking. Gundlach then sent his resume and an aggressive cover letter every investment banking firm that advertised in the Los Angeles Yellow Pages. Out of 23 total firms, Gundlach ended up getting one interview with TCW Group.  "I went in and they said, 'You have an interesting background, what do you think you would want to do, equities or fixed income?' And I said, 'I don’t know what those things are.' And the guy looked at me, fairly incredulously and said, 'Look, equities – stocks, fixed income – bonds.' I didn’t know what bonds were. I knew what stocks were," Gundlach said. "So I said, 'I wanna do stocks.' And the fellow said, 'Yeah, you’re background is all this math stuff, we could probably use you better in the bonds. So we’re going to put you in the bond thing.'" A week or two before Gundlach started at TCW, he went through Inside The Yield Book by Marty Leibowitz. Using his experience studying math at Yale, Gundlach derived all the bond formulas in the book from scratch. "The first day, I knew more about bonds than the people I was working for, because I had basically gone right into the real core of it. And it turned out that within six months, I was managing few hundred million dollars for a major corporate pension plan," he said. Things with TCW eventually turned sour, and Gundlach went on to found DoubleLine Capital in 2012. He's known today as one of the finance industry's leading experts on bonds. Check out the full interview at Bloomberg View &gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
Flickr/James GrimmelmannDetroit resident Jerry Paffendorf created "Why Don't We Own This?" an information-rich online platform that makes it easy for people to find land up for sale.We have closed the call for nominations. Thank you to all who reached out to us! Headlines don't paint a pretty picture of Motor City. Last year, Detroit became the largest U.S. city to file for bankruptcy. Unemployment and crime rates remain unencouraging, and there appears to be a mass exodus of residents fleeing the once prosperous metropolis.  Still, many Detroiters are toughing it out, pouring their resources and their talents into rebuilding the city. We want to shine a spotlight on the people in Detroit who are making remarkable contributions to the city. We're looking for folks across industries, from finance and automotive to education, sports, and entertainment, who are dedicated to revitalizing the city. To qualify, nominees must currently live in Detroit, but they don't need to have been born there. Send your nominations to our Lists &amp; Rankings team at lists@businessinsider.com. Please include the person's name, contact information, employer and job title if appropriate, and a brief description of how he or she has made a positive impact on Detroit. We'll be accepting nominations through July 31. Thanks! FREE AppDownload
DrillingInfo.com engineering research analyst Kevin Thuot has put together this stunning timelapse map showing the history of U.S. unconventional oil and gas drilling starts — that is, the recent history of fracking.  It all starts in the Barnett play near Wichita Falls, Texas, then shifts west up into Colorado and down into Texas' Permian. In 2007, we start to see the stirrings of the Bakken, which is a raging boil by 2013. Finally, around 2011 the Eagle Ford in southern Texas, as well as Pennsylvania's Marcellus gas plays, materialize practically overnight. Check it out (via Mark Perry):  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Sebastien NogierByron Wien, vice chairman of Blackstone Advisory Services.Byron Wien has one of the longest running and most successful careers as an investment strategist on Wall Street. In his latest monthly market commentary for Blackstone clients, he spends some time discussing an unnamed influence he calls "The Smartest Man in Europe." "People often ask me if I have a mentor, someone who has influenced my thinking over my career," he writes. "I have had many, but over the past thirty years I have learned a great deal about investing from the person I have come to refer to as The Smartest Man in Europe." Wien shares some of the Man's wisdom. "The most important lessons he taught me were (1) that the primary force behind good performance is recognizing important changes before or just as they are starting to happen, and (2) when something significant is happening, put a lot of money behind it.  Concentrate on the big ideas; don’t over-diversify. " The former point seems obvious. However, it's worth noting that our behavioral biases often force us to anchor ourselves in our positions and only make minor adjustments to news. This is often a mistake. When you see a big change happening, you should probably make a big change to your portfolio. The latter point is a bit more controversial. Financial advisers repeatedly reiterate the importance of diversifying portfolios in order to prevent substantial losses. But exposing yourselves to big opportunities usually means exposing yourselves to big losses. Bill Gates, Larry Ellison, and the billionaire entrepreneurs of the world are extreme examples of folks who concentrated on the big ideas. They didn't spend their lives putting money into index funds. Rather, they put it all on the line on single bets. Here's some more background on the Smartest Man In Europe: ... He has a mercantile background and hundreds of years ago his ancestors sold food, supplies and weather protection to travelers along the Silk Road.  He grew up hearing talk of investment opportunities around the dinner table.  He received a European education and, after an apprenticeship in New York, returned home to take advantage of the post-war recovery taking place there.  I have written annually about his views since 2001. Read more at Blackstone.com. FREE AppDownload
Having your own private island is not just about the beautiful views, the privacy and living the good life. It's also about some of the more practical things, like figuring out the best way to get water and energy on the island. Sir Richard Branson's Necker Island, which also functions as an exclusive resort, is part of the British Virgin Islands, but it is quite independent when it comes to producing the energy and fresh water that the island uses. We spoke to Chief Engineer Adam Simmonds, who showed us how he and his team convert the salt water of the Caribbean Sea to as much as 65,000 gallons of usable water a day. Produced by Robert Libetti. Originally published in October 2012. 
Associated PressAs part of a broader push this week geared toward increasing investment in the nation's infrastructure, the White House released an extensive report on Monday examining what it characterized as the crumbling state of much of the nation's roads and bridges.  The report's release coincides with a congressional dispute over the future of the federal Highway Trust Fund, which is expected to become insolvent by next month. Here are some key findings the White House highlights in its report: • In the last decade, the U.S. has fallen from a No. 7 ranking to 18th in the overall quality of its roads, according to the most recent World Economic Forum rankings. • 65% of America’s major roads are rated in "less than good condition," and about one-quarter of the country's bridges "require significant repair or cannot handle today’s traffic." • About 45% of Americans lack access to public transit. Along with the report, the White House also released a pair of interactive maps, which provide a state-by-state look at the conditions of each state's roads and bridges. The map also allows users to submit photos of roads and bridges in their areas in need of repair. Congress is working on a short-term fix that would replenish the fund through next year, but President Barack Obama will urge lawmakers — particularly Republicans — to agree on a larger-scale package that would fund other various infrastructure projects and shore up the Highway Trust Fund for the long term. On Tuesday, Obama is set to deliver remarks on the economy at the Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center in McLean, Virginia, where infrastructure spending will be a major focus. The Highway Trust Fund is a transportation and infrastructure fund financed by gasoline taxes. It is running out of money because the federal government now spends more money on those projects than it collects from the gas tax, which has not been raised in more than 20 years.  The Obama administration's push this week will focus on the longer-term. Earlier this year, Obama proposed a four-year, $302 billion solution to the highway crisis, which would end the trust fund's dependence on the gas tax and replenish it through tax reforms.  In its report, the White House highlighted some of the benefits of infrastructure investment and some of the ways it says it "costs" Americans. Transportation, for example, is the second highest expenditure for American families next to housing, so improvements in methods of traveling that lead to lower costs would benefit families' budgets. Here's a chart from the report showing the average annual additional cost of vehicle maintenance to drivers in major cities because of subpar road conditions: White House FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of GoBankingRates Not everyone thinks big banks are a problem. In fact, more Americans use them than not, according to GOBankingRates.  To prove it, the website created the above map to show the largest institution in every state.  The company drew information from Federal Reserve data. The list excludes institutions that don't offer consumer banking and names the official headquarters of each bank, not the holding company.  For example, the Fed shows Wells Fargo as the third largest bank in the country — in South Dakota. But the company's annual report states it's headquartered in San Francisco. Consumers gravitate toward these big-names "because big banks pay big dividends, and not just to their customers," according to GOBankingRates.  After determining the proper headquarters for every state, researchers also surveyed the institutions based on accessibility, technology, and social and economic impact, like the taxes they paid in 2013.  Read the full report here, which includes a helpful break-down of the bank in each state. 
East Bound and DownEach of the 18 articles of clothing on this list has a place, and that place is a trash can. Some of them are out of date, some of them were always awful. Either way, with this list we're not asking you to go on a shopping spree for the latest duds. Quite the contrary, this list is just about doing the absolute bare minimum to look like a modern grownup in 2014. FREE AppDownload
shoobydoobyBetween casinos, tournaments, and online games, poker is a common and widely enjoyed past time. But a small percentage of players actually use poker to earn a living. A Quora thread asks the question, "What's it like to earn a living through poker?" It turns out playing professionally has its own unique set of pros, cons, and necessary skills. We've broken them down for you below, based on answers from past and current professionals Michael Shinzaki, Jeff Meyerson, and William Ting.  According to the responses on Quora, playing professionally isn't for everyone. In fact, only a small minority of the world's population are able to successfully earn a living. They need a certain set of skills and characteristics. These include: 1. Endurance Shinzaki: "There is an exorbitant amount of groundwork required to even try playing poker for a living and have any glimmer of hope of coming out ahead. A beginning poker player is terrible for a long, long time (sometimes, forever) before seeing any progress. The difficulty level of poker oscillates too, and not always as a function of time. It can run the gamut from 'seemingly impossible' to 'Midas Touch.' You can make a year's worth of rent in a few hours (I've done this many times), or you can go months of full-time play and break even, or even lose (I've done this many times as well)." Ting: "You grind, you review your play, you study other people's hands day in and day out. At a typical job your concentration ebbs and flows throughout the day. Poker requires intense concentration for hours on end simply because a single bad decision could wipe out hours of work or more. I was always mentally drained after a day of playing. Afterwards I studied my hands for the day like football players studying film." 2. Flexibility Shinzaki: "One must keep up with the curve if they wish to succeed at poker long-term. You may think you are ingenious and crafty, but for every you, there are a thousand other guys out there crunching numbers on software and discussing strategy ten hours a day. Unlike a game such as checkers, trends and tactics fluctuate fast. One must constantly adapt. You can't just get it down pat one day and profit off your knowledge ad infinitum. Best believe that when money is at stake, your opponents will be evolving rapidly." 3. A level head Shinzaki: "There is no other feeling than to lose an exorbitant sum or suffer prolonged downswings. Most people simply can't handle it. I can't say I am a Zen master of my emotions or anything, but I was certainly better than most and that's a large part of why I had prolonged success. ... And so people who cannot harness their emotions usually end up having a tough time coping with the downs in poker and ultimately do fail. Poker as a profession is not for people who need constant reassurance or encouragement. Actually, it's almost really not for anybody. You really have to be brutally honest with your performance. You have to be very hard on yourself and you have to grow calloused to the cutthroat nature you voluntarily step into." Ting: "Mental resilience was a byproduct of playing poker. Can you imagine working hard for hours on end for negative income? My worst run was breaking even over a period of 3 weeks / 40k hands. You learn to isolate your emotions and not dump it on your partner. My girlfriend severely stressed out if she ever found out I was up/down a mere few thousand for the day." 4. Creativity Shinzaki: "The largest downside to poker that I can vouch for is a lack of fulfillment when it comes to feeling constructive and productive. Some people gain fulfillment from the inherent challenge of playing the game, others not so much. Anybody who can battle the competitive arena of poker and come out ahead has to have some inherent creativity, creative energy, or just mental wherewithal in general." Meyerson: "Sophisticated players understand that creativity is necessary to succeed. By this I mean strategic creativity. You can’t call out of the small blind with J3hh without a good reason. But if a play makes sense within your personal, well-architected framework, you don’t owe anyone a justification. This sort of framework, if properly constructed, is an abstraction which integrates human psychology, probability, and heuristics developed through personal experience." If you manage to become successful, the job come with many perks. Pros mentioned on Quora include job flexibility, lots of free time, six-figure earnings, and the rush of winning. But with this inherently different lifestyle also comes downsides. Things like trouble managing finances, being unable to relate to friends, dealing with huge swing losses, and a lack of fulfillment. In one paragraph, Shinzeki sums up the effect poker had on people:  "When the cards start flying and money starts changing hands, anything seems possible. I have seen nearly every human emotion played out in its purest natural form over a game of cards. I myself have felt like I was on cloud nine and rock bottom at various points. I have seen people so euphoric they have cried tears of joy at the poker table. I have seen people go from the verge of homelessness to paying six figures in taxes per annum. I have seen people crash and burn, crumble in defeat, go into debt, and look back on the whole thing as an ephemeral dream. Playing poker for a living is a roller coaster in every metaphorical way. It has provided me with raw elation and sheer depression. There is a sincere form of human nature that is brought out in every person when they engage in a game of poker. A part of you is barren for all to see. It brings out the very best and absolute worst in everybody. It's just, crazy." Check out the full responses over at Quora &gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
BAMLHomebuilders have had a difficult time finding labor. This might sound odd considering that 1.5 million construction workers lost their jobs during the recession and only about 80,000 construction jobs have been added back since the recovery began, says Bank of America's Michelle Meyer.  To get a better sense of the health of the construction labor market, Meyer plots a Beveridge Curve, which looks at the relationship between the unemployment rate and job openings rate, for construction workers. As you can see by the progression of the dotted red line, the unemployment rate for construction workers has been falling even as job openings have trended higher. The chart suggests a "less efficient labor market and hence a skill mismatch," and it also shows tightness in the labor market. From Meyer: “The two should be negatively correlated — an increase in job openings means a tighter labor market and, therefore, a lower unemployment rate. The slope is important, but so is the placement of the curve. When the curve shifts out, it suggests a less efficient labor market and, hence, skill mismatch. We construct the curve using data from the JOLTS survey back to 2001, marking the different business cycles by color. The data are clearly noisy, but it shows that the curve has shifted in this expansion. As of May, the rate of job openings has jumped to 2.1% while the unemployment rate among construction workers was at 8.6%. The market for construction workers has tightened.” So, if there were so many jobs lost, and so few gained back, why aren't there more construction workers out job hunting? The reasons are varied. Many of these unemployed construction workers went to other sectors like manufacturing. Many found themselves moving to the oil and gas states where the energy industry has been booming. At least some have just left the labor force. Meyer argues that many others became self-employed working as renovators or in land scaling.  “These are two sectors which are often part of the “underground” economy (cash payments), and therefore not captured in the official statistics,” she writes. BAMLAnother major problem keeping workers away from construction is the lack of attractive wages in homebuilding. Average hourly earnings are still growing very slowly compared to historical levels. They are up 2.2% year-over-year, up from 0.1% YoY in early 2012, but much lower than 2006 peak of 5% growth. Really wage growth has been under 1%. “Builders are still seemingly worried about profit margins, sacrificing volume for pricing and resisting more expensive labor. We don’t think this is a sustainable model,” writes Meyer. So it really isn't much of a mystery. After the housing bubble burst, unemployed construction workers just moved on to better things. FREE AppDownload
CNBCRick Santelli had a meltdown on CNBC today. During CNBC's "Fast Money Halftime Report," CNBC reporters Rick Santelli and Steve Liesman, as well as the members of CNBC's Halftime Report panel, went at it over Fed policy. Santelli has long been critical of the Fed policy, especially its post-financial crisis interest rate policy and large-scale asset purchases, or QE. Liesman is CNBC's resident Fed watcher. Santelli, who Glenn Beck credited with starting the modern-day Tea Party, sees the Fed's current policies as obstructing economic growth and hampering financial markets. In general, Santelli sees it as the market's responsibility, not the Federal Reserve or the government's job, to sort out economic problems. The segment is based around the question, "Is the Fed behind the curve?" In short, is the Fed keeping interest rates below where inflation might otherwise dictate. Liesman, we should note, said that the Fed's policy is to be behind the curve. Things really start to get heated at about the 3:00 minute mark in the clip below after Liesman begins talking about how the market could express its concern that the Fed is behind the curve. CNBC To this, Santelli said that of course there wouldn't be any market signs because the Fed's policy has created, "a managed setting," adding that the Fed's policies have, "deprived the markets of hissy fits." This debate is sparked by the New Yorker profile of Janet Yellen, as well as recent inflation data that indicate things in the economy could be heating up. The New Yorker profile not only discusses Janet Yellen's training, but also her broader intellectual and political background. This seems to have really made Santelli unhappy. At one point, Santelli asks the panel, "Do you want to hear social policy from the head of the biggest central bank?"CNBC via @dorseyshaw Josh Brown then jumps in and kind of starts trolling Santelli, telling him at about the 5:00 mark, that, "This is one of the biggest non-sequitur discussions I think I've ever heard." Brown goes into a discussion of the demographic factors at play in the U.S. economy: an aging population that is expected to live longer than ever that would never want to buy bonds to save for retirement. Santelli then talks about millennials living in basements. Brown fires back: "How does monetary policy, again, address the problem of millennials that don't have skills for the job marketplace? Explain it to me." CNBC Liesman then steps back in and adds that, "If I concede every point Rick makes, he still cannot explain to me how higher interest rates brings about economic outcomes." Santelli's response: "Because if I'm a bank, why would I lend to some person at a sub risk-reward rate just because the government subsidizes it so they can do it?" The whole blowup, which is not Santelli's first and certainly not his last, essentially comes down to Santelli disagreeing with the Fed's policy because it doesn't allow markets to determine the direction of the economy. CNBC via @dorseyshaw In the New Yorker profile, Yellen said, "But the financial crisis really diminished the prestige of those who think that financial market are always efficient and work extremely well." At the outset of the Fed's decision to cut rates, and subsequently engage in large scale asset purchases at various points over the last five years, many including Santelli believed that the Fed's policies would lead to rampant inflation, among other adverse outcomes. This has not been the case. Josh Brown later tells Santelli that, "Rick, you already decided [the Fed's policy] wasn't gonna work five years ago." Santelli's response? "AND I WAS RIGHT! END OF CONVERSATION!" Santelli then walks off. CNBCBut then Santelli comes back to yell some more. And finally, Liesman chimes in for his last word: "It's impossible for you to have been more wrong, Rick. Your call for inflation, the destruction of the dollar, the failure of the U.S. economy to rebound. Rick, it's impossible for you to have been more wrong. Every single bit of advice you gave would've lost people money, Rick." Ouch. Watch the whole thing below, it's pretty great.  FREE AppDownload
YouTube screencapJavier Romero in one of his music videos. Since mid-June, a mysterious penny stock called CYNK Technology has surged an astonishing 25,000%. On Friday, in response to the meteoric rise in CYNK's share price, the SEC halted trading in the company until July 24.  The SEC's statement announcing the halt attributed it to "concerns regarding the accuracy and adequacy of information in the marketplace and potentially manipulative transactions in CYNK's common stock." At the height of this trading frenzy, CYNK was technically worth over $5 billion on paper. However, filings show the company had no revenue or assets. It's also a mystery who is really behind the company.  Business Insider has had several conversations with a Belizean man named Javier Romero whose name and career history match descriptions of one of CYNK's CEOs. Though Romero eventually admitted there was a "proposed transaction" where he was allegedly supposed to purchase CYNK shares, his conversations with us were highly unusual. They were peppered with contradictory information and denials he knew anything about the company. CYNK, initially founded as "Introbuzz" in 2008, appears to be dedicated to a website called IntroBiz.com that purports to allow users to connect with various celebrities and business leaders for a fee. But filings indicate the company has no assets or revenue and has never had more than one staffer. CYNK has had a handful of CEOs since it was founded in 2008. One of those executives is a man named "Javier Romero." A filing with OTC Markets, the platform where CYNK is traded, described Romero as "the President, CEO, Secretary, Treasurer, and Director of CYNK Technologies, Inc." and said "since 2009 Mr. Romero has been a Fisheries Officer for the Government of Belize." On Friday, Business Insider had a telephone conversation with a man named Javier Romero who appeared to match the description of the CYNK CEO. Romero is from Belize where he has operated a recording studio and appeared on reggaeton records. In addition to his musical career, Romero was a fisheries officer in the small Central American nation, a detail he listed on a Facebook profile and subsequently confirmed in multiple conversations.  In his initial phone call with Business Insider, which occurred after we messaged him on Facebook, Romero attempted to claim he was another person named "Jason" who worked for Javier Romero. During that discussion, while speaking as "Jason," Romero said he was aware of Romero's work for CYNK, but he declined to discuss the matter. "I actually knew there was basically something like that going on," Romero said when asked about CYNK, adding, "I'm not Javier. I work for him … He's actually out right now. I don't really want to disclose his business." Romero called Business Insider back on Saturday and the conversation was equally odd. However, he admitted he falsely pretended to be "Jason" in the initial conversation. Romero, who said he consulted with a lawyer prior to the second call, also noted it appeared "one Javier Romero was CEO of CYNK Technology from May 9, 2014 to June 18, 2014" and said he had no knowledge of the company. However, in spite of denying he had even heard of CYNK prior to the firestorm after its stock price surged, Romero indicated there was a "proposed transaction" that would have involved him purchasing shares from the company's prior CEO, Marlon Luis Sanchez. "With the advice of my attorney, I'll say. According to the research on this now delicate situation, one Javier Romero was CEO of CYNK Technology from May 9, 2014 to June 18, 2014, served as an interim President, Secretary and Director of CYNK Technologies," said Romero. "During this time, I received no compensation in neither cash nor shares of this company. The proposed transaction whereupon it was contemplated that I purchased restricted shares from one Mr. Sanchez was never completed. Further, I have never owned or purchased a single share of CYNK Technology." Romero also said records showed "one Javier Romero" was no longer involved in the company. "According to records, one Javier Romero on June 18, 2014 resigned as President and Secretary and Director of CYNK Technologies whereupon on Mr. Howard Berkowitz filled these vacancies. At this time, the stock was around $2 per share," Romero said. "Now, I am Javier Romero from Belize. I have never heard about such company. I have no idea what this company does, who owns it, who created it or making money if there's any being made. Like I said, I have never even heard about this company before in my life." In his second conversation with Business Insider, Romero described himself as a "student pilot" currently living in Massachusetts. He claimed he and his family were being harassed about CYNK based on "false reportings" about the company that appeared in the American and Belizean press. "The problem is a bunch of people are reaching out to my family asking me about it. Everybody comes up with their own stories and it's getting worse. They are even saying that I am wanted by federal authorities and stuff," he said. Romero said he recently decided to come to flight school and was living with an uncle. He described his former position as a fisheries officer in Belize as a "very respectful job" with the government. Romero was also a reggaeton music producer on his home island of San Pedro.  "I've never done anything with stock before. I have no idea what it is or how it operates. I barely made it out of high school like I said to you earlier. I've always just wanted to fly," said Romero. "I'm also interested in music. I was since a kid. I've always been into music. I'm a musician. I've been doing shows in my hometown. Other than that, I've always just wanted to fly. So I have no idea about this whole stock marketing and financial stuff. I have no knowledge of it whatsoever." Romero claimed he heard of CYNK prior to his initial conversation with Business Insider because "some other reporter" called him and "was questioning him" about it. He said he "was very certain that they were confusing me with someone else, but I didn't know how serious the situation was." Romero added he pretended to be "Jason" in our initial phone call because he was being "silly." "Even up to our conversation, I was just being silly and not taking this situation to the seriousness that it has come to now," Romero said. Though he admitted there was a "proposed transaction" for him to purchase shares from Sanchez, the former CYNK CEO, Romero claimed he did not know anyone affiliated with the company. "I have no idea who these people are. I've never met these people before in my entire life," said Romero. "Like I said to you earlier, I certainly have no connections with them or this company. I don't know anything about them. I don't know what the company does." After about fifteen minutes, which included a second reading of his prepared statement, Romero ended the conversation. He did not explain the "proposed transaction" between him and Sanchez or answer questions about how a man with his name and former job title, fisheries officer for the government of Belize, could have ended up being listed as CYNK's chief executive. "If you don't mind, I'd really like to end this conversation," Romero said, adding. "I've basically said what I needed to say." Romero and Sanchez are two of at least four people who have been listed as CYNK's chief executive and sole employee since the company was incorporated in Las Vegas, Nevada in 2008. In a June 11 letter to OTC Markets Group, the platform where CYNK was being traded, a lawyer named Harold P. Gewerter said Romero purchased 210,000,000 shares of CYNK from Sanchez on Feb. 20. Gewerter told the Wall Street Journal he no longer represents the company. He has not responded to multiple requests for comment from Business Insider. It is unclear why the man named Javier Romero who spoke to Business Insider and matched much of the description of the person identified as CYNK's CEO said he was entirely unaware of the company while also saying there was a "proposed transaction" between him and Sanchez. The other person named by Romero, Howard Berkowitz, is identified as the company's president on the OTC Markets Group website. Berkowitz, who could not be reached for comment, was also identified as CYNK's president, secretary, treasurer, and director in CYNK's registration with the state of Nevada. That registration lists Romero as Cynk's former president, secretary, treasurer, and director and identifies his address as a suite in a Vegas office building. Business Insider could not locate contact information for a "Javier Romero" at that building. Filings indicate CYNK is headquartered at a suite within the Matalon, a business center in Belize City, Belize. According to CNBC, the "listed office suite" does not exist. Filings indicate a phone number with a Miami area code is the CYNK's office number. Business Insider called that number Sunday and left a message on a voicemail identified as belonging to CYNK. We have not received a response. FREE AppDownload
By now you may have seen the latest selfie posted by Omaha kid Tom White. If you haven't, here it is again: It shows White posing in front of — not exactly with — Paul McCartney and Warren Buffett.  pic.twitter.com/VghTM5L7Gh Just another night in Dundee hanging out with @PaulMcCartney and @WarrenBuffett #omaha pic.twitter.com/1UlAzRXX1Q Omaha ice cream joint eCreamery later posted some photos of the duo on their Facebook page. Paul McCartney and Warren Buffett in Dundee. Middle aged white women goin HAM. pic.twitter.com/U3UvvU8xMY   FREE AppDownload
Car crashes are a terrifying risk of driving. Death rates from car accidents vary highly across the U.S. Researcher Michael Sivak of the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute analyzed recent trends in fatalities from car crashes in each state. From this study, here are the number of road fatalities in 2012 per 100,000 people in each state: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Michael Sivak, University of Michigan North Dakota, Montana, and Wyoming are the most dangerous states, with over 20 deaths per 100,000 people each. Meanwhile, more densely populated areas tend to be safer. New York had about 6 deaths per 100,000 people, Massachusetts about 5 per 100,000, and in Washington D.C., there were only about 2 deaths per 100,000 people. The good news is that, for the most part, roads have been getting safer. In every state except for Vermont and North Dakota, there was a drop in road deaths between 2005 and 2012. Nevada had about a 47% drop in deaths per capita, and DC had an incredible 73% drop.
Wikimedia CommonsDavid SklanskyMost people who attend the Wharton School at UPenn end up with a one-way ticket to Wall Street. David Sklansky is not most people. After one year at Wharton, he dropped out and temporarily worked for an actuarial firm. Then, he quit to become a professional poker player — and has done exceedingly well ever since. In fact, he is considered to be the "the number one authority on gambling in the world today", and has co-authored 13 books on gambling theory and poker.  And if that wasn't enough, Sklansky is credited with introducing the Fundamental Theorem of Poker, which states: "Every time you play a hand differently from the way you would have played it if you could see all your opponents' cards, they gain; and every time you play your hand the same way you would have played it if you could see all their cards, they lose." Sklansky's success off the table comes from his ability to simplify and to "present ideas as simply as possible". He breaks down the complicated underlying concepts in poker such as mathematical expectation, pot odds, proper betting technique, and the value of deception in simple layman's terminology that is accessible to all readers. Amateurs expect Sklansky's texts to contain play-by-play guildelines analogous to those found in chess puzzle books. Instead, he applies the fundamental theorem to various scenarios. He does not tell you which exact decisions to make, but rather shows you how to think critically about the game. For example, both new players and the media often get caught up in the emotional highs of bluffing. Sklansky instead suggests a rational alternative: bluffing must be a tool used with "proper frequency" in order to deceive an opponent. Everyone knows that when you bluff successfully, your opponent thinks that your hand is stronger than it is. Sklansky goes one step further and redefines bluffing in terms of the Fundamental Theorem of Poker: when you bluff successfully, your opponent is "playing differently than he would if he could see your cards". By thinking about bluffing as just "another way to keep the opponent guessing", you are less likely to make the careless emotional mistakes that sink amateurs. His ability to communicate these kinds of ideas has lead him to doing consulting work for casinos, internet gaming sites, and gaming device companies. And on the table, Sklansky's poker winnings speak for themselves: he has a total of three World Series of Poker bracelets and has won over $1 million in live poker earnings alone. Interestingly enough, although his employment at the actuarial firm was relatively short-lived, it greatly influenced his poker career. While he was working there, he discovered a faster way to do certain calculations. But Sklansky's boss "promptly dismissed them". In "The Biggest Game in Town", a book on the World Series of Poker by Al Alvarez, Sklansky describes this episode in his life as following: "I knew something no one else knew, but I got no recognition for it. In poker, if you're better than anyone else, you make immediate money. If there's something I know about the game that the other person doesn't and he's not willing to learn or can't understand, then I take his money". And he has certainly made a career of making money by knowing what other players don't. Not bad for a college drop out. Source: Poker News Daily, The Theory of Poker by David Sklansky, Card Player FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Raúl Hernández GonzálezSo you’ve signed up for your company’s 401(k) plan or opened an IRA for your retirement savings. Congrats! That’s a great first step. But if you haven’t made your investment choices yet, you may still be behind the curve, whether that’s because your money was automatically allocated to your plan administrator’s default fund that doesn’t meet your individual needs — or it’s left in cash without any market exposure at all. “Once you factor in inflation, you actually get a negative return from cash,” warns Ted Toal, a Certified Financial Planner™ at Rockwood Wealth Management in Annapolis, Md. And yet nearly half of U.S. investors’ portfolios are in cash, according to a 2013 BlackRock investor survey, and more than a third of investors planned to increase their cash holdings over the following year. Even worse, more than 25% of investors think long-term money should be kept in cash investments, such as savings accounts or CDs, according to a 2013 Bankrate survey. (Need more on why that may be a bad idea? Read this.) But even for those of us who know better, it can still seem overwhelming to pick your own investments — a feeling Rob Cucchiaro, a financial planner with Summit Wealth &amp; Retirement Partners in Walnut Creek, Calif., attributes to decision paralysis. RELATED: 5 Ways to Retrain Your Brain to Save More for Retirement “Studies have shown that the more options people have, the harder it is for them to make a decision, and that’s how people end up remaining in the default investment option,” Cucchiaro says. Ready for some good news? When you’re armed with the right information, learning how to set up a retirement account may not be so difficult. “The most important step is the first one,” Cucchiaro says. “The sooner you start, the sooner the compound growth process can begin.” Here’s what you should know to get started today. After you’ve set up your retirement account, your next task is to determine which investment options may be available to you. If you’re enrolled in your employer’s 401(k) plan, your choices are usually limited — but diversified. A 401(k) account should generally include a variety of investments including U.S. and international stock funds and bond funds. (Click here to learn the difference between stocks, bonds, and mutual funds.) If you’ve opened an IRA, whether it’s a traditional IRA or a Roth IRA, you have many more choices, generally limited only by whether you’ve chosen a brokerage account or a mutual fund account. (The same is usually true if you open a SEP IRA, which is an IRA for the self-employed.) If you choose to open your IRA as a brokerage account, you can typically invest in pretty much anything, including individual stocks — but be careful. “Even for a sophisticated investor, I’m against trying to pick and choose your own stocks,” Toal says. “You’re probably going to make some good picks, but the bad picks can offset the good. I’m for everyone using mutual funds, and specifically index funds.” Why index funds? In putting together your retirement portfolio, it’s important to consider focusing on two major objectives: getting exposure to a broad diversification of particular asset classes (more on that in a minute) and avoiding high fees. (Even 1% fees can erode your returns by up to 30% over time.) Index funds — low-cost mutual funds — may provide both. RELATED: Roth IRAs: Everything You Need to Know If you open your IRA as a mutual fund account on the other hand, you’ll generally be limited to that company’s mutual fund offerings. (In other words, if you open a mutual fund account at Vanguard, you’ll be choosing from Vanguard mutual funds.) But that’s not always a bad thing: Most mutual fund companies offer a well-diversified list of options. One of the easiest approaches to choosing your retirement investments is to see what index funds are available to you — and in what categories. Usually you can access this information by logging into your 401(k) account (ask HR how to do this if you’re unsure) or your IRA or SEP account at the company where you opened it. For a balanced portfolio, you’ll probably want to look at both international and domestic bonds, U.S. large-cap stocks, U.S. small-cap stocks, international stocks, emerging markets stocks and (if possible) some real estate investments. The right allocation to each of these investments depends on how long you have until retirement and your tolerance for risk in your portfolio. This is called diversification — and it can be important. If you put all your investment eggs in one asset class, so to speak, you’re not protected if that particular asset class tanks. Also, the best performer among asset classes usually varies from year to year, Cucchiaro points out. In one year, it might be small growth stocks that gain the most ground; in another year, foreign stocks may outperform everything else. By diversifying your holdings, you can help ensure that even if one part of your portfolio doesn’t do well, you’ve got your thumb on something that’s faring better — and overall, hopefully, your portfolio will grow over time. RELATED: How Do You Rebalance an Investment Portfolio? If your 401(k) doesn’t include an index fund for a particular category, Toal recommends considering choosing mutual funds with the lowest expense ratio — that is, the amount of money charged each year simply for being in the fund. “Over the long run, studies have shown that funds with the lowest expenses tend to have higher returns,” Toal says. If you’re feeling hesitant to make your own investment decisions, a target-date fund may seem like a good fit, and it can be — because it does the work for you. This is a mutual fund based on your intended date of retirement that contains a diversified mix of investments, and it becomes more conservative as you get closer to your retirement date. However, target-date funds aren’t always as straightforward as you may think. “I recently sat with one of my clients who had all of his money in a 2010 target-date fund,” Cucchiaro says. “He presumed that a 2010 target date fund was very conservative and was surprised to find out that it [contained] 50% stocks. I’m not saying that’s right or wrong. I’m just saying that it certainly was more aggressive than his expectations.” RELATED: A Target-Date Fund Mistake That Can Cost You The lesson? Just because the target date jibes with your retirement year doesn’t mean it’s a slam-dunk. Some fund managers have different ideas about what’s “conservative,” and the portfolio they put together may not be right for you. So take a good look at the investment mix to make sure you understand what’s in the fund. (And if you need clarification? A financial planner can help explain it to you.) LearnVest Planning Services is a registered investment adviser and subsidiary of LearnVest, Inc. that provides financial plans for its clients. Information shown is for illustrative purposes only and is not intended as investment, legal or tax planning advice. Please consult a financial adviser, attorney or tax specialist for advice specific to your financial situation. Unless specifically identified as such, the people interviewed in this piece are neither clients, employees nor affiliates of LearnVest Planning Services, and the views expressed are their own. LearnVest Planning Services and any third parties listed in this message are separate and unaffiliated and are not responsible for each other’s products, services or policies. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Raúl Hernández GonzálezSo you’ve signed up for your company’s 401(k) plan or opened an IRA for your retirement savings. Congrats! That’s a great first step. But if you haven’t made your investment choices yet, you may still be behind the curve, whether that’s because your money was automatically allocated to your plan administrator’s default fund that doesn’t meet your individual needs — or it’s left in cash without any market exposure at all. “Once you factor in inflation, you actually get a negative return from cash,” warns Ted Toal, a Certified Financial Planner™ at Rockwood Wealth Management in Annapolis, Md. And yet nearly half of U.S. investors’ portfolios are in cash, according to a 2013 BlackRock investor survey, and more than a third of investors planned to increase their cash holdings over the following year. Even worse, more than 25% of investors think long-term money should be kept in cash investments, such as savings accounts or CDs, according to a 2013 Bankrate survey. (Need more on why that may be a bad idea? Read this.) But even for those of us who know better, it can still seem overwhelming to pick your own investments — a feeling Rob Cucchiaro, a financial planner with Summit Wealth &amp; Retirement Partners in Walnut Creek, Calif., attributes to decision paralysis. RELATED: 5 Ways to Retrain Your Brain to Save More for Retirement “Studies have shown that the more options people have, the harder it is for them to make a decision, and that’s how people end up remaining in the default investment option,” Cucchiaro says. Ready for some good news? When you’re armed with the right information, learning how to set up a retirement account may not be so difficult. “The most important step is the first one,” Cucchiaro says. “The sooner you start, the sooner the compound growth process can begin.” Here’s what you should know to get started today. After you’ve set up your retirement account, your next task is to determine which investment options may be available to you. If you’re enrolled in your employer’s 401(k) plan, your choices are usually limited — but diversified. A 401(k) account should generally include a variety of investments including U.S. and international stock funds and bond funds. (Click here to learn the difference between stocks, bonds, and mutual funds.) If you’ve opened an IRA, whether it’s a traditional IRA or a Roth IRA, you have many more choices, generally limited only by whether you’ve chosen a brokerage account or a mutual fund account. (The same is usually true if you open a SEP IRA, which is an IRA for the self-employed.) If you choose to open your IRA as a brokerage account, you can typically invest in pretty much anything, including individual stocks — but be careful. “Even for a sophisticated investor, I’m against trying to pick and choose your own stocks,” Toal says. “You’re probably going to make some good picks, but the bad picks can offset the good. I’m for everyone using mutual funds, and specifically index funds.” Why index funds? In putting together your retirement portfolio, it’s important to consider focusing on two major objectives: getting exposure to a broad diversification of particular asset classes (more on that in a minute) and avoiding high fees. (Even 1% fees can erode your returns by up to 30% over time.) Index funds — low-cost mutual funds — may provide both. RELATED: Roth IRAs: Everything You Need to Know If you open your IRA as a mutual fund account on the other hand, you’ll generally be limited to that company’s mutual fund offerings. (In other words, if you open a mutual fund account at Vanguard, you’ll be choosing from Vanguard mutual funds.) But that’s not always a bad thing: Most mutual fund companies offer a well-diversified list of options. One of the easiest approaches to choosing your retirement investments is to see what index funds are available to you — and in what categories. Usually you can access this information by logging into your 401(k) account (ask HR how to do this if you’re unsure) or your IRA or SEP account at the company where you opened it. For a balanced portfolio, you’ll probably want to look at both international and domestic bonds, U.S. large-cap stocks, U.S. small-cap stocks, international stocks, emerging markets stocks and (if possible) some real estate investments. The right allocation to each of these investments depends on how long you have until retirement and your tolerance for risk in your portfolio. This is called diversification — and it can be important. If you put all your investment eggs in one asset class, so to speak, you’re not protected if that particular asset class tanks. Also, the best performer among asset classes usually varies from year to year, Cucchiaro points out. In one year, it might be small growth stocks that gain the most ground; in another year, foreign stocks may outperform everything else. By diversifying your holdings, you can help ensure that even if one part of your portfolio doesn’t do well, you’ve got your thumb on something that’s faring better — and overall, hopefully, your portfolio will grow over time. RELATED: How Do You Rebalance an Investment Portfolio? If your 401(k) doesn’t include an index fund for a particular category, Toal recommends considering choosing mutual funds with the lowest expense ratio — that is, the amount of money charged each year simply for being in the fund. “Over the long run, studies have shown that funds with the lowest expenses tend to have higher returns,” Toal says. If you’re feeling hesitant to make your own investment decisions, a target-date fund may seem like a good fit, and it can be — because it does the work for you. This is a mutual fund based on your intended date of retirement that contains a diversified mix of investments, and it becomes more conservative as you get closer to your retirement date. However, target-date funds aren’t always as straightforward as you may think. “I recently sat with one of my clients who had all of his money in a 2010 target-date fund,” Cucchiaro says. “He presumed that a 2010 target date fund was very conservative and was surprised to find out that it [contained] 50% stocks. I’m not saying that’s right or wrong. I’m just saying that it certainly was more aggressive than his expectations.” RELATED: A Target-Date Fund Mistake That Can Cost You The lesson? Just because the target date jibes with your retirement year doesn’t mean it’s a slam-dunk. Some fund managers have different ideas about what’s “conservative,” and the portfolio they put together may not be right for you. So take a good look at the investment mix to make sure you understand what’s in the fund. (And if you need clarification? A financial planner can help explain it to you.) LearnVest Planning Services is a registered investment adviser and subsidiary of LearnVest, Inc. that provides financial plans for its clients. Information shown is for illustrative purposes only and is not intended as investment, legal or tax planning advice. Please consult a financial adviser, attorney or tax specialist for advice specific to your financial situation. Unless specifically identified as such, the people interviewed in this piece are neither clients, employees nor affiliates of LearnVest Planning Services, and the views expressed are their own. LearnVest Planning Services and any third parties listed in this message are separate and unaffiliated and are not responsible for each other’s products, services or policies. FREE AppDownload
mrjoro via FlickrThe World Series of Poker (WSOP) is currently going on at the Rio Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, and we're highlighting our favorite play of the day. Over the weekend, Poker News reports that Vladimir Bozinovic started with a pair of kings... and it only got better from there. Even before the flop, things were heating up. Bozinovic opened up with 80,000, "only to have Tony Ruberto three-bet the cutoff to 215,000". Bozinovic then went up to 500,000, which Ruberto called. The flop showed a 10<U+2666> Q<U+2660> 8<U+2663> — and both players checked. The next card was a J<U+2666>. After Bozinovic checked again, Ruberto bet out 375,000. Bozinovic ultimately called. After the 9<U+2660> on the river, both players checked. Bozinovic then revealed his two cowboys, K<U+2660> K<U+2663>, which turned into a straight on the river. He increased his chip count to over 4 million. Additional WSOP News: David Einhorn, hedge fund manager and renowned poker player, is out. He earned $44,728 — which will be donated to the Robin Hood Foundation. Huck Seed is out. This means that there will be a first-time winner this year. Source: Poker News, WSOP Twitter Account FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew KellyOver the weekend, Barron's Alexander Eule published a cautious article on GoPro, and this morning the stock is down more than 4%. Earlier, shares of GoPro were down as much as 6.5%. In Barron's, Eule's piece,  titled "GoPro's Thrill-Filled IPO Adventure May End Badly," said that GoPro faces the risk, like so many tech gadgets, of being "subsumed by our phones." Eule: "IN SOME WAYS, THE EXCITEMENT over GoPro is a quaint return to pre-smartphone days. It's hard to find stand-alone gadgets that haven't been subsumed by our phones. GoPro, though, still risks suffering a similar fate. The cautionary tale is Flip, the groundbreaking camera that Cisco Systems bought for $590 million in 2009. The Flip was a miniature marvel, bringing the world high-definition home videos from a device that easily fit in a back pocket. Nifty idea, but it was a feature, not a product, as Apple's iPhone soon made clear. Cisco shuttered the Flip business just two years after its purchase." GoPro shares went bonkers after its IPO, but eventually pared some of those gains. But even so, at current prices, the company has a market cap of about $4.7 billion. We noted that after the stock's steep run up, short sellers began circling GoPro, seeing an opportunity after a massive run up. After a less-than-stellar bit of press over the weekend, GoPro bears are taking control during a session that is seeing the Nasdaq rally. FREE AppDownload
Facebook/FusionPharmThe inside of one of FusionPharm's PharmPods.One day this past February, David, 29, who asked to be identified only by his middle name, sat in an office on a military base in Afghanistan. As a contractor for the Department of Defense, he worked about 90 hours a week. The rest of his time was devoted to researching investments online. “There wasn’t much else to do,” he tells Business Insider. On that day, David came across a YouTube video of a radio show featuring FusionPharm (FSPM), a Denver-based company formed in 2011 that sells PharmPods, or “professional self-contained cultivation solutions,” as CEO Scott Dittman explained on the program. Put plainly, FusionPharm makes steel trailers for indoor agriculture. Marijuana growers can also use them as mobile greenhouses, and the concept piqued David’s interest. “The product seemed like a good idea because [marijuana] laws are still really murky,” he says. “If a company got into a trouble with their state, they could just up and move, so their plants didn’t get confiscated by the police.” David had known about Wall Street’s green rush since 2010. He understood the dangers that went with investing in a potential bubble, like over-valuation and pump-and-dump schemes. But he kept watching FusionPharm’s video. As Dittman, a ruddy-faced blond in a casual button-up, explained the company’s products and business model, his ten-dollar words would have reassured any inexperienced investor. He noted that FusionPharm planned to undergo auditing before the end of the year and expand to Massachusetts and Washington, both considered medical marijuana hubs. "We're going to ship more PharmPods in the next 45 days," Dittman said on screen, "than we have since the beginning." Washington started selling recreational weed on July 8. Facebook/FusionPharmA PharmPod at the loading dock of FusionPharm's headquarters.At that point, David knew he wanted to invest in FusionPharm. “If a company plans on getting an auditor, it means they’re legit,” he says. “For a penny stock, that’s pretty important.” In February, David bought a couple thousand dollars of the stock from his desk chair in the desert. “All of the stocks surrounding pot just exploded in anticipation of it becoming a more legal industry,” he explains. “I wanted to get in early on the investment.” At one point, David’s stake in FusionPharm hit $7,500. When David returned home to D.C. several weeks later, he quit his defense job to become a day trader. “I just thought I might want to try something new,” he says. “I liked the idea of being my own boss, making my own hours.” David now describes his stake in FusionPharm as an “eye-opening experience.” Just a month after watching Dittman’s interview on YouTube, David was out $4,500. “It was huge,” he says. “I’m not rich.” Experiences like David’s were exactly what the SEC was trying to avoid when it issued an investor alert on marijuana-related stocks in mid-May. That day, the agency suspended trading in FusionPharm, having already done the same to four other marijuana-related companies: Canna Business Group, focusing on real estate for the marijuana industry; GrowLife, a hydroponics provider; Advanced Cannabis Solutions, which also leases growing space for licensed marijuana-growers; and PetroTech Oil and Gas, a natural resources company that recently expanded into cannabis and hemp.  Screenshot via Google FinanceThe YTD share prices of FusionPharm (FSPM), Canna Business Group (CBGI), GrowLife (PHOT), Advanced Cannabis Solutions (CANN), and PetroTech Oil and Gas (PTOG). All of these stocks currently trade or have traded at the penny-stock level, meaning the shares usually trade below $5 and not on major exchanges. Because of their volatility and illiquidity, penny stocks already pose heightened risk to investors. And aside from their tickers’ positions at the less-regulated microcap level — and their focus on the nascent legal-cannabis industry — the companies shared several other characteristics the SEC tends to consider red flags: reverse mergers, reverse stock splits, and low initial public offerings. Note: Business Insider is not implying the companies mentioned engage in unlawful practices, only that this market lends itself to greater opportunities for fraud, as noted by the SEC. After rising from 25 cents to over $7 between the end of November 2013 and early February 2014, FusionPharm’s stock started dropping. It’s now down to 95 cents (as of July 11). The day before the SEC’s suspension, the stock was trading at $2.89. Ten business days later, when trading resumed, it was at 82 cents. During a suspension, the company's broker can't issue quotes in that stock, which makes buying and selling much more difficult. And when the SEC suspends trading to communicate concerns about the stock, the price will likely decrease, professor of securities law at the University of Toledo Eric Chaffee tells Business Insider. While the move harms investors who didn’t sell the stock quickly enough, the SEC considers those losses the lesser of two evils. Before reinstatement, companies must file a 15c211 form, which FINRA will review and approve. “It’s very difficult for the stock to trade again,” Brenda Hamilton, founder of Hamilton &amp; Associates Law Group, tells Business Insider. “Very few companies recover from these suspensions.” And she would know the process. "As a law firm, we represent lots of whistleblowers, and we represent investors who have lost money in these types of stocks," Hamilton explains. "So yes, when the facts are present that support it, we refer it to the SEC, we refer it to the FBI, and sometimes, there are other agencies."  Screenshot via Google FinanceThe YTD share price of FusionPharm (FSPM). Luckily, David sold his final shares before the SEC stepped in. “Unlike some investors, I wasn’t burned by the suspension,” he says. “I was burned by the stock’s price decline before that.” When he noticed his investment faltering in March, David started thoroughly researching FusionPharm. “Since I was now trading for a living, I had time to do that,” he said. “A regular investor might not.” And he quickly discovered glaring issues with the company’s public image. First, although Dittman said in his YouTube interview that the company planned to undergo auditing, FusionPharm filed a disclosure statement on March 31 indicating it had no auditor or accountant. In fact, Dittman, an ex-CPA, handles FusionPharm’s financial documents himself, according to an attorney letter from December 2013. Worse, OTCMarket's banned the company’s legal counsel, Guy-Jean Pierre, in 2010, and the SEC later charged him with issuing fraudulent attorney opinion letters that resulted in more than 70 million shares of microcap stock becoming available for unrestricted trading. On June 2, a few days after FusionPharm’s trading reinstatement, the company released a document explaining the origins of the SEC’s investigation: failure to disclose the company's relationship with Williams Sears, Dittman’s brother-in-law. Sears is an officer at two companies, Vertifresh and Meadpoint Ventures, with which FusionPharm has done considerable business. In 2007, Sears pleaded guilty to federal charges involving securities fraud and bribery. He and his wife encouraged their clients, many of whom were retired, to invest substantial amounts of their savings in high-risk securities while failing to disclose that obvious risk, according to the SEC’s complaint. “If you’re a small company, and the people involved have a history of stock scamming,” David says, “I don’t think they have the best interests of their investors in mind.” The company’s press release also mentions that as part of the investigation for potential securities law violations, the federal authorities raided FusionPharm on March 16, seizing records, computers, and about $200,000 in funds from the company’s bank accounts. “It’s not a good company,” David adds. Dittman declined to comment. Many of the other marijuana microcap stocks have similar characteristics to FusionPharm. “If you look at some of these companies, it’s ridiculous,” Hamilton says. “You have undisclosed promoters, you have bad actors, you have felons, you have securities violations. And investors don’t know about any of that.” Part of the reason involves the nature of penny stocks, which trade on over-the-counter systems, also known as the "Pink Sheets." For stocks to trade on national exchanges, they must be registered with the SEC and meet other rigorous standards. The Pink Sheets are considerably more lenient. “The reporting requirements for the Pink Sheets are so low," Peter Leeds, author of "Penny Stocks For Dummies," tells Business Insider. "Almost anyone can get on them." Stock watchers also view corporate name changes as a red flag. On FusionPharm’s only SEC filing (an exemption), the company reports having no previous names. But in its March 2014 quarterly report, filed on OTC Markets, FusionPharm acknowledged having changed its name in 2011 from Baby Bee Bright Corp., which manufactured and sold prenatal audio systems. Indeed, according to FusionPharm's OTC Markets profile, the company has changed its name four times since 1998. As it happens, Baby Bee Bright itself grew out of Sequoia Interests Corp., which was involved in the oil and gas industry. Experts say that many marijuana-related companies had similar past incarnations in the mining and oil industries, which experienced booms of their own. “They say, ‘OK, now we’re consultants about cannabis,’” Leeds explains. “I wouldn’t say they’re making it up, but they’re taking advantage of a situation to get in on a hot craze.” Baby Bee Bright originated through a reverse merger, another maneuver that tends to raise eyebrows. During a reverse merger, a private company will, in essence, acquire an SEC-registered “shell” company with little or no operations to bypass the lengthy and complicated process of going public, according to Hamilton. “We call it wash, rinse, repeat,” she says. Under most circumstances, a company that plans to go public is required to file with the SEC and undergo a review. With a reverse merger, it can skip all that. Some observers advocate closing this loophole. “The first thing the SEC could do is eliminate reverse mergers altogether,” says George Sharp, a known penny-stock investigator. In 2013, he sued Awesome Penny Stocks, a large email scam. The operation, which allegedly manipulated the prices of stocks, shut down in March after the SEC filed a civil complaint against it, Bloomberg reported. Sharp also readily exchanges research with Hamilton — as well as the SEC and FBI — on these companies. While reverse mergers are legal for now, they open the door to questionable practices. For instance, corporate hijackers can simply locate a dormant, public company, even one that’s gone bankrupt, and draw up reinstatement documents. “They’ll go in and literally steal them,” Hamilton says. “It’s hard to believe. And there are probably hundreds of these companies that were obtained in this manner.” Sharp also noted that it's a favored technique of organized crime syndicates. Sitting in Hamilton’s office several weeks ago, he wondered how many people wanted them dead. He's already received threats after bringing some of these companies down. Some companies that reverse-split their stock also IPO at the microcap level, a move that experts view with skepticism. “When you’re doing an IPO at 3 cents, it’s interesting you would even do an IPO at all,” Leeds notes. “When a company is starting to go places, they’ll do an IPO at a fair valuation because it’s a good business model. There’s absolutely nothing good about the business model of these companies.” Going public at such a low share price also leads to reverse stock splits, another concern. These processes reduce the number of outstanding shares, which increases stock prices, making the security more attractive to potential investors. “It creates the perception that the value has appreciated greatly,” Chaffee says. “But it really shows the opposite.” Since 2003, FusionPharm, then operating under its previous incarnations, has reverse-split its stock four times. Even facing such risks, investors salivate over the chance to grab an early stake in these companies. Stories of people like Bart Mackay, considered the “first pot-stock billionaire” (although his company deals in hemp, not marijuana) make the market even more attractive.  “I wanted to get into day trading and leave my old career,” David explains. “At the time, marijuana stocks were the hot stocks.” He wasn’t alone. Hamilton compares the current green rush to the 17th century’s tulip mania. “Marijuana is in the news,” Leeds says. “People are very quick to take 500 bucks and throw it at a stock and say, ‘OK, I hope this turns into $3,000.' But they don’t realize they’re throwing 500 bucks at a black hole.”  It's worth looking at the numbers. For the quarter ending March 31, OTCMarkets put FusionPharm’s net income at -$48,000, giving it a negative earnings per share. Nonetheless, from January to the end of March, the stock grew from 50 cents to nearly $5.  With sometimes questionable business prospects and zero name recognition, penny stocks often depend on promoters to attract investors. Gil Oren, founder of hotstockmarket.com, served as one in Toronto during the mining boom in the mid-1990s. He ran a newsletter that sent press releases and tips about penny stocks to prospective investors. “I had an email list of maybe 20,000, which was considered pretty big,” Oren tells Business Insider. “But today, 20,000 is nothing. It’s really small fish.” Consider that more than 50,000 people follow @pennyexpert on Twitter. “Social media has brought access to a lot of new naïve or just lazy traders, who simply want to just jump on the bandwagon,” he explains. “The art of promotion is now a lot more effective.” screenshot via hotstockmarket.comOne discussion about marijuana stocks on hotstockmarket.com. Oren, just a college student in the '90s, remembers a scene at one company that astounded him. Considering a potential partnership, he went to check out the offices of a big league investor-relations firm. Initially, the operations there impressed him. “The office was very fancy — 20 or 30 stories. There were young guys in suits and ties running around everywhere,” Oren explains. During his tour, however, he noticed a back room with about 10 people furiously typing on computers. Atop each of their desks sat two monitors, each split up into multiple browsers, logged onto different stock chat rooms. “What I think they were doing was creating chatter and excitement online about whatever stock they were paid to promote that day,” Oren says. “You’re basically jumping into the shark tank talking about stocks with these people.” During his time as a promoter, Oren tried to avoid disseminating blatantly false information. “We had to actually turn down companies or promoters whose stories just made no sense or the stock really looked bad,” Oren says. But then the promoter would just take the business to another newsletter with lower standards. “So you have to make a choice,” he explains. “Do you want to try to be honest and get no business, or do you want to put out something and take it on good faith that what they’re telling you is right?” Decades later, Oren now runs hotstockmarket.com, where stock promotion still occurs. But he and the other moderators force promoters to identify themselves when they register, to help inexperienced investors identify biased information. If 10 people on a board are claiming a stock made them millions, Oren notes, it’s a promotion. In another common tactic, according to Oren, one person will start a thread complaining about a stock, and other “commenters” jump into the conversation to convince him or her of its incredible value. “All the tricks are the same,” he says. The recently created marijuana board on Oren’s site contains pages of such discussions, including a challenge to turn $100 into $100,000 in 10 months. FusionPharm is currently or has been involved in 13 different promotions, seven of them paid for by an undisclosed or third party, according to stockpromoters.com. "All of these campaigns, the end goal is always the same,” Hamilton claims, “for insiders and promoters to dump their shares while investors buy.” Aside from helping companies abide by the SEC’s trading rules, her firm handles lawsuits for financial whistleblowers. In fact, she’s involved in ongoing litigation against a marijuana penny-stock company, although she couldn’t comment further. In such a speculative and potentially dubious market, some companies are going to extra lengths to convince investors of their bona fides. Tranzbyte (ERBB), known as American Green since May, is one. The company bills itself as the world's first publicly traded medical marijuana dispensary brand. “I don’t like when people do these bad things because it tarnishes us all,” the company’s president Stephen Shearin tells Business Insider. “Honestly, the list of companies I’m willing to work with is growing shorter and shorter.” While American Green didn’t incur a trading suspension from the SEC, it has never filed with the agency either. But it does keep regular, albeit unaudited, records with OTC Markets, where its stocks are quoted. A pop-up on the company’s website forces new visitors to confirm they “read” and “understand” the risks of investing in an over-the-counter stock before proceeding. “You can’t say, ‘Oh, I had no idea this could change by 80% in a week,’” Shearin explains. “We are absolutely 100% convinced that you should not put your family's dinner money in. Or if you're looking forward to that vacation. Do not put the money in because we cannot guarantee anything." On a Colorado barbecue joint’s patio in April, American Green unveiled its most anticipated product to date: ZaZZZ, an “automated, age-verifying, climate-controlled marijuana dispensary,” or pot vending machine. Customers — who can pay with credit cards, cash, or bitcoin — insert their ID into the machine. As soon as the touch screen, which uses biometrics, declares them “verified,” it offers a variety of pot strains as well as edibles like gummy bears. But “if there is a doubt, no cannabis comes out,” as the company’s saying goes. The media jumped on the news. ZaZZZ’s debut grabbed the attention of Conan O’Brien, who included a bit about the event on his show. And in early June, the company reached a preliminary agreement with Future World Energy Inc. for the installation of 1,500 machines nationwide. The news, however, didn’t increase the stock price, which stills hovers around 3 cents. “It started a steady decline," Shearin admits. "I’m sure we’ll take a beating in the short term from time to time.” As of now, the machines distribute only for medical purposes in licensed facilities, but Shearin hints he envisions expansion for recreational use in the future. Courtesy of American GreenZaZZZ's user interface.Aside from ZaZZZ, American Green also markets a patented system for watering (marijuana) plants. As its website explains, earth’s prehistoric atmosphere contained oxygen levels 30 to 50 times higher than today — and the more oxygen in the air, the more oxygen in the water. Thus, American Green dreamed up the “Jurassic Oxygen System,” which douses plants in water with quadrupled oxygen levels, causing “explosive growth,” the company claims. The Jurassic system falls under the cultivation division of American Green, which also owns a clothing line and a cannabis-themed e-zine. Still, a closer look at Tranzbyte reveals a few reasons for caution. First, it still operates in the red, just like FusionPharm. Financials from the quarter ending March 31 puts the company’s total assets at about $4.4 million — and its liabilities at $6.8 million. And a whopping 318 campaigns currently promote Tranzbyte, according to stockpromoters.com. Shearin remains adamant, however, his company never pays for these campaigns.  With such innovative-sounding products, it's no wonder David and other investors wanted to play the marijuana market. But even companies that try to set themselves apart have their problems. “I had my suspicions that a bubble was being traded,” David explains. “Hindsight is 20/20, and I obviously should have sold earlier." Now that David has lost nearly $5,000 of his contract cash trading FusionPharm, he understands the risk. “I’ve learned to stay away from these marijuana stocks,” he says. And he continues to warn other investors, placing comments on message boards that report any shady connections or questionable practices he comes across. “I am obviously very upset with FusionPharm, which is why I’m spending so much time and effort,” he explains. “I don’t like getting ripped off, and I [want to] ensure that justice is getting served." Screenshot via Pharmpods.comA map of in-use PharmPods, the mobile greenhouses FusionPharm makes. FREE AppDownload
London is, according to Bloomberg, “the undisputed foreign hub for Russian business.” That’s where Russian companies hire law firms and investment bankers to handle takeovers. That’s where rich Russians like to live with their families or just hang out and have fun. That’s where they like to spend lots of money. But the sanction spiral has already – and very inadvertently – accomplished one of the big goals, not of President Barack Obama or Chancellor Angela Merkel, but of President Vladimir Putin: keep Russian money in Russia, and perhaps even bring back some of the money that has wandered astray over the years to seek greener pastures elsewhere. Capital flight, particularly from the vast underground economy, is one of Russia’s most pressing economic problems. And Putin’s angle of attack has been, well, brutal in its own way: The spectacular collapse of the Cypriot banks last year took down much of the “black money” Russians and their mailbox companies – there were over 40,000 of these outfits in Cyprus – had on deposit there. Instead of bailing out the cesspool of corruption that these banks were, or even the nation with another emergency loan, as Russia had already done before, he just smiled and let it happen. And much of the money of his compatriots was allowed to evaporate. Perhaps he’d read Global Financial Integrity’s report – designed to advise the Russian government on these issues – that called Cyprus “a Money Laundering Machine for Russian criminals.” And so the sanction spiral against Russian oligarchs and their companies fits neatly into his overall long-term design. It includes the de-dollarization of world trade – an endeavor where he found new friends even in France, after French megabank BNP-Paribas agreed to pay a $8.9 billion penalty to the US Government. China has been working furiously to elevate its own currency to a world-trade currency to rival the dollar and the euro, though it still has a long ways to go. Putin has been eager to switch the oil and gas trade with China away from the dollar, and progress is being made on a daily basis. And it includes getting Russian companies and rich individuals, by hook or crook, to leave at least some of their money in Russia and perhaps even repatriate some of the money now invested elsewhere so that it can do its magic for the economic development of Russia, and propel the country forward. Once in Russia, the money would presumably remain more accessible to the Russian government, which these very oligarchs have seen is not a great situation to be in, if they end up on the wrong side of Putin. Russia’s legal system can be a hazard to their health and wealth, and banks can be iffy. Hence the prevailing wisdom to send overseas every ruble, dollar, or euro that isn’t totally nailed down. So Putin has been pushing Russian companies to cut back on doing business with overseas banks and bring some of that business home. With some effect. And London has suffered collateral damage. Takeovers involving Russian companies plunged 39% to $16.6 billion in the first half of 2014, Bloomberg reported. London being the “undisputed” center for Russian finance took much of the hit. Raising money in London is getting tougher too for Russian companies: two megabanks, HSBC and Lloyds Banking Group got spooked by the sanctions and the willingness by the US Government to exact its pound of flesh from banks that violate sanctions. They pulled out of a loan deal for as much as $2 billion for BP and Russian oil-major OAO Rosneft, “according to a person with knowledge of the matter,” Bloomberg reported in June. The consequences are ricocheting through London, from law firms and investment banks to retailers of luxury goods and dealers of exotic cars. In another indication, the amount Russian visitors spent in retail stores between January and May, according to tax-rebate services company Global Blue, plunged 22% from the same period last year. It shows up in all sorts of venues: “We’re seeing a lot less Russian surnames on the booking sheet,” Michael Evans, creative director of a nightclub called Mahiki, told Bloomberg. A somewhat tony place where a bottle of Roederer Cristal Champagne will set you back $719, and I’d guess that’s what the girls like to drink. “It’s very easy to see what’s going on in the world from the markets we attract,” Evans explained. And London real-estate insiders are fretting that Russians might no longer buy overpriced homes in ultra-pricy areas, and that there would be no one else to fill their big shoes and munificent habits. “The Russian market was like a Champagne fountain,” Peter Wetherell, CEO of real-estate agency Wetherell told Bloomberg. “The money was coming into the top and flowing down.” The sanction spiral is having its effects. London is paying a price. Other cities too. Russia’s economy, short term, has been hit and appears to be slithering into a recession. Some companies are squealing. But for Putin’s long-term master plan, it has been a godsend. If the collapse of Cyprus has demonstrated to his compatriots that their money and its legal status might be even less secure in overseas tax havens than in Russia, the sanctions spiral has introduced them to new risks and has made doing business with already frazzled Western banks more difficult. One more reason to use Russian banks and keep their money working in Russia. “An epidemic of the world economy” is what Putin called offshore jurisdictions. And he must have sported his wicked smile when he said, “We Have to Think About How to Take this Money.” FREE AppDownload
Stocks are in rally mode and gold is getting crushed. The previous metal is down more than 2% to about $1306 an ounce. In contrast, the Dow is up 127 points and is back above 17,000, while the S&amp;P 500 is up 3 points and the Nasdaq is up 25 points. Last month, gold popped above the $1300 level, which it had been stuck on for much of the spring, but at current prices, gold is at its lowest levels in almost a month. Silver is also getting crushed, with prices of that precious metal down more than 2% as well. Here's a chart of gold over the last 24 hours. FinViz FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogDuring the second half of the 1990s, the looming introduction of the euro led to a sharp drop in borrowing costs among the peripheral economies of the Eurozone. That boosted their economies and the region’s overall economy. The Italian unemployment rate fell from its 1998 peak of 11.5% to 5.8% during 2007. The Spanish jobless rate plunged from a 1994 high of 22.3% to 7.9% during 2007. Those rates have risen since then to 12.6% in Italy and 25.1% in Spain. French joblessness is currently at 10.1%, up from a recent low of 7.2% during 2008. On the other hand, Germany’s unemployment rate is only 5.1% currently, the lowest since reunification during 1990. The low bond yields of the previous decade set the stage for the Eurozone’s sovereign debt crisis by allowing governments to borrow too much. It started in Greece during 2010, spreading rapidly to the other peripheral countries as their bond yields soared through the summer of 2012. The Eurozone fell into a recession during Q4-2011, with real GDP declining during six consecutive quarters. Draghi’s “whatever-it-takes” speech of July 26, 2012 turned the situation around surprisingly well, as yields subsequently plunged in the peripherals and real GDP rose modestly for the past four quarters through Q1-2014. The problem is that the drop in yields has spread to the core countries this year, with the German and French yields now down to only 1.1% and 1.5%. The Eurozone’s recovery since last summer has been lackluster at best and is showing signs of stalling. Industrial production excluding construction is up only 1.7% y/y in Germany, down 3.7% y/y in France (the weakest reading since November 2012), and down 1.8% y/y (wda) in Italy. Deflation has become a concern, as the CPI inflation rate has dropped close to zero. In fact, the Eurozone isn’t officially out of the recession that started during Q4-2011. On June 16, the CEPR Euro Area Business Cycle Dating Committee concluded that the “lack of evidence of sustained improvement of economic activity in the euro area does, however, preclude calling an end to the recession that started after 2011Q3. …in spite of several quarters of positive (but weak) economic developments…” Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Eurosclerosis Déjà Vu?(1) Another summertime panic attack in Europe. (2) Draghi wants more reforms. (3) Europe’s arteries hardening again. (4) Introduction of the euro set the stage for current crisis in the Eurozone. (5) Bond yields approaching zero in Germany and France. (6) Eurozone’s weak recovery stalling as region remains officially in recession. (7) EMU MSCI forward revenues and earnings remain depressed. (8) Will the P/E-led rally continue? (9) ECB’s stealth QE. (10) Eurozone banks: To lend or not to lend? (11) “Stay Home” still outperforming “Go Global” ytd. (12) Weak numbers out of China and Japan. (13) Yellen testifies. (14) “Dawn of the Planet of the Apes” (+ +). (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
Courtesy AirbusAirbus' revamped A330neo is expected to do battle with Boeing's Dreamliner.FARNBOROUGH England (Reuters) - Airbus announced a revamp of its twin-aisle A330 passenger jet on Monday, sharpening a contest with Boeing for up to $250 billion of orders at the core of the market as the start of the Farnborough Airshow fueled a debate about new technology. The European planemaker's decision to add new, more fuel-efficient Rolls-Royce engines to its best-selling long-haul jet comes as it tries to preserve market share against Boeing's  all-new 787 Dreamliner and amid disappointing sales of its own new A350-800 model. The challenge facing new aviation technology was underscored on the eve of the Farnborough show, the world's biggest aerospace industry gathering of the year, when Lockheed-Martin's Joint Strike Fighter was pulled out of the opening day. The warplane is grounded following an engine fire last month although Lockheed hopes it will still make its international debut at the event this week. Two initial partners in the program - Canada and Denmark - are weighing fresh orders. The absence of the F-35 left Airbus to grab the limelight on day one of the July 14-20 show. The European planemaker's chief executive, Fabrice Bregier, predicted up to 100 orders for the A330neo during the event. The A330 has enjoyed a resurgence of sales helped by delays in deliveries of Boeing’s technically ambitious carbon-fiber 787 jet, but it is in need of a revamp to keep selling. Analysts say that will also plug a potential future gap in the Airbus wide-body jet portfolio after poor sales of its A350-800 - the smallest of the next-generation A350 family and a model which looks set to be halted or suspended as a result.Courtesy AirbusCabins will have 10 more seats than the current A330 configuration.The 250-300 seat market is the largest segment of the wide-body jet market by volume and represents 4,520 aircraft worth more than $1 trillion over the next 20 years, according to Boeing’s latest market forecast, published last week. Airbus believes the new A330-800neo and A330-900neo models can achieve at least 1,000 of those orders, but Boeing says the market opportunity is closer to 400 planes and even then, only for a short period. Still, the cheaper A330neo is expected to spark increased price competition. "The A330neo could potentially offer the right mix of fuel-burn reduction and lower acquisition cost ... Less clear is whether the economics and timing will be sufficient to sway customers from the 787 this time," said Rob Morris, head of consultancy at Flightglobal Ascend, in a report being published at the air show. The A330neo will have a range increase of up to 400 nautical miles, with room for up to 10 extra seats in the cabin, Airbus said. The aircraft will also have aerodynamic improvements such as new wing tips, as well as an increased wingspan.Courtesy AirbusCabins on the A330neo will have mood lighting and full connectivity.Deliveries will start in the fourth quarter of 2017. Airbus said it would incur development costs for the A330neo from 2015 to 2017, with an impact of around 70 basis points on the group's 2015 return-on-sales target. The European group is aiming to replicate the success of its smaller revamped A320neo. But Boeing is relaxed about the challenge. "It is an older technology airplane that is being improved. It will compete with brand new technology airplanes that we’ve got across a wide spectrum of widebodies," Boeing co-CEO Jim McNerney told CNBC. "We feel highly confident in our new technology line that is already in place as it competes against a refurbished A330." Boeing begins the air show with a clear advantage after gaining 703 gross orders up to July 8, or 649 after cancellations, against Airbus’s end-June total of 515 gross orders and 290 net. But after an intense sales drive in recent weeks, Airbus is expected to outpace its U.S. rival by about two to one at the air show. Analysts have generally predicted a low-key show, because of steadily growing fears of airline overcapacity. However, industry sources gathering at the event said evidence pointed to well over 500 orders or commitments ranging from a 100-plane lessor deal to a single plane for Fiji. (Additional reporting by Cyril Altmeyer, Jack Stubbs, Victoria Bryan, Sarah Young and James Regan' writing by Tim Hepher and Mark Potter; editing by Jason Neely) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mary F. CalvertFederal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen testifies before a House Financial Services Committee hearing on "Monetary Policy and the State of the Economy." at the Rayburn House Office Building in Washington, February 11, 2014. In Nicholas Lemann's profile of Fed Chair Janet Yellen in this week's "New Yorker," Janet Yellen says she knew the housing market was dangerous before the financial crisis.  "In 2005 and 2006, [Yellen] began to be concerned that there was a dangerous bubble in in the housing markets," Lemann writes. From Lemann's profile:  "'I'm sorry that light bulbs didn't go off in my head a couple of years before they really did, but there was no question,' [Yellen] told me. 'I was hearing stuff that was scary. And I wouldn't have seen it in the data.' Her business contacts told her that people were trying to give them money to invest without asking questions about what they were going to do with it. The connection she failed to make, however, was between the housing bubble and a full-on economic disaster: 'I absolutely did not see it as something that could take the financial system down.'" Last year, when discussions about who would be next Chair of the Federal Reserve, some questioned Yellen's inability to act on the housing bubble before the financial crisis.  And if she couldn't see that bubble, her critics argued (and still do, of course), how would she be able to see a new asset bubble that might create a similarly devastating financial crisis? Lemann's profile — which is essential reading for Fed watchers and anybody interested in the current economic landscape — puts Yellen in unprecedented intellectual, political, and personal context. Lemann discusses Yellen's influences at length, writing that she is an "unrepentant Keynesian." Broadly speaking, Keynesian economic theory argues that governments, through spending, taxes, and interest rate control, can encourage stable economic growth and prevent crises. (The process of delineating schools of economic thought is extremely tedious and if you think Congress can't agree on anything, economists are worse. Way worse.) Lemann also quotes Yellen as saying, "You can't think about what is happening in the economy constructively, from a policy standpoint, unless you have some theoretical paradigm in mind."  Yellen isn't an elected official, but there is little debate that she is an important and influential political figure, and this candor regarding her intellectual framework is illuminating for anybody seeking insight into how the head of the Federal Reserve operates. The personal details about Yellen are also fascinating: Yellen's brother, John, is the director of the archeology program at the National Science Foundation; her husband, George Akerlof is also an economist and in 2003 said the Bush Administration was, "the worst government the U.S. has ever had."  The entire profile is a great read, both for Yellen supporters and detractors. Yellen is set to speak with lawmakers on Capitol Hill this Tuesday and Wednesday. Read Lemann first.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Economy Ministry building is seen in Buenos AiresNEW YORK (Reuters) - Aurelius Capital Management, one of the lead holdout creditors seeking to settle with Argentina over sovereign debt payments from its 2002 default, said on Monday the government faced a new crisis on July 30 unless it engages in real talks. Argentine officials and the holdout investors met separately with a court-appointed mediator on Friday, emerging from his offices after five hours of discussions, with no resolution and no further talks scheduled. Both sides have ramped up the rhetoric to explain why they are on one level eager to negotiate and on another at pains to show why the other side is not engaging. "Aurelius, together with other pari passu plaintiffs, has done everything it can to negotiate with the government of Argentina, to no avail," Aurelius said in a statement. "Argentine officials refuse to meet with us or even negotiate with us indirectly. Sadly, this approach gambles with the livelihoods and futures of the Argentine people." Friday's meetings were the closest the two sides have come to a face-to-face negotiation, rather than just having their lawyers fight it out before U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in New York. Without a deal, Latin America's No. 3 economy risks tumbling into a new default as it battles a recession, one of the world's highest inflation rates and dwindling foreign reserves. Argentina continues to request a stay, or suspension, of Griesa's judgments while talks continue. That would give the nation more time beyond a July 30 deadline for a coupon payment to bondholders who agreed to two prior restructurings in 2005 and 2010. "On Friday Argentina’s Ministry of the Economy issued yet another statement calling for the pari passu injunction to be stayed," Aurelius said. "This is puzzling, because the District Court refused that stay just last month. "Before that, the injunction had been stayed for nearly 2-1/2 years while Argentina took its appeals.  During that period, Argentina rebuffed countless settlement overtures, even by the appellate court. Argentina has demonstrated itself wholly undeserving of another stay now." Argentine cabinet chief Jorge Capitanich made no mention of the debt talks in his regular briefing on Monday morning. Buenos Aires said in a statement on Friday that it was willing to continue talks but did not specify if it would or when. It has also argued it is being pushed into default by the holdouts. During the World Cup final on Sunday, state-run Argentine television once again screened a fiery, nationalistic advertisement, playing sound bites of Latin American leaders rallying behind the country in its battle against the holdouts. Aurelius said: "Absent a deal, Argentina’s next sovereign debt crisis will start on July 30.  There is still time to avoid that outcome, but only if the Argentine government commences serious discussions with us immediately." Holdout creditors, led by Aurelius and Elliott Management Corp, won a judgment of $1.33 billion plus accrued interest in 2012. (Additional reporting by Sarah Marsh in Buenos Aires; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Vasily FedosenkoThe hunt is on.An anonymous commenter named “Frank” wrote on an article I wrote, “Every time Altucher opens his mouth or posts commentary, he subtracts from the sum total of all human knowledge.” Frank is absolutely right and I congratulate him for recognizing that. I do subtract from the sum total of all human knowledge when I speak. I’m not human. I hunt humans down. I then eat what I kill. Frank is afraid maybe that I’m trying to take too much of the knowledge he spent 40 or 70 years learning. It’s ok, Frank. You can keep your knowledge. I won’t take it from you. You can go home now. We’ve become animals in a zoo and wait for our masters to feed us. Our masters are our bosses, the government, the shareholders of massive corporations, the media that spoon feeds us random doses of fear and greed. The banks that squeeze our genitals when we try to break free. Life only tastes good when you eat what you kill. When you hustle for what you earn and someone pays you money in proportion to the service you’ve offered, the idea you’ve created, your ability to execute on it, and their ability to consume it in a way that benefits them. Someone asked me the other day “what does it mean when you say you ‘eat what you kill’ “. It means the greatest pleasure is going into the jungle and mastering the ability to hunt and survive without the help of masters who only pretend to guarantee our safety. Whether you’re an entrepreneur, an employee, a student, a homemaker, a writer, it’s time to start forgetting about all the ways the world has promised you safety and comfort. Human knowledge has torn apart our families, our bank accounts, and lulled us into a creepy sense of Disney stability. A good friend of mine was just laid off from his job of ten years. He found out through an email and was asked to not come into work for the rest of the week and clean out his desk when security came in on Saturday. All of that human knowledge in an email. Ten years of work. Time to cut costs. “What do I do now?” he asked me. How to Eat What You Kill: - Don’t depend on one boss, buyer for your company, product, service you offer, etc. Diversify everything you can. When I was starting Stockpickr I was trying to start 9 other companies simultaneously plus was running a fund of hedge funds. When I was trying to sell Stockpickr, I was in serious talks with 5 other companies. When I write articles, there’s 5 different sites I write for. When I was broke and about to lose my home, I wrote to over 100 different people to try to build up my network. When I worked at HBO I tried to build value in every department, all the time I was preparing my exit by planning out my first successful startup. - Become an expert. Read every book, blog, website, whatever, about what you want to be an expert in. When I began daytrading for hedge funds I must have read over 100 books on trading and investing and then wrote over 1000 programs testing out different trading models. And I still sucked at trading. I then spent years doing it before I felt I was halfway decent enough to pull consistent money out. And only then hedge funds started hiring me. -  Connect people. If you introduce person A to person B and then person B is able to solve a pain point in his life, then you just made a good connection. Each connection is another string in the tightly woven net you build that will catch you when you fall and throw you to higher heights than you’ve ever experienced before. And you will fall. Don’t think it can’t happen. - Give ideas for free. If you have no network yet then you have to build it. Nobody wants to help you for free. They are all just trying to survive. Even billionaires are trying to protect their luxury-soaked lifestyles plagued by jealousies and oversexed libidos. You have to build your idea muscle and work hard to come up with ideas that can really help these people. Then send them the ideas for free. Not everyone will respond, but the benefits are: - Always work on your exit. No matter where you are: a job, a startup, your startup, writing a column, working at Mcdonalds, always diversify your possible exits and begin immediately working on them. You don’t have to exit tomorrow, but never forget that you can get that email tomorrow that says you have to clean out your desk by Saturday. Build your personal brand, make your boss’s contacts your contacts, make calls, send emails, leave responses on blogs, come up with ideas out of the scope of your job description - Never say a bad word about anyone. Don’t betray anyone. Don’t backstab anyone or step on anyone’s toes. Don’t gossip.This might come into conflict with the idea of “eating what you kill” but backstabbing in order to do it implies you have a “scarcity” mentality. That there isn’t enough out there unless you kill someone else in order to get what you want. Let me tell you something: there’s enough out there for you and me. Your competition is not other people but the time you kill, the ill will you create, the knowledge you neglect to learn, the connections you fail to build, the health you sacrifice along the path, your inability to generate ideas, the people around you who don’t support and love your efforts, and whatever god you curse for your bad luck. Avoid those and you avoid competition. Don’t hurt anyone. - Don’t care what people think.  People will hate you for being a hunter: your bosses, colleagues, partners, investors, extended family. But they don’t have to feed your family. You do. This is how you do it. Once you care what others think, you’ve lost. Then you’ve just set up the same boundaries for yourself that those other people have set up for themselves. They are all smaller than you and live in straitjackets. It’s easy to kill someone in a straitjacket. Don’t be one of those people. -  Create your luck. Luck doesn’t come from god or come magically out of the air. When a runner wins a race by a one-tenth of a second chances are he prepared more, he studied his competition, his diet was that much better, he was better rested, he was mentally fit, etc. Once you’ve checked all the boxes on your preparation, guess what, you’ll be lucky. A lot of people say, for instance, that Mark Cuban became a billionaire by luck. I address that in this post. -  Reward is unrelated to risk. People say, “no risk, no reward.” This is not true. I don’t like to take risks. I have a family to feed. Don’t take risks with your kids. Diversification is not about diversifying your cash investments, it’s about diversifying all the sources of plenty in your life: opportunities, knowledge, friends, networks, investments, risks, health (physical, emotional, mental, spiritual, i.e. the Daily Practice I recommend). To eat what you kill, minimize risk so you don’t die on the hunt. You do that by diversifying every part of your life. The outcome of this is that if you forgot to bring your knife on the hunt, you still have your gun. If you forgot to bring your ideas full force into the game, you still have your network, if you lose on one risk, you still have the nine others. That’s where you get the reward. -  Take responsibility for all failures. It’s your fault when you go hungry. Former world chess champion Mikhail Botvinnik said in his book, “100 selected games” that the only way to reach the highest level of success is to develop the ability to critique your own failures. Note the word, “ONLY” in this. Anecdote: Botvinnik used to train by playing against someone who would blow smoke in his face so as to get accustomed to difficult playing situations. He was the world chess champion for 15 years. (Botvinnik versus future world champion Bobby Fischer in 1962) -  Honesty. If you don’t ask for what you want, chances are you won’t get it. If you don’t say what you believe, you’ll never stand out from the 99% of people out there who hide the truth about themselves and their desires. If you don’t stand up and say or show how special you are, nobody will ever think you are special. Nobody is out there advocating for you. Honesty about what you feel, believe, know, think, want, will make you a multi-dimensional being in a flatland world. - Patience. Most important. A three year old could be honest but it doesn’t mean anything. They still shit in their pants on occasion. You need to grow up. To check all of the boxes on the above items. To do the Daily Practice to stay in mental, physical, emotional, spiritual shape. Toavoid crappy people, to be honest, to take responsibility, and so on. Being a hunter is very discouraging. Sometimes you have to go for stretches of disappointment where there’s nothing to kill and then nothing to eat. To be honest, I’m on a four year stretch. I’m hunting for my next kill and I will get it. During those times its most difficult to keep balanced and stay sane. I’ve talked many people off ledges during these periods, including myself. It’s these times it’s most important to only be around the people who love you, and avoid the damaging people who will bring you to their peculiar and particular circles of hell. You don’t want to go to hell. At the end of the day, patience is the virtue that takes you to heaven. Don’t worry about adding or subtracting to the sum of human knowledge. Human knowledge is never that great. Be better than human. FREE AppDownload
Monday morning Citigroup kicked off earnings season for Wall Street investment banks, and while the bank did beat earnings if you just look at the surface, scratch under and things look uglier. The bank's 2nd quarter profit plunged a massive 96% from this time last year. There are two main reasons for that. First and foremost is the $7 billion fine Citi announced that it will pay on Monday. It's related to mortgage backed securities — aka, the weapons of mass destruction that cause the financial crisis. Thing is, Citi gave income numbers for performance with and without the $7 billion fine, and it makes quite the difference. From the bank's release: "Citigroup's net income declined to $181 million in the second quarter 2014 from $4.2 billion in the prior year period. Excluding CVA/DVA and the impact of the mortgage settlement, Citigroup net income of $3.9 billion increased 1% versus the prior year period driven by lower operating expenses and a decline in credit costs, partially offset by lower revenues." Mortgage settlement? Net income declines majorly. No mortgage settlement? Net income is up 1%. The other reason to think Citi's earnings beat was less than impressive (to say the least) was something Wall Street has been talking about for months. Back in May, Citigroup CFO John Gerspach said Wall Street could see a decline of around 20% in trading revenues. That's about what Citi saw Monday morning. The chart below shows that fixed income and stock trading revenues were both down dramatically. Fixed income revenue was down 22% from Q1, and stock trading revenue was down 25% from the last quarter. Citigroup Citi managed to cut expenses and finally stop hemorrhaging money out of its bad bank — a separate entity filled with toxic assets from the financial crisis called Citi Holdings.  It also said that there was weakness in mortgage origination. That's a trend we'll have to watch for at other banker reporting this week as well. FREE AppDownload
Trading, however, got crushed during the second quarter. On Wall Street, folks have been anticipating weaker trading. Desks at the banks have been quiet due to low volatility and low volume in the market. During the second quarter, Citi saw its fixed income trading fall 12% and equity trading tank by 26%. Here's a breakdown of just how ugly trading was during the quarter:  Markets and Securities Services revenues of $4.1 billion (excluding negative $31 million of CVA/DVA, versus positive $461 million in the second quarter 2013) declined 16% from the prior year period. Fixed Income Markets revenues of $3.0 billion in the second quarter 2014 (excluding negative $36 million of CVA/DVA) declined 12% from the prior year period reflecting historically low volatility and continued macro uncertainty, which led to lower market volumes, as well as the impact of gains in the prior year period. Equity Markets revenues of $659 million(excluding positive $4 million of CVA/DVA) were down 26% versus the prior year period, reflecting lower client activity and weak trading performance in EMEA. Securities Services revenues were roughly flat versus the prior year period as higher client activity was offset by a reduction in high margin deposits. Meanwhile, investment banking activity is up year-over-year.  citi  FREE AppDownload
YouTubeIt's kind of debatable what the "song of the summer" is this year. There's no obvious pop-hit winner like last year's "Get Lucky." But one song you hear over and over again right now is "Turn Down For What," by DJ Snake and Lil Jon, which prominently features Lil Jon screaming "TURN DOWN FOR WHAT!" over and over. Anyway, what you might not have realized is that the song is a perfect metaphor for what's happening in the market these days, at least according to Jefferies market strategist David Zervos. In his note to clients today, Zervos explains the gist of the song, "It's basically a song about keeping the party going, with Lil Jon singing over and over again - "Fire up that loud/Another round of shots". " "Lil Jon is essentially asking, why should we stop the party - why should we "turn down"?," Zervos continues. And well, this is exactly what the bulls are thinking these days. Central banks are being accommodative and there's nothing on the horizon that the party should turn down for. Janet Yellen is still doling out the shots, and in fact, now there are signs that economic growth is becoming self sustaining. And while Lil Jon is responding to haters demanding the party stop, the market has its haters too. These haters are the people who never got into the party, and always had some reason why it had to end. And each time it was ridiculous. Of course we will still have to put up with hater drivel from the other side of the red velvet rope. These folks never entered the club over the last 5 years, or came in briefly and left way too early. They never partook in the Jell-O shots - they just simply "turnt down"...and for what? For a make believe US fiscal policy crisis, a make believe peripheral European crisis, a make believe Chinese trust product crisis, and the list goes on!!! But most importantly these folks "turnt down" because they never believed in the true reflationary power of QE. Instead they consistently looked for some reason for the party to stop in order to justify the fact that they never participated in one of the greatest risk-on raves in history. Sad! Now, says Zervos, the haters are praying for some Portuguese bank collapse or a CPI spike that causes a sudden tightening. But for now, there's just no reason to turn down.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Keith BedfordCitigroup just beat second quarter earning estimates. For the second quarter, the bank reported adjusted EPS of $1.24. According to analysts polled by Bloomberg, the bank was expected to post adjusted EPS of $1.06. Revenue came in at $19.375, which was lower than the first quarter but higher that analysts' expectations. Revenue for Q2 was expected to come in at $18.81 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. This morning, the bank said it agreed to a $7 billion settlement over an investigation related to the firm's mortgage practices. "Despite the significant impact of today’s settlement on our net income, our capital position strengthened to an estimated Tier 1 Common ratio of 10.6% on a Basel III basis, and our tangible book value increased," Citi CEO Michael Corbat said in the release. Also during Q2, the bank reduced its headcount from 149,000 to 145,000. A chart from the bank shows that they would like to be under 145,000 by the fourth quarter of 2014. The stock was last trading up more than 3% in the pre-market. From the release:  Citigroup Reports Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Per Share of $0.03; $1.24 Excluding CVA/DVA1 and Impact of Mortgage Settlement2 NET INCOME OF $181 MILLION; $3.9 BILLION EXCLUDING CVA/DVA AND IMPACT OF MORTGAGE SETTLEMENT REVENUES OF $19.3 BILLION; $19.4 EXCLUDING CVA/DVA NET INTEREST MARGIN INCREASED TO 2.87% VERSUS PRIOR YEAR PERIOD NET CREDIT LOSSES OF $2.2 BILLION DECLINED 16% VERSUS PRIOR YEAR PERIOD UTILIZED APPROXIMATELY $1.1 BILLION OF DEFERRED TAX ASSETS ESTIMATED BASEL III TIER 1 COMMON RATIO OF 10.6%3 ESTIMATED BASEL III SUPPLEMENTARY LEVERAGE RATIO OF 5.7%4 BOOK VALUE PER SHARE INCREASED TO $66.76 TANGIBLE BOOK VALUE PER SHARE5 INCREASED TO $56.89 CITIGROUP DEPOSITS OF $966 BILLION GREW 3% VERSUS PRIOR YEAR PERIOD CITICORP LOANS OF $585 BILLION GREW 8% VERSUS PRIOR YEAR PERIOD CITI HOLDINGS ASSETS OF $111 BILLION DECLINED 15% FROM PRIOR YEAR PERIOD AND REPRESENTED 6% OF TOTAL CITIGROUP ASSETS AT QUARTER END Citigroup Inc. today reported net income for the second quarter 2014 of $181 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, on revenues of $19.3 billion. This compared to net income of $4.2 billion, or $1.34 per diluted share, on revenues of $20.5 billion for the second quarter 2013. Second quarter 2014 results included the impact of a $3.8 billion charge ($3.7 billion after-tax) to settle RMBS and CDO-related claims, which consisted of $3.7 billion in legal expenses and a $55 million loan loss reserve build, each recorded in Citi Holdings. CVA/DVA was negative $33 million (negative $20 million after-tax) in the second quarter 2014, compared to positive $477 million ($293 million after-tax) in the prior year period. Excluding CVA/DVA in both periods, second quarter revenues of $19.4 billion declined 3% from the prior year period. Excluding CVA/DVA and the impact of the mortgage settlement in the second quarter 2014, earnings were $1.24 per diluted share, a 1% decline from prior year earnings of $1.25 per diluted share. Michael Corbat, Chief Executive Officer of Citi, said, “Our businesses showed resilience in the face of an uneven economic environment. During the quarter, we continued to grow loans in our core businesses, reduce operating expenses by simplifying our products and processes and utilize our deferred tax assets. Despite the significant impact of today’s settlement on our net income, our capital position strengthened to an estimated Tier 1 Common ratio of 10.6% on a Basel III basis, and our tangible book value increased.” FREE AppDownload
Goldman SachsGoldman Sachs has finally revised its year-end target for the S&amp;P 500. In a new note to clients, strategist David Kostin writes that he now expects the S&amp;P 500 to end the year at 2,050, up from his previous target of 1,900. That's a modest 4.2% gain from Friday's close of 1,967. "We expect the equity rally will continue, but the trajectory will be shallow," he said. Kostin considers the what stocks tend to do just before the Federal Reserve begins tightening monetary policy. "Domestic economic growth is accelerating, and earnings will continue to rise, but further P/E multiple expansion is unlikely given our and the market’s expectation for a Fed hike within 12 months. The improving macro data prompted our US economists to pull forward their projection for the first hike in the federal funds rate to 3Q 2015 from 1Q 2016." Tighter monetary policy isn't an obvious negative for stocks. "History shows S&amp;P 500 rallies and the P/E multiple expands during the year prior to the start of a tightening cycle," he wrote. "S&amp;P 500 posted an average return of 17% during the 12 months prior to the three previous Fed hikes in 1994, 1999, and 2004. Excluding Tech, the average return was 12% and the median S&amp;P 500 stock rose by 13%." Beyond that, you shouldn't expect too much more for stocks. Kostin reiterated his 2015 year-end target of 2,100 and 2016 year-end target of 2,200. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David GrayArgentina's Gonzalo Higuain collides with Germany's goalkeeper Manuel Neuer (top) during their 2014 World Cup final at the Maracana stadium in Rio de Janeiro July 13, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know. The Latest Tax Inversion Mega-Deal. Dublin-based drugmaker Shire is willing to recommend a $53 billion takeover bid by Chicago-based AbbVie, a move which would allow the U.S. company to take advantage of Ireland's low tax rates. This is the latest in a series of M&amp;A proposals with this controversial "tax inversion" plan at its core. Another Pharma Deal. Abbott Laboratories will sell its non-U.S. developed markets branded generic drug business to Mylan Inc. for $5.3 billion in an all-stock transaction. Europe's Economy Is Stumbling. Euro zone industrial production activity fell by 1.1% in May, reversing a 0.7% gain in April. While this wasn't as bad as the 1.2% decline expected by economists, it nevertheless puts more pressure on the European Central Bank to become more aggressive in its efforts to stimulate the economy and stoke inflation. Citi On Deck. Global banking giant Citi announces its Q2 financial results later this morning. Analysts expect the bank to earn $1.05 per share. Lately, Wall Street has been slammed by weak mortgage demand and slowing trading activity. Also In Citi News. Citigroup will pay $7 billion to end the U.S. Justice Department's probe into the bank's handling of mortgage bonds. Citi expects to see a $3.8 billion pretax charge in Q2. Markets Are Up. Asian markets closed higher overnight with Japan's Nikkei up 0.8% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng up 0.5%. In Europe, Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.7%, France's CAC 40 is up 0.5%, and Germanys DAX is up 0.7%. U.S. futures are up with Dow futures up 54 points and S&amp;P futures up 6 points. Goldman Raises Its Stock Market Target. Goldman Sachs strategist David Kostin just raised his year-end target on the S&amp;P 500 from 1,900 to 2,050. From his note: "US equities soared 42% during the past 18 months but the stellar return borrowed heavily from the future. History shows S&amp;P 500 rallies and the P/E multiple expands during the year prior to the start of a tightening cycle. But after tightening begins, the multiple contracts and the index typically delivers only modest returns. Incorporating our lower 10-year US Treasury yield forecast with other valuation approaches, we lift our year-end 2014 S&amp;P 500 price target to 2050 (from 1900) and 12-month target to 2075, reflecting prospective returns of 4% and 6%, respectively." A China Crash Warning From A Central Bank Head. The Bank of International Settlements' Jaime Caruana sent out a warning via an interview with The Telegraph. When asked about what would happen in the next crisis, Caruana responded: "The ramifications would be particularly serious if China, home to an outsize financial boom, were to falter." From The Telegraph: "BIS officials doubt privately the whether China can avoid a ‘hard landing’, fearing that the extreme credit growth over the last five years must lead to a financial reckoning. They also doubt whether the aftermath will in the end be easier to deal with in a state-controlled banking system where the Communist Party controls the credit levers." Jeff Gundlach Has Advice For Elon Musk. Legendary bond fund manager Jeff Gundlach is bullish on the potential of Tesla's battery business, so much so that he thinks Musk should shift more of his efforts in that direction. Here's Gundlach in an interview with Barry Ritholtz: "I just think that the battery technology that Tesla has developed is so far ahead of everybody else that it could really have broad uses. If I was running GM, or BMW or Ford, I would be open to the idea of just buying the batteries from Tesla ... If I was Elon Musk, I might go to all the other auto companies and say, I'll make you a deal: I'll get out of the car business, but let's set up a long-term deal on you buying my batteries." No Economic Data. There is no major market-moving economic data scheduled for release in the U.S. today. On Tuesday, Fed Chair Janet Yellen will appear before Congress to give her Semiannual Monetary Policy Report. FREE AppDownload
As expected, Citigroup has announced a $7 billion fine and settlement over investigation into pre-crisis mortgage practices. Here's the press release: Citigroup today announced that it has reached an agreement to settle the ongoing investigation of the Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities (RMBS) Working Group, part of the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force. Today’s agreement resolves actual and potential civil claims by the U.S. Department of Justice (the DOJ), several state attorneys general (State AGs), and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the FDIC) relating to RMBS and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) issued, structured or underwritten by Citi between 2003 and 2008. Under the terms of the settlement, Citigroup will pay a total of $4.5 billion in cash and provide $2.5 billion in consumer relief. The cash portion consists of a $4 billion civil monetary payment to the DOJ and $500 million in compensatory payments to the State AGs and the FDIC. The consumer relief will be in the form of financing provided for the construction and preservation of affordable multifamily rental housing, principal reduction and forbearance for residential loans, as well as other direct consumer benefits from various relief programs. Citigroup has agreed to provide the consumer relief by the end of 2018. Michael Corbat, Chief Executive Officer of Citigroup, said, “The comprehensive settlement announced today with the U.S. Department of Justice, state attorneys general, and the FDIC resolves all pending civil investigations related to our legacy RMBS and CDO underwriting, structuring and issuance activities. We also have now resolved substantially all of our legacy RMBS and CDO litigation. We believe that this settlement is in the best interests of our shareholders, and allows us to move forward and to focus on the future, not the past.” In connection with the settlement, Citigroup will take a charge of approximately $3.8 billion pre-tax in the second quarter of 2014. Citigroup will issue its second quarter results via press release at approximately 8 a.m. today. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonCattle cool down and drink water at a man-made reservoir in the mountains near Ignacio, Colorado June 11, 2014. Stocks remain right near all-time highs, and Q2 earnings season is under way. This week, Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen heads to Congress to give her Semiannual Monetary Policy Report. She will address the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday at 10:00 a.m. ET and the House Committee on Financial Services on Wednesday at 10:00 a.m. ET. "Yellen will have little choice but to acknowledge the improvement in the labor market when she testifies next week," said Credit Suisse economists. "With the unemployment rate plunging and with inflation trending higher, some in Congress will press her to explain why exceptionally accommodative monetary policy is still required to reach the Fed’s objectives." Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Story Economic Calendar Market Commentary Cost-cutting has been a major theme since the financial crisis. Leaner cost structures have helped widen profit margins, which have enabled corporations to boost profits despite meager revenue growth. And based on the early commentary from the Q2 earnings announcements, cost-cutting continues. "With earnings growth (4.6%) expected to rise at a faster rate than revenue growth (2.7%) in Q2 and in future quarters, companies (particularly in food-oriented industries) have continued to discuss cost- cutting initiatives to maintain earnings growth rates and profit margins," writes FactSet's John Butters. For more insight about the middle market, visit mid-marketpulse.com. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersVitamins made by Shire are displayed at a chemist's in northwest LondonLONDON (Reuters) - London-listed drugmaker Shire said on Monday it was ready to recommend a new 31 billion pounds ($53 billion) takeover offer from AbbVie, entering talks after receiving a fifth bid from the U.S. firm. Chicago-based AbbVie, which wants to buy Shire to cut its tax bill and diversify its product line-up, made the new offer of 53.20 pounds per share on Sunday following a request from the Dublin-based group for an improvement on the previous approach at 51.15 pounds per share. Reuters had reported on Saturday that Shire, a maker of drugs for rare diseases, had asked AbbVie to sweeten its offer to close to 53 pounds per share, in order for it to recommend the deal. Shares in the group were up 2.7 percent at 50.00 pounds in early trading on Monday. In a statement, Shire said the new bid comprised 24.44 pounds in cash and 0.8960 shares of new AbbVie shares and would result in Shire investors owning around 25 percent of the combined new firm. "The board of Shire has indicated to AbbVie that it would be willing to recommend an offer at the level of the revised proposal to Shire shareholders," it said. "Accordingly, the board is in detailed discussions with AbbVie in relation to these terms." AbbVie is eager to buy Shire both to reduce its U.S. tax bill by moving its tax base to Britain - a tactic known as inversion - and to diversify its drug portfolio. AbbVie currently gets nearly 60 percent of its revenue from rheumatoid arthritis drug Humira, the world's top-selling medicine, which loses U.S. patent protection in late 2016. AbbVie's move on Shire is the second attempt by a U.S. drugmaker to buy a London-listed rival after Pfizer's $118 billion pursuit of AstraZeneca failed last month over price. That deal was also driven in large part by tax savings. Shire, founded in Britain, is headquartered in Dublin but managed from Boston and has most of its sales in the United States, resulting in a minimal business footprint in Britain. As a result, the potential takeover of the company has not created the political storm that accompanied Pfizer's pursuit of AstraZeneca. Shire Chief Executive Flemming Ornskov had said he was happy for the company to be sold at the right price, but like AstraZeneca, he had set out a detailed case as to why it was worth a lot more than AbbVie was originally offering.     (Reporting by Kate Holton, editing by James Davey and Louise Heavens) FREE AppDownload
Rueben Sprich/ReutersMarissa Mayer.NEW YORK (Reuters) - Earnings from some of the biggest U.S. technology companies will take center stage this week, giving investors a chance to re-evaluate the sector's health. Big tech names set to report next week include Intel Corp and Yahoo Inc on Tuesday; eBay Inc on Wednesday and Google Inc on Thursday. The tech sector has the highest projected earnings growth rate among the 10 S&amp;P sectors for the second quarter at 12.3 percent, its best quarter since the first quarter of 2012. This forecast marks a sharp rebound from a drop of 3.2 percent just a year ago, according to a Thomson Reuters poll. Goldman Sachs analysts wrote in a note that the information technology sector "appears to be the most undervalued sector," giving investors more reasons to be bullish on tech stocks. The implied earnings-per-share growth for the tech sector has been 5.4 percentage points above the S&amp;P 500 on average over the past 10 years, but it is now just 1.0 percentage point above the benchmark index, according to the Goldman Sachs note. While the Dow Jones industrial average and the S&amp;P 500 have hit record highs recently, the tech-heavy Nasdaq is still more than 700 points away from its all-time intraday high on March 10, 2000, suggesting to some investors that the sector may have more room to the upside. The tech sector's earnings are "going to certainly be important because the market started to gain momentum as economic data got better," said Quincy Krosby, market strategist at Prudential Financial, which is based inNewark, New Jersey. "We want to hear good solid numbers and if we get that from tech names, it will help." Nine of the 13 sub-industries in the tech sector are expected to report higher earnings than a year ago, withsemiconductors and semiconductor equipment having the highest growth rates within the sector, according to Thomson Reuters data. The Nasdaq is up 5.7 percent for the year, while the semiconductor index is up 20.3 percent. Among the 10 S&amp;P 500 sectors, financials have the worst earnings forecast with a decline of 3.5 percent from a year ago, according to Thomson Reuters data. Nine of the sector's 21 sub-industries are expected to post a drop in earnings. Earnings from some of major banks next week will include JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co and Goldman Sachs Group Inc on Tuesday; Bank of America Corp on Wednesday and Morgan Stanley on Thursday. Analysts are expecting subdued results because a slowdown in revenue from mortgage refinancing and trading is offsetting gains from other areas like investment banking and money management. Higher legal, regulatory and compliance costs are also weighing on results. Wells Fargo &amp; Co on Friday underscored some of those problems as the largest U.S. mortgage lender reported a 39 percent decline in revenue from that business. In addition to keeping a close watch on earnings, Wall Street will also tune in next week to what Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen says when she makes a couple of trips to Capitol Hill. She is scheduled to testify on the U.S. central bank's monetary policy in a semi-annual appearance before the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday and the House Financial Services Committee on Wednesday.  (Reporting by Angela Moon; Editing by Jan Paschal) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA band-conveyor with iron ore for steel production is seen at Europe's largest steel factory of Germany's industrial conglomerate ThyssenKrupp AG in DuisburgBRUSSELS (Reuters) - Euro zone industrial production dropped sharply in May with the energy sector the only one to thrive, data showed on Monday, highlighting the fragile state of the bloc's recovery. Output in the 18 countries sharing the euro dropped 1.1 percent on the month in May, following a 0.7 percent rise in April, the European Union's statistics office Eurostat said. Analysts surveyed by Reuters had expected a 1.2 percent monthly fall in May. Compared with the same period in 2013, factory gate output grew in line with market expectations by 0.5 percent after a 1.4 percent rise in April. The month-on-month decline was led by a 2.4 percent fall in production of intermediate goods - such as parts used for cars. There was a 2.2 percent drop in the production of non-durable items such as food or cosmetics. The energy sector was the only one to grow, showing a 3 percent increase after a 1.2 percent growth in April. Industrial production in the euro zone's three biggest economies - Germany, France and Italy - fell month-on-month. Germany saw the biggest drop since May 2013 with a 1.4 percent fall. France, with a 1.3 percent decline, recorded the steepest fall in production since June 2013 and Italy's production registered its worst performance since November 2012 with a 1.2 percent drop. Germany's faltering economy has cast further doubt over the euro zone's prospects for recovery this year, with no other big country strong enough to pick up the slack. Since late last year the 9.6 trillion euro economy has been climbing steadily out of a two-year recession, but any rebound is being hindered by continued austerity, joblessness and uneasy markets. Investors will look to the July ZEW German survey on economic sentiment on Tuesday to see how great the impact of the crisis in Ukraine has been on confidence in Germany. Mario Draghi, head of the European Central Bank, will speak to lawmakers in the European Parliament later on Monday and may shed light on his thinking.     (Reporting by Martin Santa; editing by John O'Donnell) FREE AppDownload
The Bank of International Settlements, an international finance watchdog that serves as a counter-party for national central banks, has again warned that investors are unprepared for a potential financial crash. Jaime Caruana, head of the BIS, told The Telegraph that he believed the world economy is as vulnerable to crisis now as it was in 2007, because nobody in stocks seems prepared for the idea that at some point soon central banks will begin raising interest rates again. The BIS previously described stocks as "euphoric." Currently, most major central banks — including the Bank of England and the U.S. Federal Reserve — are holding rates at around zero percent. That is boosting stocks, because there is no point in investors keeping their money in savings accounts at such low returns. Thus, an "irrational" bubble is looming again in stocks, Caruana says: Mr Caruana declined to be drawn on when the bubble will burst. "As Keynes said, markets can stay irrational longer than you can stay solvent,” he said. Emerging markets have racked up $2 trillion in foreign currency debt since 2008. They are a much larger animal than they were during the East Asia crisis of the late 1990s, so any crisis would do more damage. “The ramifications would be particularly serious if China, home to an outsize financial boom, were to falter," it said. And that's not even the scary part. Look at China, Caruana says, which has had a private credit boom of its own, also fueled by low interest rates (if interest is low, people tend to get further into debt because the cost of the debt is so low). China is unprepared to shed that debt without pain, BIS sources told The Telegraph: BIS officials doubt privately the whether China can avoid a ‘hard landing’, fearing that the extreme credit growth over the last five years must lead to a financial reckoning. They also doubt whether the aftermath will in the end be easier to deal with in a state-controlled banking system where the Communist Party controls the credit levers. Right on cue, Mohamed El-Erian, the former PIMCO chief and current chief economic adviser to Allianz, wrote an op-ed in the Financial Times that sees the world looking much the same way. Stocks are booming in a way that doesn't reflect the underlying economic fundamentals, he says: ... unusually sluggish economic growth has not harmed stock market performance as much as would have been expected from traditional models; second, that hyperactive central banks have boosted asset prices using experimental measures, not as an end in itself but as a means of stimulating higher economic activity through the “asset channel”. The result has been a notable gap between a buoyant Wall Street and a struggling Main Street. And mergers and acquisitions set a new frothy benchmark, the FT's John Authers says: According to Dealogic, $1.83tn was spent on M&amp;A in the first half of this year, up from $1.3tn in the first half of last year, and the biggest deal volume since the first half of 2007, just ahead of the credit crisis. This is a global phenomenon with cross-border deals, at $626.3bn, up 84 per cent from the first half of 2013. However, M&amp;A still isn't anywhere near where it was in 2000, when it set a record, as a proportion of the entire market. Then, M&amp;A was 10% of the world's market cap. In 2007, it was 6%. Now, it's less than 2%, Authers writes. So the bubble still has some room to grow, maybe ... FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople play in a hall inside Alibaba's headquarters in Hangzhou SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - (This story corrects paragraph seven of May 6 story to reflect Ma's apartment had more than one room) Alibaba gave investors a closer look at the scale and growth of the Chinese e-commerce juggernaut in an initial public offering (IPO) prospectus filed on Tuesday, the first step in what could be the largest technology debut in history. Alibaba Group Holding Ltd, which powers 80 percent of all online commerce in the world's second-largest economy, is expected to raise more than $15 billion, and could top the $16 billion pulled in by Facebook Inc when it listed in 2012. The bulk of the proceeds will go to Yahoo Inc - which bought a 40 percent stake in Alibaba in 2005 for $1 billion and which must sell more than a third of its current 22.6 percent stake through the IPO. Alibaba also plans to sell new shares, people familiar with the plans have said, to bulk up a cash war chest depleted by a rash of recent acquisitions. While the Alibaba brand is less well known in the United States than Internet companies such as Amazon.com and Facebook, the Chinese company's listing has stirred the most excitement in Silicon Valley and Wall Street since Facebook's record IPO. Alibaba will become the largest Chinese corporation to list in the U.S. - on either the New York Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq. Alibaba will debut later this year in a market where high-flying tech stocks like Twitter and Amazon have fallen in recent weeks in a sell-off that has divided analysts and investors, reviving doubts about soaring tech valuations. Still, estimates of Alibaba's market value have soared in recent months, to even beyond $200 billion, underscoring Wall Street's eagerness to take a crack at a massive Chinese company with robust growth. Alibaba handled more than 1.5 trillion yuan - about $248 billion - of transactions for 231 million active users across its three main Chinese online marketplaces in 2013, more than Amazon and eBay Inc combined. It did so with 20,884 full-time workers, fewer than eBay. "If it's able to transport that kind of power to outside China, it has the potential to become a true global e-commerce powerhouse," said Roger Entner, lead analyst and founder of Recon Analytics. "Everybody thought Amazon could do it, but now we have to re-think Amazon in the light of being the most successful company in that field in the U.S. - but not in the world." Alibaba did not give any hints in its IPO prospectus about potential plans for the U.S. e-commerce market. Analysts said it was unlikely Alibaba would adopt the model favored by Amazon, which sells goods directly to consumers using a sprawling network of warehouses. Alibaba, founded 15 years ago in an apartment in Hangzhou and controlled by a 28-member partnership, boasts of building a company that will last "at least 102 years." After the IPO, Alibaba said, the partnership will have the exclusive right to nominate a simple majority of the members of its board of directors. Alibaba operates an online messaging service as well as a cloud computing business, but more than 80 percent of its revenue comes from its Taobao, Tmall and Juhuasuan online marketplaces. Top items sold on Taobao include prepaid phone and game cards as well as lottery tickets, home furniture and baby products, the company said. Total revenue increased 62 percent to 18.75 billion yuan ($3.01 billion) in October-December of 2013 from a year earlier, while net income more than doubled to 8.27 billion yuan, according to the prospectus. Some analysts say Alibaba's rapid pace of revenue growth may be unsustainable. "They got into the e-commerce space when there weren't any other players in China," said Forrester analyst Kelland Willis, adding Alibaba has been "losing market share year over year." By 2020, online retail sales in China will reach $420-$650 billion, as much as the United States, Japanese, UK, German and French markets combined, according to a recent analysis by McKinsey Global Institute. Alibaba said China's mobile Internet arena, where it is battling Tencent Holdings for supremacy, is the next growth industry. China will have an estimated 750 million mobile Internet users by 2017, according to data from China-based consultancy iResearch. Roughly one-fifth of all purchases in the last quarter of 2013 were made on mobile devices, up from 7.4 percent a year earlier. But Alibaba added that for now these sales were less profitable than those made on its website. Already this year, Ma has been involved in acquisitions worth more than $3.5 billion - buying a stake in department store operator Intime; a majority shareholding in movie producer ChinaVision Media; control of online mapping firm Autonavi; a stake in China's Wasu Media Holding Co Ltd for online content and internet TV; and a stake in Youku Tudou Inc, an online video business akin to Google Inc's YouTube. Alibaba is also launching a U.S. e-commerce website, 11 Main, and has taken stakes in U.S. retail site ShopRunner Inc, Lyft, a U.S. ridesharing service, and 1stdibs, an online market place for antiques and luxuries. Also this year, Ma has set up a charitable trust estimated to be worth $3 billion, potentially Asia's biggest, focusing on the environment and health. "It's impossible for me to be a doctor, but I can have my own way to save lives," Xinhua quoted Ma as saying. Some analysts have pointed to a less-than-transparent decision-making process after Alibaba spun off fast-growing Alipay in 2010 - a move that caused consternation at major shareholders Yahoo and Japanese telecoms firm SoftBank Corp. Alibaba's prospectus also laid out a raft of regulatory risks it faces at home. The company stressed that Beijing could impose additional restrictions on the use of Alipay, the payment service that powers the majority of its online transactions. Unlike many prominent U.S. tech IPOs of recent years, Alibaba's list of significant shareholders is short. By contrast, Facebook and Twitter each broke out shareholdings from more than a half dozen individual principal shareholders. Former English schoolteacher and lead founder Jack Ma owns 8.9 percent of Alibaba. Joseph Tsai, a co-founder and executive vice-chairman, is the only other individual with a disclosed shareholding, of 3.6 percent. Yahoo and SoftBank, respectively, own 22.6 percent and 34.4 percent of Alibaba on a fully diluted basis. The proposed IPO of $1 billion in the filing is an estimate for calculating exchange registration fees. Alibaba estimated its fair value as of this month could reach $50 per share, an increase of more than six times from the $8 a share value estimated in June 2011, according to the prospectus. This calculation helps determine employee compensation and does not necessarily represent a likely IPO price. At the most recent fair value estimate, Yahoo's stake in Alibaba is worth $26.2 billion and SoftBank's almost $40 billion. Ma's stake would be worth $10.3 billion. The fair value estimate puts Alibaba's size at $116.1 billion, well below the $152 billion average from 25 analysts in a Reuters survey. While Yahoo and SoftBank may be among the biggest beneficiaries of the IPO, neither will exercise much control of Alibaba. It has already been agreed that Yahoo Chief Development Officer Jacqueline Reses will resign from Alibaba's board upon the listing, while SoftBank will have the right to nominate just a single director to a new, nine-member board. Alibaba's decision to list in the United States was a blow to the Hong Kong stock exchange, which was initially its preferred IPO venue, but the city's regulators balked at any potential violation of the "one-share-one-vote principle." Citigroup, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, J.P. Morgan, and Morgan Stanley will underwrite the Alibaba IPO. (Additional reporting by Gerry Shih, Sarah McBride, Deepa Seetharaman and Nicola Leske in New York and Elzio Barreto in Hong Kong; Writing by Edwin Chan; Editing by Alden Bentley, Andrew Hay and Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachGermany's Bastian Schweinsteiger carries the World Cup trophy. Good morning! Here's what people will be talking about on Monday.  1. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has declined to discuss conversations he had with the U.S. and European Union about brokering a ceasefire in Gaza. An official told Reuters that right now, Israel would continue to pursue its military to offense "to restore quiet over a protracted period by inflicting significant damage to Hamas and the other terrorist groups in the Gaza Strip." 2. Germany won the 2014 World Cup ending the game in to overtime to beat Argentina. Substitute Mario Goetze, 22, scored in the 113th minute. 3. Citigroup is expected announce on Monday the $7 billion it agreed to pay to settle a U.S. Department of Justice investigation into whether it defrauded investors in its mortgage backed securities. Reuters says that $4 billion will go to the DOJ and $2.5 billion will be set aside for relief for mortgage holders. 4. Brazilian news outlets said Monday that the local football confederation has reportedly decided to drop Brazil head coach, Luiz Felipe Scolari, according to the Associated Press. 5. For the first time Chinese prosecutors have indicted a British man and his American wife in connection with the work they did for British drugmaker GlaxoSmithKline. "The couple have been detained for a year after being hired by GSK to look into the secret taping of GSK China head, Mark Reilly, in bed with his Chinese girlfriend," The Financial Times reports.  6. A regular eye test could one day reveal early signs of Alzheimer's disease. "Early stage trials found that a key danger protein could be spotted in the retina and lens," The Times reports.  7. The head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, said in an interview on Saturday that he was "stunned and appalled" by safety operations in the lab, including the mishandling of anthrax, smallpox, and the avian flu. This comes after it was revealed that anthrax was accidentally released at one of the agencies facilities in Atlanta, Georgia, last month. 8. An operation to tow the capsized cruise liner, Costa Concordia, to a scarp yard at the Italian port of Genoa is now underway. The ship was uprighted last September and now water must be pumped out, allowing air in, so that the ship can float. 9. On Monday, Airbus will unveil its re-vamped A330 — a competitor to Boeing's  787 Dreamliner — at the Farnborough Airshow in southern England. The upgraded jet is "powered by Rolls-Royce engines and "offers 14 percent in fuel savings." Reuters says.  10. Nickel-containing electronic devices like iPhones, tablets, and laptops have been linked to an increase allergy-related rashes, described in a number of the recent medical journals. Many people are allergic to nickel, which causes non-life-threatening symptoms, but can be uncomfortable.  And finally... Police in Pamplona, Spain, are searching for a bull runner who allegedly took a "selfie" while inches in front of a charging bull. The man could be fined more than $4,000 as part of new restrictions to make the annual run safer.  FREE AppDownload
