You’ve done your research on the firm you’re applying to. You know your resume up and down. You’re prepared to pepper your interviewer with your strengths, your weaknesses, an example of a time you led a team, an example of a time you had to overcome an obstacle, a detailed description of a DCF model, your view on the current state of the stock market, and your take on the Fed’s current interest rate policy. Perhaps you’ve also prepared to speak about the recent financial crisis and the lessons learned as a result. But what happens when your interviewer goes off-script and asks you an oddball question? Will you be able to rise to the challenge? How do you even prepare for whacky, out of the ordinary interview questions? The short answer is you can’t, really. You simply have to be confident, cool, relaxed, calm, ready for anything and everything to come your way. Remember, interviewers want to know these basis things: if you can work hard, if you have an interest in the financial markets, if you can think through problems efficiently and intelligently, if you can communicate well and work well with colleagues and superiors, if you’d be enjoyable to work with and travel with, and if you can remain calm under pressure (when you’re working long hours and have to juggle several projects at once). That said, below are nearly two dozen actual interview questions that Wall Street firms ask. All of the questions were provided to Vault by investment banking professionals who participated in the 2014 Vault Banking Survey, which closed today. (The results of the survey will be revealed later this summer when we’ll announce our new Banking Rankings, including the latest Vault Banking 50 and Banking Prestige Ranking.) 1. If you could pick one food to eat for the rest of your life, what would you choose and why? 2. If you were a chair, what kind of chair would you be? 3. What inspires you? 4. How would your favorite professor describe you? 5. How many pennies would fit into this room? 6. Pretend you're [our CEO], what three concerns about the firm’s future keep you up at night? 7. Integrity or authority? 8. How would you value the store on the corner? 9. If you had to rate risk, client satisfaction, and accuracy, which would you say is most important and why? 10. What motivates you in life? 11. Say you’re in a log cabin and are preparing to go hunting. You grab your rifle and walk outside. You see a bear and immediately follow in pursuit of it. You travel one mile north, one mile east, and one mile south. You’re back at the log cabin with the bear in your rifle's crosshairs. What color is the bear? 12. What’s your favorite book? 13. What’s the most interesting thing about you that we wouldn’t learn from your resume alone? 14. Tell me something bad about [our firm]? 15. What country would you invest in? Why? Walk me through your analysis. 16. Walk me through how you would build a model to value members of the team. 17. What about your grandma would make it good or bad to lend to her? 18. How would you value this building? 19. How would you calculate the annual revenue of Alabama’s college football program? 20. In a crowded room discussing a problem, would you fit in? Why or why not? 21. What three traits define you? 22. What’s most important in your life? This article originally appeared at Vault.com.  Copyright 2014. Follow Vault.com on Twitter. FREE AppDownload
Alejandro Ernesto/ReutersRussia's President Vladimir Putin hugs Cuba's President Raul Castro.Russian President Vladimir Putin is currently on a grand tour of Latin America. His first stop is in Havana, Cuba. Ahead of arriving in Cuba, Putin decided to bestow a gift upon the Cuban government. With one swift signature, he eliminated $32 billion of Cuba's debt, left over from the Soviet era. Cuba isn't completely off the hook. They will be required to pay back just $3.2 billion over the next ten years, a 90 percent decrease from what they previously owed. The first payment is due in October, and will be made from the National Bank of Cuba to the Russian lender Vnesheconombank. Cuba has been working to restructure its debt over the last few years. In 2011, Cuba was able to restructure a $6 billion debt with China. Other nations have also forgiven their debt. In 2012, Japan forgave $1.4 billion and more recently, Mexico forgave $478 million in debt.  While it may be nice to think Putin was simply showing a kind gesture to the Cuban government in forgiving this debt, it may be motivated by oil. Right now, the Cuban state oil company CUPET and Russia's Rosneft are in negotiations for a very lucrative deal. Russia and Cuba are close allies. Last year, trade between the two countries totaled about $200 million. Cuba has oil reserves of between 4 billion and 20 billion barrels, though likely in the area of 9 billion barrels. With the oil price at $110 per barrel, this deal could bring around $900 billion. This is comparable to the deal Rosneft currently has with Exxon Mobil in the Arctic. As Russia stands to earn $900 billion (perhaps more) from Cuba in oil, forgiving a $32 billion debt may be worth it to push contract negotiations in Russia's favor.  Of course, perhaps it has nothing to do with oil at all, and Putin was just in a rare good mood that day.  FREE AppDownload
J. Scott Applewhite/APCopies of President Barack Obama’s proposed fiscal 2015 budget set out for distribution on Capitol Hill in Washington.The federal government ran on a $71 billion surplus in June, putting the country on track for the lowest deficit since 2008, according to The Associated Press.  For the first nine months of fiscal year 2014 the deficit was $366 billion, 28 percent lower than it was at this point last year.  The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the deficit will be $492 billion, the lowest deficit since 2008's $459 billion ($498 billion counting inflation). Meanwhile, the White House gave a more conservative estimate of a $583 billion deficit, according to the AP. That still puts the deficit down nearly $100 billion from $680 billion last year. If you've been following the ebb and flow of the deficit, you know that last fiscal year was the first time the deficit was as low as its been since 2008, and down from the trillion dollar deficits of every year of Obama's presidency.  In October The Wire laid out how to argue about the decreased based on your political beliefs: Republicans credit the sequester and decreased spending and Democrats credit their policies. The difference is that, so far this year, revenues have increased 8 percent and spending has also gone up 1 percent.  FREE AppDownload
The latest in rail traffic showed continued double digit growth and brought the 12 week moving average in traffic to 7.5%  (via AAR):  Meanwhile, the four week average in jobless claims dipped to a new recovery low of 2.57 million:  &nbsp; We&#8217;re not back to full strength and certainly not operating at full capacity, but given the depth of the recession we&#8217;ve come out of the state of the economy deserves a bit more praise than its getting.  What is the specific significance of rail traffic? Is it correct to assume that rail is normally used to transport large goods like perhaps automobiles etc and therefore does not indicate a mass pickup in the economy but simply a pickup in a relatively small amount of large items? Thanks. One disturbance to this trend is the substantial rise in oil transport by rail in the past decade, which is essentially an increased flow in the rail traffic system.  If you look at the sum of the container and trailer rail ton-miles as a proxy for consumer purchasing then it is lower than in 2006 due to the drop in trailers while containers have increased.  However, as natural resource extraction has the largest job/gdp multiplier we have (which makes sense since you are consuming what amounts to fixed capital) the rise in oil and coal shipments is a positive sign for GDP growth, and the rise in container plus trailer shipments also a positive sign as well. So as a general indicator of changes in GDP freight traffic is a good proxy.  The changes in the total ton-miles, due to carrying coal and oil, are smoother than changes in unemployment or in YoY GDP reports (although as presented here with different metrics that is not so evident.)  We don&#8217;t know what Cullen&#8217;s model is, but unemployment and freight traffic make sense in an econometric forecasting model. Cullen, you need to Google Michael Snyder and read HIS research. Everything coming from the government is smoke and mirrors. Can you say &#8220;Enron&#8221;.? The markets will crash this year. EVERY major indicator which preceded the last few crashes have manifested except the double top in the Dow. Hold your breath. The Crash will come before you have to exhale. &#8220;1) Overall sales in June were down 11% year-over-year and at the lowest for June since 2008. (last year were down -10.8% from previous year, itself down -18.0% from 02011) 2) Cash Sales (frequently investors) were down about 40%, so investor buying appears to be declining. Non-cash sales were up about 6% year-over-year. 3) Active inventory is now increasing rapidly and is up 43% year-over-year &#8211; and at the highest level for June since 2011.&#8221; The jobless claims data ends too soon to tell you about that. When those numbers come out they might look pretty grim. So it&#8217;s worth looking at that. Specifically, it is very easy to create the impression of a growing economy by leveraging a lot and buying lots of unproductive stuff. The question then remains about whether the system is sustainable, i.e. whether the assets provide a return which is higher than the cost of leverage. This is a simplistic description, but it is at the basis of Minsky&#8217;s notion of the different levels of leveraging. If you are in the &#8216;Ponzi&#8217; stage, then it is a problem. Take e.g. unemployment. if unemployment is getting lower because a) fewer people are working (and potentially being a drag on the welfare system) and b) most jobs pay low wages, then this indicator may not be too significant, implying a generally low return on assets.
WikimediaMathias SundinFrom its very inception, Bitcoin was designed as a way for people to give other people money as frictionlessly as possible. And if there’s one group that’s almost always willing to accept other people’s money as frictionlessly as possible it’s politicians. While a number of politicians from around the world have embraced Bitcoin, none have done it as wholeheartedly as Mathias Sundin. Sundin is running as a "liberal centre-right party" Folkpartiet party candidate for a seat in Parliament representing the southern Swedish county of Östergötland. But if you want to toss him a few kronor, you’re out of luck: Sundin is only accepting Bitcoin. <U+201F>The world is getting connected in an unprecedented way,” Sundin wrote in an email to the Daily Dot. “Bitcoin is a symbol of this development, and could also play a huge part in changing how the world works. To promote the spreading of Bitcoin and increase the awareness of how the world is getting connected and the new political challenges this brings I have decided to only accept Bitcoin.” The 36-year-old deputy mayor of Norrkoping, who has previously served in parliament, insists that one of his major goals with the move is to show politicians and regulators, both in Sweden and around the world, that Bitcoin isn’t something to be feared. <U+201F>At first, I only saw the negative headlines about Bitcoin and thought it was some sort of unserious speculation bubble,” he explained. <U+201F>Then I read up on it and understood that it has the potential to change the world. And when I realized I could order pizza and pay in Bitcoin, then I was all for it!” Opinions on digital currency by Swedish authorities have been mixed. Last year, Sweden’s central bank issued a warning about the risks associated with virtual currencies and stated that they are <U+201F>not to be regarded as alternatives to national currencies." Yet, a few months later, the same body issued a report acknowledging the effect of virtual currencies was "essentially positive" for the Swedish economy. While virtual currencies are relatively easy to transfer from one party to another, they also allow those parties to transact without necessarily revealing their identities. When it comes to politics, this can be tricky—effectively anonymous political donations aren’t exactly the hallmark of a healthy, transparent political system. Sundin isn’t requiring that his Bitcoin donors reveal their identities, which is legal under Swedish campaign finance law as long as each donor gives less than 4.7 bitcoins, or approximately 20,000 Swedish Krona (~$3,000 U.S.). Sundin said that, as far as he is aware, he is the first political candidate in Sweden to even accept Bitcoin donations, let alone accept them exclusively. In the United States, a pair of Texas politicians—Rep. Steve Stockman and state Attorney General Greg Abbott—made waves when they started accepting Bitcoin. (No major political candidate, even Sundin himself, has accepted Dogecoin donations.) Sundin believes that the majority of the Bitcoin donations he has received so far have come from outside the United States. <U+201F>I hope that Bitcoin community around the world will take this chance to show how strong it is,” he noted. <U+201F>If I get well funded, other candidates in other countries will do the same, which could be very important in the future.” FREE AppDownload
One of the biggest financial advantages out there is something anyone can access by opening a simple retirement account: compound interest. Retirement accounts such as 401(k)s and Roth IRAs aren't just savings accounts — they're actively invested, and therefore have the potential to make the most of this benefit. As Business Insider's Sam Ro explains, "Compound interest occurs when the interest that accrues to an amount of money in turn accrues interest itself." So why is that so important? The charts below will show you the incredible impact compound interest has on your savings and why starting to save in your 20s is one of the best things you can do. The chart below from JP Morgan shows how one saver (Susan) who invests for only 10 years early in her career, ends up with more wealth than another saver (Bill), who saves for 30 years later in life. By starting early, Susan was able to better take advantage of compound interest. Chris, the third saver profiled, is the ideal: He contributed steadily for his entire career. JP Morgan Funds This chart by Business Insider's Andy Kiersz also emphasizes the impact of compound interest, and the importance of starting early. Saver Emily, represented by the blue line, starts saving the exact same amount as Dave (the red line), but begins 10 years earlier. Ultimately, she contributes around 33% more than Dave over the course of her career, but ends up with almost twice as much wealth as he does. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz Compound interest can get you pretty far. In fact, Business Insider calculated — based on your current age and a 6% return rate — how much you need to be saving per month in order to reach $1 million by age 65. You can also see the calculations based on different rates of return. Business Insider/Andy Kiersz FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsATLANTIC CITY, N.J. (AP) — Atlantic City's crumbling casino market disintegrated even further Saturday as the owners of the Trump Plaza casino said they expect to shut down in mid-September. Trump Entertainment Resorts told The Associated Press that no final decision has been made on the Boardwalk casino. But the company said it expects the casino to close its doors Sept. 16. Notices warning employees of the expected closing will go out to the casino's 1,000-plus employees Monday. If Trump Plaza closes, Atlantic City could lose a third of its casinos and a quarter of its casino workforce in less than nine months. The Atlantic Club closed in January, the Showboat is closing next month and Revel might do likewise if a buyer can't be found in bankruptcy court. Trump Entertainment Resorts told the AP that its managers and board of directors "have been reviewing alternatives for the property. Although this review has not been completed and no final decision has been made, the company expects that it will terminate the operations of Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino on or shortly after September 16, 2014." A source with direct knowledge of the situation who was not authorized to speak to the media told the AP that the company has hired a search firm to solicit buyers for Trump Plaza, an effort that remains ongoing. So far, no buyer has emerged. The company did not indicate what might become of the building after it is closed. Trump Plaza, which cost $210 million to build, opened in May 1984 as one of Donald Trump's pet projects. The real estate mogul has since limited his dealings in Atlantic City to a 10 percent stake in Trump Entertainment Resorts and does not control its day-to-day operations. The news is the latest in a cascade of setbacks for Atlantic City's gambling market, which until just a few years ago was the second-largest in the nation after Nevada; Pennsylvania has now taken over that spot. Analysts have long said that the casino market here, and in the Northeastern United States, has been oversaturated, and that some casinos need to close to ensure the survival of others. That's what is behind the decision by Caesars Entertainment, the world's largest casino company, to shutter the still-profitable Showboat next month. CEO Gary Loveman said Atlantic City has too many casinos. The company will still operate three other Atlantic City casinos. Caesars also joined with Tropicana Entertainment to buy the Atlantic Club from bankruptcy court last December, divide its assets and shut it down. On Jan. 1, Atlantic City had 12 casinos. By the end of September, it could have eight. The Atlantic Club closure cost 1,600 workers their jobs. An additional 2,100 at Showboat will be unemployed as of Aug. 31, in addition to the 1,009 Trump Plaza workers on the payroll. Revel has 3,100 workers who could lose their jobs if the 2-year-old casino resort is not sold. Trump Entertainment Resorts has tried for years to sell Trump Plaza, the poorest performing casino in Atlantic City despite its prime location at the center of the Boardwalk at the end of the Atlantic City Expressway, the resort's main gateway into the city. A deal to sell it last year for $20 million to a California firm fell through. It won less than $73 million from gamblers in all of last year, ranking last out of the 12 casinos that operated then. So far this year it has taken in nearly $21 million, down almost 27 percent from the same period last year. The company had three Atlantic City casinos before it sold Trump Marina to Texas-based Landry's Inc. which turned it into the Golden Nugget Atlantic City in 2011. Trump Entertainment will now operate just one casino, the Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort. ___ Wayne Parry can be reached at http://twitter.com/WayneParryAC Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
Alcohol is one of the most dangerous substances on the planet. Someone dies from alcohol use every ten seconds, and one night of binge drinking can take a huge toll on your immune system. Dr. Samuel Ball of the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University (CASAColumbia) reveals the myriad effects alcohol has on your brain and body. Produced by Will Wei Follow BI Video on Facebook &gt;
REUTERS/Toru HanaiA man reaches for a can of Japan's Asahi Breweries Super Dry beer at a liquor shop in Tokyo August 18, 2011.Growth in the emerging markets has slowed down recently as growth in the developed markets have picked up. Nevertheless, growth in the emerging markets is still higher, and they present attractive investing opportunities. Citi analysts recently published a massive report highlighting the best global companies capitalizing in these markets. "We expect that many of our companies will still be able to generate stronger rates of top line growth in emerging markets when compared to developed markets owing to (i) relatively strong economic growth in these countries, (ii) increasing per capita penetration / usage of consumer staples products by consumers in these markets and (iii) broadening geographic distribution of branded consumer staples products within these regions." In their report, Citi analysts have complied a list of their favorite companies for outsized growth in emerging markets. Click on the slide show to see the list. FREE AppDownload
Facebook/CrumbsCrumbs Bake Shop — the world's largest cupcake company — is officially closing all of its stores as of Monday night, the Wall Street Journal reported.  Upon hearing the news, a Brooklyn-based Crumbs manager told the Wall Street Journal, "I come into work today, I'm happy, I'm skipping to work, and suddenly I don't have a job."  The news came just a few days after Crumbs was delisted from NASDAQ. The once-hot bakery catapulted to fame thanks to a cupcake craze that swept across the U.S. in the early 2000s. Shortly after going public in 2011, however, Crumbs began losing money.  FREE AppDownload
Yesterday we wrote about the strange case of CYNK Technology. The company's stock gained nearly 25,000% in 16 trading days, giving it a market cap of over $5 billion. But, as we noted, it's not clear if the company really exists, as financial statements indicate that it has no revenue, assets, or full-time employees. But there is a website, IntroBiz.com, that the company operates, not that this makes the picture much clearer. CYNK Technology appears to operate the website IntroBiz.com, a social network (the site calls it a "social marketplace"), where users pay to be introduced to business professionals or celebrities. Or at least, this is what it seems like the site does. Here's the homepage. introbiz.com Here's what you find under the "entertainment" tab on IntroBiz. IntroBiz.com Chances seem low that you'd be able to get connected with Emma Watson, or Charlize Theron, or Leonardo DiCaprio for $50, via IntroBiz or otherwise. The ability to connect with these celebrities is marketed by artistblackbook, one of two "top socialites" on IntroBiz.com. IntroBiz.com artistblackbook and worldtalent appear to be the only two "socialites" on IntroBiz. But the numbers don't make a ton of sense. We're not exactly sure what the difference between an "introduction" and a "sale" is, but since the company hasn't reported any revenue apparently neither makes the company any money. But neither artistblackbook nor worldtalent has any followers. IntroBiz.com Under the "business professionals" tab, you can buy connections to professionals in different areas, like consulting, motivational speaking, and fitness. IntroBiz.com And the individual pages for some of these people are quite interesting. "Harvey Bird: The Fitness Guru," for example, says to prospective customers: "I am experienced in sculpting the body." Harvey Bird's offer, which seems basically like some health and fitness consulting (though only a diet plan, not a fitness one, is marketed) also has a great deal for members who pay from their IntroBiz account: $5 off a $1,500 offer. IntroBiz.com The most expensive service on the site appears to be storytelling. For $5000, John Sterd offers to help clients tell their "story" (quotes his) and "engage people." This package has apparently been purchase 23 times, and after 11 votes has a five-star rating. It is also a worldtalent product. IntroBiz.com As of 10:30 a.m. ET, shares of CYNK Technology were trading at nearly $16, up nearly 8% from yesterday. It remains to be seen how the stock story — which at this point is certainly divorced from any business plans the company has — plays out. IntroBiz indicates that there has some buying and selling going on, but it appears this hasn't resulted in any revenues for CYNK Technology. Eventually, something's got to give.   FREE AppDownload
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) has a comprehensive new ranking of 30 cities in the world that offer the widest opportunities for businesses and the people who live there. PwC's sixth edition of its "Cities of Opportunity" report examined intellectual capital and innovation; technology readiness; how accessible a city is to the rest of the world; transportation and infrastructure; health, safety, and security; sustainability and the natural environment; demographics and livability; economic clout; ease of doing business; and cost. We took a closer look at the top 11 cities on the list, what got them there, and where they have room to improve. Sean Pavone / ShutterstockThis artistic hub in Germany scored particularly high for public transport and health, safety, and security. Berlin — Germany's largest city — tied for No. 3 for sustainability and the natural environment. It ranks No. 4 for demographics and livability. Anybody who's ever visited Berlin knows that the massive underground transit, known as the U-Bahn, is unbelievably clean and efficient. Berlin is a safe place for tourists, who can take in the city's vibrant art scene. More and more businesses are attracted to Berlin these days. Just last year, The New York Times reported that the city was having a "coming-of-age moment." From The Times: As it attempts to evolve from a city that relies heavily on government support to one with sustainable industries, companies like Google and Etsy have opened up offices, joining technology startups like SoundCloud and ResearchGate, giving credit to the hype that Berlin is becoming a contender for Europe’s Silicon Valley. The PwC report noted that Berlin had risen to No. 12 from No. 16 in its last report for technology readiness, "confirming its steadily rising reputation as a high-tech hub in Europe." Flickr/chicagogeekThe Windy City of nearly 3 million people is one of the biggest cities in America, and it earned high marks in the PwC study for cost, quality of life, and air quality. The city made the top 10 for ease of doing business, which means big corporations are attracted to the Midwestern metropolis. Indeed, there are nearly 30 Fortune 500 companies in the Chicago area, including the massive aircraft company Boeing. Chicago has a lot to offer culturally, and it appears to have rebounded from a particularly bloody crime wave in the summer of 2012. Earlier this year, The New York Times published a 36-hour guide for Chicago visitors. "As the temperatures fall, the city changes from a playground to a cultural promised land — a place of fine and varied food, inventive theater and one of the country’s great live music scenes," The Times reported. Unfortunately, the Windy City fell out of the top 10 in transportation and infrastructure. It's not entirely clear from the report why Chicago fared poorly in transportation, but last year the city had a disastrous rollout of a new fare-card system for the Chicago Transit Authority system of trains and buses. As for infrastructure, Chicago pledged in 2012 to invest billions to fix its crumbling underground water pipes, school buildings, and city buildings. Of course, big projects like that take time. REUTERS/Jeremy PiperSydney’s benefits are obvious: incredible weather, an abundance of beautiful beaches, and Australia’s favorable “work-life balance.” It consistently ranks highly in safety, friendliness, and quality of living surveys. In PwC's rankings, Sydney hit No. 1 for both sustainability and livability. As the financial, manufacturing, and cultural hub of Australia, Sydney has a strong, thriving economy and plenty of business opportunities. However, housing prices and the cost of living are, like all of Australia, high. For reference, rent for a one-bedroom in Sydney costs about $2,100 a month, while a pair of Levi's jeans will run you $100.  Regular daily expenses are 16% more expensive than the world average, making it the 12th most expensive city in the world. Christopher LanceDespite the incredible population density of Hong Kong, the city-state ranks high for quality of life and has the fifth-highest life expectancy in the world. The city has an exceptional public transportation system, with over 90% of daily travels occurring on public transport. The Index of Economic Freedom has ranked Hong Kong's economy as No. 1, in part because of its low taxes and sophisticated international financial market. Indeed, PwC rated Hong Kong No. 2 for ease of doing business. Hong Kong’s biggest problems are, unsurprisingly, pollution and air quality, which have gotten significantly worse in the past 20 years. Peter AdermarkStockholm is one of the fastest-growing cities in Europe with both its population and new businesses ballooning over the past 15 years. One of the city’s biggest innovations was creating a publicly owned broadband network in the mid-'90s, which has developed the booming tech industry that has spawned Spotify and DICE Games. "We have a very interesting mix of life science companies, information, and communications-technology companies, clean-tech companies, and the entertainment industries," Stockholm's vice mayor for innovation, Ulla Hamilton, told PwC. "That creates an innovative climate."  The city is exceptionally green. Sustainability has been a heavy focus of the city for more than 60 years, as it has worked to develop public transportation, clean water, and a heating district system that keeps pollution out of the environment. Immigration has become one of Stockholm’s — and Sweden’s — biggest challenges, as the influx of asylum-seekers over the past decade has coincided with a rise in crime. James WhitesmithParis is highly regarded for its libraries, respected universities, and high rates of literacy and education, ranking No. 1 in PwC’s rankings of Intellectual Capital and Innovation. Public transportation in the city is exceptional with 14 metro lines, a network of regional trains that connect the city to the suburbs, and express lanes exclusively for buses. While it's certainly an interesting place to live — full of the world's best museums — obscenely expensive housing, poor car traffic, and record unemployment have dragged down the city in recent years. Flickr/Jitze CouperusNot surprisingly, the heart of Silicon Valley was one of the top three cities for intellectual capital and innovation. San Francisco — population 825,000, compared to 8 million in New York City — is an example of a small city with outsize economic influence, according to the PwC report. Some of the world's biggest companies are based in and around San Francisco, and big companies like Google have major outposts there.  While the city got a relatively good ranking for cost (No. 6), the city is getting more expensive. As a result, families there are fleeing for the suburbs, the PwC report notes. "[I]n places like San Francisco, Seattle, and Berlin, families are deserting the city," the report says. "As cities become more expensive and apartments smaller, the suburbs start looking better." ValeStock / Shutterstock.comDespite Toronto's crack-smoking mayor, it has a reputation for providing an excellent quality of life. In the PwC report, the Canadian city made the top three for health, safety, and security and transportation, and infrastructure; it was ranked No. 4 for ease of doing business. The city is considered one of the safest in North America, and it ranked No. 1 in the PwC report for public transport systems. However, it ranked No. 13 for traffic congestion and No. 12 for ease of commute. "Toronto’s rankings in these two variables also reflect the city’s current reality, in which the lack of a fully integrated regional transportation system is one of the leading challenges for Toronto," the PwC report stated. Patrick Bingham-Hall/WOHAThis sovereign city-state ranked in the top three for city gateway, transportation and infrastructure, and ease of doing business. Singapore made big advances in this year's edition of PwC's "Cities of Opportunity," going up four spots to third place and dominating transportation and infrastructure. As the Lonely Planet travel guide notes, "Singapore has fantastic public transport, with a tangled web of bus and train (MRT) routes taking you to the doorsteps of most sights." It's also possible to island-hop near Singapore by taking one of the city's many ferries. Singapore established superior infrastructure and transportation when it was a British colony prior to 1963, according to the Encyclopedia of the Nations. In the '70s and '80s, the city-state reacted to increased traffic problems by investing heavily in its mass transit system. While Singapore falls out of the top 10 in sustainability and the natural environment, it may do better on that front in the next PwC report. Just last month, The New York Times reported on a massive new green park in the middle of the city known as the Green Corridor. The park was inspired by New York's High Line, but it's much bigger at 15 miles long. Shutterstock.com / upthebannerWhile New York City didn't finish first in any of the indicator categories, it finished strongly across the board, according to the PwC ranking. The Big Apple was the second-most-desired city for relocation (right after London), and it was in the top three for "ease of doing business" and for "economic clout." New York City is home of the two biggest stock exchanges in the world, the New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ, and it's a hub for a variety of industries, from finance to fashion to publishing to technology. The city isn't the easiest place to live or even visit, though. The Big Apple ranked 16th for transportation and infrastructure. The PwC reported cited the city's rising costs of public transportation (specifically, the MTA) and the difficulty of getting taxis. New York has a higher cost of living than other cities in the survey, such as Los Angeles, Chicago, and Beijing. Just last month, CNN reported it was the third-most-expensive city in the world to rent an apartment. Dan Kitwood / GettyLondon — the world's hottest city — finished first in technology readiness, city gateway, and economic clout. It jumped from the eighth spot for technology readiness in PwC's last report to No. 1 this time, in part because it provides internet access in many schools. The British capital is developing its tech sector, particularly in health technology. The British city's six international airports probably helped it ascend to the top ranking for city gateway. You can even hop on the high-speed Eurostar train and get from Paris to London in a couple of hours. As the PwC report notes, "More than ever, most roads (and flights) lead to London." England has been creating wealth for its citizens, and the world, for hundreds of years, the PwC report notes. Some citizens have more wealth than others, of course. Earlier this month, a new study of the world's wealthiest people found London had more billionaires than any other city. For people who aren't billionaires, London might be a tough place to live, as it ranked 15th in cost, which includes cost of living and cost of business occupancy. Just Tuesday, the radio show "Marketplace" asked whether London was becoming too expensive for poor Londoners. The program noted that more foreign investors are buying up luxury apartments there. “We’re the minority of London now,” one single mother told the show. “Londoners don't live in London anymore." FREE AppDownload
Learn one of the most contested rules in soccer. Produced by Justin Gmoser. Narrated by Mamta Badkar. Follow BI Video on Facebook &gt;
Our mobile devices come with us everywhere. We can't get enough of them, and a dead battery can be somewhat of a catastrophe. We are so obsessed in fact, that when you break down the numbers, it's actually kind of scary. Learn what we are actually doing on these things... Produced by Justin Gmoser.  Follow BI Video on Facebook &gt;
BAML America's household mobility rate, the percent of the population that moves into new home in a year, has been falling since the mid-1980s.  A key driver of this trend has been the rise of homeownership in the 1990s. Homeowners are less like to move than renters. It's much more expensive for homeowners to move because of broker fees, transaction costs, mortgage fees, insurance and so on, according to Bank of America's Michelle Meyer. This trend has been unfavorable for the housing market, which in turn has been a drag on GDP. In the short-run household mobility is projected to rise, according to Meyer, because of the decline in homeownership following the financial crisis, and the recent rise in home prices.  In the longer-run however an aging population and the end of ultra-low mortgage rates will curb household mobility. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersNewport and Camel cigarettes are stacked on a shelf inside a tobacco store in New YorkNEW YORK (Reuters) - The enduring popularity of menthol may be a big motivator behind Reynolds American Inc's &lt;RAI.N&gt; interest in buying smaller rival Lorillard Inc &lt;LO.N&gt;, which has the best-selling U.S. cigarette brand with the additive. While potential cost savings from economies of scale in a declining industry may be the main driver for the multi-billion-dollar deal, Lorillard's leading U.S. menthol cigarette Newport is another key draw. Menthol cigarettes have roughly a 28 percent market share in the United States, according to market research firm Euromonitor International. Experts say the mint-flavored additive enjoys disproportionate popularity among minorities, especially African-Americans, and young people. Reynolds is in talks to acquire Lorillard, which has a market capitalization of $22.9 billion, in a deal that would reshape one of the world's most profitable tobacco markets. Adding Newport to its product lineup would allow Reynolds, maker of Camel cigarettes, to broaden its reach among minority and younger smokers. Menthol may reduce the irritation and harshness of smoking when used in cigarettes, according to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The category is declining but at a slower rate than nonmenthol cigarettes. According to a report by Cowen &amp; Co., menthol sales volumes have fallen at 2 percent annually for the last 10 years compared to a 4 percent decline for nonmenthol cigarettes. Still, menthols face risks as the FDA considers restrictions on the substance, which is regulated in medical products but not in cigarettes. The agency last year released a preliminary review that said that a majority of African-American smokers use menthol cigarettes. Menthols were also associated with lower socioeconomic status, according to the FDA review of available studies. Those studies showed that menthol in cigarettes was likely associated with reduced success in quitting smoking, especially among African-Americans, the review said. The agency declined to comment Friday on the timing of any possible regulatory actions. A separate study conducted by Stanford University School of Medicine researchers in 2011 found that there were more ads for menthol cigarettes at licensed tobacco retailers near high schools with a greater proportion of African-American students. A ban on menthol cigarettes would "eliminate concomitant advertising that targets young people and some racial and ethnic groups," said Lisa Henriksen, senior research analyst at the Stanford Prevention Research Center. She added that tobacco companies have been targeting African-Americans with advertising for menthol cigarettes since the 1960s. Lorillard and Reynolds did not return phone calls requesting comment. Lorillard says on its site that the company "believes that the best available scientific evidence does not show that menthol cigarettes are more harmful than non-menthol cigarettes and that Americans have a right to make a personal choice to use any legal product." In a response to the FDA review last year, the company disputed that its marketing was disproportionately aimed at minorities. "For adults who choose to smoke, Lorillard's marketing seeks to persuade those smokers to choose a Lorillard brand," the company said. Roughly 85 percent of Lorillard's $6.9 billion in sales last year came from the Newport brand. The acquisition talks indicate that both companies view the regulatory risk from FDA as lower today than it was a year ago, said Vivien Azer, director and senior research analyst at Cowen &amp; Co. "We do not expect an outright ban but would not be surprised to see incremental regulation down the road," she added. Still, big bets on menthol may produce limited returns in the long run. While menthol cigarettes are outperforming nonmenthol cigarettes, the gap has narrowed in the last three years because of a decline in overall African-American per capita use of cigarettes, Azer said. Lorillard's shares closed Friday at $66.01, up 4.6 percent.   (Reporting by Anjali Athavaley; Editing by Christian Plumb and Prudence Crowther) FREE AppDownload
It's really hard for a middle class family to buy a house along the California coast. Real estate research and marketplace site Zillow routinely calculates an index of housing affordability. First, they use a proprietary statistical model to estimate housing values in a metropolitan area. Then, they calculate the monthly mortgage payment for a median price house in each metro area. Finally, they calculate the percentage of the median monthly income for each metro area needed to pay that mortgage payment. For example, Zillow's estimate for the median home price in Abilene, TX during the first quarter of 2014 was $98,600. After a 20% down payment, a homebuyer would need to take out a $78,880 mortgage. Assuming a 30 year fixed rate mortgage at a 4.3% annual interest rate, this would lead to a monthly payment of about $390, which we calculated using Bankrate's mortgage calculator.  Zillow's estimate for the median annual income in Abilene is $43,058, or a monthly income of about $3,588. Finally, by dividing, we see that the $390 mortgage payment is about 11% of that monthly income. Here's a map showing Zillow's Q1 2014 housing affordability estimates in 285 of the nation's largest metropolitan areas. Darker regions indicate larger proportions of a median income needed to pay a mortgage on a median value house. The four California cities in which a median mortgage payment is at least 40% of a median income are also indicated by name: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Zillow The ten least affordable metro areas are all in California. This table shows the percent of median income needed to pay a mortgage on a median house for the ten least affordable areas: Zillow Meanwhile, houses in some Midwestern and Southern cities are very affordable. Here are the cities where a median mortgage payment costs less than ten percent of a median income: Business Insider, data from Zillow Zillow's research blog includes an interactive infographic, breaking down housing and rental affordability across the country.
Sober LookAs vehicles become more fuel efficient, the savings one obtains by further improving the mileage decline substantially. As an example, assume a driver saves $700 per year by switching from a 12 mile/gallon car to a 15 mile/gallon one. Now if that same driver has a car that gets 30 miles/gallon, she would need to switch to a 60 mile/gallon car in order to achieve the same $700 savings. In fact the incremental savings for each additional mile/gallon declines as the inverse square of a car's fuel efficiency. This does not bode well for the future of alternative fuel automobiles. Saving $700 a year, as the example below shows, may not be worth paying additional few thousand dollars for a car that may be less convenient to "fill up". Furthermore, as traditional gasoline cars become more fuel efficient, the savings associated with switching fall off sharply. In another few years, unless gasoline prices shoot through the roof (which is not likely), alternative fuel cars (such as electric) will increasingly be more of a "luxury" item rather than a money saving form of transportation. It's just basic math. EIA: - As light-duty vehicle fuel economy continues to increase because of more stringent future greenhouse gas emission and Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards through model year 2025, standard gasoline vehicles are expected to achieve compliance fuel economy levels of around 50 mpg for passenger cars and around 40 mpg for light-duty trucks. Diminishing returns to improved fuel economy make standard gasoline vehicles a highly fuel-efficient competitor relative to other vehicle fuel types such as diesels, hybrids, and plug-in vehicles, especially given the relatively higher vehicle prices projected for these other vehicle types. Sober Look FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/NASA/JPL-Caltech/HandouThere were nearly 2 million new high net worth individuals (HNWI) in 2013. But the changing global landscape makes it more complicated for both affluent and mass affluent investors.  US Trust put out a report titled 101 Things Every Investor Should Know About The Global Economy earlier this year. Inspired by the report, we drew on some key global themes in terms of investment, trade, output, competitiveness and asset performance to pull together 27 key themes for investors. We look at the importance of foreign direct investment, growing sovereign wealth funds, disruptive technologies, and total returns that investors should keep an eye on. These themes can help guide investors in seeking out opportunities, both geographically and in terms of asset class. Note: The charts are not taken from US Trust. FREE AppDownload
