The official cessation of discussions to merge two of the tech industry's largest enterprise-oriented firms may come as a disappointment to activist investors Elliott Management, which has pushed hard for storage products maker EMC to pursue merger or spinoff opportunities. Pressure is building on EMC as rival technology companies, such as eBay Inc and Symantec, begin spinning off operations in an attempt to unlock shareholder value, become more agile, and capitalize on faster-growing businesses. It is unclear when talks ended following months-long discussions, the people said on condition of anonymity because the talks were private. Executives from the two companies were still trying to hammer out a deal as recently as last week, but talks bogged down on price and are now dead, the people said. HP has temporarily suspended its stock buyback program ahead of its Nov. 25 earnings because the company said it is in possession of material non-public information. When pressed by stock analysts, Chief Financial Officer Cathie Lesjak noted on a conference call that the non-public information pertains to a possible acquisition. HP and EMC declined to comment on Tuesday. It is also unclear what specifically was discussed. A straight-up merger of the two companies would have created one of the industry's largest providers of data storage, and created a computing giant with deep penetration in the business of providing computing hardware and services to corporations. Elliot Management, which owns 2.2 percent of EMC, has been vocal about wanting EMC to merge or spin off some of its assets, such as software subsidiary VMWare. But EMC has publicly said it plans to keep its company together. HP is now engaged in a breakup of its own, which analysts say should discourage merger thoughts. HP has said it will split into Hewlett-Packard Enterprises, a tech infrastructure, software and services business, and HP Inc, a leading player in the slow-growing PC and printer markets.   (Editing by Paritosh Bansal, Edwin Chan and Lisa Shumaker) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michaela RehleTester Niklas Thiel with an EEG cap, which measures brain activity, at the Technische Universitaet Muenchen in Garching near Munich.It's no secret that the world is rapidly changing. "Twenty years ago, there were fewer than 3 million people with Internet access; now there are nearly 2.5 billion. Mice can grow human ears. Robots make cars. Guns can be manufactured with a 3-D printer," Citi's Andrew Pitt writes. For investors, it's important to understand how all these changes are going to shake up the global order in the coming decades. Pitt led a team of Citi Research analysts and Oxford University contributors teamed up to analyze the impact of six global mega-trends in a new 92-page report to clients. "We live in a turbulent world. Knowledge will help you ride the winds and avoid the storm," Pitt writes in the report. We present the key points here. FREE AppDownload
Credit Suisse released a huge report on the distribution of global wealth. Among lots of other interesting results, like that the social democracies of Scandinavia are less equal than much of the rest of Europe, the 2014 "Global Wealth Report" includes data on the share of national wealth owned by the top 10% of the populations of a number of countries. Here's the percentage share of wealth owned by the top 10% in the countries included in Credit Suisse's study: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Credit Suisse Russia's top 10% owns an incredible 84.8% of that country's wealth. On the opposite end of the scale, only two countries' top 10% own less than half of national wealth: Belgium at 47.2% and Japan at 48.5%. The development of wealth inequality over the last few years is also interesting. Here's the change in the wealth share of the top 10% between 2000 and 2014. Countries in blue saw the top decile's share shrink, while the elites of the countries in red had their shares grow: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Credit Suisse The wealth shares of the top 10% grew dramatically since the turn of the century in a number of emerging markets like Egypt and China, while declining in places as diverse as Canada, Saudi Arabia, and Poland. In Peru, the US, and Australia, there was no change in the wealth share over this time period. Here's the income share of the top ten percent in each country, and the change in that share between 2000 and 2014: Credit Suisse For more insights on the state of wealth in the world, check out the report here.
FlickrFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Investors Panicking About Market Volatility Should Go Work In The Garden (Financial Advisor Magazine) Many investors have a tendency to panic when market volatility increases. As a result, the primary focus for many advisors is to keep their clients from making poor investment decisions during market downswings. Clients should turn off the television and the Internet, and just go work in the garden, says DiGiovanni. "Ninety-five percent of the time, the best advice is to just sit tight," instead of worrying he says. He adds that there are only two times that investors should seriously tune into the market: when the price/earnings ratio drops below 10 (like during the tech bubble burst) or when the price/earnings ratio rises about 25 (like in 2008) because "both are great opportunities." Global Private Wealth Is Going To Reach $369 Trillion In 5 Years (Financial Planning) Global private wealth is going to grow by 40% up to $369 trillion over the next five years, according to Credit Suisse Group AG. More than 25% of that growth will come from emerging markets. "We expect to see a big improvement in the position of emerging economies over the next five years... Asia and particularly China will account for the largest portion of newly created wealth among the emerging markets," the Credit Suisse report said. Retirees Should Spend 4% Of Their Money Per Year During Retirement (Advisor Perspectives) When thinking about spending in retirement, there are two important questions to think about, says Bill Sharpe. First, how much money a retiree has, and second, how long he thinks that he will live. Generally, retirees should spend 4% of the amount of money they have per year.  Some retirees determine their spending based on market moves. "You might assume that if you just lost 40% of your savings, the markets are going to feel really sorry for you and work very hard to go up more than they would others. If you believe there are predictable cycles and you can count them, then that might justify some degree of neglect of the current value of your assets." "Personally, I don't believe that it makes sense to assume that there is sufficient mean reversion in the markets to just say, 'I'm going to spend that $40,000 increased for inflation, and it matters not whether I have $200,000 or $3 million left,'" writes Sharpe. Regional Broker-Dealers Should Consider Offering Equity In Their Firms When Recruiting (Investment News) "Regional broker-dealers, typically more cash poor than their larger brethren, that are indeed adding value and creating differentiating rep/adviser/client experiences, need to become more creative in how they compete in this arms race," writes Gary Martino. Smaller firms should consider offering equity in the firm or parent company to higher producing wealth management groups. Equity has the potential for higher payout in the long-run (which is enticing to potential hires), and also gives new hires the potential to grow with the firm. Investors Should Raise Allocation To Assets That Will Performance Well During Slowed Growth (BlackRock Blog) "While global growth is likely to remain meager and below trend, it's not collapsing," writes Russ Koesterich. "Though growth in most of the developed world, as well as in China, does appear to be decelerating, there are a few bright spots, including India and the United States," because diverging growth remains a big global economic trend. Investors should be prepared for slower growth, but not another recession. Koesterich adds that investors should raise allocations to the assets that will still preform well even when growth is tepid. "In particular, investors may want to take on some selective risk in asset classes that have become less expensive. One example of such an asset class: US high yield," he writes. FREE AppDownload
On Tuesday, longtime partners IBM and SAP announced another new bond: SAP will use IBM's cloud for its pride-and-joy database HANA. IBM and SAP have long ago realized that the "enemy of my enemy is my friend." SAP developed its database HANA to stick it to its arch rival Oracle. HANA is known as an "in-memory" database, able to crunch through huge amounts of data really quickly. Oracle has its own in-memory database, and it is selling it on its own hardware. In the process, Oracle execs have thoroughly trash-talked both SAP and IBM. Meanwhile, IBM has banked its future on cloud computing, and it wants enterprise users to see it as the King of the Cloud, not Amazon. IBM isn't alone. All the big enterprise IT vendors are shooting to best Amazon's cloud including Oracle, HP, and Microsoft. And there are new players wanting to grab some cloud-computing game like Google and hot startups like Digital Ocean. SAP has been offering its Oracle-killer database, HANA, as a cloud service for a while because SAP wants to be known as cloud royalty, too. Early on it signed on a cloud partner to sell a limited, cloud version of HANA. That partner was Amazon. But IBM has one-upped Amazon because IBM will be selling the full version of SAP's database in the cloud, known as SAP HANA Enterprise. This is a critical difference for enterprises. While enterprises might test HANA using Amazon's cloud, they couldn't really use HANA for big apps. And the point of HANA is to use it for big apps. IBM has been selling SAP apps for enterprise customers for decades. So it makes sense that SAP would turn to IBM to help it host its cloud. There's another benefit to the agreement. The NSA spying scandal has made European companies (particularly in SAP's home country of Germany) suspicious of using cloud services hosted in the United States, such as Amazon's. IBM has over a dozen data centers in Europe and is in the middle of building 15 more outside the US, too. With this agreement, SAP pushes its database out on a cloud around the world. And IBM gets some bragging rights over Amazon. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Chicago Mercantile Exchange is picturedCHICAGO (Reuters) - CME Group Inc &lt;cme.o&gt; plans to cut 5 percent of its global workforce, or about 150 jobs, to reduce costs with most cuts hitting its technology operations, the world's largest futures exchange operator said on Tuesday. CME's Chicago headquarters will suffer the majority of the layoffs, although they will affect global offices, a spokeswoman said. Corporate and administrative jobs will be among those eliminated. CME declined to detail how much money the staff reductions will save the company, which owns the Chicago Board of Trade and New York Mercantile Exchange. The cuts could add about 5 cents to the company's earnings per share, said Rob Rutschow, analyst for CLSA "While the financial impact isn’t huge, the signal it sends is," he said in a note. "We have felt that CME as an organization hasn’t paid enough attention to expenses, and this announcement suggests that a greater focus on expenses is possible going forward." Shares rose 0.8 percent to $79.65 in afternoon trading after touching a three-week low on Monday. They are up about 1.5 percent for the year. Executive Chairman Terry Duffy said the job cuts and other expense reductions "will result in decreased costs and reduced management layers, and will help ensure the company's long-term continued growth." He added that CME was able to eliminate positions because of new efficiencies in the futures industry. "Five percent is obviously not nothing," said Gaston Ceron, equity analyst for Morningstar, about the extent of the layoffs. "Do I think it will completely remake their expense base in a dramatic way? Probably not, but I think it'll help." The layoffs reflect the weak environment for trading volumes, said Diego Perfumo, analyst for Equity Research Desk. In July, Chief Financial Officer Jamie Parisi said CME planned to reduce expenses after a 12 percent drop in trading volumes resulted in lower-than-expected second quarter earnings. Parisi has since said he will retire at the end of the year. Volumes are running at a record level in early October, according to Sandler O'Neill, which estimated third-quarter earnings per share at 84 cents. Third-quarter results are due on Oct. 30. CME will inform employees who are being laid off this week. The technology staff cuts will not hurt CME's ability to prevent trading disruptions or fight cyber attacks because the company has "a variety of sophisticated controls to ensure the integrity of our markets," spokeswoman Laurie Bischel said. CME's clearing service for energy and other swaps was hacked last year, and Duffy has said cyber security is a top priority. In August, the company halted trading on its electronic platform for four hours because of a technical issue resulting from software reconfigurations. Global expansion has also been a focus for CME, which launched its first overseas exchange in London in April after delays. Senior executives, including CME Clearing President Kim Taylor, last month moved into new global roles.   (Reporting by Tom Polansek; Editing by David Gregorio and Cynthia Osterman) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipMainland Chinese visitors stand outside a Burberry store at Tsim Sha Tsui shopping district in Hong Kong January 18, 2013. PARIS (Reuters) - Growth in the global luxury goods market will be steady next year at 2014 levels, or around 5 percent at constant exchange rates, with the whole of America and Japan the biggest drivers, consultancy Bain &amp; Co said in a report published on Tuesday. The personal luxury goods industry has been through a slowdown since 2011 in part due to flagging demand in China where the government has cracked down on gift-giving, and economic weakness in Europe. Industry concerns have been compounded by conflicts in the Middle East, the Ukraine crisis hitting demand in Russia - the No.2 luxury goods buyer after the China - and pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong, where many luxury brands made more than 10 percent of their annual sales. Bain predicted total revenue from the personal luxury goods industry - which includes watches, jewelry, clothes, shoes and leather goods - to reach 223 billion euros ($282.70 billion) in 2014 against 218 billion in 2013, when sales rose 7 percent at constant exchange rates. "For next year, we expect growth similar to 2014," Claudia d'Arpizio, a partner at Bain and author of the study, said. "The luxury goods market has entered a weaker growth cycle but it is more sustainable on the long term." For the first time this year, Bain noted that luxury spending remained flat in mainland China at current exchange rates with sales up only 1 percent at constant exchange rates. "For the past 18-24 months, the upper middle classes in China have become more sophisticated and many big brands opened many boutiques which contributed to putting people off," d'Arpizio said. Opening too many boutiques tends to weaken a brand's perceived exclusivity. Sales growth in greater China, including Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macau, was 2 percent this year, against 7 percent the previous year. In Russia, the rouble's weakness and low consumer confidence took their toll on spending with luxury goods sales down 7 percent at constant exchange rates and down 18 percent at current exchange rates. Bain added that economic sanctions against Russia also put pressure on the country's banking system and limited access to credit for many wholesalers. This year, the luxury goods industry's main growth drivers were North and South America, where sales rose 6 percent at constant exchange rates and Japan, with sales up 10 percent, the consultancy said. Bain highlighted Americans' rediscovered interest in luxury products, especially in younger generations with second and third generations of Asian American and Latin Americans. Overall, Bain said sales growth at current currencies slowed down to 1.5 percent in the second half of 2014, down from 4 percent in the first quarter. Online was the fastest growing channel - with sales up 28 percent in 2014 - and shoes as the top performing category, making up more than 10 percent of total sales. Bain said shoes for the first time this year outperformed leather goods, with the 14 billion euro shoe business enjoying growth of 8 percent at constant currencies, beating the 37-billion euro handbag industry's 4 percent growth. (Reporting by Astrid Wendlandt; editing by Susan Thomas) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA CSX coal train moves past an idling CSX engine at the switchyard in Brunswick, MarylandCHICAGO (Reuters) - No. 3 U.S. railroad CSX Corp on Tuesday reported a rise in third-quarter profit, beating forecasts and predicting double-digit growth for 2015 as it moved more freight on its network due to a growing U.S. economy.  CSX will stay focused on a strategy that will enable it "to grow faster than the economy," raise prices above inflation and make needed strategic investments, Chief Executive Michael Ward said in a statement accompanying the results. Some analysts said the capital-intensive railroad industry is poised to raise prices as it invests to overcome service delays that have angered customers. The top U.S. rail regulator has ordered detailed weekly freight service reports after months of congestion that hit the grain and power industries particularly hard.  CSX's profit increase was driven by a 7 percent increase in freight volumes across most of its markets as the U.S. economy continued to grow. CSX reported earnings per share of 51 cents, up from 45 cents a year ago and beating the 48 cents expected by Wall Street analysts. Revenue for the quarter rose 8 percent from a year earlier to $3.2 billion, above the $3.15 billion analysts had forecast. The Jacksonville, Florida-based company said it expects modest earnings growth for the full year, but anticipates double-digit growth and higher profit margins in 2015. On Sunday, the Wall Street Journal reported that CSX had rebuffed a takeover bid from No. 2 Canadian railroad Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. Such a deal would face regulatory hurdles from the STB that some analysts think would be hard to overcome.  Both companies declined to comment on the report.              (Reporting by Nick Carey; Editing by David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
GlassdoorIntel's third quarter earnings beat expectations and shares were up as much as 2% in after hours trade. Intel reported third quarter earnings per share of $0.66 against expectations for $0.65.  Third quarter revenue totaled $14.6 billion, up 8% over the prior year. For the fourth quarter, Intel expects revenue of $14.7 billion, plus or minus $500 million. Revenue in Intel's PC client group grew 9% over last year to $9.2 billion, while data center revenues grew 16% and revenue in its "Internet of Things" group were up 14% over the prior year.  "We achieved our best-ever revenue and strong profits in the third quarter.  There is more to do, but our results give us confidence that we're successfully executing to our strategy of extending our products across a broad range of exciting new markets," said Intel CEO Brian Krzanich. FREE AppDownload
ReutersLast month Brazil was getting killed — its currency and stock market punished by investors who feared more of the same under another Dilma Rousseff Presidential administration. Now the country's turning around, and its stock market is poised to regain all its losses from the last month. Yahoo Finance The reason is simple. Rousseff's in trouble. At least, according to recent polls. Three of four of Brazil's major polls put more market-friendly candidate, Aecio Neves, slightly ahead of Rousseff (they have a +/-2 margin of error). Neves wants to tighten monetary policy, reform Brazil's tax system, cut government programs and encourage investment. The market loves this. For her part, Rousseff agrees that reform is needed, but her regime is the one that presided over a massive decline in the economy's performance over the last five years. Plus, it's politically impossible for her to take the measures Neves would take to cut costs. Now, these are the same polls that had former candidate, Marina Silva, beating Neves out less than two weeks ago when this was still a three person race. Silva, as we now know, didn't even come close to making it to the runoff. And of course, this doesn't mean everything is right with Brazil, no matter what the market is saying at this precise moment. While some of Wall Street is with bullish investors — like Fortress Investments' Mike Novogratz — in thinking regime change would make Brazil a buy, others think this entire trade is absurd, and that it will take far more than an election to fix Brazil's problems with inflation, corruption, and low corporate margins (among other things). Morgan Stanley sees the country's GDP going negative in the first half of 2015, contracting -0.4%. Cantor Fitzgerald put it even more succinctly in a recent note saying, "Our thought is that the Brazilian ‘election trade’ will eventually be sniffed out as the farce it clearly is." In the meantime, ride the election wave. Just keep in mind that incumbents rarely lose in Latin America. Almost never. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidAnother tense session for traders. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Tuesday: 1. The price of oil crashed on Tuesday. Crude oil fell more than 4% to less than $82 a barrel, extending its recent slide that has taken its price down to levels not seen in almost two years. The slide in oil on Tuesday came after the International Energy Agency said that if oil prices fall to $80 a barrel, nearly 3% of global oil production is vulnerable to cuts.  2. The tumble in the price of oil came later in the day, but this morning the big story was the decline in government bonds. The US 10- and 30-year Treasury bonds made new yearly lows on Tuesday, with the 10-year falling below 2.2% and the 30-year falling below 3% for the first time since June and May 2013, respectively. In Europe, the German 10-year bund fell back below 0.9%, as the German economy ministry cut its 2014 GDP forecast to 1.2% from an April outlook for growth of 1.8%.  3. In the face of declining government bonds, inflation expectations continue to fall, with 5-year break-evens falling even lower on Tuesday. Five-year break-evens, which reflect the market's expectations of future inflation, fell to 1.54% on Tuesday, indicating that the market sees inflation well below the Fed's stated 2% target. 4. DoubleLine's Jeff Gundlach, who was one of the few analysts on Wall Street who saw bond yields falling this year rather than rising, told CNBC that we've likely seen the bottom in bond yields this year. Gundlach also said that we've also likely seen the top in the stock market, with Gundlach pegging the Alibaba IPO, which happened on Sept. 19, as the top. Gundlach told CNBC that if 10-year bond yields fell much further below 2.2% it would be a "game changer."  5. Three major US banks reported earnings on Tuesday morning: Citigroup, JPMorgan, and Wells Fargo. Citigroup reported earnings and revenue that beat expectations, and also announced that it plans to exit 11 consumer-banking markets worldwide. JPMorgan reported earnings per share that beat expectations after its earnings report came out earlier than scheduled. Wells Fargo's earnings were in line with expectations. 6. The CEO of Darden Restaurants, Clarence Otis, announced that he is stepping down, with the company's president and COO Gene Lee to take over as interim until a permanent replacement is found. Otis steps down in the wake of hedge fund Starboard Value winning all 12 seats on the company's board following a vote at the annual meeting. 7. It was a terrible day for Lakeland Industries and Alpha Pro Tech, two stocks that have been the hottest names in the Ebola trade, as shares of both companies fell more than 20% on Tuesday. Lakeland, which makes hazmat suits, and Alpha Pro Tech, which makes protective face masks, have been two of the most popular ways that traders have been playing the recent Ebola outbreak. 8. Ireland officially killed a corporate tax loophole known as the "Double Irish." The loophole will close on Jan. 1, 2015, but companies will have a transition period that lasts until 2020.     FREE AppDownload
Matching shoes to the appropriate pants can be tricky.  An amateur men's-fashion enthusiast made a helpful guide to choosing appropriate footwear.  The guide was first posted to Reddit. The designer, who preferred to remain anonymous, was kind enough to share it with us. Reddit FREE AppDownload
Screenshot/PocketnowGT Advanced Technologies' sapphire displays were expected to be on the iPhone 6 but ended up only being used for the Apple Watch. GT Advanced Technologies COO Daniel Squiller sold nearly $2 million in company stock before the firm filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy last week, according to The Wall Street Journal's Diasuke Wakabayashi. GTAT supplies Apple's sapphire display, which is expected to be used on the Apple Watch. Last week, The Wall Street Journal reported that GTAT's CEO sold a large amount of stock before Apple announced it would not be using sapphire on the iPhone 6 (except on the camera).  Squiller unloaded roughly $1.2 million in shares last May and has sold $750,000 in shares since then. These sales came after signs of production trouble, with Apple delaying payments starting in February, according to the WSJ. What few shares Squiller has held onto aren't worth much anymore. GTAT was trading around $0.41 per share on Tuesday. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesThe Dow has given it all up. After gaining as much as 130 points near noon, the Dow has turned negative late afternoon trading, falling as much as 35 points. The S&amp;P 500 has also turned negative, falling as much a point after gaining more than 1% earlier in the day. The Nasdaq is up 20 points. Earlier, the Nasdaq was up more than 60 points. On Monday, the stock market sold off for the third straight session as the S&amp;P 500 finished up its worst three day stretch since 2011.  On Tuesday, government bond yields around the world were falling, with the US 10-year yield falling below 2.2% for the first time since last June while the yield on 30-year government bonds fell below 3% for the first time since May 2013.  In Germany, the 10-year bund fell back below 0.9%, while the yield on UK Gilts fell to 2.1%.  Oil was also getting crushed again, falling below $84.50 a barrel.  In stock news, JPMorgan, Citi, and Wells Fargo all reported earnings before the market open on Tuesday. JPMorgan's earnings, which leaked early, showed earnings per share that missed expectations, while revenue topped estimates. Citi's earnings topped estimates while announcing that it would exit 11 markets around the world. Wells Fargo reported earnings that were in-line with expectations.  Also in stock news, Darden announced that its CEO will be stepping down, effective immediately. This announcement follows news last week that activist hedge fund Starboard won all 12 seats on the company's board of directors. FREE AppDownload
A Blog To WatchFerrari North America recently celebrated 60 years of the iconic Italian car maker's presence in the United States market. The main celebration was in Beverly Hills, California with a weekend of events including a tour of Ferrari cars on Rodeo Drive, a few parties, and a car auction. As the official watch making partner of Ferrari, Hublot was there attending the events and, of course, with a new limited edition watch, the Hublot Big Bang Ferrari USA 60th Anniversary reference 401.QX.0123.VR.FSX14 timepiece. It has been a few years since Hublot first released the Hublot Big Bang Ferrari watch in 2012, and already there are more versions than I can count. Of course, if you want variety, Hublot is the right company to consider. Though, I've always wondered as a consumer if there is just too much choice from Hublot. On one hand, it can be difficult to wait for the perfect version if you are interested in a specific model. On the other hand, Hublot likely feels that they can entice customers to buy multiple watches of the same ilk if they offer enough interesting versions. In support of this theory, I personally observed one watch lover buying two Big Bang Ferraris at a time - each with vastly different finishes (and one of them was the Big Bang Ferrari 60th Anniversary in the USA model).A Blog To Watch A Blog To WatchFormer Hublot CEO, and still "godfather" of the brand Jean-Claude Biver made an appearance here in LA and we once again sat together to speak about Hublot, Ferrari, and the watch business. In the link to the 2012 article, you'll see a video interview with Mr. Biver that discusses the Ferrari &amp; Hublot watches and relationship.  Jean-Claude Biver is the person responsible for the Ferrari partnership and has confirmed, once again, that Ferrari is extremely happy with the ongoing relationship, and that the two companies have signed for another five years of working together.  Allow me to clarify that Hublot is the official watchmaking partner of Ferrari for all of their events and for the brand. That means Hublot has the opportunity to participate with Ferrari whether it has a new car launch, race, collector event, or anything else. Hence, Hublot's production of a limited edition watch for the Italian car maker's 60th anniversary of being present in the American market since 1954. Mr. Biver is also proud of just how important the Ferrari relationship is for Hublot watch sales. I've mentioned on a few occasions that I think the Big Bang Ferrari watches are the best Big Bang watches Hublot has ever produced. They also represent 10-20% of the brand's overall sales profits - a huge number considering Hublot's vast collection of models and styles. Even the futuristic looking Hublot MP-05 La Ferrari watch (now in four versions and priced over $300,000) is selling well. Further, it is reported that Ferrari owners are apparently gobbling up the limited edition Big Bang Ferrari models with gusto. Something that was not as true with Ferrari's former relationships with Girard-Perregaux and Panerai. Whatever you feel about Hublot, you have to give them credit for making a historically unsound car+watch relationship finally work for both parties involved.A Blog To Watch A Blog To WatchFrom a design standpoint, the Hublot Big Bang Ferrari USA 60th Anniversary limited edition watch takes the collection in a blue and carbon fiber direction. It is actually a bit similar (because of the blue) to the Hublot Big Bang Ferrari Beverly Hills Boutique limited edition that aBlogtoWatch recently reviewed here. For more specific technical specs on the watch I recommend that you visit that or other Hublot Big Bang Ferrari watch articles we've published. The 45.5mm wide case is in black carbon fiber, with what I believe is a black titanium caseback. The bezel is also in carbon fiber around the skeletonized dial and blue-filled hands and hour markers. The caseback of this Hublot Big Bang Ferrari USA 60th Anniversary is a bit distinct, with red-color text around the display caseback, while the Ferrari USA 60th Anniversary logo is printed on the sapphire crystal caseback over the movement. Inside the Hublot Big Bang Ferrari USA 60th Anniversary watch is the Hublot in-house produced UNICO caliber 1241 automatic chronograph movement, a movement I personally like a lot from an aesthetic standpoint. It really nicely mixes the look of a traditional mechanical movement with a modern touch that includes the design of the bridges, the openwork, and the finishing.  Even as a modern design, the finishing does not appear to be too industrial or spartan. Of course, the Ferrari prancing horse logo is on the dial of the watch. The "Ferrari" name is only printed on the side of the watch (chronograph pusher) and the caseback. Functionally, the watch offers the time, 60 minute chronograph, and the date (at 3 o'clock). There is no running seconds counter or extended chronograph functions, but that is OK, as Hublot wanted to give the Big Bang Ferrari dial a distinctive look. Note, of course, the great looking chronograph pushers and the locking-style (versus normal screw-down crown). If you are a fan of the brand, the Hublot Big Bang Ferrari is a very difficult watch to dislike.A Blog To Watch A Blog To WatchOne design touch that I like is the carbon fiber construction of the strap deployant. This isn't the first time Hublot has done this, but I really like that the carbon fiber case material is matched in the deployant. It is a little touch, but it helps complete the carbon fiber theme. A lot of brands skimp on strap design, and in my opinion, that is a terrible shame. Hublot gets its right, not only with the quick release straps (there are small release buttons on each of the lug structures), but also in the overall look and feel of the straps. Watch straps are important more than just because they are an essential element of the overall style and aesthetic of a watch, but mostly because they are the principle part of a watch that the wearer interacts with. Most people don't set the time each day or touch the case. However, wearers not only have to feel the strap on their wrist, but they interact with the strap when they are putting it on and taking the watch off. A watch company can really make or break a relationship with a potential customer by having a positive or negative strap/bracelet experience.A Blog To Watch A Blog To Watch From an automobile perspective, the 60th Anniversary in the USA event had Ferrari and Gooding &amp; Co auction off the first model in the Ferrari 458 Speciale A limited edition series. Intended to benefit a charity known as "Daybreak," the auction resulted in a price of $900,000 for the car - almost double the retail price. Whenever I find myself wondering "who buys this stuff?" I need only think of events such as this. The excitement around high-performance or classic cars, world-class entertainment, popular sporting events, or important cultural events is the type of feeling that works for luxury watches really well. Not only are the men and women who wear high-end watches frequent guests, but timepieces often make for a thrilling souvenir or dedication that allows fans to commemorate their participation. Expensive for sure, but the definition of expensive really depends on the customer. Also, I should note that this is a sales formula that does not work for all brands. Jean-Claude Biver built the Hublot brand to live in these worlds, but it certainly doesn't work for all the other brands that follow-suit. Limited to 60 pieces, the Hublot Big Bang Ferrari USA 60th Anniversary ref. 401.QX.0123.VR.FSX14 watch is priced at $33,200. FREE AppDownload
Damian Kulash and Tim Norwind from the band OK Go, whose new album "Hungry Ghost" is out now, gave us some unusual tips from their own experiences of places to visit and things to do before you reach the big 4-0. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional Camera by Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On YouTube
APMicrosoft CEO Satya Nadella recently told a gathering of women in tech to rely on karma for a raise instead of asking. His comments were criticized soon after on social media. Whenever you hear or read anything from a CEO, chances are that it went through many stages of filtering to match a specific message. Companies spend lots of money to train their executives how to deal with the media and what not to say in public. But sometimes, on stage or on social media, these execs go too far off script, sending their PR teams scrambling to craft a response to the backlash.  We compiled a list of the most infamous CEO gaffes and the apologies they issued after telling us what they really think. FREE AppDownload
Crude is getting smoked. On Tuesday markets were higher, rebounding somewhat after three straight days of losses.  But crude oil, which has been getting routed in the last few months, and particularly the last of couple weeks, resumed its slide, falling more than 4% to below $82 a barrel on Tuesday. The most recent drop in oil also follows news out of the International Energy Agency on Tuesday that nearly 3% of the world's oil production is vulnerable if prices fall to $80 per barrel. Here's the 5-minute chart showing Tuesday's price drop in crude oil. FinViz And a longer-dated chart that shows the absolute beating crude has taken since the summer. FinViz FREE AppDownload
Business Insider/Hayley PetersonCrumbs Bake Shop kicked off its grand reopening Tuesday, three months after the company suddenly shut down all 48 of its stores because it was running out of money.  Aside from a couple new freezers and a new paint job, the first store to reopen – located on Broadway and 37th street in Manhattan — doesn't look much different than it did several months ago.  Once the largest cupcake company in the world, Crumbs was saved from permanent closure by a joint investment from Fischer Enterprises, which owns Dippin' Dots, and Marcus Lemonis, the CEO of Camping World and host of CNBC's "The Profit." Inside the new store, there's a cooler stocked with Dippin' Dots and a freezer displaying new "Monster Munch" ice cream cups and chocolate-dipped key lime pie ice cream bars.  Business Insider/Hayley PetersonA cooler stocked with Dippin' Dots.There are also new cupcake flavors branded with the names of dessert companies owned by Lemonis, such as Sweet Pete’s Salted Caramel Chocolate and Key West Key Lime Pie. Business Insider/Hayley PetersonAmong the non-cupcake items are Crumb Nuts, which are donut-croissant hybrids mirroring a Cronut, and Baissants, which are a cross between a bagel and a croissant. Business Insider/Hayley PetersonThere's also a Nutella Crozel, which is a chocolate-filled croissant-pretzel hybrid.  Business Insider/Hayley PetersonA table in the middle of the store displayed new gluten-free cupcakes. On the left is the freezer holding the ice cream offerings. Business Insider/Hayley Peterson "We believe we have found a winning formula by combining the beloved Crumbs cupcake with an exciting new mix of products," Scott Fischer, COO of Fischer Enterprises, stated in a press release. It remains to be seen whether the changes will solve two of Crumbs' biggest problems: high real estate costs and cupcake "burnout." Crumbs' troubles began in mid-2011, when it was orchestrating a massive expansion, according to former Crumbs president and CEO Julian Geiger. Same-stores sales started declining as the cupcake market was rapidly growing more crowded, and analysts began warning of a possible cupcake bubble. The Wall Street Journal would later conclude that Crumbs' downfall was the result of mass "gourmet-cupcake burnout." At the new Crumbs, cupcakes are still a huge focus, as shown in the display case below.  Business Insider/Hayley PetersonCrumbs has also been plagued by high real estate costs, according to Darren Tristano, executive vice president at the food industry research firm Technomic. The company's shops averaged about 1,000 square feet, with one outlet near Chicago measuring 3,300 square feet, Tristano told Crain's New York Business reporter Aaron Elstein. Without the need for any baking equipment on site, it doesn't make much sense to have massive stores.  "That meant high rents and lots of extra space in places where shoppers seldom lingered," Elstein wrote. Crumbs is planning to reopen another 25 locations within the next 30 days in cities including Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, Newark, Delaware, and Washington, D.C.  Business Insider/Hayley PetersonThat means many of the company's former employees will have a chance to get their jobs back.  Crumbs district manager Michelle Cavanaugh told Business Insider she was rehired as a result of the reopening. She said she was also able to hire back all of her former employees.  "We are thrilled to have Crumbs reopened and to still offer our same great products, plus a lot more," she said. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersEuropean Trade Commissioner De Gucht speaks during a news conference in BrusselsROME (Reuters) - China and the European Union have found a way to end a long-running dispute over Chinese exports of telecoms equipment, resolving one of the most divisive issues between the major trade partners, the EU's top trade official said on Tuesday. EU Trade Chief Karel De Gucht told Reuters he would ask fellow commissioners to back his proposal to end the dispute over an annual 1 billion euros ($1.27 billion) of imports by Huawei [HWT.UL] and the smaller ZTE. "I will in the coming days ask the college (of commissioners) to drop the case in the light of the agreement we have reached and the agreement itself will be made official in the coming days as well," De Gucht said at the sidelines of a trade conference in Rome. "It is off the table in an acceptable way. I think we made progress on this file," he said, without giving details of the settlement. Sources told Reuters last week that Beijing was considering a deal in which China would promise to limit its export credits Huawei and ZTE. Both sides would also agree to monitor the market share of Chinese telecoms companies in Europe and European companies in China. Rising imports have made the Chinese companies fierce competitors of European firms including Ericsson, the world's biggest mobile telecommunications equipment maker, Nokia Networks [NOKI.UL] and Alcatel-Lucent. According to an EU document, Huawei's share of the European telecoms equipment market has risen from 2.5 percent in 2006 to 25 percent today, with prices some 18 percent below those of European rivals. Europe is China's most important trading partner and for the EU, China is second only to the United States. Failure to reach a deal could have led to the EU launching an anti-subsidy procedure and imposing punitive levies on Chinese telecoms equipment exports. Ties between the EU and China have been bedeviled by a series of damaging trade rows ranging from steel and wine to solar panels as China seeks to produce sophisticated products that compete directly with Europe.   (Reporting by Philip Blenkinsop; Editing by Robin Pomeroy) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsQE2The Federal Reserve is currently winding down its large-scale asset purchase program. Also known as quantitative easing (QE), this program aimed to stimulate the economy through massive purchases of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities. However, San Francisco Fed President John Williams now suggests the possibility that the Fed needs could start another round of QE. "If we really get a sustained, disinflationary forecast ... then I think moving back to additional asset purchases in a situation like that should be something we should seriously consider," Williams told Reuters. Since the financial crisis, we've seen three rounds of QE (that's why we call it QE3). Because the unemployment rate has improved significantly and growth has picked up substantially, most economists believe QE3 is it. Williams' comment, however, will certainly be fodder for those who are concerned with unlikely scenarios. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersApple Operations International, a subsidiary of Apple Inc, is seen in Hollyhill, Cork, in the south of IrelandLONDON (Reuters) - Ireland's plan to close a "Double Irish" tax loophole could cost U.S. companies including Apple and Google billions of dollars, although a new break and pressure to tackle tax avoidance elsewhere means they are unlikely to decamp. Analysts and tax advisers predict that corporations which need access to the EU's 500 million consumers will find it difficult to set up equally effective schemes in other member states as Brussels investigates arrangements that involve paying minimal tax rates. "The question is where do you go to? There's nowhere else in the European Union. It's just getting too hot," said George Bull, head of the tax practice at advisory group Baker Tilly. Ireland has been an attractive base for U.S. multinationals for decades, thanks to a tax regime which allows companies to channel profits made in their major markets through the country and into tax havens, paying little tax along the way. Following pressure from the United States and EU, the Dublin government said on Tuesday it planned to change a rule underpinning this system which allows a company to be registered in Ireland but not resident there for tax purposes. This change aims to shut down "Double Irish" schemes, so-called because they involve multinationals setting up two Irish subsidiaries. But with the government anxious not to lose the jobs that multinationals have brought to Ireland, Finance Minister Michael Noonan said firms already operating such schemes would have until 2020 to comply with the new rules. In his budget, Noonan also announced changes to the intellectual property tax regime in the hope of keeping Ireland an attractive destination for business. International anger about corporate tax avoidance has made the Group of 20 biggest economies rethink international tax rules. It has also prompted EU investigations into tax deals between some member states and big companies. The changes announced by Noonan are the latest in a series of international attacks on the contrived tax structures used to shift profits into tax havens. "The bottom line is, with the increasing focus on low-tax jurisdictions around the world, Google, Apple, Amazon.com, and many others face the risk of rising consolidated tax rates over the long term. While not an operational issue, this would impact valuations," analysts at Macquarie said in a research note. Ireland does not publish a list of companies which are Irish-registered but not tax resident in the country, a spokeswoman for the tax authority said on Tuesday. It is therefore impossible to say how much income will be affected. However, filings and comments from Google, Apple, software group Adobe Systems and Yahoo show they have Irish registered companies which are not tax resident in the country. Allergan, which makes the Botox cosmetic treatment, uses the double Irish structure, analysts at Leerink Partners LLC said, while rival drugmaker Gilead Sciences will also be affected, according to Mark Schoenebaum, analyst at ISI Group. According to the analysts, the drug companies said the plan to phase the Irish changes in over 5 years would moderate the impact on their bottom lines. Google, Amazon, Yahoo, Apple and Adobe have said they follow tax rules in all the countries where they operate. "We're deeply committed to Ireland and will work to implement these changes as they become law," a Google spokesman said. Gilead and Allergan did not respond immediately to requests for comment. REUTERS/Michael MacSweeneyApple Operations International, a subsidiary of Apple Inc, is seen in Hollyhill, Cork, in the south of Ireland May 21, 2013. Ireland said on Tuesday it was not to blame for Apple Inc's low global tax payments after the U.S. Senate said the company paid little or nothing on tens of billions of dollars in profits stashed in Irish subsidiaries.  Generally, a country deems any company registered on its territory to be tax resident there, but until now Ireland has exempted firms if their central management and control is outside the country. This typically involves holding board meetings in a jurisdiction that levies no corporate tax such as Bermuda, and saying it is managed from there. Companies have saved on tax by establishing two Irish firms. One generates large revenues either by selling directly to customers internationally or to affiliates in other countries at prices which leave the affiliates with low reportable profits. This first company will usually be tax resident in Ireland since it has activities there. But to make sure profits escape Irish tax, it pays large, tax deductible fees to the second Irish-registered company, whose headquarters may be a letter box in the Caribbean. Thanks to a U.S. rule under which the Internal Revenue Service ignores transactions between subsidiaries of groups that are registered in the same country, the vast profits of the second Irish-registered, but Irish tax non-resident company escape taxation. Tax campaigners welcomed the change. "The Double Irish has come to symbolize all the elaborate tax avoidance schemes that multinationals and their advisers have engaged in," said Sorley McCaughey, Head of Advocacy and Policy at Christian Aid Ireland. "Many of these schemes have resulted in the poorest countries in the world losing billions every year in revenue." The impact on companies' profits will be reduced by a new scheme announced by Noonan under which profits linked to the exploitation of patents will attract lower tax rates. Britain already has such a scheme, under which profits linked even tangentially to a patent can face a tax rate of 10 percent. The Netherlands' "innovation box" scheme applies a tax rate of just 5 percent, although the eligible profits are more restricted than under the British regime, tax advisers say. Kevin McLoughlin, tax adviser with consultants EY said the new patent tax regime "will allow Ireland to continue to compete effectively for international investment". Corporate filings show that technology companies have channeled tens of billions of dollars in profits which attract little or no taxation elsewhere, through Ireland under the current rules. Yet the huge amount of money currently escaping taxation means that if Ireland introduced even a 5 percent tax rate on loosely-defined patent income, it could still collectively cost the companies billions of dollars each year. Also, many OECD and G20 countries oppose such inducements and the EU is also examining whether they breach bloc competition rules, raising the possibility that the impact on companies could be higher. Ireland is not the only country that has allowed companies to channel profits into tax exempt firms. Amazon operates a structure whereby all its European sales are channeled through a Luxembourg company, which in turn channels profits into a tax-exempt partnership, also registered in the Grand Duchy. However, this arrangement is being investigated by the European Commission, which suspects Luxembourg may have broken EU rules by giving the online retailer excessively generous treatment in return for creating jobs. The company has denied it received a sweetheart deal. The EU drive includes investigations into Apple's arrangements in Ireland and tax rulings that the Netherlands gave to coffee chain Starbucks. (Additional reporting by Ben Hirschler in London and Padraic Halpin in Dublin, editing by David Stamp) FREE AppDownload
Americans will be very happy if the recent drop in gas prices is maintained. According to Deutsche Bank's Joe LaVorgna, every one cent change in the price of a gallon of gas is worth approximately $1 billion in annual US household energy expenditures. Since June, retail gas prices went from around $3.70 per gallon down to $3.30 on October 6. By LaVorgna's estimate, consumer cash flow will be juiced by an approximate annualized rate of $40 billion. "This is equivalent to almost three-tenths on annualized GDP growth," LaVorgna notes. As you can see in the chart, there's a very tight correlation between the change in retail gas prices and the change in household energy consumption. In 2009, gas prices fell by 91 cents, and household energy consumption was down by $105 billion. Then in 2010, gas prices rose by 44 cents and the energy consumption went up by $49 billion. Deutsche Bank FREE AppDownload
China's economy is fueling a wealth boom. According to Credit Suisse's 2014 Global Wealth Report, the number of millionaires in China could grow from 1.18 million this year to 2.29 million people in 2019. Here's a chart showing that people in upper income brackets in China will get richer:   Credit Suisse China's household wealth totals $21 trillion, which is where the US was in 1989. "If recent growth trends continue, China could reach the real wealth level that the United States had in 1989, resulting in a jump of 19 United States years in just five actual years," Credit Suisse analysts write. "What is most striking is the fact that, if Japan's lackluster performance during the last decade continues, we expect China to surpass Japan as the second wealthiest economy in the world."  FREE AppDownload
Inflation expectations keep tumbling. On Tuesday, five-year breakevens made new lows for the year, falling to 1.54% according to data from Bloomberg. Andy Kiersz/Business Insider, data from Bloomberg Breakevens are calculated by subtracting the yield on Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities notes from Treasury bonds of the same duration. The difference is what the market thinks inflation levels will be that far out. So basically, the market thinks that in five years, inflation will be running below 1.6%.  The Fed's stated inflation target is 2%.  Early last week, we highlighted commentary from Bank of America Merrill Lynch analyst Priya Misra, who noted that breakevens were currently near levels that the Fed has begun quantitative easing programs, not ended them. The Fed has said that it plans to end its current QE program at the end of this month. Now, breakevens are even lower. Many in the market have seen the end of the Fed's current QE program as beginning the countdown to the Fed's first rate hike.  But with inflation remaining tepid and wage growth disappointing, the market isn't expecting the Fed's first rate hike to come until September of next year, according to data from CME Group.  The Fed's recent monetary policy statements have said it expects there will be "considerable time" between the end of QE and the beginning of rate hikes. Earlier this year, some expected "considerable time" would be closer to 6 months: now it's almost 12. As we wrote last week, breakevens don't make it seem like the Fed can — or will want to — raise rates anytime soon. And now even less so.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachDespite its social-democratic politics, Norway has extremely high wealth inequality, according to Credit Suisse.The celebrated social-democratic nations of Scandinavia have some of the highest wealth inequality in Europe. That's according to Credit Suisse's weighty Global Wealth Report 2014. It's a finding that's likely to seriously surprise some people. The top 10% of wealth holders in three Nordic countries (Norway, Sweden and Denmark) hold between 65 and 69 per cent of those nations' wealth. In comparison to the other developed economies in Europe, Scandinavian inequality on this measure seriously stands out: they're significantly above British, French, Italian or Spanish levels. Germany and Austria come a little closer, but are still behind. Only finance-dominated Switzerland reaches higher levels of wealth inequality. The Nordic nations on the list sit in the "high inequality" group, where the top 10% hold 60-70% of the country's household wealth. In comparison countries that are usually thought to be more capitalist, like the UK, Canada and Australia, are a rung below in the "medium inequality" group, with the top 10% holding between 50-60%.  Credit Suisse Research, Business InsiderIn Scandinavian countries, the wealthiest 10% of people hold a surprisingly large share of the country's total assets. But there's a pretty benign explanation for this big disparity, according to Credit Suisse: "Strong social security programs, good public pensions, free higher education or generous student loans, unemployment and health insurance can greatly reduce the need for personal financial assets. Public housing programs can do the same for real assets. This is one explanation for the high level of wealth inequality we identify in Denmark, Norway and Sweden: the top groups continue to accumulate for business and investment purposes, while the middle and lower classes have no pressing need for personal saving." So they're unequal, at least in part, because much of the country's middle class doesn't feel the need to accumulate significant wealth. They don't themselves own, for example, the state housing they live in, so it doesn't appear in the figures. But they might just not feel they really need to.  FREE AppDownload
Morgan StanleyArgentina could be the forefront of the next shale oil revolution, according to a report Morgan Stanley published today. Of all the areas analyzed, the Latin American country displays the most favourable conditions, and the lowest investment costs (graphic above). La pampa could become the next big thing in shale oil, mainly for three reasons: Favourable geological conformation.Morgan Stanley The Vaca Muerta basin has similar characteristics to one of the richest drilling areas in the US, the Eagle Ford basin in Texas. It is sufficiently thick and rich of liquid resources to foresee a consistent output. Its richest area, the Loma Campana highlighted in the graphic above, is already producing 21,000 barrel of crude a day for a joint venture of YPF and Chevron. Urgent energetic demand.Morgan Stanley Argentina's economy is not in good shape. Its energy balance collapsed in the last four years, as shown in the graphic above, despite having a wealth of natural resources and a developed oil industry. Argentine President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner nationalized the country's oil companies, and production collapsed, discouraging investors. So the hope is that the country's shale reserves might stimulate a recovery, if used wisely. For instance, a recently approved hydrocarbon law that allows companies that invest more than $250 million to sell a fifth of their production on international markets without being taxed on it should ease the way for foreign investors. Convenient location.YPF, Morgan Stanley Argentina is a huge country, but its resources are condensed: Vaca Muerta alone represents 40% of the country's shale gas resources and 60% of its shale oil. Moreover, the basin is in the Neuquina province (map above), which is at the core of Argentina's production history and where the necessary infrastructure for oil production is already present. Its capital city, Neuquén, is 700 miles far from Buenos Aires, and most of the fields are even further. Low population density (15 people per square mile) and massive water resources make it a perfect ground for hydrocarbon production. The graphic below shows how the shale boom has revolutionized the energy market in the US. Since the Bakken and Eagleford basins have started pulling out scores of oil and natural gas, the energetic decline that hit the country in the early '70s has not only stopped, but reversed.Morgan Stanley The US is set to become the largest producer of liquid petroleum in the next couple of months according to the Financial Times. If Argentina manages to do the same, it will be happy days in Buenos Aires. REUTERSArgentina president Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, who has mostly screwed up the country's oil industry — until now. FREE AppDownload
Flickr / alpiniste According to a report from CNBC's Scott Wapner, Gundlach said that the Alibaba IPO was "probably" the top for stocks this year. Since the Alibaba debut, the S&amp;P 500 is down more than 5%.  Gundlach, who after Bill Gross' departure from PIMCO is now the undisputed Bond King, also said that we've probably hit the lows on the US 10-year Treasury bond this year. On Tuesday morning, the yield on US 10-year bonds fell below 2.2% for the first time since June 2013, slightly below the 2.2%-to-2.8% range Gundlach expected 10-years to trade within during 2014. Gundlach told Wapner that any move under 2.2% would be a "game changer" for the Federal Reserve in terms of policy. During his most recent webcast, in September, Gundlach said he doesn't think the Federal Reserve is nearly as close to raising interest rates as many in the market expect, going so far as to say, "I'm almost certain that Janet Yellen doesn't want to raise interest rates."  And earlier this year, Gundlach was one of the only strategists on Wall Street who said that bond yields would fall, not rise, and back in August, Gundlach told the Financial Times that the Fed might have to resurrect quantitative easing by the end of this decade. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Muhammad Hamed Muslim pilgrims pray near the holy Kaaba (not seen) at the Grand Mosque.Plans by Saudi Arabia's biggest bank for a $6 billion initial public offer of shares, the largest-ever equity sale in the Arab world, have run into religious controversy with some clerics suggesting it violates Islamic principles. Securities analysts said the controversy was unlikely to sway enough investors to derail the IPO of state-owned National Commercial Bank, which is due to start next week. "The conflict between religion and the economy in the kingdom has been negative for a long time, but this will not stop ordinary citizens from participating in the IPO," said Mazen al-Sudairi, head of research at al Istithmar Capital in Riyadh. "It contributes 16 percent of lending activity in the country and it has 435 billion riyals ($116 billion) of assets and 345 billion riyals of deposits...Bank depositors alone could be enough to cover the IPO several times." Nevertheless, the controversy underlines how Saudi Arabia's conservative brand of Islam can complicate economic decision-making in the kingdom, which is due to open its $550 billion stock market to direct foreign investment early next year. Sheikh Abdullah al-Mutlaq, a member of the Council of Senior Scholars, Saudi Arabia's highest religious body, told state-owned television this week that subscribing to the IPO was not permissible. In response to a viewer's question about the share offer, Mutlaq said the bank had too many dealings forbidden by Islamic principles on its balance sheet. "Religion comes above every thing," he said. Some other clerics have reached similar conclusions. Another member of the Council of Senior Scholars, Sheikh Saad al-Khathlan, said the IPO prospectus showed NCB had a high proportion of loans based on interest payments, which are banned by Islam. Not all clerics are so negative, however. A former imam of the Holy Mosque in Mecca, Sheikh Adel al-Kalbani, said on Twitter that NCB was similar to Al Rajhi Bank, a major Islamic bank that has already listed successfully on the stock market. “Poor citizens, they don’t know what to do - if they subscribe, they are told they don’t have faith, and if they do not, they are not patriotic... "The reality is that Rajhi is the same as NCB, but the former has a beard and the latter does not," he added in reference to Al Rajhi Bank's Islamic image. REUTERS/Faisal Al Nasser A man walks past a screen displaying the stock market index at the Saudi Investment Bank in Riyadh NCB officials declined to comment on the controversy but the bank said in a statement on Monday that eight banks had completed all necessary procedures to go ahead with receiving subscriptions to the IPO, which is expected to be the world’s second largest this year. The statement quoted NCB's chairman Mansour al-Maiman as saying the bank had “clear and sound” strategic plans for coming years. The IPO will "play an important and influential role in the national economy, and boost the confidence of those who trade in the Saudi stock market, as it will allow additional investment opportunities for Saudi nationals..." he said. IPOs in Saudi Arabia are generally priced low enough to allow a substantial surge in the stock price after listing, often 50 percent or more; analysts believe Saudi authorities try to use IPOs to distribute some of the kingdom's corporate wealth among its citizens. "The price is valued lower than other banks," Turki Fadaak, head of research at Al Bilad Investment, said of NCB's 45 riyal per share offer price. "The bank is the largest in terms of assets and deposits, and is very attractive economically. I believe people can make a return no less than 30 percent from this IPO." Saudi clerics have criticized some other banks in the past, and religious sentiment has not prevented the development of a strong banking sector in Saudi Arabia, including some institutions which pay interest. But some parts of the economy have been slow to develop because of religious considerations. Criticism from clerics has sometimes hindered the growth of health insurance and residential mortgages, and women are not permitted to drive, imposing costs on families and businesses. FREE AppDownload
4chanOn Monday, a third-party Snapchat application, SnapSaved, admitted it was hacked and accidentally leaked nearly 100,000 images and videos from unsuspecting Snapchat users. Snapchat issued a statement then, saying its servers were never breached. Essentially, Snapchat told users that if their photos were leaked, it wasn't technically Snapchat's fault. While that may be true, Snapchat can control which developers have access to its API and it has the power to shut down any extension application that is potentially harmful to its users. Snapchat says it aggressively trolls Google Play and the App Store for third party apps and it has successfully gotten some of them removed. But even with those efforts, users weren't saved from the SnapSaved hack. Now Snapchat has issued a statement addressing concerns about its API. Snapchat says no developers are allowed to use its API, and any developer that does is violating Snapchat's Terms of Use. "We haven’t provided a public API to developers and we prohibit access to the private API we use to provide our service," Snapchat writes. "That means any application that isn’t ours but claims to offer Snapchat services violates our Terms of Use and can’t be trusted." Here's the full statement, from Snapchat's blog: Over the past few days we’ve fielded a number of questions about our API and third-party applications after a website that offered to save Snaps indicated that their database had been breached. We are grateful that the service provider acknowledged that Snapchat was never compromised, but we wanted to use this as an opportunity to reiterate the unfortunate threats these third-party applications can pose to our community.  A third-party application is any application that accesses the Snapchat API, but hasn’t been built and maintained by our company. Given the popularity of Snapchat and the size of our community, it’s no surprise that a cottage industry of app-makers has popped up to provide additional services to Snapchatters. Unfortunately, these applications often ask for Snapchat login credentials and use them to send or receive snaps and access account information. When you give your login credentials to a third-party application, you’re allowing a developer, and possibly a criminal, to access your account information and send information on your behalf. It takes time and a lot of resources to build an open and trustworthy third-party application ecosystem. That’s why we haven’t provided a public API to developers and why we prohibit access to the private API we use to provide our service. Don’t get us wrong - we’re excited by the interest in developing for the Snapchat platform - but we’re going to take our time to get it right. Until then, that means any application that isn’t ours but claims to offer Snapchat services violates our Terms of Use and can’t be trusted. Snapchat has always been a fun place to share Snaps with friends. The best way to keep our community safe is a combination of security countermeasures and common sense. We’ll continue to do our part by improving Snapchat’s security and calling on Apple and Google to take down third-party applications that access our API. You can help us out by avoiding the use of third-party applications. FREE AppDownload
 After living through the terrifying days of the financial crisis, a lot of Millennials either don't want or don't know how to get into the stock market. The problem is that if they don't, they'll lose their most valuable asset in the market — time. That's why Patrick O'Shaughnessy, a portfolio manager at O’Shaughnessy Asset Management, wrote a book about how millennials can get over their fear and into the market. It's called Millennial Money: How Young Investors Can Build a Fortune. Business Insider caught up with O'Shaughnessy to get his thoughts behind the book. Our key take away? Start investing soon, but don't get obsessed. Try to set and forget your investments as much as you can. "Make it all automatic and check your accounts as infrequently as possible," O'Shaughnessy told Business Insider. "Check out the services offered by Wealthfront, Acorns, Liftoff, and Vanguard that automate the entire investment process. The less involved you are, the better. If everything happens behind the scenes, you’ll be less tempted to make short-term (and short-sighted) changes to your portfolio. You’ll building wealth slowly, over the long term – which is the way it should be." What's more, you — the investor — are probably not as great a market timer as you think, as evidenced by this chart O'Shaughnessy sent over. A lot of the crowd tends to buy stocks high and sell low. Not a good call. Patrick O'Shaughnessy "Human nature compels us to do the wrong thing at the wrong timewith alarming consistency," said O'Shaughnessy. "The investing public buys at market peaks (think 2000) and sells at bottoms (think 2009), when they should be doing the opposite. If you can remove your emotions from the equation, you’ll do well. As all investors eventually find out, that is much easier said than done." Read Business Insider's full Q&amp;A with O'Shaughnessy below, and you can check out the book here. Business Insider: How long have you been investing? Patrick O'Shaughnessy: Eight years. I opened my first account at age 21. BI: Did you always know you would? PO: No. I studied philosophy in school, which Ambrose Bierce described as “a route of many roadsleading from nowhere to nothing,” so I was somewhat clueless. Even though my father was in the investing business, I still needed to learn the basics. BI: How did you start? PO: How everyone should: I put as much as I could into my 401(k) and then contributed to a separate investing account as well. BI: What's the easiest way to start investing? Make it all automatic and check your accounts as infrequently as possible. Check out the services offered by Wealthfront, Acorns, Liftoff, and Vanguard that automate the entire investment process. The less involved you are, the better. If everything happens behind the scenes, you’ll be less tempted to make short-term (and short-sighted) changes to your portfolio. You’ll start building wealth slowly, over the long term – which is the way it should be. BI: How did you get the idea for this book? PO: Millennials have only heard investing advice from long-time industry vets, not from one of their own. Millennials also tend to be overly conservative with their investments, so I wanted to help them redefine what is risky and what isn’t when it comes to their money. I wanted to reach the newest generation of investors and give them the background they need to get off on the right foot – and invest with success. BI: Why's your book important? PO: Most people don’t start thinking about investing until after they’ve already squandered the best investing edge out there: youth itself. This book should help many young people fix that problem. Our schools don’t teach us much about investing and personal finance, so we have to teach ourselves. In my experience, when you walk young people through the basics, they start investing right away. That is my goal with this book: to convince millennials to invest earlier and in greater quantities than they would have otherwise. BI: What's the most dangerous thing about investing? PO: Getting in your own way. Human nature compels us to do the wrong thing at the wrong time with alarming consistency. The investing public buys at market peaks (think 2000) and sells at bottoms (think 2009), when they should be doing the opposite. If you can remove your emotions from the equation, you’ll do well. As all investors eventually find out, that is much easier said than done. I spend several chapters in the book explaining how to overcome our investing emotions. BI: What's the hardest thing about investing for you? PO: Being patient. Millennials are the instant-gratification generation, so the fact that investing takes so long to work can be frustrating. Good investing is not fast and interesting, it is slow and boring. So in this case, boring is good. BI: How much money should you start investing? PO: As much as you can. There is nothing better than maxing out your 401(k) contribution. It’s obvious advice, but it’s true. If you start young enough, your young money has tremendous potential even in very small amounts. Get going!    FREE AppDownload
Morgan StanleyDouble Irish tax loophole explained by Morgan StanleyThe Irish have officially killed the much-loved corporate tax loophole known as the "Double Irish." Irish finance minister, Michael Noonan, announced today that the government is closing the loophole in the Irish budget starting January 1, 2015, though existing companies will have a transition period that lasts until 2020, according to the Irish Independent. Not to worry, though. Major corporations have plenty of tax loopholes left in the world — plenty of which originate in the United States. Here are three of the major tax loopholes that remain open: Check-the-box (U.S.). The check-the-box loophole “allows U.S. companies to strip profits from operations in high-tax countries simply by marking an Internal Revenue Service form that transforms subsidiaries into what the agency calls a ‘disregarded entity,’” according to a Propublica and Financial Times report back in 2011. Basically, the corporation checks a box that allows them to classify subsidiaries as offshore, and then defer paying taxes on profits from those subsidiaries as long as they don’t transfer the profits back into U.S.-based subsidiaries. Annual revenue losses for the U.S. are about $10 billion, according to the Propublica report. Look through rule (U.S.). The look-through rule was passed by U.S. Congress in 2006 and works as a companion policy to the check-the-box loophole. Reuters writes that “it bolstered the ‘check the box’ loophole by giving corporations more latitude to move some types of income from one foreign unit to another without paying a tax.” It wasn’t intended as a permanent rule, but it has continues to be extended every time it comes up, despite opposition from President Obama, according to Reuters. Double Luxembourg. Irish economist Seamus Coffey recently blogged about Amazon’s tax strategy in Luxembourg, which has a familiar ring to it: This is essentially the same thing as the Double Irish, just in Luxembourg. The one catch here is that the the OECD has its eye on these kinds of loopholes, and is pushing its member states to close them, which is why Ireland shut down the Double Irish. “The OECD is proposing to reduce the effectiveness of these schemes but trying to more forcibly link the location of profits with substance,” writes Coffey. Luxembourg’s tax structure hasn’t changed yet, but could very well be next. FREE AppDownload
Credit Suisse Research The top 10% of the world's population controls approximately 87% of the world's wealth. This is according to Credit Suisse's annual Global Wealth report. One of the major themes of the report was the ongoing rise in global inequality. "Personal wealth varies greatly across individuals," the analysts write. "During much of the last century, wealth differences contracted in high income countries, but this trend may have gone into reverse." The report's analysis considers two time periods: 2000-2007 and 2007-2014. For the most part, countries saw wealth inequality drop during the first period and increase during the second period.  Between 2000 and 2007, 74% of countries studied in the report saw a reduction in wealth inequality. In contrast, between 2007 and 2014, wealth inequality rose in 76% of the countries. China, Egypt, and Hong Kong saw the most rapid rises in wealth inequality over the last 14 years. All three actually saw a rapid rise during both time periods. On the other hand, the analysts found inequality has fallen rapidly in Poland and Saudi Arabia from 2000 - 2014. FREE AppDownload
David Silverman / Getty Images'Diversify' might not mean what you think.Even if you know only the bare basics of investing, you've probably heard that you need to "diversify" your portfolio — the technical term for not putting all of your investing eggs in one basket. According to Charles Schwab portfolio consultant Sean Moore, many investors don't quite implement the strategy like they should. A common mistake Moore sees is investors putting together a "collection" of investments rather than a portfolio. "You find that because investors don't understand what's going to serve their best big-picture objectives, and they purchase or select investments based on factors like past performance or names they recognize," Moore explains. Investing in a handful of mutual funds might seem diverse, he says, but the securities held in the funds may be incredibly similar. This strategy could lead not only to improperly diversified investments, but also to inappropriate levels of risk for your specific situation. Flickr / kate hiscockEggs in one basket: no. Eggs in many baskets: yes. "It's common to see investors holding funds that all hold securities from the S&amp;P 500 and that's it, or all technology, or something like that," Moore continues. "That isn't diversification, because you need to have a wide array of areas you can be successful in as an investor. If one area struggles, there should be other areas you can find success." Moore points out that "funds of funds," like target date funds, are available for investors who aren't completely secure in their own diversification strategies. "They're sometimes referred to as market or balanced funds," he explains. "Obviously it's not tailored to you specifically, but the idea is it's pre-diversified." However, he cautions, investors who are just starting out might want to work with an investment adviser on a properly diversified strategy more specifically tailored to them, since they probably have more time until they need the money and therefore a little more tolerance for risk.  FREE AppDownload
Wiki CommonsDarden Restaurants CEO Clarence Otis, who has came under fire from activist investors for his turnaround strategy, is stepping down.  Darden President and Chief Operating Officer Gene Lee will take over as interim CEO until the board's search committee selects someone to fill the role permanently.   The company, which owns the Olive Garden and LongHorn restaurant chains, had revealed in July that Otis would be stepping down on Dec. 31, unless Darden found his successor ahead of that date.  Activist investor Starboard Value has been pressuring Darden to shake up its management team for the last year. The company recently decided to elect all of the hedge fund's nominees to its board. Commenting on the appointment in a release,  Lee said, "I am thrilled with the opportunity provided by the board to lead the company and our 150,000 employees as we accelerate the progress at all of our brands. Our teams are energized and looking with optimism at the opportunities ahead. Everyone at Darden is focused on delivering an outstanding experience to every guest, every time, and with that level of commitment, our company will succeed." FREE AppDownload
ReutersThe modern gentleman doesn't just know where to go and how to dress — he knows how to think. The only way to do that, to learn how to make sense of the world with your mind, is to consider a lot of different thoughts. By and large, the best of those thoughts can be found in books that have stood the test of time. We have compiled a list of classics that can teach you how to think — about politics, love, philosophy, bravery — everything a man should know to face the world. All these books were written before 1980. You'll have to wait for another list for more recent reads. In the meantime, check these out. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungA worker in a hazardous material suit seals up a barrel at the apartment unit where a man diagnosed with the Ebola virus was staying in Dallas.It's an ugly day for the Ebola trade. Shares of hazmat suit maker Lakeland Industries and protective face mask company Alpha Pro Tech were down big in early trading on Tuesday. Shares of both Lakeland and Alpha Pro Tech were down more than 22%, giving up most of their huge gains from Monday. On Monday, shares of both companies went nuts, gaining 47% and 33%, respectively.  Over the last month, both of these stocks have gone parabolic, with both stocks gaining more than 250% as cases of Ebola have been confirmed in the US and Spain. In the last couple weeks, traders have piled in to Lakeland and Alpha Pro Tech as ways to trade the Ebola outbreak. And as this trade gets crowded, another name that has been floated by traders as a potential Ebola trade candidate is Cantel Medical, which makes water purification equipment, disinfectants, cleaners, and sterility assurance monitoring products for hospitals. In early trade on Tuesday, Cantel shares were up about 1%.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jim YoungA worker in a hazardous material suit seals up a barrel at the apartment unit where a man diagnosed with the Ebola virus was staying in Dallas.It's an ugly day for the Ebola trade. Shares of hazmat suit maker Lakeland Industries and protective face mask company Alpha Pro Tech were down big in early trading on Tuesday. Shares of both Lakeland and Alpha Pro Tech were down more than 22%, giving up most of their huge gains from Monday. On Monday, shares of both companies went nuts, gaining 47% and 33%, respectively.  Over the last month, both of these stocks have gone parabolic, with both stocks gaining more than 250% as cases of Ebola have been confirmed in the US and Spain. In the last couple weeks, traders have piled in to Lakeland and Alpha Pro Tech as ways to trade the Ebola outbreak. And as this trade gets crowded, another name that has been floated by traders as a potential Ebola trade candidate is Cantel Medical, which makes water purification equipment, disinfectants, cleaners, and sterility assurance monitoring products for hospitals. In early trade on Tuesday, Cantel shares were up about 1%.  FREE AppDownload
Natural disasters are having increasingly focused impacts on countries and communities, and these will need to prepare better for the future, according to an OECD report. This chart, from the report, shows that the overall number of disasters faced by OECD and BRIC countries went up steadily from 1980 until 2000, and then leveled off and declined: OECD Despite this, the cost of natural disasters, while somewhat noisy, went up dramatically over the same time period: OECD The OECD report notes that: In addition to talking about past disasters, the report goes on to look at various aspects of how countries and communities can better prepare for future calamities. For more detail, check out the report at the OECD's site. FREE AppDownload
Ethan Miller/Getty ImagesIn September 2013, Britney Spears spent $100,000 to elaborately announce her career comeback — a two-year residency at Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino in Las Vegas. That December, Spears took the stage to debut her new show, titled "Britney: Piece of Me." Spears' original two-year contract reportedly had her earning $30 million to perform 48 shows per year. With ticket prices at $60 to over $500, the residency has been so successful that in September, Spears announced she had extended her contract for an additional two years through 2017. While Spears' most recent album "Britney Jean" was a total flop, the singer's Las Vegas residency has been a huge win for Planet Hollywood. Citi credit analyst Jenna Giannelli explains in a new research note: Planet Hollywood – The property is doing very well, having been revitalized by the Britney Spears show. Prior to her contract, the company had EBITDA of ~$80mm that is now run-rating near $100mm. Her contract expires at the end of 2015, and the company is already engaging new acts to keep the momentum going. Further, as capex wraps up on the Quad, it will be reallocated toward properties that need refreshes including Planet Hollywood, whose rooms and pool need upgrades. In other words, Spears can take at least some credit for boosting Planet Hollywood's annual operating earnings by around $20 million. Note, this is the money the house keeps after paying Spears. The resort and casino was taken over by Caesars Entertainment in 2009 after the casino defaulted on its mortgage. As someone who has watched Spears lip-synch her way through the Vegas show, Planet Hollywood should consider itself lucky that people will still pay to see pop's one-time princess. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Fred ProuserLast Friday morning, billionaire energy tycoon T. Boone Pickens was in a meeting with another politically active hedge fund manager in New York City. The meeting between the two included a broad discussion on the Republican presidential field for 2016. Pickens told Business Insider later that morning that his colleague suggested there was "no prospect" 2012 Republican nominee Mitt Romney would run again. However, Pickens said he believes Romney is considering it since his past policy positions seem prescient.  "We were in a meeting this morning that said 'no prospect'. I think he's thinking about it. Because a lot of the stuff he said in those debates turned out to be true," said Pickens of Romney.  There has been mounting speculation Romney might mount another White House bid including a Washington Post article published Monday that said members of his inner circle are "nudging him to more seriously consider it." However, Romney's wife, Ann, also weighed in this week and said he is "done" with running for president. Overall, Pickens said the GOP has a strong presidential field to choose from. "We got good candidates. Romney was a good candidate. Romney would have been a good president," Pickens said, adding, "He's a good businessman. He's honest. He would have been good. He didn't appeal to enough voters. He had a record that you know that if you want to criticize it—it was criticized—I thought the record was good. Obama had no record of accomplishment or anything, so it's pretty hard to criticize him. He just came in empty-handed."  Pickens said other possible choices the Republican Party has include Jeb Bush, Chris Christie, Ben Carson and Paul Ryan. "Paul Ryan, I like him." On the Democratic side, Pickens noted Hillary Clinton "looks like she's serious about running." At this point his wife, Toni, chimed in.  "Are her hands clean on Benghazi?" Toni said of Clinton. "She's still got to digest that," Pickens said. Pickens also told us he thinks Obama is the worst president we've ever had. FREE AppDownload
Government bonds around the world are on a tear, sending yields to multi-year lows. The US 10-year Treasury note yield just made another low for the year. In early trade on Tuesday, the yield on the US 10-year fell below 2.2% to 2.19%, its lowest level since June 2013, while the German 10-year yield fell back below 0.9%.  The bond market in the US was closed on Monday for the Columbus Day holiday, but US stocks suffered their third straight losing session as the S&amp;P 500 completed its worst three-day stretch since 2011.  The fall in US bonds this year has gone against the consensus forecast from most every strategist on Wall Street.  At the beginning of the year, the 10-year was yielding 3%, and Wall Street's consensus estimate for 2014 was a rise to 3.4%. DoubleLine's Jeff Gundlach said that the 10-year would fall, not rise, during 2014, and in August told Business Insider that his expectation was for the 10-year to trade between 2.2%-2.8% during the balance of the year, with the risk being that it falls below 2.2%.  On Tuesday, that became reality. Bloomberg.com10-Year Treasury Yield In addition the 10-year's tumble, the yield on the US 30-Year Treasury bond also made a new low, falling below 3% for the first time since May 2013.  Bloomberg.com30-Year Treasury Yield And the fall in US yields comes as bonds in Europe continue to see yields tumble, led by Germany, which has seen the yield 10-year bunds fall back below 0.9%. Bloomberg.com10-Year Bund Yield  FREE AppDownload
Essam Al-Sudani/ReutersA worker checks the valves at the West Qurna oilfield in southern Basra October 13, 2014. Nearly 3 percent of global oil production is vulnerable to cuts if prices fall to $80 per barrel, making some projects in Canada, Angola, Brazil and Norway unprofitable, the International Energy Agency said. The estimate was included in a monthly report in which the IEA also cut its forecasts for oil demand and said prices may drop further. A tumble in the price from the year's high above $115 per barrel to below $90 has focused investors and oil companies once again on the breakeven level - the point at which net return on a project turns positive. "All told, roughly 2.6 million barrels per day of world crude oil production comes from projects with a breakeven price in excess of $80 per barrel," the report said on Tuesday. This represents 2.8 percent of the 93.2 million bpd of production in the third quarter of 2014. Some Canadian production has among the highest breakeven rates, the IEA said. "Canadian synthetics (oil sands) projects have the highest percentage of production of the types examined here (about 25 percent) that would fall into a negative net present value if there were to be an extended period of prices below that level," the report said. Projects with high breakeven rates are scattered around the world, however. "Places as diverse as onshore China, offshore shallow-water Malaysia, Nigeria, conventional onshore U.S., shallow-water UK and onshore conventional Russia have significant amounts of high breakeven production," the report said. It noted that some planned, high-cost projects had already been canceled. In the United States, slightly more than 4 percent of shale oil production requires a breakeven price of more than $80 per barrel, the IEA said. ReutersCharts Brent crude prize since 2010, with charts of oil production and supply by OPEC and non-OPEC member countries.A large proportion of deepwater exploration operations have high breakeven rates, the report noted, though the picture is mixed. "Some 8 percent of deepwater crude oil production is adjudged to require a breakeven of $80 per barrel or higher ... totaling some 1.05 million bpd or 1.1 percent of liquid production," the report said. "For ultra-deepwater alone (more than 1,500 meters), the results are, perhaps surprisingly, that very little of current output from those depths, less than 1 percent, requires such a breakeven price." More than 80 percent of deep-water production is based in Brazil and the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, where cost discipline ensures projects tend to be less exposed to higher breakeven levels than in Angola, Brazil, Norway and the United Kingdom.   (editing by Jane Baird) FREE AppDownload
Citigroup announced third quarter earnings on Tuesday morning, and along with a slight earnings beat the bank delivered the news that it would take "strategic actions" to leave markets where it's not making as much money, including Japan and Egypt.  Until they're sold off, the businesses will be piled in with the rest of the toxic assets Citi keeps in Citi Holdings. That's all the nasty stuff the bank has been trying to get rid of since the financial crisis.  Here's the relevant section of Citigroup's release: Strategic Actions: Global Consumer BankingCitigroup today announced strategic actions to accelerate the transformation of Global Consumer Banking (GCB) by focusing on those markets where it has the greatest scale and growth potential. As a result, Citigroup intends to exit its consumer businesses in 11 markets. The new consumer banking footprint will serve nearly 57 million clients in 24 markets that capture over 95% of GCB's existing revenue base, while further simplifying its operations and improving its performance. The affected businesses include the consumer franchises in Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, Guam, Guatemala, Hungary, Japan, Nicaragua, Panama and Peru, as well as the consumer finance business in Korea. Active sales processes are underway for the majority of the businesses, and subject to market conditions and regulatory and other approvals, the strategic actions are currently expected to be substantially completed by year-end 2015. The businesses will be reported as part of Citi Holdings as of the first quarter 2015 to provide greater transparency with respect to the performance of the ongoing operations reported in GCB. Citigroup's Institutional Clients Group (ICG) will continue to serve clients in these markets. "I am committed to simplifying our company and allocating our finite resources to where we can generate the best returns for our shareholders. While we have made progress optimizing these 11 consumer markets, we believe our Global Consumer Bank will achieve stronger performance by focusing on the countries where our scale and network provide a competitive advantage," Mr. Corbat concluded. Manuel Medina-Mora, Citi Co-President and CEO of GCB, said: "Today's actions are the next step in the execution of our strategy to build an urban-based, globally integrated consumer bank. Since 2009, the Global Consumer Bank has become more streamlined, efficient and profitable. Focusing our presence in 100 cities across both the U.S. and top emerging markets where we have the greatest scale and growth potential positions us to win." FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesCitigroup just reported third quarter earnings results beating Wall Street analyst estimates.  For the quarter, the bank reported adjusted EPS $1.15. On average, analysts expected the bank to report adjusted EPS of $1.12. Revenue for the third quarter came in at $19.6 billion beating estimates of $19.08 billion. Shares of Citi were up more than 2.5% in the pre-market following the earnings report.  In the release, Citigroup also said that it intends to exit 11 consumer-banking markets worldwide.  Those markets include, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, Guam, Guatemala, Hungary, Japan, Nicaragua, Panama and Peru, as well as the consumer finance business in Korea. "I am committed to simplifying our company and allocating our finite resources to where we can generate the best returns for our shareholders. While we have made progress optimizing these 11 consumer markets, we believe our Global Consumer Bank will achieve stronger performance by focusing on the countries where our scale and network provide a competitive advantage," Corbat said in a statement.  Here's the earnings release: Citigroup Reports Third Quarter 2014 Earnings per Share of $1.07; $1.15 Excluding CVA/DVA1 Announces Strategic Actions in Global Consumer Banking to Reduce Footprint from 35 to 24 Markets  Net Income of $3.4 Billion; $3.7 Billion Excluding CVA/DVA  Revenues of $19.6 Billion; $20.0 Billion Excluding CVA/DVA  Net Interest Margin Increased to 2.91%  Net Credit Losses of $2.1 Billion Declined 14% Versus Prior-Year Period  Utilized Approximately $700 Million of Deferred Tax Assets  Basel III Tier 1 Common Ratio of 10.7%2  Estimated Basel III Supplementary Leverage Ratio of 6.0%3  Book Value Per Share Increased to $67.31Tangible Book Value Per Share4 Increased To $57.73  Citi Holdings Assets of $103 Billion Declined 16% from Prior-Year Period and Represented 5% of Total Citigroup Assets at Quarter End New York – Citigroup Inc. today reported net income for the third quarter 2014 of $3.4 billion, or $1.07 per diluted share, on revenues of $19.6 billion. This compared to net income of $3.2 billion, or $1.00 per diluted share, on revenues of $17.9 billion for the third quarter 2013. CVA/DVA was negative $371 million (negative $228 million after-tax) in the third quarter 2014, including a $474 million pre-tax charge related to Citigroup's implementation in the quarter of funding valuation adjustments (FVA)1, compared to negative $336 million (negative $208 million after-tax) in the prior year period. Third quarter 2013 results also included a $176 million tax benefit related to the resolution of certain tax audit items (recorded within Corporate/Other). Excluding CVA/DVA and the tax benefit in the third quarter 20135, earnings were $1.15 per diluted share, a 13% increase from prior year earnings of $1.02 per diluted share. Michael Corbat, Chief Executive Officer of Citi, said, "Our consumer bank and institutional business each had solid performance during the quarter and generated stronger revenues both sequentially and year-on-year. The revenue improvement was evident across regions and products. With Citi Holdings again turning a profit and the utilization of additional deferred tax assets, we again demonstrated progress against two execution priorities and increased our capital base. We also continued our work to strengthen our capital planning process to meet the critical goal of returning capital to our shareholders." Strategic Actions: Global Consumer BankingCitigroup today announced strategic actions to accelerate the transformation of Global Consumer Banking (GCB) by focusing on those markets where it has the greatest scale and growth potential. As a result, Citigroup intends to exit its consumer businesses in 11 markets. The new consumer banking footprint will serve nearly 57 million clients in 24 markets that capture over 95% of GCB's existing revenue base, while further simplifying its operations and improving its performance. The affected businesses include the consumer franchises in Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, Guam, Guatemala, Hungary, Japan, Nicaragua, Panama and Peru, as well as the consumer finance business in Korea. Active sales processes are underway for the majority of the businesses, and subject to market conditions and regulatory and other approvals, the strategic actions are currently expected to be substantially completed by year-end 2015. The businesses will be reported as part of Citi Holdings as of the first quarter 2015 to provide greater transparency with respect to the performance of the ongoing operations reported in GCB. Citigroup's Institutional Clients Group (ICG) will continue to serve clients in these markets. "I am committed to simplifying our company and allocating our finite resources to where we can generate the best returns for our shareholders. While we have made progress optimizing these 11 consumer markets, we believe our Global Consumer Bank will achieve stronger performance by focusing on the countries where our scale and network provide a competitive advantage," Mr. Corbat concluded. Manuel Medina-Mora, Citi Co-President and CEO of GCB, said: "Today's actions are the next step in the execution of our strategy to build an urban-based, globally integrated consumer bank. Since 2009, the Global Consumer Bank has become more streamlined, efficient and profitable. Focusing our presence in 100 cities across both the U.S. and top emerging markets where we have the greatest scale and growth potential positions us to win." Third Quarter Financial ResultsRead the full press release with tables. CitigroupCitigroup revenues of $19.6 billion in the third quarter 2014 increased 9% from the prior year period. Excluding CVA/DVA, revenues of $20.0 billion increased 10% from the prior year period. This increase was driven by 8% growth in Citicorp revenues, due to increased revenues in both ICG and GCB, and a 30% increase in Citi Holdings revenues. Citigroup's net income rose 7% to $3.4 billion in the third quarter 2014 from $3.2 billion in the prior year period. Excluding CVA/DVA in both periods and the tax benefit in the prior year period, Citigroup net income of $3.7 billion increased 13% versus the prior year period, driven by higher revenues and a decline in credit costs, partially offset by higher operating expenses. Operating expenses were $12.4 billion in the third quarter 2014, 6% higher than the $11.7 billion in the prior year period, driven by higher legal and related expenses and repositioning costs in Citicorp (largely in Corporate/Other), an adjustment to incentive compensation expense as a result of better than anticipated performance year-to-date in ICG, and higher regulatory and compliance costs, partially offset by continued cost reduction initiatives and the overall decline in Citi Holdings assets. Operating expenses in the third quarter 2014 included legal and related expenses of $951 million, compared to $677 million in the prior year period, and $382 million of repositioning charges, compared to $133 million in the prior year period. Citigroup's cost of credit in the third quarter 2014 was $1.8 billion, a decrease of 11% from the prior year period, primarily reflecting a $333 million improvement in net credit losses, partially offset by a lower net release of loan loss reserves. Citi's effective tax rate was 36% in the current quarter, an increase from 30% in the prior year period, excluding CVA/DVA in both periods and the tax benefit in the prior year period, driven in part by a higher level of non-tax-deductible legal accruals and higher tax costs related to Citigroup's sales of its consumer operations in Greece and Spain, each in the current period. Citigroup's allowance for loan losses was $16.9 billion at quarter end, or 2.60% of total loans, compared to $20.6 billion, or 3.16% of total loans, at the end of the prior year period. The $552 million net release of loan loss reserves in the current quarter compared to a $675 million release in the prior year period. Citigroup asset quality continued to improve as total non-accrual assets fell to $8.0 billion, a 19% reduction compared to the third quarter 2013. Corporate non-accrual loans declined 38% to $1.4 billion, while consumer non-accrual loans declined 13% to $6.3 billion. Citigroup's loans were $654 billion and deposits were $943 billion as of quarter end, each down 1% from the prior year period. On a constant dollar basis7, Citigroup's loans grew by 1%, as growth in Citicorp was partially offset by continued declines in Citi Holdings driven primarily by the North America mortgage portfolio, and deposits were largely unchanged. Citigroup's capital levels and book value per share increased versus the prior year period. As of quarter end, book value per share was $67.31 and tangible book value per share was $57.73, 4% and 6% increases, respectively, versus the prior year period. At quarter end, Citigroup's Basel III Tier 1 Common ratio was 10.7%, up from 10.5% in the prior year period, largely driven by earnings and the utilization of deferred tax assets (DTA). Citigroup utilized approximately $700 million of DTA in the third quarter 2014 and $2.9 billion year-to-date 2014. Citigroup's estimated Basel III Supplementary Leverage ratio for the third quarter 2014 was 6.0% as calculated under the revised final U.S. Basel III rules, up from 5.1% in the prior year period.3 CiticorpCiticorp revenues of $18.0 billion in the third quarter 2014 increased 8% from the prior year period. CVA/DVA, reported within ICG, was negative $316 million in the third quarter 2014 (negative $194 million after-tax), compared to negative $332 million (negative $206 million after-tax) in the prior year period. Excluding CVA/DVA, revenues were up 8% from the third quarter 2013, reflecting increases in ICG and GCB revenues of 13% and 4%, respectively. Corporate/Other revenues were $8 million versus $42 million in the prior year period, primarily due to hedging activities. Citicorp net income decreased 4% from the prior year period to $3.2 billion. Excluding CVA/DVA and the tax benefit in the prior year period, net income increased 1% compared to the prior year period, as higher revenues and continued improvement in credit were partially offset by higher operating expenses. Citicorp operating expenses increased 11% from the prior year period to $11.5 billion primarily reflecting higher legal and related expenses and repositioning charges, an adjustment to incentive compensation expense in ICG, and higher regulatory and compliance costs, partially offset by continued efficiency savings. Citicorp cost of credit of $1.4 billion in the third quarter 2014 declined 25% from the prior year period. The decline reflected a 3% decline in net credit losses and a higher net loan loss reserve release, which increased $412 million versus the prior year period. Citicorp's consumer loans 90+ days delinquent increased 2% from the prior year period to $2.8 billion, but the 90+ days delinquency ratio remained roughly stable at 0.92% of loans. Citicorp end of period loans grew 3% versus the prior year period to $576 billion, with 3% growth in corporate loans to $277 billion and 2% growth in consumer loans to $299 billion. On a constant dollar basis, Citicorp end of period loans grew 4% versus the prior year period, with 5% growth in corporate loans and 3% growth in consumer loans. Global Consumer BankingGCB revenues of $9.6 billion increased 4% from the prior year period, driven by growth in North America, Latin America and Asia. GCB net income rose 26% versus the prior year period to $1.9 billion, reflecting the increase in revenues and a lower cost of credit, partially offset by higher operating expenses. Operating expenses increased 2% to $5.3 billion versus the prior year period, mostly reflecting higher legal and related expenses and repositioning charges, partially offset by ongoing cost reduction initiatives. North America GCB revenues rose 5% to $5.0 billion versus the prior year period reflecting higher revenues in each of retail banking, Citi-branded card and Citi retail services. Retail banking revenues rose 9% to $1.2 billion from the third quarter 2013, reflecting 9% growth in average loans and 2% growth in average deposits, as well as higher revenues in the U.S. mortgage business driven by a repurchase reserve release of approximately $50 million in the current quarter. Citi-branded cards revenues of $2.1 billion were up 1% versus last year, as purchase sales grew and an improvement in spreads mostly offset the impact of lower average loans. Citi retail services revenues increased 8% to $1.6 billion, mainly reflecting the impact of the Best Buy portfolio acquisition. North America GCB net income was $1.2 billion, up 33% versus the third quarter 2013, driven by the increase in revenues, a decline in net credit losses and a higher loan loss reserve release. Operating expenses were slightly lower versus the prior year period at $2.4 billion, as ongoing cost reduction initiatives were partially offset by the impact of higher expenses associated with the Best Buy portfolio and increased legal and related expenses and repositioning charges. North America GCB credit quality continued to improve as net credit losses of $1.0 billion decreased 6% versus the prior year period. Net credit losses improved versus the prior year period in Citi-branded cards (down 14% to $526 million) but increased 5% in Citi retail services to $457 million, due to the Best Buy portfolio acquisition. Delinquency rates continued to improve in both Citi-branded cards and Citi retail services. The reserve release in the third quarter 2014 was $340 million, $115 million higher than in the third quarter 2013, due to the continued improvement in each of the cards portfolios. International GCB revenues increased 3% versus the third quarter 2013 to $4.6 billion. On a constant dollar basis, international GCB revenues were up 5% versus the third quarter 2013, with growth in each region. In constant dollars, revenues in Latin Americaincreased 6% to $2.4 billion as volume growth more than offset spread compression. InAsia, revenues rose by 4% to $1.9 billion primarily due to volume growth and an increase in investment sales revenues, partially offset by the ongoing impact of regulatory changes and the franchise repositioning in Korea. In EMEA, revenues increased 1% to $347 million due to higher volumes, partially offset by the previously-announced market exits in 2013. International GCB net income increased 16% from the prior year period to $742 million, and increased 22% in constant dollars. On a constant dollar basis, higher revenues and lower credit costs more than offset higher operating expenses. Operating expenses in the third quarter 2014 increased 5% in constant dollars (increased 4% on a reported basis) as higher legal and related expenses and repositioning charges, the impact of business growth and higher regulatory and compliance costs were partially offset by ongoing efficiency savings. Credit costs declined 13% versus the prior year period driven by a net loan loss reserve release in the current quarter. International GCB credit quality primarily reflected portfolio seasoning as well as the ongoing impact of fiscal reforms and slower economic growth in Mexico. Net credit losses rose 11% to $721 million, primarily reflecting the impact of portfolio growth as well as portfolio seasoning in Latin America. The international net credit loss rate was 1.99% of average loans in the third quarter 2014, compared to 1.89% in the prior year period. Institutional Clients GroupICG revenues rose 14% from the prior year period to $8.4 billion. Excluding the impact of CVA/DVA, revenues were $8.7 billion, 13% higher than the prior year period, reflecting higher revenues in each of Banking and Markets and Securities Services.   Banking revenues of $4.3 billion increased 11% from the prior year period, primarily reflecting growth in Investment Banking revenues. Investment Banking revenues increased 32% versus the prior year period, driven by a 90% increase in advisory revenues to $318 million, a 51% increase in equity underwriting revenues to $298 million, and a 9% increase in debt underwriting revenues to $632 million. Private Bankrevenues increased 8% to $663 million from the prior year period (excluding negative $6 million of CVA/DVA) as growth in client volumes was partially offset by the impact of spread compression. Corporate Lending revenues rose 17% versus the prior year period to $442 million reflecting growth in average loans and improved funding costs, partially offset by lower loan yields. Treasury and Trade Solutions revenues of $2.0 billion were up 1% versus the prior year period as volume and fee growth was partially offset by the impact of spread compression globally. Markets and Securities Services revenues of $4.3 billion (excluding negative $310 million of CVA/DVA, versus negative $326 million in the third quarter 2013) rose 8% from the prior year period. Fixed Income Markets revenues of $3.0 billion in the third quarter 2014 (excluding negative $306 million of CVA/DVA) increased 5% from the prior year period reflecting strength in securitized products as well as an improvement in rates and currencies. Equity Markets revenues of $763 million (excluding negative $4 million of CVA/DVA) were up 14% versus the prior year period, reflecting improved client activity in derivatives. Securities Services revenues of $600 million grew 8% versus the prior year period due to increased client balances and activity. ICG net income was $2.3 billion in the third quarter 2014. Excluding CVA/DVA, net income of $2.5 billion grew 29% from the prior year period, primarily reflecting the increase in revenues and improved credit costs, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. Operating expenses grew 3% to $5.0 billion due to an adjustment to incentive compensation expense as a result of better than anticipated performance year-to-date, higher regulatory and compliance costs and higher repositioning charges, partially offset by ongoing efficiency savings. ICG average loans grew 7% versus the prior year period to $278 billion while end of period deposits remained roughly unchanged at $567 billion. In constant dollars, average loans were up 7% versus the prior year period, while end of period deposits increased 2%. Citi HoldingsCiti Holdings revenues in the third quarter 2014 increased 26% versus the prior year period to $1.6 billion. Revenues in the third quarter 2014 included CVA/DVA of negative $55 million, compared to negative $4 million in the prior year period. Excluding CVA/DVA, Citi Holdings revenues increased 30%, primarily driven by gains on the sales of consumer operations in Greece and Spain as well as lower funding costs, partially offset by losses on the redemption of debt associated with funding Citi Holdings assets. As of the end of the quarter, Citi Holdings assets were $103 billion, 16% below the prior year period, and represented approximately 5% of total Citigroup assets. Citi Holdings net income was $238 million in the third quarter 2014, compared to a net loss of $115 million in the prior year period. Excluding CVA/DVA, net income was $272 million, up from a loss of $113 million in the prior year period, reflecting the higher revenues, lower operating expenses and lower net credit losses, partially offset by a lower net loan loss reserve release. Operating expenses in the third quarter 2014 declined 36% from the prior year period, principally reflecting lower legal and related expenses ($126 million in the third quarter 2014, compared to $595 million in the prior year period) as well as productivity savings and the ongoing decline in Citi Holdings assets, partially offset by $59 million of costs related to the sales of the consumer operations in Greece and Spain. Net credit losses decreased 45% from the prior year period to $347 million, primarily driven by continued improvements in the North Americamortgage portfolio. The net loan loss reserve release decreased 79% from the prior year period to $144 million, primarily due to lower releases related to the North Americamortgage portfolio. Citi Holdings allowance for credit losses was $5.0 billion at the end of the third quarter 2014, or 6.44% of loans, compared to $7.3 billion, or 7.59% of loans, in the prior year period. 90+ days delinquent consumer loans in Citi Holdings decreased 29% to $2.1 billion, or 2.93% of loans. Citigroup will host a conference call today at 11:30 a.m. (ET). A live webcast of the presentation, as well as financial results and presentation materials, will be available athttp://www.citigroup.com/citi/investor. Dial-in numbers for the conference call are as follows: (866) 516-9582 in the U.S. and Canada; (973) 409-9210 outside of the U.S. and Canada. The conference code for both numbers is 90833821.   FREE AppDownload
ReutersWells Fargo reported its third quarter earnings Tuesday morning, and the numbers came right in live with expectations. Analysts polled by Bloomberg expected the bank's revenue to come in at $21.11 billion with an adjusted earnings per share of $1.02.  The bank reported a third quarter earnings per share of $1.02 and a revenue of $21.2 billion. Net income was up 3% from the this time last year, at $5.7 billion. The bank also reported a return on equity of 13.10%.  FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogYesterday’s print version of the FT included an article titled, “Buybacks: Money Well Spent?” It makes the same argument that I have been making for the past few years: The Fed’s ultra-easy monetary policies, including NZIRP and QE, have given a tremendous incentive for companies to issue cheap debt to buy expensive stock. This has “diverted corporate cash from creating jobs and investment,” according to the FT story. Let’s quickly review the data on this. S&amp;P 500 buybacks have totaled $2.0 trillion from Q1-2009 through Q2-2014. Over the same period, net issuance of nonfinancial corporate bonds totaled $1.2 trillion. Operating profits of the S&amp;P 500 companies totaled $4.4 trillion since Q2-2009. So S&amp;P 500 buybacks amounted to 45% of their profits since Q2-2009, and over 50% during the first half of this year. In current dollars, capital spending in the GDP accounts increased from $1.64 trillion (saar) during Q2-2009 to $2.19 trillion during Q2-2014. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Running Out of Ammo? (1) Global slowdown front-page news. (2) Litany of woes. (3) From “shock and awe” to “Aw, shucks!” (4) Divided we fall. (5) G20 have no plan. (6) Abe sees downside of yen’s downside. (7) Fed’s Fischer leaning towards “none and done.” (8) Lagarde’s plea. (9) Unintended consequences of ultra-easy money include buybacks. (10) China isn’t tanking just yet. (11) S&amp;P 500 forward revenues at record high. (12) S&amp;P 500 forward earnings stalling at record high. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michael DalderThe German government just cut its economy's 2014 GDP growth forecast to 1.2% from 1.8% and 2015 forecast to 1.3% from 2%. This follows more awful figures from the Eurozone: industrial production dropped 1.9% in the year to August. Economists had expected a 1.6% drop between July and August, but got a steeper 1.8% decline. A lot of that is driven by Germany's abysmal industrial figures. The powerhouse economy recorded a 4% drop between July and August.  "Even if production rebounds in September - quite likely given the partly calendar-related weakness of German data – the euro area’s industrial sector may well be back in recession following a small quarterly contraction in the second quarter," said Robert Kuenzel of Daiwa Capital Markets in a note this morning. The performance of Europe's industrial sector is so awful that output levels are now below where they were four years ago, and more than a tenth lower than their pre-financial crisis highs: EurostatGermany's ZEW index of economic sentiment also just came out, and it's in negative territory for the first time since 2012. At -3.6 in October, German investors are now more bearish than they are positive for the first time in nearly two years. We've already had some worrying data out this morning: French inflation dropped to 0.4% in September, a five year low, and Spain's figure came in at -0.3%, the third straight month of deflation. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSignage at a Domino's pizza restaurant is pictured in Burbank, California(Reuters) - Domino's Pizza Inc  on Tuesday reported a quarterly profit that topped Wall Street's estimates, boosted by strong results overseas and its home market of the United States, where rival Pizza Hut is struggling. The second-largest U.S. pizza chain by store count said net income rose to $35.6 million, or 63 cents per share, in the third quarter ended Sept. 7 from $30.6 million, or 53 cents per share, a year earlier. Analysts on average had expected a profit of 61 cents per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Revenue rose 10.5 percent to $446.6 million after sales at stores open at least one year at domestic and international shops increased more than expected. Domino's rivals include Yum Brands Inc's  Pizza Hut, Little Caesars Pizza and Papa John's International Inc . Domino's had 5,002 domestic outlets and 6,119 international stores at the end of the quarter.  (Reporting by Lisa Baertlein in Los Angeles; Editing by Savio D'Souza) FREE AppDownload
Quick heads up. Germany just cut its growth outlook. Markit FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonMany thousands of Americans who lost their homes in the housing bust, but have since begun to rebuild their finances, are suddenly facing a new foreclosure nightmare: debt collectors are chasing them down for the money they still owe by freezing their bank accounts, garnishing their wages and seizing their assets. By now, banks have usually sold the houses. But the proceeds of those sales were often not enough to cover the amount of the loan, plus penalties, legal bills and fees. The two big government-controlled housing finance companies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as well as other mortgage players, are increasingly pressing borrowers to pay whatever they still owe on mortgages they defaulted on years ago. Using a legal tool known as a "deficiency judgment," lenders can ensure that borrowers are haunted by these zombie-like debts for years, and sometimes decades, to come. Before the housing bubble, banks often refrained from seeking deficiency judgments, which were seen as costly and an invitation for bad publicity. Some of the biggest banks still feel that way. But the housing crisis saddled lenders with more than $1 trillion of foreclosed loans, leading to unprecedented losses. Now, at least some large lenders want their money back, and they figure it’s the perfect time to pursue borrowers: many of those who went through foreclosure have gotten new jobs, paid off old debts and even, in some cases, bought new homes. "Just because they don't have the money to pay the entire mortgage, doesn't mean they don't have enough for a deficiency judgment," said Florida foreclosure defense attorney Michael Wayslik. Advocates for the banks say that the former homeowners ought to pay what they owe. Consumer advocates counter that deficiency judgments blast those who have just recovered from financial collapse back into debt — and that the banks bear culpability because they made the unsustainable loans in the first place. Borrowers are usually astonished to find out they still owe thousands of dollars on homes they haven't thought about for years. In 2008, bank teller Danell Huthsing broke up with her boyfriend and moved out of the concrete bungalow they shared in Jacksonville, Florida. Her name was on the mortgage even after she moved out, and when her boyfriend defaulted on the loan, her name was on the foreclosure papers, too. She moved to St. Louis, Missouri, where she managed to amass $20,000 of savings and restore her previously stellar credit score in her job as a service worker at an Amtrak station.   But on July 5, a process server showed up on her doorstep with a lawsuit demanding $91,000 for the portion of her mortgage that was still unpaid after the home was foreclosed and sold. If she loses, the debt collector that filed the suit can freeze her bank account, garnish up to 25 percent of her wages, and seize her paid-off 2005 Honda Accord. "For seven years you think you're good to go, that you've put this behind you," said Huthsing, who cleared her savings out of the bank and stowed the money in a safe to protect it from getting seized. "Then wham, you get slapped to the floor again." Bankruptcy is one way out for consumers in this rub. But it has serious drawbacks: it can trash a consumer's credit report for up to ten years, making it difficult to get credit cards, car loans or home financing. Oftentimes, borrowers will instead go on a repayment plan or simply settle the suits — without questioning the filings or hiring a lawyer — in exchange for paying a lower amount. Though court officials and attorneys in foreclosure-ravaged regions like Florida, Ohio and Illinois all say the cases are surging, no one keeps official tabs on the number nationally. "Statistically, this is a real difficult task to get a handle on," said Geoff Walsh, an attorney with the National Consumer Law Center.   Officials in individual counties say that the cases, while virtually zero a year or two ago, now number in the hundreds in each county. Thirty-eight states, along with the District of Columbia, allow financial institutions recourse to claw back these funds.  "I've definitely noticed a huge uptick," said Cook County, Illinois homeowner attorney Sandra Emerson. "They didn’t include language in court motions to pursue these. Now, they do." Three of the biggest mortgage lenders, Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co and Wells Fargo &amp; Co., all say that they typically don't pursue deficiency judgments, though they reserve the right to do so. "We may pursue them on a case-by-case basis looking at a variety of factors, including investor and mortgage insurer requirements, the financial status of the borrower and the type of hardship," said Wells Fargo spokesman Tom Goyda. The banks would not comment on why they avoid deficiency judgments. Perhaps the most aggressive among the debt pursuers is Fannie Mae. Of the 595,128 foreclosures Fannie Mae was involved in – either through owning or guaranteeing the loans - from January 2010 through June 2012, it referred 293,134 to debt collectors for possible pursuit of deficiency judgments, according to a 2013 report by the Inspector General for the agency’s regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency. It is unclear how many of the loans that get sent to debt collectors actually get deficiency judgments, but the IG urged the FHFA to direct Fannie Mae, along with Freddie Mac, to pursue more of them from the people who could repay them. It appears as if Fannie Mae is doing just that. In Florida alone in the past year, for example, at least 10,000 lawsuits have been filed — representing hundreds of millions of dollars of payments, according to Jacksonville, Florida-based attorney Chip Parker. Kevin Lamarque/ReutersParker is about to file a class action lawsuit against the Dallas-based debt collection company, Dyck O'Neal, which is working to recoup the money on behalf of Fannie Mae. The class action will allege that Dyck O'Neal violated fair debt collection practices by suing people in the state of Florida who actually lived out of state. Dyck O'Neal declined to comment. In Lee County, Florida, for example, Dyck O'Neal only filed four foreclosure-related deficiency judgment cases last year. So far this year, it has filed 360 in the county, which has more than 650,000 residents and includes Ft. Myers. The insurer the Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Company has also filed about 1,000 cases this past year in Florida alone. Andrew Wilson, a spokesman for Fannie Mae, said the finance giant is focusing on "strategic defaulters:" those who could have paid their mortgages but did not. Fannie Mae analyzes borrowers' ability to repay based on their open credit lines, assets, income, expenses, credit history, mortgages and properties, according to the 2013 IG report.  "Fannie Mae and the taxpayers suffered a loss. We're focusing on people who had the ability to make a payment but decided not to do so,” said Wilson. Freddie Mac spokesman Brad German said the decision to pursue deficiency judgments for any particular loan is made on a "case-by-case basis." The FHFA declined to comment. But homeowner-defense lawyers point out that separating strategic defaulters from those who were in real distress can be tricky. If a distressed borrower suddenly manages to improve their financial position – by, for example, getting a better-paying job - they can be classified as a strategic defaulter. Dyck O'Neal works with most national lenders and servicing companies to collect on charged-off residential real estate. It purchases foreclosure debts outright, often for pennies on the dollar, and also performs collections on a contingency basis on behalf of entities like Fannie Mae. "The debt collectors tend to be much more aggressive than the lenders had been," the National Consumer Law Center's Walsh said. A big reason for the new surge in deficiency claims, attorneys say, is that states like Florida have recently enacted laws limiting the time financial institutions have to sue for the debt after a foreclosure. In Florida, for example, financial institutions now only have a year after a foreclosure sale to sue — down from five. Once financial institutions secure a judgment, they can sometimes have years to collect on the claim. In Maryland, for example, they have as long as 36 years to chase people down for the debt. Financial institutions can charge post-judgment interest of an estimated 4.75 percent a year on the remaining balance until the statute of limitation runs out, which can drive people deeper into debt.   "This is monumentally unfair and damaging to the economy," said Ira Rheingold, the executive director of the National Association of Consumer Advocates. "It prevents people from moving forward with their lives." Software developer Doug Weinberg was just getting back on his feet when he got served in July with a $61,000 deficiency judgment on his old condo in Miami's Biscayne Bay. Weinberg thought the ordeal was over after Bank of America, which rejected Weinberg’s short sale offers, foreclosed in 2009. "It's a curse," said Weinberg. "It's still haunting me. It just doesn't go away."   (Reporting by Michelle Conlin in New York; Editing by Dan Wilchins and Martin Howell) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPerruso and Ciliento prepare their bar for its opening in Seaside HeightsWASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. small business optimism fell in September as more owners said they expected a slowdown in profits and sales, tightening credit conditions and a harder time filling job openings, according to a survey released on Tuesday. The National Federation of Independent Business said its Small Business Optimism Index fell 0.8 point to 95.3. The index is now five points below where it was before the start of the 2007-2009 financial crisis and recession. Six of the index's 10 components fell in the survey of 608 randomly-selected small business owners. Still, more business owners said they believed it was a good time to expand their firms and expected better conditions in six months. Owners added an average of 0.24 workers per firm last month on a seasonally adjusted basis, an improvement from August's average of 0.02 workers. Half of the owners said they had hired or tried to hire in the last three months, although 42 percent said they had a hard time finding qualified candidates. The survey suggests weaker job creation as those surveyed said they planned to hire fewer workers and spend less on capital investments. "Overall, no progress, still stuck in a rut that has been difficult to escape with so little progress on the issues important to small business owners," NFIB chief economist William Dunkelberg said, referring to the survey results.   (Reporting by Elvina Nawaguna; Editing by Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
It's easy to run a regression in Excel. The output contains a ton of information but you only need to understand a few key data points to make sense of your regression. You need the Analysis Toolpak add-in to run regressions. It comes with Excel but you may need to load it if you don't see Data Analysis under the Data toolbar. Click here to see how to install the add-in. Produced by Sara Silverstein Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Dave Lutz of JonesTrading has the top topics about which traders are talking about today: Good Morning!  US Futures are higher, but well off the best levels of the overnight.   It’s encouraging that Russell is up 60bp, but that didn’t signal a strong session yesterday as the Oil and Gas sector was pummeled once again.   While Ebola headlines have subsided (Passengers on that Emirates flight in Boston have been cleared), yesterday’s gappy action in Airlines show that headline risk looms large (shoot first, then ask questions).   Low growth will remain in focus, as IEA slashes Oil demand estimates, and notes it will take sub $80 to start knocking US shale producers offline – while Light inflation readings overnight from India, Japan, UK, France and Spain, coupled with a horrific ZEW survey from Germany have Euro Players on the back foot, with the DAX off 75bp in decent volume.    The FTSE is outperforming, as a bid resurfaces in Tech shares, and the Miners are seeing a nice bounce.   Over in Asia, Tokyo returns from a 3day weekend to lose 2.4% as the Yen jumps, while China lost small.   Taiwan recovered 60bp from its 3% rout yesterday – but the standout winner is Aussie, gaining 1% as every industry group rallied, led by a 2.5% pop in the miners.  Government Bond yields are sharply under pressure this AM, as the US Credit market returns to their desks.   The 30YY collapses below 3%, 10YY off 7bp and heading towards 2% as German paper trades near low yields – In Europe, there has been some focus on Greek Bonds getting hit as EU ministers’ debate bailout exit, but their paper is off the worst levels.    The $ is making gains against the Euro, but has lost it’s pre-morning bid against the Yen – key to watch that cross today.    Ruble hit again and Russian yields hit 5Y highs as Oil continues its downward trend - WTI nearing 2Y lows, Brent 4Y lows.  Despite the stronger dollar, there is a bid in some Metals, with Silver and Copper firmly in the green, followed by Gold hitting 4week highs.   Natty Gas continues to outperform in the energy complex, outperforming WTI by 4% and Gasoline by almost 6% in the last week  Focus on Earnings today, with C, JPM, WFC, INTC, and JNJ all posting numbers.    The Banks outperformed yesterday into earnings, JPM were numbers released early - profit misses, revs beat, stock is off small.    Watch Luxury Goods – Mulberry off 20% and Burberry 4% in London on weak #s.  LVMH after the close today.   With the rout in Semis since MCHP, heavy focus will me on LLTC (MCHP comp) and INTC tonight.    Aside from earnings, we get NFIB Small Business Optimism at 7:30, a $1B POMO at 11, and API data tonight for the Crude Complex ahead of inflation data tonight from China. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock ExchangeBy Chuck Mikolajczak NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stock index futures were little changed on Tuesday, after the S&amp;P 500 suffered its worst three-day drop since November 2011, ahead of earnings results from companies such as Johnson &amp; Johnson  and Citigroup . * JPMorgan Chase  shares edged down 0.4 percent to $57.95 in premarket, after the biggest U.S. bank posted third-quarter earnings. The results were released earlier than anticipated on an investment website ahead of its official release on Tuesday. * The benchmark S&amp;P closed below its 200-day moving average for the first time since Nov. 16, 2012 on Monday and is now down 6.8 percent from its record closing high on September 18 on concerns global economic weakness could hurt U.S. earnings and the potential spread of Ebola. * The CBOE Volatility index  ended Monday's session at 24.64, its highest close since June 2012. * S&amp;P 500 companies are expected to show earnings growth of 6.4 percent in the third quarter, according to Thomson Reuters data, with revenue growth expected at 4 percent. After the close, Dow component and chipmaker Intel  is set to post results. * European stocks fell early, losing ground for the seventh time in 10 sessions and Japanese stocks skidded to two-month lows. But Asian shares outside Japan managed to climb 0.6 percent thanks to bargain-hunting.  [.EU] * S&amp;P 500 e-minis  were up 3 points, or 0.16 percent, with 298,424 contracts changing hands. * Nasdaq 100 e-minis  rose 5.25 points, or 0.14 percent, in volume of 34,930 contracts. * Dow e-minis  advanced 9 points, or 0.06 percent, with 45,494 contracts changing hands.   (Reporting by Chuck Mikolajczak; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
Flickr / Moyan BrennPARIS (Reuters) - IKEA, the world’s biggest furniture retailer, will invest 600 million euros ($760 million) in France by 2017 to open seven new stores and renovate two of its existing outlets, the company said on Tuesday, creating 1,300 jobs and providing some cheer for a struggling economy. The Swedish group, known for its low-priced but distinctive furniture and sprawling out-of-town stores, is also considering opening a shop in central Paris and setting up pick-up points for the collection of goods ordered online to respond to changing shopping habits. "We are starting to review the feasibility of opening a store inside Paris. The project is really at an early stage as we ponder logistics and store size," IKEA's chief executive for France, Stefan Vanoverbeke, told a news conference. In June IKEA said it was opening a pilot store in the northern German port city of Hamburg in a central pedestrian shopping zone. Shopping at out-of-town stores has been hurt worldwide by high fuel prices and a trend, first seen in the grocery industry, toward consumers making smaller, more frequent purchases closer to home due to tight household budgets. IKEA's announcement comes as the French Socialist government struggles to tackle high unemployment and weak consumer spending in the face of feeble economic growth. Flickr / Samantha Marx The French expansion plan is an acceleration from the 100 million euros IKEA is spending this year to open one store in Clermont-Ferrand in central France and renovate another store in Lomme in the North and the 500 million euros spent in the previous five years. It is part of a longer-term ambition to lift the number of stores in France, the euro zone's second-largest economy, to 40 by 2020 from 30 now. France, which accounts for around 10 percent of group sales, is IKEA’s third-largest market after Germany and the United States. IKEA employs 9,700 people in France and competes with retailers Conforama and But in a furniture market worth around 10 billion euros. IKEA is the top furniture retailer in France, where its market share remained stable at 17.9 percent in the year ended Aug. 31 The group is targeting a market share of around 20 percent by 2020 thanks to its expansion plans and a policy of offering low prices to cost-conscious consumers while renewing at least 20 percent of its products each year. Like-for-like sales were flat year-on-year at 2.39 billion in fiscal 2013/14, while store traffic rose 2 percent in an economic climate Vanoverbeke described as "difficult". The overall French furniture market fell 2.5 percent during the first half 2014, hit by sluggish consumer morale amid rising unemployment and a slowdown in real estate transactions, Vanoverbeke said. (Reporting by Dominique Vidalon; Editing by Leigh Thomas/Keith Weir) FREE AppDownload
KCNA/ReutersNorth Korean leader Kim Jong Un has resurfaced.Good morning! Here are 10 of the biggest stories already making an impact on financial markets Tuesday. Germany Investor Sentiment Is Negative And Europe’s Industry Is Crashing. Eurozone industrial production dropped 1.9% in the year to August and the ZEW index of German investors fell into negative territory for the first time since 2012. Greek Equities Are Getting Hit Hard. Another poll shows far-left radicals Syriza in the lead and likely to win the country’s next general election, and the Athens stock exchange is not liking it.  Markets Are In The Red. In Europe, Britain's FTSE is down 0.5%, France's CAC is down 0.9%, and Germany's DAX is down 0.7%. Asia closed down with Japan's Nikkei plunging 2.4%. US futures are modestly higher. Turkey Is Bombing Kurdish Fighters In Northern Syria. Turkish warplanes attacked Kurdish fighters in the first significant air operation against the militants since the launch of a peace process two years ago.  Daimler Earnings Are Up Solidly. German car and truck maker Daimler reported a 29-percent jump in quarterly core earnings at Mercedes-Benz Cars, its biggest business. SPONSORED BY Capco What will the finance industry look like in the years to come? Find out how the financial supply chain is reshaping the "new bank" at the 2014 Banking Reloaded Conference on October 29.Register today to join others in learning about the future of banking. Russia And China Just Signed Dozens Of Political Deals. Chinese Prime Minister Li Keqiang and his Russian counterpart Dmitry Medvedev oversaw the signing of 38 agreements on currencies, energy and other issues. Small Business Optimism Is Coming. The NFIB's index of small business optimism is out at 7.30 a.m. ET, and should give a signal of how firms are faring. Last month, the index came in at 96.1. Kim Jong Un Is Back. The North Korean leader has been identified at a public event again, after an absence of more than a month. Kim's appearances are monitors for signs of tension among the North Korean leadership. JP Morgan Had Its Earnings Leaked. The bank reported a third-quarter profit, moving past the huge legal claims that caused it to book a rare loss in the same quarter last year, according to an apparently authentic document posted on website shareholder.com. Oil And Gas Explorer Afren Sacked Its CEO For Misconduct. Afren's CEO and two other directors are out after a review found evidence of "gross misconduct."  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Remo Casilli Leader of the Five Star Movement and comedian Beppe Grillo.Beppe Grillo, the leader of Italy's populist Five Star Movement, has launched a petition to allow Italy to "leave the euro as soon as possible." Grillo rose to prominence as a comedian and actor but since 2009 he has transformed himself into the charismatic leader of a protest movement that has seen its support growing across Italy. His sharp criticism of German-led policies that have pushed harsh austerity onto struggling Southern European economies and push for Italy to abandon the euro have seen him dubbed 'the most dangerous man in Europe' in the German press. As testament to its growing popularity the party came third in last year's general election taking 25% of the vote and followed this with a second place finish in the European Parliament elections in May with 21.6%. Now Grillo is looking to harness his popularity to force a referendum on Italy's future in Europe's single currency. At a rally over the weekend he said: Tonight we are launching a consultative referendum. We will collect half a million signatures in six months – a million signatures – and we will take our case to parliament, and this time thanks to our 150 legislators, they will have to talk to us. Although such a referendum would not be legally binding, it poses yet another headache for Prime Minister Matteo Renzi as he attempts to implement a reform program. Renzi survived a raucous vote of confidence last week in the Italian senate over his proposals to reform Italy's labor laws that economists claim have been holding back job creation and undermining the case for investment in the country. The reforms are seen as critical to maintaining broader Eurozone, and particularly German, support for the government with Italy's economy stalling and debt-to-GDP forecast to rise to 138% by the end of 2015. Loss of support could result in substantially higher borrowing costs, putting additional pressure on the country's already strained finances. If Grillo is able to hit his target of a million signatures pressure will be on Renzi to respond to his demands. Any sign that he is willing to backtrack on his commitment to the reform program could trigger another round of bond market panic in the ongoing Eurozone crisis, something that European leaders will be desperate to avoid. FREE AppDownload
Quick heads up. The Euro is getting smoked. It kind of feels like the bad old days. There's all kinds of negatives piling up: There's bad economic news out of Germany, bad economic news out of the Eurozone as a whole, new political worries in Greece, and the leader of one of Italy's major parties calling for a referendum to exit the Euro. FinViz FREE AppDownload
© Pool/AFP Ekaterina ShtukinaRussia's Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev (R) and China's Prime Minister Li Keqiang shakes hands during a signing ceremony in Moscow on October 13, 2014Moscow (AFP) - Russia and China pledged to ramp up efforts to promote a just world order as they signed dozens of deals ranging from energy to finance. Visiting Chinese Prime Minister Li Keqiang and his Russian counterpart Dmitry Medvedev oversaw the signing of 38 agreements, including a deal to open a yuan-ruble swap line worth 150 billion yuan ($24.5 billion) in an apparent bid to reduce dependence on the US dollar. Li's first visit to Russia as prime minister comes at a sensitive time, with the Kremlin locked in a battle of wills with Washington and Brussels over Ukraine. Accused by Kiev and the West of stoking a bloody insurgency in eastern Ukraine, Russia is facing its most serious isolation since the end of the Cold War, with its economy shaken by several rounds of Western sanctions. Russia hopes intensified cooperation with Asia will help it ride out EU and US sanctions.  After talks with Li in Moscow, Medvedev said the two countries should think many moves ahead. "My colleague Mr Prime Minister just recently noticed that our peoples like to play checkers and chess. And those who think strategically play checkers and chess well," Medvedev told reporters after the talks. "And also those who think about the future play well, that is why we should think about the future, developing our relations for years to come." Li, who is set to meet President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday, also resorted to allegory, saying Russia's famous nesting doll symbolised huge joint opportunities. "I believe that the matryoshka symbolises the vast potential for cooperation between China and Russia," he said in comments translated into Russian. "Both countries are full of determination to develop eternal friendship and together defend peace and stability in the region and the world on the whole." The two countries agreed to jointly celebrate the 70th anniversary of the defeat of Nazi Germany in World War II next year, a hugely symbolic date in Russia. Li said the goal of the festivities would be, among other things, to "protect international justice and international order after the war." China has spoken out against Western sanctions against Russia and has called on all sides to reach a political settlement over Ukraine. REUTERS/Aly SongRussia's President Vladimir Putin and his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping shake hands in Shanghai May 21, 2014.  Among the top business deals was an agreement to open a currency swap line worth 150 billion yuan ($24.5 billion) to promote bilateral trade and investment. "The agreement has been concluded for a period of three years and can be prolonged following agreement of the two sides," Russia's central bank said. It allows the countries to use each other's currencies without buying them on the currency markets, said the bank. Li's three-day Russia trip is part of a week-long visit to Europe.  Once bitter foes during the Cold War, Moscow and Beijing have over the past years ramped up cooperation as both are driven by a desire to counterbalance US global dominance. China and Russia often work in lockstep at the UN Security Council, using their veto power as permanent council members to counter the West on issues such as the Syria crisis. Russia's showdown with the West over Ukraine has given Moscow a new impetus to court Beijing. Resource-hungry China is seeking to diversify its sources of energy amid booming domestic consumption, while Russia is seeking to tap fast-developing Asian markets. After a decade of tough negotiations China and Russia inked a 30-year, $400-billion agreement in May that will eventually involve 38 billion cubic metres of gas annually. Critics however disparaged the terms of the deal, saying Putin, in his bid to spite the West, signed an agreement that was more beneficial to China than to Russia. Ahead of his Moscow visit, Li travelled to Germany for talks with Chancellor Angela Merkel. He will also participate in a summit in Milan later this week.  FREE AppDownload
The Athens stock exchange is getting hammered this morning. It's already down 4.29%, down below 1,000 for the first time this year, with polls showing a fresh political crisis looming for Greece. BloombergEquities in Athens are sliding again, down to their lowest in more than a year, back below 1,000.Greece's 10-year bond yield is also back above 7% for the first time in six months. During the euro crisis the yield went far higher, above 30% at times. But with the Eurozone's industry grinding to a halt, investors are on the lookout for any distress in the currency union's struggling periphery.   investing.comGreece's 10-year bond yield is back above 7% for the first time since March, as the far-left party's lead looks increasingly clear. This is being put down to a poll out this morning which shows Greece's radical, left-wing and anti-austerity party Syriza well ahead of all other parties. They're 6.5% ahead of the governing conservative party this morning.  If Syriza won, they've suggested that the country could leave the euro, raising the prospect of "Grexit" (Greek exit from the eurozone), something that investors thought they'd seen the end of. It's not a one off either: a poll last week showed a similar lead for the radical leftists. There isn't a Greek election scheduled for a couple of years, but it's not exactly uncommon for the country to have snap elections. Syriza are really in the lead, and would set Greece on a completely different course, and it doesn't feel like the rest of Europe is awake to that fact yet.  There's also the issue of the Greek government's desire to exit their bailout plan early. Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is keen for Greece to sever precautionary lines of credit from international lenders, but Bloomberg says eurozone finance ministers are much more sceptical. FREE AppDownload
phiznlil/flickrLONDON (Reuters) - The world will see much weaker oil demand growth in 2015 than forecast previously, the International Energy Agency said on Tuesday, adding that oil prices may drop further. "Recent price drops appear both supply and demand driven. Further oil price drops would likely be needed for supply to take a hit – or for demand growth to get a lift," the agency representing industrialized nations said in a monthly report. Oil prices fell for a third straight month in September, and benchmark Brent prices have reached a four-year low of around $88 per barrel in October on abundant supply, slowing demand growth and a strong U.S. dollar. Brent has fallen by over 20 percent since June, when turmoil in Iraq lifted prices to $116 per barrel. The IEA said it had cut its estimate for 2014 oil demand growth by 200,000 barrels per day (bpd) to 0.7 million bpd. In 2015, it expects demand to expand by 1.1 million bpd to 93.5 million bpd, up by 1.2 percent but 300,000 bpd less than previously forecast. "Demand growth ... may have touched bottom. While economic forecasts have been trimmed, with the IMF lowering its outlook for the third time this year, the latter is sticking to its view of a continuing economic recovery – albeit a slower and more 'brittle' one than anticipated," the IEA said. Sharply lower oil prices since the second quarter of 2014 should provide some support to global oil demand, but the overall weak economic environment is likely to prove dominant, it added. Meanwhile, global oil supply rose by almost 910,000 bpd in September to 93.8 million bpd, with higher OPEC and non-OPEC output. Compared with a year earlier, total supply stood 2.8 million bpd higher as OPEC supply swung back to growth and amplified robust non-OPEC supply gains of 2.1 million bpd. The IEA added that it expected non-OPEC supply growth to average an impressive 1.3 million bpd in 2015. "Total U.S. liquids production continues to exceed Russian and Saudi Arabian oil supplies. We estimate that total U.S. total liquids output will be above 12.0 million bpd next month and will remain above that threshold through December 2015," it said. OPEC crude oil output surged to a 13-month high in September, led by recovery in Libya and higher Iraqi flows. Production rose 415,000 bpd from August to 30.66 million bpd. The IEA said that because of weaker global demand outlook it had cut its estimate for demand for OPEC crude by 200,000 bpd for 2015 to 29.3 million bpd. That is more than 1 million bpd below the current production levels, yet OPEC has yet to signal any plans to trim its production at the next meeting at the end of November. "Kuwait has said a supply cut is unlikely, and top exporter Saudi Arabia is signaling it may be willing to tolerate a period of lower prices," the IEA said. Supplies from top OPEC producer Saudi Arabia edged up by 50,000 bpd in September to 9.73 million bpd. The IEA said flows might ease in October due to slower seasonal demand for domestic crude burn. "Riyadh appeared determined to defend its market share in the increasingly competitive Asian market, cutting its formula prices for a fourth consecutive month," the IEA said. (editing by Jane Baird) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFormer German foreign minister Joschka Fischer gestures during an interview with Reuters in BerlinBERLIN (Reuters) - Six years ago, weeks after U.S. investment bank Lehman Brothers collapsed, European leaders gathered in Paris to discuss a joint response to the financial earthquake shaking their continent. France and several other states pushed for the creation of a European fund to help the bloc cope. Germany's Angela Merkel ruled out a common approach, insisting that each country come up with its own plan to combat what would turn out to be the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. In his new book "Is Europe Failing?", former German foreign minister Joschka Fischer traces what he describes as a dangerous unraveling of the European project back to the events in Paris in October 2008. The decision represented a break with decades of post-war German policy and has set the bloc on a perilous path of "renationalization" that could tear it apart in the years to come, Fischer believes. At home, Merkel is hugely popular for her defense of German interests during the euro crisis. But Fischer sees a reactive chancellor who instead of rallying skeptical Germans behind Europe, has unwittingly turned them against the bloc. "The big question is whether we are moving towards a German Europe or continuing on the post-war path of a European Germany," Fischer told Reuters in his office overlooking the Gendarmenmarkt square in central Berlin. "Even today no one knows what Merkel's goal is, what Europe she wants to have," he said. Merkel's supporters point to the fact that as Europe's dominant politician she has presided over a turbulent period during which political will has consistently been summoned to keep the euro zone together, confounding the expectations of many doom-mongers. Fischer, 66, has been out of politics since 2005, when Merkel ended his seven-year reign as Germany's top diplomat and vice chancellor by narrowly defeating Social Democrat Gerhard Schroeder. During his time in office he broke with the pacifist traditions of his Greens party and supported sending German troops to the Balkans, the country's first foreign combat operations since World War Two. Along with Schroeder, he opposed the 2003 U.S. war in Iraq, famously staring down Pentagon chief Donald Rumsfeld at a conference and telling him: "Excuse me, I am not convinced". In recent years Fischer has been criticized in the German media for betraying his roots as a student activist and founding figure in the environmentalist Greens by accepting corporate sponsorship deals with firms like carmaker BMW. But he remains one of the most respected German voices on foreign affairs and his strong criticism of Merkel's course comes at a crucial time when Europe looks on the verge of sinking back into crisis. REUTERS/Thomas Peter German Chancellor and head of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) Angela Merkel speaks during a news conference after Sunday's Saxony local election at the CDU party headquarters in Berlin, Sept. 1, 2014. Despite a weakening economy at home and in Europe, Merkel and her government remain focused on consolidating the German budget, putting Berlin on a collision course with its partners. "If you look at the economic figures, one has to ask oneself how much longer the austerity policies can continue, whether they will survive the first half of next year. I have serious doubts about that," said Fischer. "We are at a key moment, with Europe emerging once again as the weak spot in the world economy. German policy has to change," he said. Without a common approach, he predicts the bloc will face a political crisis in which anti-European populists like Marine Le Pen of France's National Front and Nigel Farage of Britain's UK Independence Party gain the upper hand. More Europe is also his answer to the Ukraine crisis. In his book, Fischer calls on Germany to revive the idea of a common European security and defense policy and to invest more in joint European arms programs. The EU needs to completely rethink its relations with Vladimir Putin's Russia, Fischer argues, reducing its dependence on Russian gas through the creation of an "energy union" that mutualizes supply risks. "Germany is as strong as it's ever been since the founding of the Federal Republic in 1949, but in relation to the rest of the world we are in economic decline, just as France and the UK are in political decline in power terms," Fischer said. "Europe is our best investment. We would be the biggest losers if we allowed the project to fail." (Editing by Mike Peacock) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersJP Morgan Chase & Co sign outside headquarters in New York(Reuters) - JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co reported a third-quarter profit, as the biggest U.S. bank moved past the huge legal claims that caused it to book a rare loss in the same quarter last year, according to an apparently authentic document posted on website shareholder.com. The data was posted earlier than JPMorgan earnings were scheduled to come out. The bank posted net income of $5.6 billion, or $1.36 per share, in the three months ended Sept. 30, compared with a loss of $380 million in the year-earlier quarter, the document showed. The $1.36 is a slight miss vs. expectations of $1.38. A JP Morgan spokeswoman in the United States said she had no immediate comment. The bank was hit last year by an after-tax expense of $7.2 billion to settle government allegations of wrongdoing related to mortgage instruments before the financial crisis. JPMorgan is the first of the big U.S. banks to report for the quarter. Citigroup Inc and Wells Fargo &amp; Co also report on Tuesday. Bank of America Corp, the second-biggest U.S. bank, will report on Wednesday. (Editing by Ted Kerr) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA man walks past a train carrying goods, at Anglo Platinum's Khomanani shaft 1 mine in RustenburgBy Ed Stoddard RUSTENBURG South Africa (Reuters) - For decades, production in South Africa's platinum mines has rested on the muscular shoulders of men risking life and limb to drill into the rock face with jackhammers. Three years of labor upheaval and a political push to make the shafts safer and transform the low-wage workforce have set in motion a drive to replace such rock drillers with machines. "Labor militancy is dictating our push to mechanization and boardrooms will rubber stamp this stuff," said Peter Major, a fund manager at Cadiz Corporate Solutions. The costly change is happening despite the obstacles thrown by geology, low platinum prices and capital constraints. At Anglo American Platinum's Bathopele mine near Rustenburg west of Johannesburg, technology has already made rock drillers obsolete and hydraulic machines do the job, blazing an automated trail others are keen to follow. Elsewhere in the platinum shafts, plans are afoot to roll out mechanization, including at Amplats' rival Impala Platinum, which recently sent a team to Bathopele to observe the lay-out - an unprecedented example of cooperation in an industry that has long been fiercely competitive and secretive. Implats, Amplats and Lonmin, the world's top three producers, are also partnering at Bathopele with mining products company Joy Global to develop rock-cutting technology, which would remove the need for blasting and rock drilling. Joy Global’s chief executive Ted Doheny told Reuters in a phone interview from the company’s Wisconsin headquarters that implementation would take another five to ten years.  CAPITAL UNITES The big three platinum producers are united as never before, having collectively faced a five-month wage strike by the hardline Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) this year which pushed them to the brink and dealt a crushing blow to investor perceptions of South Africa's mines. The automation drive is underway: Amplats wants to sell off its conventional mines to focus on mechanization while Implats' chief executive has said "we will mechanize where we can." The industry says the pivot to mechanization was in the works even before AMCU's emergence on the platinum belt, where it has poached tens of thousands of members from the rival National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) in a turf war that has killed dozens and unleashed the recent waves of labor unrest. Also underpinning the drive has been calls from the government and ruling ANC for the industry to move away from the labor-intensive, low-wage model rooted in the apartheid era. A government safety drive with the goal of "zero harm" has also triggered a scramble to find less lethal mining methods. Scores still die each year in South Africa's deep and dangerous mines though much progress has been made since the 1980s when hundreds of black miners perished annually, with much of the toll inflicted on rock drill operators. "The shafts we are designing today will be in operation for 50 years and one has to take a view on whether rock drillers will be available, and whether using people in that way will still be acceptable," said Implats spokesman Johan Theron. Safety aside, the triumph of technology over geology in the platinum shafts will have other consequences and hit AMCU hard, as its members are mostly semi-skilled, at the bottom of the wage scale, and perform tasks mechanized equipment will replace. Rock drillers also comprise the union's hardline core and so the reduction in their numbers could blunt AMCU's militancy. "AMCU understands that mechanization can undermine its collective power," said Crispen Chinguno, a researcher at the sociology department of Johannesburg's University of the Witwatersrand and an expert on the union. At Bathopele, higher-paid employees including AMCU members broke union ranks during the big strike this year and it started limited production before the wider industry stoppage ended. Officials from AMCU declined comment on the issue of mechanization. Rival unions have concerns about jobs but welcome the mechanized trend if the aim is better pay and safety. “We have a problem with the introduction of mechanization if its sole purpose is to replace labor. But if it's about safety and workers getting more pay, then we don't have such a problem," Frans Baleni, NUM's General Secretary, told Reuters.  MAN AND MACHINE Geology has confounded industry attempts to mechanize in the past because the platinum reef is generally too narrow, or at too steep a gradient, for machines to easily access. The gold reef also presents challenges on this front. This is changing as firms like Atlas Copco and rival Sandvik develop machines that can work in ever tighter spaces and steeper conditions. These include "drill rigs" and "roof bolters" that will replace the human rock drillers, whose jackhammers grind into the earth to insert explosives for blasting or safety bolts for underground roof support. There are also mechanical sweepers with rotating steel brushes to move debris - a job still done in many South African mines by men with shovels. In a shallow crevice at Bathopele, a hydraulic roof bolter designed by Atlas Copco drilled into the rock above, where the safety bolts will be inserted. Metres away crouched a man remotely controlling it. With a vertical hydraulic drill protruding in front, it resembles a flattened bulldozer that can squeeze into tight spaces: in this case around 1.2 meters (four feet). "We can do this far more productively and we remove the people from the hazard zones," said Judd Barlow, head of production at Bathopele's central shaft.  CAPITAL CONSTRAINTS On the platinum belt, Bathopele is a proto-type and the swing to mechanization will not come overnight. For older mines, "the capital expenditure will make no sense because of their life span," said Jim Porter of the University of the Witwatersrand's Centre for Mechanised Mining Systems. This is the challenge faced by Implats, which does not have a vast pool of capital at the moment, given the depressed price for the precious metal used for emissions-capping catalytic converters in automobiles. Platinum is near 5-year lows. Implats, which had net cash at the end of its financial year in June of 4.3 billion rand ($389 million), is also burning up money on its post-strike ramp up. Gerhard Potgieter, head of growth projects at Implats, says the company's first-generation shafts around Rustenburg, known as "the Old Men," will not be mechanized given their age. The best potential for mechanization can be found on its “Big 5” shafts, large second and third-generation operations. All of Implats' tunneling operations are also being converted. Back at Bathopele, the surface presents as sharp a contrast with conventional mines as its underground operations. Unlike most of the mines in the area, where workers are bused in or trudge on foot from grim shantytowns, Bathopele's skilled and higher-paid employees drive themselves and its parking lot is full of gleaming new cars and pick-up trucks. "We actually have a parking problem here, we are running out of space," said one employee.  (Editing by Anna Willard) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe logo of French low-cost telecoms provider Iliad is pictured during the company 2013 annual results presentation in ParisBy Leila Abboud and Gwénaëlle Barzic PARIS (Reuters) - Relieved investors sent shares in French low-cost telecom operator Iliad  up 11 percent on Tuesday after it abandoned an effort to buy the fourth-largest U.S. carrier T-Mobile. Backed by billionaire founder Xavier Niel, Iliad made an initial bid worth $15 billion and then raised it further, but was rebuffed by T-Mobile US'  parent company, Deutsche Telekom . Sources told Reuters Deutsche Telekom was unconvinced by the price and by Niel's ability to run the business better than its own managers could. The aborted U.S. foray is seen favorably by Iliad investors because many would prefer Niel focus on organic growth at home and pursue mobile consolidation by reviving talks with struggling number three mobile player Bouygues . Bouygues shares rallied 3.9 percent at 0859 GMT (4.59 a.m. EDT). Shares of market leader Orange  also rose 1.4 percent since it would benefit along with rivals from a consolidation that could calm tough price competition. "Now that Iliad has abandoned the U.S. deal, we think it likely that French consolidation hopes will return," wrote Berenberg analysts in a note. "On our estimates, and in our very conservative M&amp;A scenario, if Iliad pays 8 billion euros to acquire Bouygues Telecom, the deal would remain accretive to its shareholders – without taking into account the possible upside from market repair." Analysts at banks Kepler, Natixis, RBC and UBC upgraded ratings on Iliad. The volume of Iliad shares changing hands was  at 75 percent of the daily average in the past three months. Iliad's arrival on the mobile scene in January 2012 sparked a price war that has increased the pressure to consolidate. Mobile prices fell 27 percent last year and 11 percent in 2012, according to the telecoms regulator. Beyond deal hopes, Iliad does face some headwinds in France. Rivals offer faster 4G mobile broadband speeds, and price erosion is hitting its broadband business, said Stephane Beyazian, an analyst at Raymond James. Bouygues has undercut Iliad's broadband prices with a stripped down 19.99 euro per month TV, fixed phone and Internet offer, and has been gaining clients as a result. Iliad's share of broadband customer additions last quarter was about 21 percent, its lowest point since late 2011, according to the analyst. Iliad is also racing to build out its mobile network to meet a regulatory requirement to cover 75 percent of the French population by Jan. 12, 2015. It now pays Orange to carry much of its customers traffic. Nevertheless Beyazian said these risks are priced in at Iliad's current share levels. Harder to quantify is whether investors will begin to apply a discount to Iliad shares to reflect the risk that founder Niel, who owns 55.35 percent of the company, will turn to other large deals in foreign markets. "We apply a relatively small discount of 10 percent reflecting only a mild level of worry on our side," wrote Exane BNP Paribas in a note on Friday, adding that abandoning the T-Mobile deal would show financial discipline on Iliad's part. "Iliad would not be in a hurry to find another acquisition, since [it expects] a number of years of good growth in France." In a statement on Monday, Iliad said only that it would pursue "its profitable growth policy... in the interest of its subscribers, employees and shareholders."   (Additional reporting by Alexandre Bokenbaum-Granier; Editing by Andrew Callus) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersLogos are seen outside a branch of Barclays bank in LondonLONDON (Reuters) - Britain's biggest banks have paid out 1.54 billion pounds ($2.46 billion) to compensate small firms mis-sold complex interest rate hedging products, the financial regulator said on Tuesday. The Financial Conduct Authority said that 9,858 cases had been settled by Barclays , HSBC , Lloyds Banking Group  and Royal Bank of Scotland . The products were supposed to protect smaller companies against rising interest rates but, when rates fell, the companies had to pay large bills, typically running to tens of thousands of pounds. Companies also faced penalties to get out of the deals, which many said they had not been told about.  (Reporting by Matt Scuffham; Editing by Laura Noonan) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA Mercedes-Benz logo is seen on a car displayed on media day at the Paris Mondial de l'AutomobileFRANKFURT (Reuters) - German car and truck maker Daimler  reported a 29-percent jump in quarterly core earnings at Mercedes-Benz Cars, its biggest business, surprising investors wary of an economic slowdown and pushing its shares higher. Mercedes posted its best-ever quarterly sales in the third quarter through September thanks to the release of new models and surging demand in China, Daimler said on Tuesday. Carmakers selling vehicles in the United States are also benefiting from the euro's weakening against the dollar . Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) from ongoing business at Mercedes-Benz Cars rose to 1.61 billion euros ($2.04 billion) in the third quarter from 1.25 billion in the year-earlier period. Daimler said it was sticking with its 2014 forecasts for its divisions, which also include Daimler Trucks, where quarterly core earnings rose 17 percent to 618 million euros. "Finally some good news," a local trader said, adding Daimler's statement raised hopes for an increase in forecasts. Shares in Daimler, which is due to publish full quarter financial results on Oct. 23, jumped on the news and were up 3.2 percent to 58.51 euros, at the top of Germany's blue-chip DAX index , by 0835 GMT (4.35 a.m. EDT). Daimler also said it would review its guidance for 2014 industrial free cash flow, a major factor when it comes to funding dividends, after the figure jumped in the third quarter. The group has so far said it expects full-year industrial free cash flow, adjusted for acquisitions and disposals, to decline significantly from the 3.2 billion euros posted in 2013. In the third quarter adjusted industrial free cash flow rose to about 2.9 billion euros from 1.6 billion in the year-earlier period.  (Reporting by Maria Sheahan; Additional reporting by Hakan Ersen; Editing by Christoph Steitz and Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kai PfaffenbachA graffiti depicting European Central Bank (ECB) President Mario Draghi and German Chancellor Angela Merkel is seen outside a fence surrounding the construction site for the new headquarters of the ECB in Frankfurt, May 16, 2013.Good morning. Here's what you need to know for Tuesday. 1. The EU’s top court will begin a potentially explosive legal review of the European Central Bank’s bond-buying plan. The European Court of Justice may ultimately decide the program's fate, according to the FT. 2. Obama is trying to get Turkey and the Saudis on the same page against Islamic State. The president will hash out a strategy to counter Islamic State on Tuesday with military leaders from some 20 countries including Turkey and Saudi Arabia. 3. Bond markets don't think the Fed will hit its inflation goal this decade. Inflation expectations have plummeted in the past three months, with yields on Treasuries implying consumer prices will rise an average 1.5% annually through the third quarter of 2019, Bloomberg reports. 4. North Korea says pictures show Kim Jong-un is back! The North Korean leader ended speculation about his grip on power with his first public appearance in more than five weeks at a housing development and energy research institute in the capital, Pyongyang. 5. Germany and France have tapped an economist from each country for advice on how to avoid a 'lost decade' in Europe. The two countries’ economics ministers recently solicited help from French economist Jean Pisani-Ferry and Henrik Enderlein from the Berlin-based Hertie School of Governance, according to the WSJ. 6. Russian hackers target NATO, the European Union, Ukraine and others. Hackers exploited a bug in Microsoft Windows and other software to spy on computers potentially seeking information on the Ukraine crisis, as well as diplomatic, energy and telecom issues, Reuters reports. 7. Turkish warplanes hit Kurdish militant targets in southeast. Turkish warplanes attacked Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) targets in southeast Turkey on Sunday in the first significant strike against the militants since the launch of a peace process two years ago, reports Reuters. 8. Too-big-to-fail banks may have to raise up to $870 Billion to plug their capital gap. Regulators are set to propose draft rules next month that call for 27 of the world’s largest banks to increase their holdings of loss-absorbing debt and equity to protect taxpayers from having to bail them out in a crisis. 9. A UN worker has died in a German hospital. A UN employee who was being treated in a hospital in the German city of Leipzig died in the early hours of Tuesday morning, the BBC reports.  10. Fidelity promotes Abigail Johnson to CEO. The FT reports Ned Johnson, the chairman of Fidelity, has handed the title of chief executive over to his daughter, Abigail. And finally... English-speaking parrot disappears for four years and returns speaking Spanish. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ruben SprichAnother dip in European markets this morning: France's CAC 40 is down 0.37% Spain's IBEX is down 0.21% Italy's FTSE MIB is down 0.23% Britain's FTSE 100 is down 0.33% Germany's DAX is down 0.26% In Asia, the Nikkei’s selloff continued, down another 2.38%, while the Hang Seng was basically flat, falling just 0.12%. U.S. futures are climbing, with the S&amp;P up 0.52% and the Dow up 0.40%. It’s a much busier day for data: French and Spanish inflation figures are already out, with France’s CPI falling to 0.4%, the lowest in five years. Spanish CPI came in at -0.3%, the country’s third month of deflation. European industrial production is out at 5 a.m. ET, with analysts expecting a 1.6% drop in August from the same month last year. That’s followed by the ZEW index of economic sentiment, which should show just how grim things are getting in Germany. From the US, the NFIB’s small business optimism index is out at 7.30 a.m. ET. FREE AppDownload
