AP Photo/Neal UlevichHSBC China Flash PMI surged to 50.8 in June, from a reading of 49.4 the previous month. This beat expectations for a more modest rise to 49.7. Meanwhile, flash manufacturing output index climbed to 51.8, from 49.8 in May. This puts Chinese manufacturing in expansionary territory. “This month's improvement is consistent with data suggesting that the authorities' mini-stimulus are filtering through to the real economy,” HSBC chief economist Hongbin Qu said in a press release.  “Over the next few months, infrastructure investments and related sectors will continue to support the recovery. We expect policy makers to continue their current path of accommodative policy stance until the recovery is sustained.” Beijing announced a mini-stimulus following weak economic data at the start of the year and the People’s Bank of China announced targeted reserve requirement ratio (RRR) cuts. This is expected to have improved business sentiment. A breakdown of the sub-indices shows improvement in internal and external demand, though new export orders increased at a slower rate. Markit Economics/HSBC This chart shows the rebound in PMI: HSBC/Markit Economics FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yves HermanPeople leave BNP Paribas Fortis headquarters in Brussels September 18, 2013.The Wall Street Journal's Devlin Barrett and Christopher M. Matthews report that U.S. prosecutors have reached a settlement over fraud claims at BNP Paribas that will see the French firm temporarily banned from trading in U.S. dollars. The Journal reporters say BNP faces a penalty of up to $9 billion. The bank is accused of intentionally hiding $30 billion-worth of transactions that violated U.S. sanctions. The dollar-trading ban would last several months, the pair write. President Francois Hollande has said the ban threatens the economic stability of the Eurozone. The New York Department of Financial Services has also demanded the firings of 30 employees said to be involved in the allegedly illicit trades. Click here to read the full story on WSJ.com » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuriko Nakao The weekend is over and markets are up. The Nikkei opened 0.5% higher. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX200 was up 0.3%. Korea's Kospi gained 0.4%. U.S. futures were going nowhere. Brent crude futures were above $115 for the first time in a year. We've got a major week in economics coming up, click here to read our preview » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon  China has at least more than 30 million more men than women. As a result, finding a girlfriend there is extremely difficult.  A recent post on reddit helped show just how bad it is. User BoTeeBoTines, an expat living in China, talked about what he has seen in response to a question from user dfevbvjksk asking, "What is it like being a single bachelor in China knowing that the men outnumber women by 34 million?" I am a single bachelor living in China, but I'm a foreigner. For expats, it's pretty good being single, as there is that foreigner mystique and the general idea that all expats are rich, so finding women is pretty easy. As for Chinese, it's a bit of a different story. The actual number is closer to 38 million more men, but also realize that this doesn't mean either single men, gay men, or anything else - it's an overall statistic. That said, there are a LOT of single Chinese guys. Almost every guy in my office is between 21-30 and they're almost all single. To even consider getting a wife, a Chinese guy needs to own a home (apartment in a big city), a car, and preferably make XXX money every month. The women have high expectations (as they're expected to pop out their one-child policy kid before the age of 24-25). Also keep in mind that there are A LOT of girls/women in various types of sex-related jobs, and many rich successful men get married to someone their family likes then buys 2 or 3 more apartments for their mistresses. It's a skewed situation either way, but basically, unless you have money as a single guy in China, you're not that well off. Many girls will date the fat, disgusting, old guy with a wife because he can give them $10,000 a month over the handsome, young, kind guy that lives paycheck to paycheck. BTBT's view was mostly confirmed by user King_of_Murkwood claiming to be a native Chinese woman: As a young Chinese woman who's lived there for the first 18 years of my life, I can say with confidence that things are pretty grim for the boys and girls back home. Men are expected to possess substantial wealth in order for them to consider marriage and family. This in turn, in my opinion, perpetuates the misogynist notion of women being commodities, because the rich guy almost always gets the girl. Another aspect of the problem is the rural/urban difference. A rich guy from the city has a much bigger advantage than his rural counterpart, because the rural population tends to be more conservative and their families more extended. That means, a city woman who marries a country guy basically just marries his entire family back in some small rural town. So in the end, the vast population of bachelors in China is mostly country guys working in cities. BTBT's view was confirmed by user shrc91, another non-Chinese: I have visited China on two occasions, once when I was 18 and the other this year (I'm 23 now). I'm British so it was relatively easy to pick up girls in clubs, and as /r/BoTeeBoTines said, the foreigner mystique is quite rampant, especially in the smaller cities where I visited. However, for the Chinese guys I met it was a completely different story, almost none of them had ever had a girlfriend, and the only one that did had a German girlfriend... Brutal.   FREE AppDownload
Sting's children cannot expect to inherit his multimillion-pound wealth, the rock star has said, joining the ranks of the super-rich who have claimed that passing on their vast fortunes to their offspring could do more harm than good. The 62-year-old musician, who is estimated to be worth £180m and has three sons and three daughters, said he did not want "to leave them trust funds that are albatrosses round their necks". "They have to work," he told the Mail on Sunday's Event magazine . "All my kids know that and they rarely ask me for anything, which I appreciate. Obviously, if they were in trouble I would help them, but I've never really had to do that. They have this work ethic that makes them want to succeed on their own merit." Sting insisted there would in fact not be a huge fortune left for his children, who are aged between 18 and 37. "I told them there won't be much money left because we are spending it," he said. "We have a lot of commitments. What comes in we spend, and there isn't much left." Sting, who grew up in working class family in Wallsend on Tyneside, said his hard slog to fame and fortune via playing pubs for £10 a night had built "a resilience and a toughness". Comparing his route to 'overnight stars' of modern pop such as Justin Bieber, he said: "If it had all been handed to me on a plate, I'm not sure I would appreciate it or have survived." Sting also disclosed that the Queen Mother had been the unlikely inspiration behind his pursuit of fame and fortune. He said he had seen her when she visited the Swan Hunter shipyard near his childhood home and had vowed to himself: "I am going to be rich, famous, successful and drive a Rolls-Royce like her." Sting is the latest in a long line of high-profile wealthy figures to declare they want their offspring to make their own way in the world. Bill Gates, the world's richest man, has said that his children could not expect to inherit the vast majority of his estimated $76bn fortune. “They won’t have anything like that. They need to have a sense that their own work is meaningful and important,” he has been quoted as saying. “You’ve got to make sure they have a sense of their own ability and what they’re going to go and do.” Simon Cowell, the music mogul whose son Eric was born earlier this year, has said he will most likely leave his estimated £225 million fortune for charity, explaining: ““I don’t believe in passing on from one generation to another.” British celebrity chef Nigella Lawson has said she was "determined" that her children should have no financial security as "it ruins people not having to earn money". Anita Roddick, the Body Shop founder, left her entire £51m fortune to charity after describing leaving money to one's own family as "obscene". Beatles star Sir Paul McCartney was allegedly once described as “a tight b******” by his daughter Stella after sending her to a comprehensive school. And John Roberts, the chief executive of white goods retailer ao.com, has said he will not pass his estimated £500m wealth to his children, in order that they could have normal lives and a sense of achievement.  FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesYork Capital Management CEO James Dinan's daughter Katherine is a talented equestrian. Wall Streeters are just like us in many ways, sharing the urge to settle down and start a family at some point in their careers.  We decided to track down a bunch of these Wall Street offspring to see what they've done with their legacies so far. Some followed the family business path, while others strayed into new passions. From singer-songwriters to journalists and equestrians, these Wall Street kids are doing some remarkable things. Let's meet the next generation.  FREE AppDownload
IMDB / Casino RoyaleTonight your co-workers invited you to a game of poker. What should be a fun night, can quickly become embarrassing if you don’t know what your boss means when he says “pocket rockets”. But don’t worry. We're here to help out with the key words so that you can sound like a pro. Let’s start with the parts of the game. In poker, not only are you dealt your own cards, but there’s also a shared pile of 5 cards on the table.  The first three cards are dealt at the same time and they’re called the flop. After a round of betting, the fourth card – the turn – is dealt, and is followed by another round of betting. And finally, the river, or the fifth card, is uncovered. In between all these card reveals there’s a series of bets. The first bet is the ante, which is a small bet that every player must make before the round starts. Then, you have the blinds, which are also required bets that the first two players to the left of the dealer must make. The first is called the small blind, and the second is called the big blind. Matching or raising a bet that was made before you is known as calling the bet. And players who call too much are given the insulting nickname "calling station". Why is it bad to call too frequently? Well, for starters, it reveals that you are an amateur because only players who don’t know the correct pot odds call often. And secondly, amateur players get lucky and end up with winning hands when they do this – which naturally annoys the pros even more.Pot odds, by the way, is a ratio of the money in the pot to the amount it will cost you to call the current bet. Sounds complicated, but all it means is that if there is $100 in the pot, and the bet will cost you $10, you have 10-to-1 odds. And even though betting is great, sometimes the odds are low and you don't have great cards. When this happens you have several options.  First, you can check. By quickly tapping their fingers twice on the table, players signify that they want to stay in the game but do not want to bet extra money.  Other players may want to bet your check anyway, after which you need to decide if you are willing to throw in the chips. Otherwise you can fold – or quit the round – and throw your cards into the dead pile, or muck.  Another option is to bluff, which is when a player makes a bet, knowing that they do not have the best cards, and hopes that his opponent will panic and fold in his place. Unfortunately, even with a great hand (known as a monster) a player with even better cards might beat you. This is called a bad beat. And to make things worse, it’s usually because of a lucky last minute draw for the other player.  After a series of bad beats, some players start getting desperate and play too aggressively and carelessly. Others will refer to them as tilts. Needless to say, you want to avoid this nickname. While we’re on this, you don’t want to be called a donkey or fish either. That’s someone who plays poorly and looks like he’s throwing away his money. And if you’re feeling really lucky, you might consider going all in, a move when a player bets all his chips. Afterwards, he can no longer bet and a side pot may be created for other players to continue betting. You either win big, or you’re done. Finally, here’s some slang terms for cards you might have in your hand: Now get out there and don't make a fool of yourself.   FREE AppDownload
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderThere's plenty to dislike about New York City summers — hot subways, not-so-sweet smells, and hordes of sweaty people, to name a few. But all those folks who skip off to the Hamptons each weekend are missing out. There are tons of fantastic things to do in NYC during the summer, like picnics in the park, outdoor concerts, and cool cocktails on rooftops. We came up with a list of 33 activities that will make staying in the city during summer 2014 not only tolerable, but positively enjoyable. Did we miss one of your favorite things to do in NYC in the summer? Add it in the comments!
Melia Robinson/Business InsiderSose Aroyan and Karina Aroyan walk Bay Ridge's restaurant row on Third Avenue.For years, young professionals and families turned up their noses at Bay Ridge, a working-class area of southwestern Brooklyn, because of how far it is from Manhattan. But as real estate prices in trendier Brooklyn neighborhoods continue to climb, more and more city slickers are taking a second glance at the "original Gold Coast," as locals call the area. With its phenomenal public schools, copious outdoor spaces, restaurant row, and affordable housing, Bay Ridge has a lot to offer. The influx of young people has also changed Bay Ridge. Trendy, pricey restaurants have popped up on the main drag, a new crowd stays out later, and rents have significantly increased. Suddenly, Bay Ridge's lifelong residents fear being priced out of their homes. The last shred of Old Brooklyn — the grimy, comfortable, working-class borough where a cup of coffee cost a buck — is giving way to "Girls"-era, hipster New Brooklyn. Let's see what all the fuss is about.
Morgan StanleyI recently took a tour of my uncle's industrial valve company in South Korea. The visit included a presentation given by one of his employees, who emphasized the company's commitment research and development (R&amp;D). Their principal concern is that anything on the market will eventually be manufactured in China at lower costs. In order to stay ahead, they have to keep improving their products. R&amp;D is one of those controversial line items that companies love to tout. But investors worry about it because it eats into profit margins in the near term. My uncle takes pride in not having to deal with this particular investor grievance because he owns 100% of the company. His company is just one of the many that have made Korea one of the beacons of R&amp;D in the developed world. "Korea’s emphasis on R&amp;D is the main driver that has been bolstering its global competitiveness," wrote Morgan Stanley's Sharon Lam and Jason Liu. "Korea has seen the fastest growth in R&amp;D expenditures among OECD countries over the last decade. It now ranks first in OECD in terms of R&amp;D intensity (expressed as R&amp;D spending as % of GDP), which replaced a long-standing position held by Israel before 2012. We believe R&amp;D will continue to see increasing share of GDP growth contribution in Korea in the years to come." Morgan StanleyAnd Korea isn't just throwing away that money. The benefits of the R&amp;D spending have been very clear in recent years. "Apart from the direct contribution, R&amp;D spending is, in fact, an intangible asset that is boosting other growth elements as well, most notably exports," said Lam and Liu. "The much-enhanced technology and design are the keys to help Korean exporters to compete on quality rather than on price, in our view. As a result, Korea’s exports have seen little to almost no impact from the substantial JPY depreciation over the last 18 months." Also known as Abenomics, Japan's ambitious economic stimulus plan has involved loose monetary policy that has led to the substantial devaluation of the yen relative to other currencies. The Japanese yen is down almost 20% on the Korean won since the beginning of 2013 (see below). This was once considered a risk to neighboring South Korea, which competes in many of the same export categories. The relative weakness of the yen to the won effectively put all of Japan's exported goods up for sale at a steep discount. But it appears that no amount of cheapness will offset the demand for technologically superior goods. Rather than struggling to maintain growth, growth is actually accelerating in Korea. "We are increasing our Korea GDP forecasts to 3.6% and 4.1%, respectively, for 2014 and 2015, from 3.5% and 3.7%," said Lam and Liu in their note. All this is a lesson for any economy or company competing at the global level. Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ben NelmsWilson (right) owns 28% of the company and is the company’s largest shareholder.Lululemon founder Dennis "Chip" Wilson is working with Goldman Sachs as he fights for control of the yoga pants maker, The Wall Street Journal reports. The clothing company has had a rough year: First quarter comparable store sales fell 4% over last year, signaling that demand is tumbling. And the downgrades have begun as shares have lost nearly a third of their value this year. The stock fell by 4 cents to $40.23 on Friday.  Wilson desperately wants a new board, writing in a recent news release that he has "found a palpable imbalance in Board representation, which is heavily weighted towards short-term results at the expense of product, culture and brand and longer-term corporate goals." Wilson stepped down as chairman of the board last month after coming under fire last year for suggesting that some women's bodies weren't made to wear Lululemon's yoga pants. He gave up his role as CEO in 2005. "Among the founder's possible options are selling his stake or joining with a private-equity firm in a buyout, other people familiar with the matter said," WSJ reports. "So far, Mr. Wilson hasn't made any decisions on further steps, said a person familiar with his thinking who wouldn't elaborate on what is under consideration." Goldman helped take Lululemon public in 2007 and are negotiating an arrangement as Wilson shakes up his team. Lululemon's board has sought advice from bankers in response, another source told WSJ. FREE AppDownload
YouTubeMonday night, after the U.S. Supreme Court decided not to hear the case between Argentina and a group of hedge funds and effectively ordered the country to part with $15 billion in one go, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner gave a passionate, defiant, Oscar-worthy speech. It was 30 minutes long, and it was all about bonds. In any other country, people would immediately switch to "Dancing with the Stars," but Argentina has an odd, fatalistic relationship with international markets – one that explains the Fernandez administration's defiant stance on this case and its overall consumption of the Argentine imagination. Fernandez was preparing her people for another tangle with its twin enemies— debt and inflation. "I think this merits a quick look at our history," she said. The president took the story back to the country's dictatorship in 1976, the first time international debt turned to inflation and was, she said, "without a doubt the most powerful trap we'd been in keeping us from growth, the development of Argentina, it created poverty, backwardness, homelessness, a lack of infrastructural development, investment in education, in science ..." What she is describing is the defining moment of Argentine history — a moment many in power lived through themselves. Over and over again in the speech, as she discussed the country's struggle with foreign debt, she repeated "and this wasn't the end." Because in Argentina it's never the end.  From there she went on to the latest default in 2001 and the IMF's loan to the country, which she called a "fictitious operation" to ensure that money made in Argentina never stayed there to aid the country. Instead it went abroad, to feed the beast that was the international market. She goes on, naming specific bankers, specific debt deals now familiar to her people as potential harbingers of disaster. This was a bedtime story — the kind of thing you've heard your whole life and will tell your own kids — not a news report. YouTubeEventually she got to the case at hand, the country's latest dance with default. She describes hedge fund manager Paul Singer and his group (NML) as vultures quite clearly. They bought Argentine bonds when they were "garbage," "worth nothing." "Only people intending to speculate would buy these bonds," she said. If you think about it this way, these investors, eating the carrion of the international financial market, are vultures. They want to make 1,608% off of the suffering of Argentines, from bringing the horror of the past into the present and future. "So fine, there are some that say: Why not pay the $1.5 billion and end it," she said.  "Because there is another more serious problem that the 1% of holdouts create. There's another 7% that, if we pay NML their $1.5 billion, Argentina has to pay them $15 billion ... That's half of all the reserves in our Central Bank." (She's being generous, it's more than half — they've got about $28.5 billion.) It's not that she doesn't want to pay, she insists, it's that she needs a payment plan. In any case, because of this situation, she says that NML demanding payment in full at once is extortion — one that has wider implications for financial markets. It's why so many entities and countries stood with Argentina and against NML. And she told those countries in her speech: "I have a confession to make to all of you: Our loss did not surprise me, I expected the loss. This morning when I talked to the president of our Central Bank, Juan Carlos Fabrega, he told me 'president, you were the only one who believes this would happen.' Yes, because this is not an economic problem, or a financial problem, it's not a judicial or legal problem; it's the result of a business model on a global scale that, if it continues, will produce unbelievable tragedies." She should know, her country is obsessed with them. The full transcript of the speech is here (in Spanish). FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsGalbi, or short ribs marinated in soy sauceKorean food is famous for its hearty spicy stews, bright pickled vegetables, and addictive barbecue. But for novices, a Korean restaurant and its menu can be intimidating. Most dishes don't have names that translate into English. If you're not familiar with the names, you might make your order based on your analysis of the English ingredients and hope for the best. The goal of this feature is to introduce you to a few popular and savory dishes so that you don't have to go into your next Korean restaurant unprepared. FREE AppDownload
At work and at home, we want to know honesty when we see it. Here are some scientifically proven ways to know what you're looking at.
Richard Chilton, CEO of hedge fund Chilton Investments, has been on Wall Street since Morgan Stanley's book value was a tiny $30 million (in 1978). That means he's seen and learned a lot. In an interview with Skiddy von Stade, CEO of financial career site OneWire, he shared some of his stories. Chilton began his career in the investment business at Merrill Lynch. From there, he moved to the money management side at Alliance Capital and subsequently Allen &amp; Co., which was really just getting going. “The money management business was very nascent,” Chilton explains, “It was just really starting, as the talent drain came from the big banks and the trust companies into forming independent money managers.” So how was Chilton introduced to hedge funds? His best friend, Robert Williamson, happened to be the nephew of Julian Robertson, the godfather of all things hedge fund. “I remember [Julian] calling me up and saying, which [companies] do you think are going to go broke? Because we’re going to short those … And I said … what’s shorting?” Years later he started his own classic "A.W. Jones style" long/short hedge fund, and the rest is Wall Street history. Watch Chilton’s full interview below to learn more about developments he witnessed on Wall Street and how he founded his own hedge fund, and stay tuned for Part II in the coming days. To watch the whole interview series, visit OneWire’s YouTube channel.  FREE AppDownload
Societe GeneraleU.S. inflation is becoming an increasingly important topic of discussion in the global economy. This is because accelerating inflation puts increasing amounts of pressure on the Federal Reserve to begin tightening monetary policy sooner. Last week, we learned that the consumer price index (CPI) rose by 2.1% in May, with core CPI climbing by 2.0%. These numbers raised some heads because the Fed has said that its long-run inflation rate objective is 2%. However, the Fed's also said that its preferred measure of inflation is the change in the price index for personal consumption expenditures (PCE), which climbed by just 1.6%. Why does the Fed prefer PCE over CPI? Societe Generale's Aneta Markowska explained in a June 19 research note: ... The official switch from CPI to PCE occurred in 2000 when the FOMC stopped publishing CPI forecasts and began to frame its inflation projections in terms of the PCE price index. This shift, announced by Alan Greenspan during his testimony to Congress, came after extensive analysis done by the Fed. The conclusion was that the PCE has several advantages over the CPI, including (1) the changing composition of spending which is more consistent with actual consumer behavior, (2) the weights, which are based on a more comprehensive measure of expenditure, and (3) the fact that PCE data can be revised to account for newly available information and improved measurement techniques. In that same testimony, Greenspan said that the FOMC “will continue to rely on a variety of aggregate price measures, as well as other information on prices and costs, in assessing the path of inflation.” As you can see in the chart above, the composition of PCE and CPI are very different. Shelter inflation is a notably smaller component of the PCE index than it is for CPI. Markowska explains: ... the projected divergence is consistent with the historical spread between the two inflation measures which has averaged at 0.5% over the long run. The spread is driven in part by composition effects, with the CPI basket being fixed and the PCE basket allowing for substitution effects which generally favor cheaper goods and services. The closely linked scope and weight effects also play an important role. Whereas the CPI reflects out-of-pocket expenditures of all urban households, the PCE also includes goods and services purchased on behalf of households. For example, medical care outlays have a much greater weight in the overall PCE basket relative to the CPI index given that it includes premium payments made by the employers and by the government. The PCE also includes the imputed cost of financial services furnished without payment which are not included in the CPI. The expanded share of these two components in the PCE necessarily shrinks the weight of other goods and services (see chart 18 for details). Importantly, the share of housing is just 15% in the PCE vs 31% in the CPI. Since this is one of the key drivers of inflation in our forecast, it also contributes to a widening gap between the two inflation measures. Understanding all of this will be important for anyone paying attention the signals sent by upcoming inflation reports. FREE AppDownload
Broadview NetworksThe graphic above shows the largest company by revenue in every state. Created by Mike Simmons in collaboration with Broadview Networks, the map drew information from Hoover's — a Dun &amp; Bradstreet company — database of company profiles. The site updates information based on figures available from the most recent fiscal year. Simmons based decisions for each state off company headquarters and excluded any subsidiaries or government agencies as well as companies with foreign offices. Some of the top companies make perfect sense, like Exxon in Texas, with $438.3 billion in revenue; General Motors in Michigan, $155.4 billion; and Wal-Mart in Arkansas, $476.3 billion. Others, however, deliver a shock. You might think Microsoft or Boeing reigns in Washington, but a look at the data reveals that Costco, with $105.1 billion in revenue, actually comes out on top.  These states, as some of the biggest in the country, naturally house many of the companies with the most revenue, too. Visit Hoover's and use the filers at the bottom to check the top companies in your state.
Getty Images/ Eugene GologurskyDeeb A. Salem and Lauren C. Salem.A young former Goldman Sachs trader thinks that the $8.25 million bonus the bank awarded him was too low, Bloomberg News reports. Deeb Amin Salem, a 35-year-old star mortgage trader, told his mom he was expecting $13 million for his 2010 bonus, the report said citing Financial Industry Regulatory Authority arbitration documents. Instead, he got $8.25 million.  The year before, Salem was paid a $15 million bonus. That was more than Goldman CEO Lloyd Blankfein took home for his 2009 bonus, Bloomberg pointed out. According to the report, Salem thought he was being punished for what he wrote in his 2007 self-evaluation. His review was made public back in 2011 by a U.S. Senate panel. Here's what he wrote about what he did well during the mortgage meltdown:  "In May, while we were remain[ing] as negative as ever on the fundamentals in sub-prime, the market was trading VERY SHORT, and susceptible to a squeeze. We began to encourage this squeeze, with plans of getting very short again, after the short squeezed [sic] cause[d] capitulation of these shorts. This strategy seemed do-able and brilliant, but once the negative fundamental news kept coming in at a tremendous rate, we stopped waiting for the shorts to capitulate, and instead just reinitiated shorts ourselves immediately." Salem joined Goldman in 2001 after graduating from Princeton. While at Goldman, he became the head trader in the structured product group and led that desk during the mortgage crisis. According to Bloomberg News, a $3 million bonus for his 2011 performance is what caused him to leave for a hedge fund in 2012. He's currently working as a portfolio manager for GoldenTree Asset Management.  A spokesperson for Goldman told Bloomberg News that Salem's claims are "utterly ridiculous."  Salem's claims were recently rejected by a FINRA panel. His attorney has just filed a petition in New York State Supreme Court. Salem is seeking $16.5 million from the bank ($9.5 million and about 41,000 shares in deferred compensation), the report said.  FREE AppDownload
The EconomistThe shrinking of British banks is bad for their employees, the City and Britain. "It hurts too much to think about," says the former head of a big British bank when asked about the retreat of Britain’s banking champions from international markets. "It is such a wasted opportunity." A senior executive at another big international bank is just as downbeat about London’s ability to attract investment. "The UK is a lot less attractive for us," he says. "We don’t trust it." Such comments would have been inconceivable a few years ago, when British banks were riding high and Britain’s role as the pre-eminent international financial centre seemed unassailable. Before the credit crunch, finance was Britain’s most successful industry, its biggest exporter, taxpayer and provider of well-paid jobs. Now it is being humbled, with negative consequences for the wider economy. The most easily measured is on government revenues. Corporate taxes paid by predominantly British banks accounted for 16% of the corporate tax take in 2013, more than the share from oil and gas firms in the North Sea. Yet this figure represents a drastic shrinkage. Since 2007 the amount of corporate taxes paid by financial firms has fallen by almost half. Well-paid jobs are also going in their tens of thousands. In recent weeks Barclays started cutting the first of 7,000 posts, mostly in its investment bank. This marks the end of its erstwhile effort to become one of the world’s biggest international banks. Other British banks are also in retreat. Back in 2008 Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) was the world’s third-largest bank. Yet last month it filed papers to spin off or sell its American retail banking unit as part of a process to scale back or divest all its businesses outside Britain. The shrinkage is wrenching for a country that more or less invented modern international banking. Exactly 150 years ago this newspaper crowed about Britain’s excellence in "understanding cautious, but not over cautious banking — bold, but not over bold banking — better than any other country." British banks proceeded to dominate international finance for over a century. By some measures they were only eclipsed by American rivals in the 1980s. But in the new millennium they made a spectacular return--zooming back into investment banking and onto the international stage. Having been almost absent from the rankings of the world’s biggest banks in the 1990s, British banks had by 2008 claimed two of the top three spots (see chart). But that was the peak, with RBS and HBOS since bailed out by a reluctant British government. And Barclays has suffered embarrassing losses, paid hefty fines for rigging key interest rates and been defenestrated by the Bank of England. It is now throwing in the towel on large parts of its investment bank. The only exception to this general decline is HSBC, an Asia-focused bank which only moved its headquarters to Britain in 1993. The retreat is partly by government decree. Politicians see little reason for state-owned banks such as RBS to have large foreign operations. Instead they encourage its managers to focus on the sorts of things that please voters, such as writing mortgages and providing loans to small businesses. New regulations, such as Britain’s ring-fence between retail and investment banking, are also encouraging banks to trim their international and investment-banking businesses. Does this matter? Those writing the new rules say, no. London has long been to finance as Wimbledon is to tennis, they say: Britain provides the court and encourages foreigners to provide the best players. They believe Britain can continue reaping the rewards of being an international banking centre, while at the same time having tame domestic banks that won’t put taxpayers’ money at risk of another bail-out. There is some merit to this. Some 250 foreign banks operate in Britain. Between them they own almost half the country’s banking assets. Foreign banks pay employee-related taxes and their staff pay income taxes, even if they generally structure their operations to ensure they pay little corporate tax. Yet London’s role as an international financial centre is coming under threat from many of the same forces that are shrinking British banks. Regulators around the world are fencing off domestic financial markets, forcing banks to set aside capital and liquidity to support local lending. Many are also restricting the ability of their own banks to expand into other markets. This "balkanisation" of finance may well lead to a financial system that is more resilient to foreign shocks, but less diversified and therefore riskier. Diversified banks with operations around the world are generally able to offset losses in one country with profits from another. Yet as British banks retreat to their home market, they will lose many of these benefits and will be more closely tied to the fortunes of the British economy. That means they are likely to find themselves lending too much when times are good and contracting too sharply when they are bad, exaggerating booms and busts. Shrunken banks may also have other big economic implications, not least if they are unable to finance exports. Britain’s banking industry still has many strengths, not least a cluster of skilled professionals that includes shipping and insurance experts as well as bankers, lawyers and accountants. It is located in a favourable time zone for trading between America and Asia. These make it likely that London will remain a centre of finance of some sort. But the diminution of home-grown banks will make the City less interesting and Britain poorer for it. Click here to subscribe to The Economist. FREE AppDownload
The EconomistThe shrinking of British banks is bad for their employees, the City and Britain. "It hurts too much to think about," says the former head of a big British bank when asked about the retreat of Britain’s banking champions from international markets. "It is such a wasted opportunity." A senior executive at another big international bank is just as downbeat about London’s ability to attract investment. "The UK is a lot less attractive for us," he says. "We don’t trust it." Such comments would have been inconceivable a few years ago, when British banks were riding high and Britain’s role as the pre-eminent international financial centre seemed unassailable. Before the credit crunch, finance was Britain’s most successful industry, its biggest exporter, taxpayer and provider of well-paid jobs. Now it is being humbled, with negative consequences for the wider economy. The most easily measured is on government revenues. Corporate taxes paid by predominantly British banks accounted for 16% of the corporate tax take in 2013, more than the share from oil and gas firms in the North Sea. Yet this figure represents a drastic shrinkage. Since 2007 the amount of corporate taxes paid by financial firms has fallen by almost half. Well-paid jobs are also going in their tens of thousands. In recent weeks Barclays started cutting the first of 7,000 posts, mostly in its investment bank. This marks the end of its erstwhile effort to become one of the world’s biggest international banks. Other British banks are also in retreat. Back in 2008 Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) was the world’s third-largest bank. Yet last month it filed papers to spin off or sell its American retail banking unit as part of a process to scale back or divest all its businesses outside Britain. The shrinkage is wrenching for a country that more or less invented modern international banking. Exactly 150 years ago this newspaper crowed about Britain’s excellence in "understanding cautious, but not over cautious banking — bold, but not over bold banking — better than any other country." British banks proceeded to dominate international finance for over a century. By some measures they were only eclipsed by American rivals in the 1980s. But in the new millennium they made a spectacular return--zooming back into investment banking and onto the international stage. Having been almost absent from the rankings of the world’s biggest banks in the 1990s, British banks had by 2008 claimed two of the top three spots (see chart). But that was the peak, with RBS and HBOS since bailed out by a reluctant British government. And Barclays has suffered embarrassing losses, paid hefty fines for rigging key interest rates and been defenestrated by the Bank of England. It is now throwing in the towel on large parts of its investment bank. The only exception to this general decline is HSBC, an Asia-focused bank which only moved its headquarters to Britain in 1993. The retreat is partly by government decree. Politicians see little reason for state-owned banks such as RBS to have large foreign operations. Instead they encourage its managers to focus on the sorts of things that please voters, such as writing mortgages and providing loans to small businesses. New regulations, such as Britain’s ring-fence between retail and investment banking, are also encouraging banks to trim their international and investment-banking businesses. Does this matter? Those writing the new rules say, no. London has long been to finance as Wimbledon is to tennis, they say: Britain provides the court and encourages foreigners to provide the best players. They believe Britain can continue reaping the rewards of being an international banking centre, while at the same time having tame domestic banks that won’t put taxpayers’ money at risk of another bail-out. There is some merit to this. Some 250 foreign banks operate in Britain. Between them they own almost half the country’s banking assets. Foreign banks pay employee-related taxes and their staff pay income taxes, even if they generally structure their operations to ensure they pay little corporate tax. Yet London’s role as an international financial centre is coming under threat from many of the same forces that are shrinking British banks. Regulators around the world are fencing off domestic financial markets, forcing banks to set aside capital and liquidity to support local lending. Many are also restricting the ability of their own banks to expand into other markets. This "balkanisation" of finance may well lead to a financial system that is more resilient to foreign shocks, but less diversified and therefore riskier. Diversified banks with operations around the world are generally able to offset losses in one country with profits from another. Yet as British banks retreat to their home market, they will lose many of these benefits and will be more closely tied to the fortunes of the British economy. That means they are likely to find themselves lending too much when times are good and contracting too sharply when they are bad, exaggerating booms and busts. Shrunken banks may also have other big economic implications, not least if they are unable to finance exports. Britain’s banking industry still has many strengths, not least a cluster of skilled professionals that includes shipping and insurance experts as well as bankers, lawyers and accountants. It is located in a favourable time zone for trading between America and Asia. These make it likely that London will remain a centre of finance of some sort. But the diminution of home-grown banks will make the City less interesting and Britain poorer for it. Click here to subscribe to The Economist. FREE AppDownload
"To which of the following issues are you currently allocating wealth, time or expertise?" This was a question posed to over 4,500 of the world's high-net-worth individuals (HNWI) in a recent survey conducted by Capgemini and RBC Wealth Management. HNWIs are those with at least $1 million worth of investable assets. Health, diseases and palliative care top the list of social causes of concern. That's followed by education, welfare of children, and welfare of older people. Income inequality was the 16th most important cause on this list, with just 15.9% of respondents saying they devote their wealth and energy to it. While other concerns may seem more dire, some might argue that they can be improved by addressing income inequality. For whatever reason, it seems pretty clear that the world's rich aren't too concerned with the gap between the rich and the poor. Capgemini, RBC Wealth Management FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarA South African couple arrived in New York this weekend after crossing the Atlantic Ocean by rowing nearly 6,700 miles over six months, Corey Kilgannon of The New York Times reports. Riaan Manser and Vasti Geldenhuys, an engaged couple from Cape Town, left Morocco on December 30 in a custom 22-foot rowboat. Their subsequent journey included 133 days on the water with no support boat and 74 consecutive days with no land in sight as they rowed all day and watched movies on a laptop at night. Manser, a  professional adventurer who previously became the first person to cycle the entire perimeter of the African continent and circumnavigate Madagascar by single kayak, and Geldenhuys, a lawyer, guided their high-tech craft into the 79th Street Boat Basin in Manhattan on Friday after an estimated 1.8 million oar strokes. South African media notes that Geldenhuys is now t"he first African woman to row across any ocean on the planet, and with Riaan, the first woman to row from mainland Africa to mainland North America." “We’ve done a journey that no human beings have done,” Manser told The Times. Here's the note they sent on Thursday night: “Landed on Staten Island. One month at sea from Miami. We’re tired, it’s been long. We’ve almost done it. Friday we do last 25km across finish line at Statue of Liberty. New York City coming out in full force.” Here are some photos of their arrival in New York: REUTERS/Mike Segar REUTERS/Mike Segar REUTERS/Mike Segar REUTERS/Mike Segar REUTERS/Mike Segar  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarImmigration policy is one of the mostly hotly debated issues in the country. From the perspective of the U.S. housing market, evidence shows that immigration is very positive. Immigrants create demand, they clear out undesired inventory, and they improve crime-ridden neighborhoods. When existing American homeowners sell their houses and buy new ones, they aren't creating net new demand. Within the U.S. housing market, they are simultaneously becoming buyers and sellers. They fill one home by vacating another. Immigrants moving in to the country, however, are creating net new demand for homes, either as renters or buyers. The immigrant population is expected to grow by about 800,000 to 1 million people per year, Chris Porter at John Burns Real Estate Consulting told Business Insider, citing data from the U.S. Census Bureau's population projection. Homeownership rates aren't very high for new immigrants, especially relative to those born in the U.S. But over time, ownership rates for households where the head was foreign born can go up to 54-55%. "Assuming that net immigration of 1.2 million … persists for 10 years, the model estimates that after ten years new immigrants will … account for more than 900 thousand home owners," said the NAHB's Natalia Siniavskaia in a 2012 paper. The biggest obstacles to homeownership among immigrants is lack of assets and and elevated uncertainty about how long they can be in the country, said Duke University professor Jacob Vigdor. Because of this, new immigrants tend to be renters rather than buyers. In other words, they are expected to contribute more to multi-family construction in the near term, than single-family units. Obviously, wealthier immigrants have a more favorable impact on the demand for single-family units. As the U.S. housing market has recovered, supply has become increasingly tight. Of the available homes, and increasing share can be characterized as "obsolete," said CoreLogic Mark Fleming. This refers to "properties that are no longer desirable because their characteristics do not match what buyers are looking for in a home." However, immigrants have been helpful in clearing this undesired inventory. Importantly, they help to raise the value of homes in these undesired neighborhoods. "Immigrants chose these neighborhoods because housing was least expensive, and they reverse the trends that led to inexpensiveness," said Vigdor, a professor of public policy and economics. "By reducing vacancy, they reduce crime." He pointed out that immigrants have done this in the outer boroughs of New York like the Bronx, Brooklyn, and Queens. He points specifically to improvements in neighborhoods like Morrisania in the Bronx and Canarsie in Brooklyn. Immigrants are sometimes blamed for crowding workers out of the labor market. However, we can't ignore the job creation that come with increased demand for more homes and higher home values. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesYeshiva University's President Richard Joel.Credit-ratings agency Moody's thinks Yeshiva, a private Jewish university located in New York City, will be broke by next year.  Yeshiva lost an estimated $105 million with convicted Ponzi schemer Bernie Madoff, who was also a trustee, but that's not why the university is running out of money. According to an extensive two-year investigation by TakePart's Steven Weiss and The Jewish Channel, the administration blew the school's financial future on bad hedge fund investments over the last decade. At one point before the 2008 financial crisis, the university allocated 65% in hedge funds, which was the third-highest of any university endowment, the report said.  From TakePart:  ...The school lost more than $500 million on its high-risk investment portfolio—after selling off nearly $500 million of ultrasafe U.S. Treasury bonds when the new regime took over a decade ago, plowing the proceeds mostly into hedge funds and corporate stocks. Assuming the strategy of increasing risk in its investment portfolio would pay off with higher returns, the new president and the board that hired him took on a bevy of new expenses, spending down their cash reserves and resting much of Yeshiva’s fate on their hedge fund gambles. Now that those investments have proved to be losses, Yeshiva faces more than $550 million of debt, and it appears to have been tapping into the principal of its investment portfolio to cover annual deficits. On their own, any one of these changes—the half-billion-dollar hit to its portfolio, the diminution of liquidity, and the mass of debt—would be a significant, though bearable, difficulty for a university; together, their effect has been devastating.  The investigation is long, but worth the read. You can read the full TakePart article here »  You can also play with the pie chart infographics to see how the university's investment strategy shifted.    FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersSwedish-American heiress Stenbeck, executive chairman and principal owner of Investment AB Kinnevik, looks on in StockholmSTOCKHOLM (Reuters) - Swedish-American heiress Cristina Stenbeck's bet on the red-hot e-commerce business has caught the eye of investors, although doubters question the future of her Kinnevik group in a sector where new players emerge almost every day. Shares in Kinnevik, which Stenbeck inherited at 24 on the sudden death of her father Jan, have more than doubled in half a dozen years and outstripped some of Sweden's other renowned family investment firms under her leadership. Yet some critics regard Kinnevik's investment shift into online retailing where entry barriers are low as foolhardy. They question the team Stenbeck has built, saying that while it is strong on banking and financial experience, it lacks the operational ability to build long-lasting web businesses. In its nearly 80-year history, Kinnevik has made a habit of leaping from one growth sector to the next. Jan Stenbeck had already transformed what was once an industrial group into a telecoms and media giant when he died in 2002. Cristina, who is now executive chairwoman, eventually made her own strategic shift and steered the family firm into digital businesses. "For us it was absolutely the next big thing," Stenbeck, 36, told Reuters in an interview at her London office. "It was a continuation of what we were doing in mobile telecommunications." This turning point came about six years ago when German entrepreneur Oliver Samwer made his way to Sweden to ask Kinnevik for cash for his venture Rocket Internet. With a roll of the dice, Stenbeck and the board backed Samwer and his brothers - Marc and Alexander - investing 35 million euros (now $48 million) in their start-up selling everything from stilettos to furniture online. That meeting took place at a manor house owned by Korsnas, Kinnevik's old pulp and paper firm. This was to become part of the group's history following the move into the online business, where Forrester Research forecasts overall retail sales will grow 12 percent annually up to 2018. "It came up rather suddenly and we all agreed that we should join forces with the Samwer brothers," said Vigo Carlund, a Kinnevik board member present when Samwer gave his pitch. "Kinnevik has always been very entrepreneurial." Today one of Rocket Internet's start-ups, Zalando, is Europe's biggest online fashion retailer and perhaps Kinnevik's most important asset. "We had a very big conviction around Zalando and what that company could possibly take for European market share," said Stenbeck. Both Internet incubator Rocket and Zalando may go for multi-billion dollar stock market listings this year. Stenbeck, the third generation of the family to run Kinnevik, has built up the group's online investments from nothing to a third of its portfolio. Her push mirrors Jan's bold move into television and telecoms, when he created what is today broadcaster MTG and operators Tele2 and Millicom, breaking state monopolies along the way. Some believe Kinnevik, which has produced an average effective yield of 17 percent for shareholders in the last 30 years, is in better shape than when Jan ran the group. Its net asset value has tripled since 2009 to 66.2 billion crowns ($10 billion) and it has a net cash position of 2 billion crowns. Kinnevik's investments include Russia's biggest classifieds website Avito, furnishings site Home24 and Wimdu, which is similar to the private holiday accommodation site Airbnb. The online portfolio is second to telecoms and financial services, which make up 57 percent of the total. Stenbeck has said the telecoms sector is under threat from the already high levels of people using its services - offering lower potential growth - along with reduced tariffs and rising business costs. In a sign of change, she stepped down last year from the boards of both Tele2 and MTG. In February, she became supervisory board chairwoman at Zalando, which sells more than 1,500 brands to Europe's online fashionistas and posted a 35 percent increase in revenue in the first quarter. The firm is considering a listing which could value it at as much at $9 billion, according to some analysts. However, Zalando is not yet profitable and just this month, its biggest rival ASOS issued a profit warning, stunning markets and sending shares in ASOS and Kinnevik sliding. Zalando had 1.8 billion euros in revenues last year compared with just short of one billion for ASOS in its fiscal year. But it had a negative margin of 6.5 percent compared with a positive 7.1 percent for ASOS. Kinnevik's new CEO, Lorenzo Grabau, said operating losses are the name of the game when building a major business. He believes Zalando is on track to profitability, drawing parallels to Amazon, the world's largest online retailer. "When you study the Amazon history between 1997 and 2003 and look at Zalando in terms of profitability, it's kind of the same," said Grabau. "It took ASOS 14-15 years to get to a company which is 60-70 percent the size of Zalando. Zalando got there in five years." Danske Bank analyst Bile Daar said it was hard to know about long-term profitability given how young e-commerce is. "But will the Internet continue to grow in the coming 10 years? It seems so, and scale should over time bring profitability," he said. Kinnevik is among a long list of Swedish family firms from the Wallenberg-backed Investor Group to the Kamprads who run IKEA which are having to think up new strategies to keep up in a fast-changing world. Kinnevik's stock price has risen 155 percent since the global financial crisis year of 2009 as funds have jumped in to gain exposure to Europe's tech sector. Shares in Investor group have risen 90 percent in the same period. Grabau is quick to distinguish Kinnevik from Investor or fellow Swedish family firm Ratos, which he sees more as asset managers. "We are about building new brands - building digital brands around the world," he said. Many like the formula. Edinburgh-based investment management firm Baillie &amp; Gifford announced in the past week it had raised its stake in Kinnevik to over 5 percent of capital. Investment vehicle Verdere, co-owned by Cristina and her brother Max, is Kinnevik's biggest shareholder with 10.6 percent of capital and 44.8 percent of votes. Kinnevik is not without its critics and its shares have lost 10 percent this year. This is due to worries about political fallout in Russia where it is exposed, the state of its ageing telecoms assets and signs of slowing new user traffic even at Zalando as it focuses on profitability rather than expansion. Bankers say parts or all of Tele2 may be for sale due to the sector's slow growth prospects and setbacks for the firm, such as its recent failure to secure a 4G network license in Norway. Unlike her father, who built companies from the ground up, many say Stenbeck lacks operational experience and has made risky bets on companies which are far from profitable. She has surrounded herself by what some say is an astonishing number of bankers. Grabau, Kinnevik's new investment director and Rocket Internet's recently hired CFO are all former Goldman Sachs bankers. Such bankers know how to handle the financials, said Anders Elgemyr, CEO of Birger Jarl Fondkommission, a Swedish brokerage. "But when it's going badly, it's going to be very bad, because they don't know how to turn around the company from the ground level, because they don't know how the industry really works." Those close to Stenbeck say she works hard to build strong boards for each of Kinnevik's assets. She got Anders Holch Povlsen, owner of Denmark's Bestseller and the biggest shareholder in ASOS, to take a 10 percent stake in Zalando with a seat on the board. "I learn so much from Bestseller. Anders, with a very early and deep understanding of the significant shift to e-commerce in his own business, and his belief and confidence in Zalando has been incredibly valuable," she said. Perhaps the great concern is that just like many of Kinnevik's fledgling businesses, anyone can start an online business and steal market share. Carlund, who has worked with the group for five decades and is partly responsible for closing Kinnevik's industrial chapter which he was so closely tied to, is confident. "Most ideas are not original, you know," he said. "Toyota didn't start cars, H&amp;M did not start the clothing business, and neither did Zara. There aren't many ideas - it's the way that you execute on the ideas that makes a difference... A lot of people can make a hamburger, but there are few McDonald's."($1 = 0.7336 Euros) ($1 = 6.6883 Swedish crowns) (Additional reporting by Niklas Pollard, Olof Swahnberg and Sven Nordenstam; Editing by Alistair Scrutton and David Stamp) FREE AppDownload
Win McNamee/GettyFew were more intimately involved with manging the financial crisis than Hank Paulson, President George W. Bush's treasury secretary.  In a new op-ed in the New York Times, Paulson says he's seeing the same stresses that nearly brought down the banking system, and which led to the Great Recession, are playing out in climate.  Looking back at the dark days of the financial crisis in 2008, it is easy to see the similarities between the financial crisis and the climate challenge we now face. We are building up excesses (debt in 2008, greenhouse gas emissions that are trapping heat now). Our government policies are flawed (incentivizing us to borrow too much to finance homes then, and encouraging the overuse of carbon-based fuels now). Our experts (financial experts then, climate scientists now) try to understand what they see and to model possible futures. And the outsize risks have the potential to be tremendously damaging (to a globalized economy then, and the global climate now). To start addressing the situation, Paulson calls for the creation of a carbon tax, which he argues is actually a "conservative" solution, since it allows market forces to put a price on allocating resources toward or away from addressing the problem.    "A tax on carbon emissions will unleash a wave of innovation to develop technologies, lower the costs of clean energy and create jobs as we and other nations develop new energy products and infrastructure," he says. "This would strengthen national security by reducing the world’s dependence on governments like Russia and Iran. Paulson acknowledges that the U.S. alone can't address the situation — but that no one else will be moved to do so if it doesn't take the lead. And he takes his own Republican Party to task for not taking the crisis seriously, saying that the short term economic consequences will be swamped by the long-term ones that would come from doing nothing and allowing the crisis to build. "Republicans must not shrink from this issue," he writes. "Risk management is a conservative principle, as is preserving our natural environment for future generations. We are, after all, the party of Teddy Roosevelt." This week, he says, the Risky Business project, a climate change-focused group Paulson co-created last fall with Michael Bloomberg and retired hedge fund manager Tom Steyer, will will put out a financial analysis on the costs of inaction across regions and economic sectors most imperiled. Click here to read the full op-ed on NYTimes.com » FREE AppDownload
moriza via www.flickr.comWe like to think we're rational human beings.  In fact, we are prone to hundreds of proven biases that cause us to think and act irrationally, and even thinking we're rational despite evidence of irrationality in others is known as blind spot bias. The study of how often human beings do irrational things was enough for psychologists Daniel Kahneman to win the Nobel Prize in Economics, and it opened the rapidly expanding field of behavioral economics. Similar insights are also reshaping everything from marketing to criminology. Hoping to clue you — and ourselves — into the biases that frame our decisions, we've collected a long list of the most notable ones. FREE AppDownload
asdfaMorgan Stanley's Adam Jonas is out with an awesome and slightly hilarious note in which he argues Tesla is now, maybe, the most important car company in the world.   "Not even two years after the delivery of the first Model S, Tesla Motors has transformed from fledgling start-up to arguably the most important car company in the world. We are not joking." He groups a series of amusing anecdotes into three sections about how the auto world can't stop talking about the California-based electric carmaker. First there was the recent two-hour dinner Jonas had with the CTO a global parts mega-supplier. Half the meal was spent discussing how no one is doing what Tesla is doing to advance electrification and how suppliers are considering devoting new lines and facilities to make parts for the company. Next are all the state governments clawing over themselves to land one of Tesla's gigafactories, which could even someday end up moving the needle on U.S. GDP itself. Jonas said Tesla could wind up employing 20,000 employees directly and supporting up to 150,000 other jobs upstream and downstream. And finally, there's what the traditional automakers are saying, talk that has caused Jonas to go full Keanu.  "General Motors last year established its 'Team Tesla' to advance the development of long range EVs. A BMW engineer recently explained to us how Tesla's presence has helped reinvigorate the spirit of automobile innovation that was beginning to run stale, further testifying that BMW will be a stronger company longer term because Tesla is around. Whoa." Jonas has a $320 price target on the stock. Shares were trading at $233. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick WilkingThe U.S. flag flies at the Burt GM auto dealer in Denver June 1, 2009. WASHINGTON/DETROIT (Reuters) - A former head of General Motors corporate quality audit warned the company’s board in a letter in 2002 that it needed to “stop the continued shipment of unsafe vehicles” and “recall suspect vehicles that were already in customers’ hands.” The letter from William McAleer shows that GM's directors and top management were told about serious safety defects in vehicles that were coming off the company’s production lines more than 11 years before GM recalled millions of vehicles for faulty ignition switches linked to at least 13 deaths. The contents have not been previously published. GM spokesman Jim Cain said he was unable to address the details of the events 12 years ago, but that the company would take such concerns seriously today. "We are conducting what we believe is the most exhaustive and comprehensive safety review in the history of the company, and that includes looking at vehicles that were built in the late 1990s. And if we find anything that is a safety issue, we will act," he said. McAleer, former head of a group responsible for quality checks on cars shipped in North America, said his unit regularly found serious problems in new vehicles and that when he raised his concerns he was told his team should stay out of safety issues. He told the board it should stop shipments of unsafe cars, launch recalls, and revise quality controls to make the company “independent of corporate politics and cost-cutting concerns.” McAleer said he was transferred out of his quality job in late 1998. Court records show he unsuccessfully sued GM at least four times, primarily seeking whistleblower protection. A copy of the letter was sent to each of the 12 directors at the time – including then CEO Rick Wagoner and then Chairman John Smith. In it, McAleer accused the highest ranking quality executive in North America at the time, Tom LaSorda, of a “stonewall” that included trying to stop McAleer from contacting higher management. LaSorda, who was then a GM vice president, later became CEO of Chrysler and then CEO of Fisker Automotive. He is currently a venture capitalist at IncWell. TOOTHPASTE LaSorda launched a new safety process, based on a Procter &amp; Gamble program for toothpaste, that was intended to document life-threatening defects, McAleer said in the letter to the board. He described that as an inadequate response that allowed defects to continue and amounted to “willful ignorance” of problems by GM. LaSorda declined to comment on the accusations on Friday. In a 1999 letter from LaSorda to McAleer, which was shown by McAleer to Reuters, LaSorda wrote, “I have taken decisive action with the operating groups and involved senior leadership with a clear process which has been put into place.” GM spokesman Cain said that board minutes from 2002 did not show any indication that the McAleer letter was discussed, and he said that the letter from LaSorda appeared to have responded appropriately. "The documents we have in front of us suggest we were trying to do the right thing," he said. Eight days ago, McAleer sent copies of the 2002 document to members of House and Senate committees now investigating GM and its handling of the ignition switch issue. McAleer provided the documents to Reuters along with copies of postal delivery receipts that he said showed copies of the letter to each director were delivered to GM headquarters. McAleer told Reuters that managers operated in fear of losing their jobs if they raised safety concerns. He also showed Reuters a letter from January 1999, in which he asked LaSorda for a meeting with "GM Legal" and LaSorda’s boss, saying: “The current situation represents a clear and present danger to both our customers and our shareholders.” LaSorda responded the next month in his letter but did not address McAleer's request for meetings with other GM executives. Bloomberg Businessweek this week described a suit by McAleer against GM in a story about another employee, a colleague of McAleer named Courtland Kelley, who also unsuccessfully sued the automaker. Kelley is still employed by GM and the company has said it will reexamine his safety concerns. Lawmakers in a hearing this week grilled GM CEO Mary Barra and outside lawyer Anton Valukas, who investigated GM’s response to the switch issue. In a report published June 5, he found widespread  incompetence and negligence in many GM divisions, but he said that senior GM officials and its board of directors were unaware of the problems. The report said that the Valukas team reviewed all board correspondence dating back to 2003. McAleer’s letter to the board is from July 2002.   (Editing By Peter Henderson) FREE AppDownload
Tailoring is a simple way to make clothes way more flattering. "Most men typicality wear oversized clothes, not understanding the essential elements of a good fit or compromising fit for style," Amber Hamilton, managing director of clothing company Jaden Lam, tells Business Insider. "Shirts and sweaters are too big or too long and trousers are too saggy or bulky." Jaden Lam is a designer clothing line specially sized and styled for men 5’9” and under.  To demonstrate the importance of good fit for men of all heights, Jaden Lam provided some images of how tailoring can drastically improve your outfit.  Take this oversized sweater and khakis. They appear sloppy and make the model look shorter than he is.  Jaden Lam The tailored version of the outfit elongates his frame and looks much more polished. Jaden Lam This business casual outfit is unflattering and dwarfs the model.  Jaden Lam The tailored version is much more professional and flattering. Jaden Lam Wondering if you should get your clothes tailored? Here are guides from Jaden Lam on how your shirts and pants should fit.  Jaden Lam Jaden Lam FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsNOTE: This is an updated version of a feature originally authored in 2013 by Max Nisen, who no longer works for Business Insider. Revel was supposed represent the future of Atlantic City. However, this gleaming 57-story $2.2 billion dollar casino has been a financial disaster. After a nearly 6 year saga of construction halts, union protests, and government assistance, it opened to great fanfare in May 2012. It was supposed to revitalize the city and provide a resort like alternative to smoky, windowless casinos. But Thursday, it was forced to file for bankruptcy for the second time in two years. Management warned employees that it could be forced to shut down as early as this summer. Former Business Insider reporter Simone Foxman was there to photograph the Revel as it started. Here's a look at how things have gone downhill. FREE AppDownload
Gina Bianchini, founder of the social network Mightybell, gives her take on the importance of sleep.  Produced by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI: On Twitter
First, encouraged by more hawkish signals from the Bank of England, in contrast to the Federal Reserve, Bank of Japan and the European Central Bank, sterling was bid to new multi-year highs. The Commitment of Traders data show the continued building of gross long sterling positions, and this was prior to the pound sustaining the move above $1.70. Still, sterling was not the strongest of the major currencies and the euro actually narrowly outperformed it (0.4% vs 0.3%). The market appears stretched as sterling approached the upper Bollinger Band. Although sterling closed two consecutive sessions above $1.70, including on a weekly basis, its foothold is precarious near-term. Pullbacks will likely be bought. The key issue is how shallow of a dip. A break of $1.6975 would signal a deeper pullback and the next objective would be closer to $1.6920. The second important price development was the euro itself.  Although a week ago, the euro had appeared poised to fall through the $1.3500 level, the bears ran into a wall of buyers, including, market talk suggested, reserve managers. The euro's upside though seems to be capped the bearish underlying sentiment and the expected divergence of monetary policy. This leaves the single currency in a range.  The immediate near-term range is roughly $1.3560 to $1.3650, The broader range appears to be $1.3500-$1.3700. This will keep implied volatility grinding lower, even though near 5%, it has already slipped to fresh multi-year lows. The fact that three-month implied volatility is above the historic (realized) volatility is also consistent with this outlook. The third significant technical development was the breakdown of the US dollar against the Canadian dollar. It took a rise in Canadian retail sales twice what the consensus expected (1.1% vs. 0.6%) and a greater rise in inflation to two-year highs (2.3% on the headline and 1.7% on core) to push the US dollar below CAD1.08 for the first time since early this year. The US dollar closed below its 200-day moving average (~CAD1.0780) for the first time since Q1 13. While the breakout is noteworthy, the technical readings caution against expecting strong follow through gains in the Canadian dollar immediately. The RSI and MACDs are not generating strong signals, and the US dollar finished below the lower Bollinger Band (~CAD1.0785). That said, the CAD1.0800-20 area should offer initial resistance now. On the downside, a break of CAD1.0740 signals a test on CAD1.07. The Bank of Canad meets on July 16 and after this string of data, it will likely be a bit less dovish in its neutrality. The Canadian dollar spent most of the first part of the year inversely correlated to oil prices. The correlation has swung positive in recent weeks. At about 0.3 (60-day percent change), it is the highest for this year, but still about half of last year's peak and a little more than a third of the peak in 2012. Meanwhile, the dollar remains confined to its two-month trading range against the yen between JPY101 and JPY103. In fact, within that range, a narrower JPY101.60-JPY102.60 contained the bulk of the price action. Three-month implied volatility finished last week at its lowest level since at least 1996 (~5.7%) and, similar to the euro, is about 100 bp on top of the historic (realized) volatility. The 200-day moving average is found at the lower end of the dollar-yen's narrow range (~JPY 101.65) and the greenback has not sustained a break of this since before Abe was elected. On the other hand, the euro broke below its 200-day moving average against the yen on June 9-10. The downside momentum has not been sustained, but the euro's upticks have been capped by it in recent days (now just below JPY139). A move back above it could spur a quick move to JPY140, but may offer more formidable resistance. The Australian dollar has been confined to a clearly identifiable range since the start of the Q2 between $0.9200 and $0.9400. It managed to finish the North American session about six times above the $0.9400 level, four of those times have been in the last fortnight, but there has been no breakout. The Australian dollar has been fairly resilient to the decline in iron ore prices and a somewhat more dovish central bank. Yet, the rule of alternation suggests that after testing the top side in vain, a push lower is likely. The initial target is near $0.9335. The US dollar posted a reversal in the form of an outside down day against the Mexican peso on June 18 and experienced follow through selling the subsequent two sessions. Even though before the weekend the dollar briefly traded above the June 19 high, it finished on its lows. A break now of the MXN12.95-MXN12.96 area would signal a move to MXN12.90 and possible a re-test of the lows near MXN12.80, which has held since last October. Lastly, turning to the technical condition of the 10-year US Treasury yield, we note that it remains above the downtrend line drawn off the January, April, May and early June highs. However, rather than signal a new uptrend, it appears it has entered a new trading range. The 2.66% area has capped the upside, while the buyers seem to pullback as yields approach 2.55%. In a broader picture and over the slightly longer term, the 2.50% on the downside looks secure and on the upside, a combination of factors, like more supply, stronger growth, uptick in inflation, could see yields can approach 2.80%, which has been the larger range since mid-January. Observations from the speculative positioning in the futures market: 1.  There were three significant position adjustments in the latest Commitment of Traders report for the week ending June 17.  The  gross short euro positions were extended by 12.3k contracts to 113.2k.  However, the net position changed by about 4.6k contracts because, it appears that  new buyers came in when the $1.35 spot level help.  The gross longs rose by 7.7k contracts to 51.4k contracts.  Sterling bulls have been emboldened by the more hawkish commentary from the BOE and the gross longs rose by 15.2k to 100.4k contracts.  This is the largest gross long position in seven years.   The gross long peso position was cut by 15.3k contracts to 91.2k, putting it in second place behind sterling for the largest gross long positions.  2.  The net speculative position in the Swiss franc swung back to the long side for the first time since late May.  It was a product of new gross longs being established (5.7k contracts), perhaps encouraged by ideas negative rate by the ECB will see franc test its ceiling.  Frankly, switch back to net long position is also a product of the general light participation (small numbers).  3.  A combination of an almost 50% increase in gross long yen positions (to 17.8k contracts) and a paring of gross short positions (-8.2k contracts to almost just below 86k) stopped the four-week streak during which the net short yen position rose.  At 68.0k contracts, it is the smallest net yen position in a month.  4.  In the US Treasury market, neither bull nor bear seemed inspired.  The gross long position was trimmed by 6.2k contracts to 365.7k.  The change was little more than a rounding error.  The gross short position grew by 7.7k to to 451.6k contracts, which is also too small to read much of a signal.  Over the CFTC reporting period, the price of the September 10-year note futures changed by five ticks.     Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
The Huffington PostEveryone's been talking about rising inequality in the U.S., spurred on by the massive popularity of French economist Thomas Piketty's book "Capital in the 21st Century." As much attention as it's received, it's also come in for some criticism.  The core fact of income inequality doesn't seem to be in doubt. Indeed, the FT, which found flaws in Piketty's use of some data, never questioned this element specifically. But Piketty's assertions on wealth, and his conclusions about the nature of capitalism, continue to be called into question. Now, Michigan professor and New York Times contributor Justin Wolfers has laid out the state of the rest of the Piketty debate in a wonderful presentation posted to the NBER. With his permission, we republish it here. 
REUTERS GRAPHICSBRUSSELS (Reuters) - Iraq will be foremost in investors' minds in the coming week as oil price risk has returned to markets, complicating the task for central banks whose policies are beginning to diverge for the first time since the global financial crisis. Oil prices neared nine-month highs late last week, touching $115 a barrel, and the rapid advance of militants in Iraq, the second-largest OPEC producer, is destabilising oil markets. That has implications for inflation in the United States and Europe, as well as Asia's export-oriented economies that are large net importers of oil. Investors will be watching a range of data, from German and Japanese consumer prices to first-quarter U.S. GDP, to see how the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank (ECB), the Bank of England and the Bank of Japan respond. "Just as oil prices had become increasingly stable, we reckon the risk for an oil price spike is now the highest since the global crisis," said Christian Keller, an economist at Barclays. "We think a further price spike of 10 to 15 percent from here is not implausible," he said. Until now, falling energy prices have partly been responsible for the euro zone's low level of consumer price inflation, which the ECB considers to be in its "danger zone". A rise in the inflation rate would be welcome but economists and the International Monetary Fund believe the ECB still needs to consider U.S.-style money printing to support the bloc. Euro zone sentiment readings and preliminary purchasing managers' surveys for June on Monday may give the ECB a sense of how much more help the euro zone economy needs. The recovery from a two-year recession lost pace in April and manufacturing has lost momentum. Germany's inflation reading on Friday will give a taste of the euro zone-wide reading that is due the following week. "Although higher near-term inflation may reduce the likelihood of more ECB easing in the short term, lower economic growth and core inflation down the line would, in fact, support the case for further policy accommodation at a later date," Luigi Speranza and Gizem Kara of BNP Paribas said in a note. EU leaders will discuss economic policy at a summit on Thursday and Friday in Brussels.   SOBERING WEEK TO COME? In the United States, investors will be looking to the third and final reading of U.S. first-quarter GDP figures on Wednesday to see if there is a revision of the 1 percent contraction already printed and which followed disappointing March trade figures. Federal Reserve chief Janet Yellen cited reasons for optimism about the world's biggest economy last week, including household spending and a better jobs market. Economists generally agree that the effects of unusually bad winter weather will fade later this year. Core U.S. consumer prices have risen 2 percent over the last year. If the inflation rate went much higher, it would put pressure on the Fed to consider moving to raise rates. For now though, the impact of events in Iraq and an oil-driven increase in inflation seem to be less pressing for the Fed. Yellen said interest rates could stay "well below longer-run normal values at the end of 2016". Some of America's largest money managers interpreted her comments as signalling that rates will remain low throughout 2016. A speech by Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President Charles Plosser in New York on Tuesday will also be in focus. "Following last week's Fed meeting and amid renewed concern over inflation, U.S. news flow might actually be rather sobering," said Rob Carnell, ING's chief international economist.   BRITAIN'S STRENGTH There is also talk of additional stimulus in Japan in the coming months. Japan's annual exports declined for the first time in 15 months in May, hurting the world's third-biggest economy just as consumption is being crimped by an increase in national sales tax. This week, much of the focus will be on core nationwide inflation for May and Toyko's core reading for June as well as the government's growth strategy, which is under discussion and may be formally decided by Friday. The Bank of Japan's monetary stimulus helped weaken the yen by a fifth last year. But the currency has stabilized this year versus the dollar, limiting gains in the value of exports. Among other big industrialized powers, first-quarter British GDP on Friday will show a different picture. Economists polled by Reuters expect growth to be revised up to 0.8 percent due to a better showing from construction. That would bring annual growth to 3.1 percent, the strongest since before the start of the global financial crisis. The Bank of England could become the first major central bank to raise interest rates since the crisis. "Markets now more or less fully price in a 25 basis point rate hike by year-end, consistent with our view," Michael Saunders and Ann O'Kelly at Citi said in a note. "We expect growth will remain strong even while rates rise."   (Editing by Susan Fenton) FREE AppDownload
Getty ImagesEspen BaardsenDuring the World Cup, some trading floors on Wall Street might change the channel from stock market news to watch soccer (or football).  It turns out there are many former professional soccer players working in finance. We've included a round up of them in the slides that follow. Please note, this list is not a ranking.  ** If you know of other top players working in finance, please email their name/photo to jlaroche@businessinsider.com.    FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike HutchingsSuspected illegal miners await treatment after emerging from an abandoned gold shaft in Benoni, east of Johannesburg, February 17, 2014.JOHANNESBURG (Reuters) - Four suspected illegal miners were found dead with gun shots wounds to the head at a gold mine near Johannesburg, South African police said on Sunday. The bodies were found by security guards employed at the mine on Saturday, police spokesman Lungelo Dlamini said, adding the motives for the killing were unknown. Illegal mining of abandoned shafts is common in the gold mines around Johannesburg, with informal miners living underground in dangerous, cramped conditions for weeks on end as they dig out small parcels of gold-bearing ore. Earlier this year, a dozen illegal miners were rescued after being trapped in an abandoned gold mine in the semi-rural Johannesburg suburb of Benoni, where gold had been mined for decades.   (Reporting by Tiisetso Motsoeneng; Editing by Nick Macfie) FREE AppDownload
