There were two big events over the weekend: The tragic disappearance of the Malaysian Air flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing and the terrible Chinese export data. Both of those events are producing notable reactions in markets in early Asian trading. Deirde Wang Morris notes that Malaysian Airlines shares are sliding hard, Australian resource companies are plunging, and the Chinese Yuan continues to tank. Chinese yuan depreciation continues. $CNY opens down 0.5%, biggest daily decline since 2008. pic.twitter.com/s6trX09c6P Aussie resource plays sinking on disappointing China trade data over weekend. cc @MattCNBC pic.twitter.com/1YNilFRfaS Malaysia Airlines opens 14% lower in Kuala Lumpur pic.twitter.com/MwSi72rrCq FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/China DailyChinese exports plunged 18.1% year-over-year in February, missing expectations for a 7.5% rise.  This was down from a 10.6% rise in January. But what was behind the fall? "We believe the real situation is not that bad, and could be quite normal, by analyzing two distortions, namely the Lunar New Year (LNY) and fabricated trades last year," Bank of America's Ting Lu wrote in a note to clients. The impact of the Lunar New Year holiday was expected and Ting thinks frontloading exports, gave the January data a boost. It's the impact of the inflated trade data from last year which is getting a lot of attention. From Ting:  "The other distortion that needs to be adjusted is that exports data were inflated by around 10% in the Jan-Apr 2013 which the comparison base. ...On strong evidence of this distortion is that exports to ASEAN and HK both dropped to 4.8% and -20.9% yoy in Jan-Feb combined from 13.6% and 0.6% in 4Q13. After adjusting for the distortion, yoy export growth in Jan-Feb 2014 combined was about 7% to 8%. Note this is not hindsight as we have mentioned this issue in a number of our previously published research reports including our year-ahead." Barclays' Jian Chang and Jerry Peng also attributes the slump to the Lunar New Year holiday and the higher base. But, tied to the inflated trade numbers seen last year, they think "the CNY's recent depreciation, starting in 18 February, could have also deterred hot money-related trade activities, further weighing down the y/y growth rate." UBS' Tao Wang also attributes part of the weakness to the fake data seen last year. "For example, exports to Hong Kong plunged by 21%y/y, but after adjusting for last year's over-invoicing issue we estimate underlying exports grew a robust 19% y/y," Tao writes.  "For overall exports, we estimate that the adjusted growth rate was about 5% y/y in USD," in the Jan-Feb period. Here's a look at an estimate of fake trade data from Barclays: Barclays Meanwhile, this chart from UBS' Tao Wang, adjusted for invoicing, shows that exports grew about 5%. UBS But the external environment is soft Societe Generale's Wei Yao however thinks the correction we saw in February is finally bringing the year-to-date data in line with what we're seeing out of Korea and Taiwan, indicating a "weakened momentum of global demand entering 2014." "Even if excluding exports to Hong Kong (-20.9% yoy) from calculation so as to adjust for the over-invoicing problem last year, export growth would still have been a meager 2.4%," she writes. Chang and Peng do think that external demand is still soft. They pointed out that export orders sub-index of the PMI report has been down for three straight months. Note: We corrected the piece to reflect that Jian Chang and Jerry Peng authored the Barclays note. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonny HoggCopper futures are down 2.5% in early trading, to $3.0060 per pound.  Copper has been taking a beating recently and it is likely that the recent decline in Chinese exports weighed on the data.  Chinese exports were down 18.1% on the year in February, after rising 10.6% the previous month. Imports however were up 10.1%. While economists have warned about reading too much into Chinese data in the Jan-Feb period because of the impact of the Lunar New Year holiday, this has raised concerns about the economic slowdown in China. Copper prices also tumbled on Friday on news of China's first domestic bond default. And remember Dr Copper is considered to be an important gauge of economic health. Meanwhile, Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 is down 0.5%. China is Australia's biggest trading partner. FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoDeals like Facebook's acquisition of Whatsapp have investors feeling pretty optimistic about 2014's mergers and acquisitions market, and that means there are Wall Street banks about to rake in some serious fees. This is a list of who is in the best position to do that. Bloomberg Markets Magazine is out with its annual ranking of which banks dominate deal flow, and make the most money from their advisory and debt/equity issuing services. What's most interesting about the list isn't which bank has taken the top spot — it's JP Morgan, but you may have already guessed that given its size. Right now, what's really interesting is the jockeying toward the middle of the list. This is where smaller, less regulated banks can get in the game, and where the competition — not just for deals, but also for banker talent —  is very heated. Think about it: These days, if you're a banker at a big Wall Street bank inundated with new compliance regulation, these smaller banks are increasingly attractive places to work. Mid-sized firms like Mizuho and Jefferies made their way into the top 20 in 2013 after hovering around the outskirts in 2012. Rothschild, and Societe Generale were knocked off the list all together. 2012 fees (in billions):&nbsp;$0.46 2012 rank:&nbsp;19 2012 fees (in billions):&nbsp;$0.44 2012 rank:&nbsp;22 2012 fees (in billions):&nbsp;$0.51 2012 rank:&nbsp;17 2012 fees (in billions):&nbsp;$0.57 2012 rank: 16 2012 fees (in billions):&nbsp;$0.51 2012 rank:&nbsp;17 2012 fees (in billions): $0. 45 2012 rank: 21 2012 fees (in billions): $0.69 2012 rank: 14 2012 fees (in billions):&nbsp;$0.87 2012 rank: 13 2012 fees (in billions):&nbsp;&nbsp;$0.89 2012 rank: 12 2012 fees (in billions):&nbsp;$1.10 2012 rank: 10 2012 fees (in billions):&nbsp;$1.10 2012 rank:&nbsp;10 2012 fees (in billions):&nbsp;$2.34 2012 rank: 7 2012 fees (in billions):&nbsp;$1.97 2012 rank:&nbsp;9 2012 fees (in billions):&nbsp;$2.60 2012 rank:&nbsp;6 2012 fees (in billions):&nbsp;$2.28 2012 rank:&nbsp;8 2012 fees (in billions):&nbsp;$3.18 2012 rank: 4 2012 fees (in billions):&nbsp;$3.16 2012 rank: 5 2012 fees (in billions):&nbsp;$3.50 2012 rank:&nbsp;3 2012 fees (in billions):&nbsp;$3.71 2012 rank: 2 2012 fees (in billions):&nbsp;$3.97 2012 rank:&nbsp;1 FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eduard KorniyenkoPeople hold a rally in the Russian southern city of Stavropol, in support of the people of Crimea, March 7, 2014.Not long ago, most of the news out of Russia was about triple axels, bobsleds and curling rocks. But just two weeks after the Sochi Winter Olympics, the vernacular has changed to words such as deployment, standoff and sanctions. In the past week, thousands of Russia-affiliated troops have occupied government buildings, airports and military installations in the southern Ukrainian region of Crimea. Russian President Vladimir Putin has said the deployments are only to protect ethnic Russians from extremist Ukrainian groups who took control after street protests turned deadly in February. Russian lawmakers have granted Putin the authority to use force if need be, but Russia has established de facto control of the Crimea region without having to deploy troops in Ukraine’s other Eastern regions. Now, the global community is holding its collective breath, waiting for Russia’s next move. Investors were not in a wait-and-see mood. Spooked by the news, they went on a selling spree, sending the benchmark MICEX stock index down almost 11 percent in one day and the ruble down 2 percent to a record low of 36.50 against the US dollar. In a bid to stabilize the currency, the central bank sold $11.3 billion of reserves, and unexpectedly raised its main interest rate 150 basis points to 7 percent last Monday in an attempt to quell capital flight. The loss of faith arguably could not have come at a worse time for Russia’s markets. The country’s economy is already struggling with stagnant growth, high inflation and a weakening currency. Even before Russian troops took their posts in Crimea, the ruble had depreciated 10 percent against the dollar since late December and inflation had come in at 6.2 percent in February. Economic growth slowed to 1.3 percent last year from 3.4 percent in 2012, and the current account surplus fell from $72 billion in 2012 to $33 billion in 2013. Any boost the economy got from construction spending for the Olympics was not enough to arrest the troublesome trendline, and the Crimean crisis only seems likely to make matters worse. The extent of the damage will depend largely on the outcome of diplomacy. European Union and U.S. officials have held talks all week to discuss possible sanctions against Russia. The U.S., which calls Russia’s justifications for occupying Crimea a ruse for a larger plan to expand its military occupation, on Thursday authorized the Treasury Department to freeze U.S. assets of individuals or entities responsible for the Russian military takeover. The Obama administration also banned visas for Russian officials and other people considered to have undermined the territorial integrity of Ukraine. The European Union leaders made a more forgiving announcement, only threatening to freeze assets and impose a travel ban if Russia does not begin negotiations on a pullout from Crimea soon. Europe is more wary about acting with a heavy hand because of its energy dependence on Russia; Germany, for example, relies on the country as its top supplier of natural gas. Given the political uncertainty, there are three main directions the crisis could take, according to Alexey Pogorelov and Sergei Voloboev, Credit Suisse’s economists for Russia and the CIS. Under the most likely scenario, the analysts said in a report entitled “Russia: Cautious But Tactical Opportunities Arise,” tensions will continue without significant military escalation. With or without Europe, the U.S. is expected to continue to implement light sanctions, including potentially restricting visa access and asset movements by some Russian officials. Russia will likely stay in Crimea, without extending its reach into other areas of Eastern Ukraine, before the parties eventually negotiate a solution. While the ruble’s roller-coaster ride would likely end under this scenario, the currency would likely stay weak. Capital outflows would not be reversed in any meaningful way, as Russian households would remain wary of holding rubles and would remain keen to trade them in for dollars instead. Another possible scenario is that successful international mediation brings about a quick and positive resolution to the conflict. They believe that would quell volatility in the markets and fuel a 2 to 3 percent rally in the ruble, allowing the central bank to return interest rates closer to their 5.5 percent pre-crisis level. Credit Suisse estimates the probability of this scenario at less than 30 percent at this stage. The worst-case scenario is a military escalation, which would likely cause another run on the currency, and a further significant depreciation of the ruble. Such an outcome looks less probable after Putin on Tuesday ruled out war with Ukraine and said Russia had no intention of seizing the territory. Still, he said Russia retained the right to use force as a last resort. “After the press conference, it’s less than 20 percent likely but the chance is still on the table,” Pogorelov said. A weak ruble is not all bad for Russia. It makes domestic manufactured goods relatively cheap, which may increase exports and widen the current account surplus. It would bolster the federal budget since oil and gas exports, which account for half of the government’s overall revenues, are paid for in foreign currency. Credit Suisse has concluded that a previously projected budget deficit of 0.5 percent for this year is now likely to disappear. Still, there is no escaping the negative news. Even if the standoff is resolved quickly, there will be consequences. Namely, the ruble’s slide is going to pinch Russian consumers, who rely on imported goods that have already become more expensive, Pogorelov said. That will in turn hurt overall consumer demand and the economy. Growth might also take a hit from a slowdown in Ukraine, which remains an important Russian trading partner. Accordingly, Credit Suisse has already lowered its 2014 GDP growth forecast for the country to 1.3 percent from 2.3 percent and says that while a recession is not the most likely scenario, it is a possibility. “International investors understand this perfectly,” Pogorelov says, “That’s why they remain bearish on Russian assets.” FREE AppDownload
Paul Kane/Getty ImagesAustralian billionaire Gina RinehartThe U.S. and China are now home to a similar number of billionaires, according to Forbes' latest billionaires list. Russia is also a strong presence in a list that encompasses $6.4 trillion in global wealth. Even if you can't be the richest person in the world, it's still pretty cool to be the richest person in your country. Many billionaires have held the title of richest in their country for a number of years, but as always, there are a number of new titleholders this year. Additional reporting by Max Rosenberg. Forbes rank:&nbsp;191 Background:&nbsp;Hart increased his wealth by $2 billion since last year. His company,&nbsp;Reynolds Group Holdings, which manufactures packaging material, has annual revenue of about $14 billion. Hart also owns&nbsp;Carter Holt Harvey, an Australasian paper, packing and building supplies company. Forbes rank:&nbsp;173 Background:&nbsp;Rupert built his fortune on luxury goods, including with the Swiss-based Compagnie Financiere Richemont, which owns brands like Cartier, Van Cleef &amp; Arpels, Jaeger-LeCoultre and Montblanc. He also spent $4 million last year on&nbsp;a buffalo bull, used for breeding buffalo for private game reserves. Forbes rank:&nbsp;136 Background: Mateschitz is the creator of Red Bull, the energy drink that is popular worldwide and has seen its sales increase 16% in the past two years.&nbsp;He also owns stakes in two soccer teams, a Formula One racing team, and a luxury resort in Fiji. Forbes rank:&nbsp;119 Background: He is the grandson of the inventor of Legos, the ubiquitous kids' building block. Kristiansen ran the company for 25 years before stepping down in 2004. Currently, he is majority owner and deputy chairman of the board.&nbsp;Kristiansen also invested in Merlin Entertainments, which went public at the end of last year and operates attractions like the Madame Tussuad's wax museums. Forbes rank: 113 Background: Charlene de Carvalho-Heineken took over the beer company Heineken when her father, Henry Heineken, passed away leaving her his fortune. Carvalho-Heineken lives her life out of the spotlight. Unlike her father, who was known to show off his wealth, she lives an anonymous life with her husband and five kids. Forbes rank:&nbsp;106 Background:&nbsp;The Ng brothers inherited a property empire from their late father called the Far East Organization. The company developed more than 700 hotels, malls and condos in Singapore and Hong Kong that have a combined value of&nbsp;more than $6 billion. Last year, they snapped up a lot of real estate in Australia. Forbes rank: 106 Background: Petr Kellner created an investment fund by borrowing $1 million against an office supplies business. Through the fund, he acquired a controlling stake in an insurer during its privatization. He recently announced that he was selling his stake in the insurer for $3.6 billion. This year Kellner also bought&nbsp;Spanish giant Telef&oacute;nica's Czech business for $3.2 billion. Forbes rank:&nbsp;102 Background: Lee Kun-Hee is the chairman of Samsung, which accounts for around 20% of Korea's gross domestic product. In 2008, he stepped down as chairman due to charges of tax evasion and breach of trust. But after being pardoned, he resumed his position in March of 2010.&nbsp;Shares of Samsung Electronics hit an all-time high in January 2013, increasing his net worth even more.&nbsp; Forbes rank:&nbsp;97 Background:&nbsp;Sy has vast property holdings that he recently merged with mall operator SM Prime Holdings to create a company with a $9.3 billion market cap. Shares of his holding firm&nbsp;SM Investments fell 30% in the past year, but he won a&nbsp;$1.2 billion contract to reclaim land in Manila, next to his Mall of Asia. &nbsp; &nbsp; Forbes rank:&nbsp;97 Background:&nbsp;Chearavanont was involved in&nbsp;more than half of the $31 billion in total business deals announced in Thailand in 2013. He expanded his conglomerate Charoen Pokphand's core businesses in agribusiness, food, telecommunications, retail and distribution.&nbsp; Forbes rank:&nbsp;95 Background: Kuok made his fortune in the shipping, palm oil, cane sugar fields and properties in Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia. His Kerry Properties shares fell in 2013, but his biggest source of wealth is still his stake in Wilmar, the world's largest listed palm oil company. Forbes rank:&nbsp;92 Background: Ernesto Bertarelli inherited his father's company, Serono, SA, which manufactured a drug to combat multiple sclerosis. His family sold the company in 2007 for $9 billion. Today he is involved with Kedge Capital and Ares Life Sciences and co-chairs&nbsp;the Bertarelli Foundation, which focuses&nbsp;on marine conservation and life sciences research.&nbsp; Forbes rank:&nbsp;88 Background: Akhmetov's net worth is comprised of DTEK, his energy company, and Metinvest, his steel producer. Recently, his wealth has suffered from weak demand and slumping prices for his steel and iron ore assets. Akhmetov also once called deposed Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovich an ally, which is causing some protest of his business.&nbsp;&nbsp; Forbes rank:&nbsp;81 Background: Gerald Cavendish Grosvenor's wealth comes from&nbsp;his Grosvenor Property Group. His real estate group has holdings on five continents. Cavendish is also sixth Duke of Westminster. He owns 190 acres in Belgravia next to Buckingham Palace and his family owns&nbsp;96,000 acres in Scotland, 32,000 acres in Spain and thousands elsewhere in England. Forbes rank:&nbsp;76 Background: John Fredriksen is a oil-tanker and shipping tycoon and owns company Frontline Ltd.&nbsp;In 2005 he got into the deepwater drilling business with Seadrill, which still pays him $400 million a year in dividends. Fredricksen also expanded into the fish farming business. &nbsp; Forbes rank:&nbsp;72 Background: Sarmiento started out in the construction industry and later expanded his empire into financial services.&nbsp;His company&nbsp;Grupo Aval, which he still chairs at 81 years old, now controls one-third of all banking in Colombia.&nbsp; Forbes rank:&nbsp;64 Background: Jianlin&nbsp;owns 75 department stores, 85 shopping plazas and 51 five star hotels. He bought the U.S. movie chain AMC in 2012 and listed it on the New York Stock Exchange at the end of last year. Forbes rank:&nbsp;58 Background: Iris Fontbona and her sons inherited control of one of the largest copper mining companies, Antofagasta. She also owns resorts and has interests in energy, transportation, and port services. Forbes rank:&nbsp;46 Background:&nbsp;Rinehart acquired her wealth through the inheritance of her father's mining assets. She's the executive chairman of Hancock Prospecting, and this year she expects to finalize&nbsp;a $7 billion debt package to develop one of the world's largest iron ore mines. The firm is also adding oil and gas to its portfolio. &nbsp; Forbes rank:&nbsp;42 Background:&nbsp;Masayoshi Son founded&nbsp;Softbank, Asia's top Internet venture. In the past year, he's also acquired&nbsp;72% of Sprint for about $21.6 billion and made a $1.26 billion investment in mobile phone distributor Brightstar. Softbank also&nbsp;bought a majority stake&nbsp;in Finnish game maker Supercell for $1.5 billion. Forbes rank:&nbsp;40 Background:&nbsp;Usmanov originally got rich in steel and iron, but has since expanded his assets. He holds stakes in one of the largest cell phone operators in Russia, Silicon Valley startups, and even held a large stake in Facebook at the time of its IPO. Forbes rank:&nbsp;40 Background:&nbsp;A Stanford dropout, Ambani is head of India's largest company, Reliance Industries. Although output from his the company's KG-D6 offshore oilfield has been falling, causing him to lose $2.9 billion in the past year, Ambani plans to invest $25 billion in his businesses over the next two years. &nbsp;&nbsp; Forbes rank:&nbsp;34 Background:&nbsp;Lemann founded Banco Garantia in 1971 and sold it in 1998 for $675 million. He now holds stakes in the world's largest beer company,&nbsp;Anheuser-Busch InBev. His private equity firm 3G Capital also recently bought Heinz, with Warren Buffett.&nbsp; Forbes rank:&nbsp;30 Background: This prince started young; he was chairman of his own company by the age of 14. Bin Talal owns stakes in private and public companies in the U.S., Europe and the Middle East, mostly through Kingdom Holding Co.&nbsp;Forbes estimated the prince's&nbsp;net worth by calculating the value of the assets owned by Kingdom Holding because of&nbsp;the lack of any analyst coverage and the holding's relatively thin trading. He filed a defamation suit against the publication last year over its valuation of his wealth. Forbes rank: 27 Background: David Thomson is the chairman&nbsp;of the media and publishing company Thomson Reuters. His grandfather Roy founded the company in 1934. The&nbsp;private holding company Woodbridge runs the business for the family with a 55% stake. Forbes rank:&nbsp;23 Background:&nbsp;Dangote jumped up 20 spots from his ranking last year as only the 43rd richest person in the world. He added $9 billion to his wealth by announcing in April that he would move into the oil industry with financing from local and international lenders to build a private oil refinery, fertilizer and petrochemical complex in Nigeria.&nbsp;Dangote first made his name as a commodities trader with interests in sugar, flour, salt and cement. Forbes rank: 23 Background: Karl Albrecht served in WWII for Germany's army and used lessons from war and postwar Germany to build his successful company Aldi Sud, a discount supermarket chain, with his brother. The grocery store now has&nbsp;4,800 locations in nine countries, including 1,300 locations in the U.S. Its estimated revenue in 2013 was $50.54 billion and the store will continue to expand in the U.S. and Australia. Forbes rank: 22 Background: Michele Ferrero owns European chocolate company Ferrero. Ferrero created Tic-Tacs, Kinder Eggs, Nutella, and of course Ferrero Rocher. Unlike most Italian billionaires, Ferrero prefers&nbsp;to live life out of the spotlight and simply has a passion for creating great chocolate. Forbes rank:&nbsp;20 Background: Li Ka-Shing is Asia's richest person. He runs one of the largest companies in the world, which started by manufacturing plastic toys and flowers, with 260,000 employees in 52 countries. His stakes in Hutchinson Whampoa, Cheung Kong and Husky Energy have paid dividends of $1.7 billion in just the past two years.&nbsp; Forbes rank:&nbsp;12 Background: Persson is the chairman of H&amp;M, the budget retail store that has expanded quickly across the U.S. and Europe. His father founded H&amp;M in 1947. Persson increased his wealth by adding more English countryside to his real estate portfolio. He's also enjoying the 25% hike in stock value that H&amp;M has received in the past year. Forbes rank: 11 Background: Liliane Bettencourt and her family grew wealthier this year thanks to the 9% stock increase of its cosmetics empire L'Oreal. Bettencourt is no longer involved in running the company her father started. But her grandson has a seat on the board, and the family is set to increase its stake in the company to 33% thanks to a planned purchase of 8% from Nestle later this year. Forbes rank:&nbsp;3 Background: Amancio Ortega, the world's richest retailer, began his career as a manager at a clothing shop.&nbsp;He recently stepped down as chairman of Inditex, best known for the profitable brand Zara, which sells trends at low prices. But he still owns 60% of its shares and has begun growing a real estate portfolio with an estimated value of $5 billion. Forbes rank:&nbsp;2 Background: Carlos Slim was the richest man in the world for four years running until Bill Gates eclipsed him this year. His wealth slipped when shares of Minera Frisco, his mining company, plummeted 50% in the past year along with the cost of gold and copper.&nbsp;America Movil, Slim's largest asset, also dipped in value since its last valuation of $36.3 billion.&nbsp; Forbes rank:&nbsp;1 Background: The wealthiest man in America did not even graduate from college. Gates dropped out of Harvard University his junior year when he had his idea for Microsoft. He stepped down as Microsoft chairman in February&nbsp;when new CEO Satya Nadella took over. Gates has focused on philanthropy like the Giving Pledge, which some of the world's super rich have signed to give away at least half of their net worth to charity. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsDurianWe're coming off of an encouraging week, with the S&amp;P 500 closing at an all-time high. On Friday, we learned that U.S. companies added 175,000 jobs in February, which was stronger-than-expected. But the unemployment rate ticked up to 6.7%. It's worth noting 601,000 Americans were unable to make into work because of inclement weather. This week has very little scheduled on the economic calendar. But, who knows what could surprise us? Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Don't forget to wish the bull market a happy birthday. The S&amp;P 500 is up 180% since its March 6, 2009 low. "Should this bull market celebrate its sixth birthday, and perform similarly to prior sixth-year bulls, we could be up another 26% to beyond 2340," said S&amp;P Capital IQ's Sam Stovall. "As always, use history as a guide, not gospel, especially since there has been a limited number of sixth-year bulls." FREE AppDownload
@uberfactsRSO Records sends Paul Hewson (a.k.a., "Bono") the bad news...It sucks to hear the word "no." Even when you've gotten rejected thousands of times (as any successful person has), it's still discouraging. When you hear the word "no" — when a proposal of yours gets rejected — it's easy to think that there might be something wrong with the proposal. Or worse, you. So it's helpful to remember that everyone has heard the word "no." Lots of investors passed on Facebook, Google, Twitter, et al, for example. Lots of publishers sniffed at "Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone" (the U.K. title of the original book before one brave U.S. publisher finally bought it). And at least one record company, it seems, rejected the early recordings of an unknown teenage Dublin band called "U2." U2, needless to say, is one of the most successful bands in history. And the record label that said "no?" They're almost certainly toast. So have a look at this U2 rejection letter that @uberfacts just tweeted around every time you get rejected. Use the feedback to improve your proposal or presentation, perhaps. But don't doubt yourself or stop moving forward just because you heard the word "no." A rejection letter Bono received from a record label in 1979. pic.twitter.com/iUL7Nah9t9 FREE AppDownload
Adem Altan/AFPTurkey's Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan speaks to members of parliament from his ruling AK Party (AKP) during a meeting at the Turkish parliament in Ankara on February 18, 2014.Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan's regime, mired in a corruption scandal, suffered a new blow on Sunday with the online release of another allegedly incriminating phone call involving an ex-minister and a businessman. The recording of the phone conversation posted on the Internet was purportedly between Reza Zarrab, an Azerbaijani entrepreneur, and a confidant to whom Zarrab explains how former economy minister Zafer Caglayan allegedly complained about not having received a promised kickback of 10 million euros ($13.8 million). The voice supposedly of Zarrab says he was "very surprised" that the ex-minister hadn't received the money which came from his company, saying it must have been "a mistake". Caglayan and three other ministers were ousted from Erdogan's cabinet after a police raid on December 17 in the vast corruption probe, which involved Caglayan's son and several dozen high-profile political and business allies of the Islamic-rooted government. Zarrab was among those arrested in the raid and charged before being released last week along several other suspects pending trial. According to police documents, the minister's son Kaan Caglayan is accused of acting as an intermediary for giving and taking bribes, while Zarrab was suspected of forming a ring that bribed officials to disguise illegal gold sales to sanctions-hit Iran via state-owned Halkbank. The latest online leak comes after a number of audio recordings were posted on social media sites, one allegedly of Erdogan himself discussing hiding large sums of cash and conspiring to extort a bribe from a business associate. Erdogan, who has dismissed the recordings as fabricated by his rivals, has threatened to ban popular networks like YouTube and Facebook as part of his government's effort to get a tighter grip on the Internet. The Turkish premier has accused supporters of exiled Muslim cleric Fethullah Gulen, who wields considerable influence in the judiciary and police, of launching the corruption probe to destabilise his government ahead of March 30 local elections and a presidential vote in August. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
The EconomistFORTY-FIVE minutes west of Las Vegas, dejected sinners may encounter a sight to lift their sunken hearts: a sea of 347,000 mirrors, reflecting the rays of the desert sun on to boilers mounted on three 460-foot towers. The Ivanpah solar-thermal plant (pictured), which opened in mid-February, is the largest of its kind in the world. Fully ramped up, it will deliver around 377 megawatts (MW) of power to 140,000 homes in southern California.  Its backers compare it to the nearby Hoover Dam; an astronaut claims to have spotted it from the international space station. It is a striking sight, even if the heat from its heliostats has roasted dozens of unfortunate birds alive. Its backers compare it to the nearby Hoover Dam. Last year it represented 29% of new electricity capacity, behind only natural gas at 46%. Solar output has more than doubled during Barack Obama’s time in office; GTM, a research firm, reckons it will grow another 26% in 2014. The Department of Energy wants solar to provide 27% of America’s electricity by 2050, up from less than 1% today. Though dazzling, Ivanpah and large plants like it will not generate much of this growth. The federal loan guarantees that allowed their creation have expired. More important are photovoltaic solar cells, a rival technology that converts sunlight directly to electricity. Their cost has fallen so quickly that in many places retail electricity customers are saving money by placing panels on top of their houses or businesses; 200,000 have done so in the past two years. And there is a lot of room to grow. "There’s no market saturation in any state; not even close," says Lyndon Rive of SolarCity, a solar-installation firm. Even David Crane, the boss of NRG, co-owner of Ivanpah, says that photovoltaic installations are the future. Last year sun-soaked California accounted for over half of America’s new photovoltaic installations. That, say solar fans, shows that the sector can thrive even after it loses its subsidies. (The $2.2 billion California Solar Initiative, which gave cash to homes or firms that went solar, has largely expired.) Solar is also blossoming in unexpected places like Massachusetts and North Carolina. A bigger test will come in 2017, when the federal government’s solar-investment tax credit drops from 30% to 10% (unless Mr Obama can convince Congress otherwise). Still, says Shayle Kann at GTM, this will be no "death knell"; it will simply eliminate some marginal projects. And by then there may be a revival of Ivanpah-style solar-thermal plants, as energy-storage technologies improve and utility firms look to them to provide steady power throughout the day. Yet even if solar power is a boon to consumers, it threatens some utilities. Energy has traditionally been generated centrally, distributed over power lines and sold to consumers. Distributed solar power--generated from rooftop panels--undermines that model. The Edison Electric Institute (EEI), a trade group, warns that distributed generation could do to energy companies what the internet did to newspapers. Regulations are adapting to this shift: all but seven states have adopted net-metering policies, which credit solar-enabled homes and businesses for the excess energy they feed back into the grid. At least 22 states allow consumers to buy the electricity produced by solar panels that a third party installs on their homes. This lets people take advantage of solar’s savings without having to pay the hefty up-front installation costs. In 2013, third-party-owned systems accounted for most solar installations in California, Arizona, Colorado and Massachusetts. Some utilities grumble that customers who benefit from net metering escape the costs of maintaining the grid they depend on. Last year Arizona Public Service, the state’s biggest electric firm, urged regulators to slash the savings that new solar customers would derive from net metering. After a fierce campaign their call was rejected, though the regulator approved a small solar surcharge. Georgia Power also proposed a fat tariff; it too was defeated. Julia Hamm of the Solar Electric Power Association identifies three ways regulators could help utilities cope with these changes. First, they could demand monthly infrastructure fees from solar users. Second, they could list every component of value separately rather than wrapping the cost of infrastructure maintenance, for instance, into usage charges. Third, they could split energy used and consumed into separate transactions, meaning that a solar customer sells all his energy to a utility before buying what he needs. Yet those last two proposals leave unanswered the question of what rate utilities should pay customers for their power--or more broadly, what the price of solar, with all externalities factored in, ought to be. And more battles loom; California’s regulator must make an important decision on net metering this month. Further ahead the growth of distributed solar will pose other threats to the utilities’ traditional business model. "Net metering is just the pointy edge of the wedge," says Adam Browning of Vote Solar, an advocacy group. Still, while user-generated solar power makes utilities skittish, many have rushed to embrace it on the supply side. In 2013 they installed roughly 4,100MW of solar capacity, up from 2,390MW in 2012. Renewable portfolio standards, which in 30 states force utilities to generate a certain share of their electricity from clean sources, are part of the reason. But so is hard economics: low installation and labour costs, clean power delivery at peak midday hours and a hedge against fuel-price volatility. Many of these gains have already been banked. Photovoltaic modules have become slightly dearer lately; costs will rise further if the Commerce Department heeds protectionist calls by some domestic manufacturers and expands tariffs on imports from China and Taiwan. Yet solar firms are not short of ideas to cut costs elsewhere: third-party financing, for example, or securitising pools of solar leases to reduce financing costs. For makers and users of solar power, the future looks bright. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersWilliam Ackman, CEO of Pershing Square Capital Management, speaks at the Partner Connect 2013 conference in BostonBOSTON (Reuters) - Hedge fund manager William Ackman, who is betting $1.16 billion that Herbalife is a fraud, spent $264,000 last year on lobbyists to press his case against the company, according to government documents filed in recent weeks. That amount is dwarfed by the nearly $2 million Herbalife spent in 2013 on federal lobbying as the nutrition and weight loss company fought the billionaire investor's claims it runs a pyramid scheme. In an illegal pyramid scheme members earn more for recruiting new members into the scheme than for selling the products outside the network. Ackman's $12 billion Pershing Square Capital Management hired three lobbyists in 2013, marking the first time ever that the New York-based hedge fund has spent money on Washington lobbyists, data from the United States Senate Disclosure Act Database show. In October Ibarra Strategy Group began working for Pershing Square and earned $30,000 for the year, the filingshows. The group, founded by Mickey Ibarra, a former Director of Intergovernmental Affairs under President Bill Clinton, specializes in Latino outreach. Ackman has accused Herbalife of unfairly targeting minorities. Civil rights group League of United Latin American Citizens, which has asked California's Attorney General to probe Herbalife, echoed the fund manager's accusations. Herbalife said last month that it does not target members of minorities or low income communities. The battle for the future of Herbalife is heating up this year with each side trying to press its case with Washington lawmakers as well as regulators, who may ultimately control the company's fate. In the last days, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Trade Commission refused to tell U.S. Senator Edward Markey, who asked them to probe the company, what they were doing on Herbalife. But each offered plenty of examples of having shut down illegal businesses before. SEC chair Mary Jo White, who last year touted the benefits of shareholder activism, said the SEC's Enforcement Division has previously probed whether statements made about a business are "materially false or misleading, including statements regarding the compensation levels." Ackman has said that 88 percent of Herbalife distributors earn nothing. That stands in stark contrast to some Herbalife distributors' testimonials where they tout lavish lifestyles as an incentive for others to sign up. Herbalife has said distributors results' depend on time, energy and dedication. Ackman has forecast that Herbalife's share price will plummet to zero amid regulators' scrutiny but so far the fund manager is in the red on the bet, as Herbalife shares have climbed 61 percent in the last year. Since January, the shares have lost ground however, falling 17 percent. Pershing Square also paid $84,000 to Moffett Group, run by former U.S. Representative Toby Moffett, who promises to bring clients' messages to the highest levels in Washington. The bulk of its lobbying budget, $150,000, went to Wexler &amp; Walker Public Policy Associates, which describes itself as a full service government affairs firm. During the same year, Herbalife spent at total $1.89 million on lobbying, according to public data from the Center for Responsive Politics. Herbalife paid $250,000 to government relations firm Downey McGrath, which counted Boeing, Microsoft and Time Warner among its past clients. IBC earned $30,000 from Herbalife last year while $140,000 went to Ogilvy, $160,000 was paid to Podesta Group and $40,000 went to Glover Park Group. Herbalife also spent $1.27 million on lobbying on its own behalf. Separately the company made a $10,000 donation last year to Democratic Attorneys General Association, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Pershing Square did not donate to this group. California's Attorney General, Kamala Harris, the person the Latin civil rights group LULAC last year asked to probe Herbalife is a Democrat. (Reporting by Svea Herbst-Bayliss; editing by Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
Official U.S. Navy Page/FlickrIt doesn't matter how old you are: Next time you interview for a job, be prepared to share your SAT scores. In the timeless quest to predict future success in employees, a number of employers are turning to candidates' SAT results. Big-name consulting firms such as McKinsey and Bain, as well as banks like Goldman Sachs, are among the companies that ask newly minted college grads for their scores in job applications, according to an article in the Wall Street Journal. Some other companies request scores even from candidates in their 40s and 50s. For all these job seekers, the SATs are a distant memory. Even the newest Bachelor's recipients tend to be at least four years removed from the test. So why is it that even after people go to college, mature, and gain work experience, employers still care about a standardized test taken in high school? Jonathan Wai, an intelligence expert and researcher in Duke University's Talent Identification Program (TIP), says the SATs are considered to be a measure of "general intelligence and general ability." That's important because research has shown that general ability "actually predicts occupational success across a range of occupations," he explains.  The SATs also appeal to many hiring managers because they're standardized. In theory, these test scores serve as an equalizer and mediate some of the well-documented biases that normally influence the hiring process. For example, it's been found that managers generally prefer hiring people who are similar to them — be it in education, background, interests, or personality. This is called a "similarity bias." The beauty of the SATs is that everyone takes them at the same time, with roughly the same level (if not quality) of education. In the broadest sense, someone's score on the SAT offers a glimpse of how they compare to other candidates in terms of general knowledge and ability. "It's standardized, and it's objective in that sense," Wai says. Jeff Bezos, the billionaire founder and CEO of Amazon, is one of the most famous proponents of using SAT scores in hiring decisions. Bezos scored highly on a standardized IQ test when he was only 8 years old, and in his early days as a manager, he liked to ask candidates for their SAT results in interviews he conducted. He has said that "hiring only the best and brightest was key to Amazon's success." Despite the benefits of using SATs in hiring, Wai admits the test is "not a perfect measure by any means" and questions how widespread its use as a hiring tool really is. He's also not sure for how long the scores should be considered valid. After all, he points out, scores on the GRE — the graduate school entrance exam — are good for only five years. That raises an obvious question for companies like Cvent Inc., which asks for SAT or equivalent ACT scores from job applicants of all ages, the Wall Street Journal reports. Wai hopes the emphasis employers like Cvent Inc. put on standardized tests won't encourage recent college graduates and experienced workers to start retaking the SATs. For one, people's scores probably wouldn't change much, he says. Additionally, the SAT would no longer offer the benefit of standardization if people were reporting scores from all different points in their lives instead of the score they got in high school.   Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin is very polarizing. Believers in the "digital currency" frequently talk about how it has the potential to uproot the existing financial system, and replace the dollar and the Federal Reserve. Skeptics think it's a sham, a la tulip bubbles. A series of tweets from Nouriel Roubini capture the "anti" side quite well. Apart from a base 4 criminal activities, Bitcoin is not a currency as it is not a unit of account or a means of payments or store of value Bitcoin is not a unit of account as no price of goods and services is set in Bitcoin unit nor it ever will. So it isn't a currency Bitcoin is not a unit of account as no price of goods and services is set in Bitcoin unit nor it ever will. So it isn't a currency Bitcoin isn't a store of value as little wealth is in Bitcoin and no assets in it. Also given price volatility it is a lousy store of value So Bitcoin isn't a currency. It is btw a Ponzi game and a conduit for criminal/illegal activities. And it isn't safe given hacking of it. That middle ground is that Bitcoin has a lot of potential as a payment system for non-mainstream services. For example, if you're in China, and you want to get money out of the country, you have to deal with capital controls that limit cross-border flows. Bitcoin is a good technology to do that. If you want to send remittances from one country to another, Bitcoin may be a good way to do so if you want to avoid exorbitant fees. And yes, if you want to buy commit illegal acts online, Bitcoin is probably a better bet than dealing with a bank. Kevin Roose, writing recently at New York, nicely characterized Bitcoin as a "disintermediated money wire." Essentially its a way of sending someone money without going through a centralized company like PayPal or a bank. It's probably not suitable for most people, because it's difficult to use, unregulated, and massively prone to theft. Traditional finance has theft too, but there are all kinds of layers of security and guarantees built into the current system, so that if someone steals your credit card, you don't have to worry about being on the hook. Bitcoin advocates say that various security features could be built on top of the existing system to ease fraud concerns, but the additional fees that these would involve would likely obviate Bitcoin's benefits. It's hard to see anytime soon why the standard mode by which most people pay for things (going to the grocery store, etc.) would be made better if it were based on Bitcoin. Bitcoin doesn't have to change the world or be adopted by everyone for it to be a success. There are a lot of transactions for which the existing system isn't well-suited. On the other hand, it clearly solves more problems than the people who scream "tulips" or "ponzi" are inclined to admit. Unfortunately, in the battle between zealots and detractors, not many people are eager to pick up the banner of the middle ground. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike SegarNouriel Roubini A five-Tweet takedown of Bitcoin from the NYU Stern School of Business economist Nouriel Roubini: Apart from a base 4 criminal activities, Bitcoin is not a currency as it is not a unit of account or a means of payments or store of value Bitcoin is not a unit of account as no price of goods and services is set in Bitcoin unit nor it ever will. So it isn't a currency Bitcoin isn't means of payment as few transactions in Bitcoin. And given its volatility all who accept it convert it right back into $/€/¥ Bitcoin isn't a store of value as little wealth is in Bitcoin and no assets in it. Also given price volatility it is a lousy store of value So Bitcoin isn't a currency. It is btw a Ponzi game and a conduit for criminal/illegal activities. And it isn't safe given hacking of it. FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin exchange MtGox faced massive hacker offensives last month, coming under some 150,000 DDoS attacks per second for several days ahead of its spectacular failure, a report said Sunday. The Tokyo-based exchange, which filed for bankruptcy protection in February and admitted that it has lost half a billion dollars in the digital currency, has come under serious cyber-attacks in particular since around February 7, the Yomiuri Shimbun reported. While MtGox faced hacker attempts to steal Bitcoins, the exchange also confronted massive distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks, crippling its systems, the newspaper said without naming its sources. Under DDoS attacks, hackers hijack multiple computers to send a flood of data to the target, crippling its computer system. The attacks on MtGox lasted for several days and many Bitcoins were stolen, the Yomiuri said. MtGox's lawyers said 750,000 Bitcoins belonging to the firm's customers had gone missing, along with around 100,000 units that the company owned. Unlike traditional currencies backed by central banks, Bitcoin is generated by complex chains of interactions among a huge network of computers around the planet. After trading for cents per Bitcoin for the first two years of its existence, it began a frenzied climb in 2011 that took it to $40 a coin in late 2012 and $1,100 last year, before falling off to the current $610 level. Its relative anonymity and lack of regulation has been attacked by critics who fear it could be used to finance organised crime or terrorism. US Federal Reserve head Janet Yellen has said the Fed had no powers over a currency that only exists virtually with no central authority behind it. Several countries, including Russia and China, have heavily restricted how Bitcoin can be used. Japanese officials have said they were closely monitoring MtGox's bankruptcy proceedings, as they try to get a handle on how and why the exchange imploded. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
In recent years, corporations in emerging markets (EM) have increasingly sought to tap international bond markets to finance themselves, as low interest rates at the global level have provided more attractive terms of borrowing than those corporations could access in their home countries. Nomura, BloombergChart 1: Onshore and offshore debt. Note: Series represent cumulative sum of bonds issued that have not yet matured or been called, which may not properly account for debt restructuring.Jens Nordvig, global head of currency strategy at Nomura, estimates that EM corporations have issued $400 billion of offshore debt since 2010 — about 40% of total issuance (chart 1). This issuance is not captured in traditional country-level balance of payments statistics, which only measure debt issuance on a residency basis and not a nationality basis. In other words, the official statistics only measure a given corporation's debt issuance in the home country, and don't take into account offshore debt issued through overseas subsidiaries. The latter measure is a better gauge of risk exposures, according to Philip Turner, deputy head of the monetary and economics department at the Bank for International Settlements, who argues in a new working paper that "the consolidated balance sheet of an international firm best measures its vulnerabilities." This "hidden debt," as Nordvig puts it, could pose a major risk for EMs in which currencies are rapidly declining against the dollar. Guess which two EM countries have issued the most offshore debt as a percentage of GDP? Nomura, Bloomberg, BIS, IMFChart 2: Hard currency external debt in emerging markets as a percentage of GDP. Note: Offshore issuance is the total of bonds issued by subsidiaries incorporated in a country different from the firm's primary location of business. Figures are based on amount outstanding, which will account for debt restructuring. Sample excludes Singapore and Hungary which have outsized cross-border loan exposure.Number one is Russia, at 12% of GDP. Number two is Ukraine, at 9% (chart 2). In a recent IMF working paper, economists Kyuil Chung, Jong-Eun Lee, Elena Loukoianova, Hail Park, and Hyun Song Shin explained the danger posed to EM corporates by a rise in global interest rates, like the one we've seen over the last year (emphasis added): The practice of offshore issuance of debt securities by overseas subsidiaries of EM firms means that the standard external debt measures that are compiled on a residence basis may not fully reflect the true underlying vulnerabilities that are relevant for explaining behavior. If the overseas subsidiary of a company from an EM country has taken on U.S. dollar debt, but the company is holding domestic currency financial assets at its headquarters, then the company as a whole faces a currency mismatch and will be affected by currency movements between the funding currency and the domestic currency, even if no currency mismatch is captured in the official net external debt statistics.  Nevertheless, the firm's fortunes (and hence its actions) will be sensitive to currency movements and thus foreign exchange risk. In effect, the firm will be taking on a carry trade position, holding cash in local currency but with dollar liabilities in their overseas subsidiary. One motive for taking on such a carry trade position may be to hedge export receivables. Alternatively, the carry trade position may be motivated by the prospect of financial gain if the domestic currency is expected to strengthen against the dollar. In practice, however, the distinction between hedging and speculation may be difficult to draw. The recent escalation of military tensions in between Ukraine and Russia have caused the currencies of both countries to dive against the dollar. Firms in these countries with large proportions of external debt issued in dollars are now facing an increase in the value of their debts relative to the value of their assets, increasing somewhat the risk of default. In short, when the dollar strengthens, dollar liquidity decreases, and credit risk goes up. "The U.S. dollar global liquidity measure occupies a special place, and we may attribute its special status to the role of the U.S. dollar as the currency that underpins global capital markets through its role as the pre-eminent funding currency for borrowers," write the economists in the IMF paper. This could become a major problem for local banking systems in emerging markets, as Turner explains in the BIS paper (emphasis his): Issuance by EM non-bank corporations on such a scale, and a possible "stop" at some point in the future, could affect the domestic banking systems in EMEs through at least three channels: i. The first arises because EM corporations have typically borrowed from local banks. When extremely easy external financing conditions allow such firms to borrow cheaply from abroad, local banks have to look for other customers – so that domestic lending conditions facing most local borrowers actually ease more than the expansion in total domestic bank credit aggregates suggest. A tightening in external financing conditions would reverse this ... small firms might then find it harder to get finance even if total domestic bank credit continues to rise. ii. A second channel works through wholesale funding markets for banks. When EM corporations are awash with cash thanks to easy external financing conditions, they will increase their wholesale deposits with local banks.7 This is also reversible. Such deposits are flighty – and a worsening of external financing conditions can therefore make it more difficult for domestic banks to fund themselves at home. There is extensive evidence, drawn from many different contexts, that the deposits of non-financial corporations are indeed more procyclical than other bank deposits.8 Because changes in global non-financial deposits predict growth and trade, Shin (2013) argues that they deserve special attention in the construction of global monetary or liquidity aggregates. iii. The third link is through the hedging of their forex or maturity exposures, often via derivative contracts with local banks. Even if the local banks hedge their forex exposures with banks overseas, they still face the risk that local corporations will not be able to meet their side of the contract. The upshot is that the domestic bank that thinks it has managed its risks, will find itself, if its corporate clients fail, with unhedged exposures vis-a`-vis foreign banks. As a result of these linkages, the central bank may face greater instability in its domestic interbank market whenever large corporations find it harder to finance themselves abroad. This can arise even if domestic macroeconomic conditions have not changed. The central bank that enjoys credibility could of course use local monetary policy to offset such destabilising forces. It could use its policy rate to resist any incipient rise in local money market rates; and it could relax its liquidity policies. But if corporate exposures are very large, the central bank may find itself contemplating measures of a scale or nature that might undermine its credibility. These are all things that are important for investors in emerging markets to keep in mind going forward. If the U.S. economy continues to improve, U.S./global interest rates continue to rise, and the dollar continues to strengthen, a lot of this "hidden debt" could quickly become just the opposite. FREE AppDownload
WikimediaRadioShack is closing 1,100 underperforming stores. Just last year, RadioShack announced it had remodeled a handful of stores and had a new strategy.  But a new strategy isn't enough to fix RadioShack's problems, Warren Shoulberg wrote in a column on The Robin Report in December.  His column helps shed light on why sales fell 19% last quarter.  "It’s a store that has been passed by, with a format, merchandise mix and physical presence that no longer registers with the American consuming public," writes Shoulberg, who is the editorial director for several business publications. "There just aren’t enough batteries in the world to recharge Radio Shack." He highlighted some of RadioShack's worst problems:  FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg I consider myself really lucky to have been involved and paying attention to markets during the bubble of the late 90s. Two reasons why: As a journalist, the second point has been particularly helpful, because it helps me avoid the common pitfall of commentators of calling everything a bubble, just because it's going up fast.  One of my big takeaways from that era is that to refer to it as the "internet bubble" or the "tech bubble" is to actually understate how big the bubble was. It was actually an optimism bubble. People were just really optimistic about how the whole world would turn out. The hype about the Segway was an example of this. Before it came out, people thought it was going to revolutionize the entire way cities would be laid out. On the other end of the gullibility scale, people were willing to believe that an auto leasing company in Nevada had found a cure for AIDS. One of the epi-bubbles of the .com era was the fuel cell bubble. Before there was Tesla, there were companies with names like Ballard Power, Plug Power, Fuel Cell Energy, Manhattan Technologies, and DCHT (a penny stock I was fortunate enough to stumble into) which had investors believing that the internal combustion engine would soon be a thing of the past, replaced by fuel cell vehicles powered by hydrogen. These stocks went wild in late 1999. And well, they're back. At least one of them is. The chart at the top is the chart of Plug Power, via Bloomberg: The stock was up 30% on Friday to over $8/share. A year ago, the stock was trading at about 20 cents per share. Surely investors in this company have a good story to tell about something having changed in the last year. And maybe they have. But charts like this are showing up in more and more places. Straight vertical lines. There was a time when this market was rightfully called "hated." But after 5 years of rallying, we're now at a different point, when investors are eager to lean into all kinds of unconventional thing, and making a quick fortune doing so. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange NEW YORK (Reuters) - Five years ago, the United States was in the midst of its worst recession in seven decades, and stocks were feeling it. On this day in 2009, the S&amp;P 500 hit its nadir, closing at 676.53. That low marked a climax of a 16-month selloff that took more than half the S&amp;P 500's value. Since that day, the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index has gained more than 177 percent, the best rolling five-year performance since the June 1996 to June 2000 period that covers the dot-com bubble. Naturally, some investors are questioning whether the bull run is nearing an end. Investors cited a number of reasons to be nervous. Though a number of these factors have been present for some time, the following stand out as concerns: * Valuations: Profit growth, and especially revenue growth, may not be strong enough to support current price levels. Profit growth has slowed considerably from the peaks of this earnings cycle. There are concerns that revenue growth will be lackluster while economic growth remains mediocre. The S&amp;P 500's forward price-to-earnings ratio, at 15.8, is its highest since the fourth quarter of 2008, Thomson Reuters data showed. It comes as revenue growth has slowed, eating into profits, and productivity growth declined in the first quarter, suggesting slimmer margins in the next earnings period as well. S&amp;P 500 revenue growth has averaged just 3.2 percent since March 2009, while earnings growth has averaged 16.2 percent, Thomson Reuters data showed. For the most recent reporting period, revenue growth is estimated at 1 percent while profit growth is forecast at 9.8 percent. The stock market has seen higher price-to-earnings ratios - notably during the technology bubble and the end of the 2007-2008 run, but to some, that's not comforting. "A lot of people say the multiple is not that high, compared to history, but in no time in history, did you have these types of tailwinds pushing asset prices for five years," said Michael O'Rourke, chief market strategist at JonesTrading in Greenwich, Connecticut. Speaking of which ... * The Punch Bowl: The Federal Reserve is steadily removing its bond-buying accommodation that took its balance sheet from about $900 billion to more than $4 trillion in the last several years. The central bank had been buying $85 billion monthly in U.S. Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities. But the Fed announced in December that it would begin reducing that amount. At its current pace, purchases will end by year-end, removing support for lower rates that many say have pushed investors into riskier assets like stocks. Slow job and economic growth since the 2007-2009 recession has left investors worried about whether the economy and market can stand on their own without the stimulus. And rising rates would have a detrimental effect on borrowing costs, which have been at record lows for companies. * Margin debt: The value of U.S. equities investors bought with borrowed money has been rising since June. Margin debt accounts totaled a record $487.6 billion in January, data from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority showed. It shows hedge funds and other investors are taking on more risk and using borrowed money to enhance their returns. Borrowing on margin at this level is seen as a sign of overly bullish sentiment. "To me, this is a very overcharged environment," said Brad Lamensdorf, co-manager of the actively managed short only Ranger Equity Bear ETF. "It adds up to a very poor risk-reward ratio for the marketplace." * Insider selling: Lamensdorf said high levels of insider selling support the idea that the market is overvalued, as those with more knowledge believe it is time to pull back on their own stocks. He said there are 10 insiders selling the company's stock to one insider buying. That may be somewhat inconclusive, though. Current data shows the selling bias among insiders is strong, though not at historic levels in terms of volume, said Ben Silverman, director of research at InsiderScore.com, which does not release data for proprietary reasons. He did say the first quarter is when many companies award their restricted stock as part of compensation, which tends to lead to a lot of selling. * Where's the correction?: The S&amp;P 500 hasn't seen a 10 percent decline for nearly two-and-a-half years, with the last one coming between June and October of 2011, a period that included a budget face-off that resulted in the first-ever downgrade of the credit rating of the United States. Stocks fell more than 20 percent in that time period, but since then, there hasn't been a 10 percent drop on a closing-level basis. (There was a narrow miss in May 2012.) Corrections are generally considered positive because they force investors to defend their bullish positions, and without them, concern about complacency rises. * Sentiment: Bianco Research notes that the weekly Investor Intelligence surveys show just 15 percent of newsletter writers are bearish, below the levels seen at the height of the market in 2007. The percentage of those who are bullish was 61 percent at the end of the year, a level not seen since 2007. That figure, though, has dipped a bit since 2014 began. (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch; Editing by Andrew Hay and Jan Paschal) FREE AppDownload
Morgan Stanley predicts that when the warm weather comes, it will be clear that most of the data weakness was due to the harsh weather, and that people will sell Treasuries when they realize this. From interest rate strategist Matthew Hornbach: Treasuries in Trouble A strong nonfarm payroll report following on the heels of hawkish comments from New York Fed President Dudley and San Francisco Fed President Williams leave us even more bearish on Treasuries than we were last week. With small upward revisions to previous months, the cumulative average in monthly nonfarm payroll changes since QE8 began remained stable month-on-month – falling only 1k, to 193k. Other than the better-than-consensus headline print, the number of people not at work due to bad weather – a question asked in the Household survey – was at its highest level for a February since 2010. Exhibit 2 shows the series from the Household survey for the month of February historically. Aside from February 2010, February 2014 had the highest number of people not at work due to weather since 1978 (on a seasonally unadjusted basis). As if investors needed more evidence that weather impacted economic data over the past two months, our US economists analyzed the number of references to the word “weather” in the Beige books released over the last two winters. While in 2013, references jumped from 3 in January to 18 in March, this year they leapt from 21 to 119. If you haven't seen it, this is the chart that shows the massive number of people who said they were away from work in February due to weather. Morgan Stanley Bottom line, when the weather lets up, people will drop the idea that the economy is weakening, or that the Fed will reverse course on tapering, and Treasuries will sell off. FREE AppDownload
t. RuttWall Street may be interested in the new art show and book titled "Infinity Is The Enemy" by artist t.Rutt. The show is inspired by a criticism of the foundations of mathematical finance. One of the main symbols of the exhibit is a toilet seat positioned to resemble an infinity symbol, with a representation of time going to limits of infinity and the reciprocal of infinity, as in the picture to the right. The exhibit has an entire wall of toilet seats, tagged with the names of economists and thinkers who influenced the artist, including economist Robert Merton, financier George Soros, and writer Nassim Taleb. The seats are actually up for sale at $75,000 each.  The twist is that the toilet seats essentially come with a free put option — if you choose, the artist will buy them back immediately for $1000.  Exercising that option of course will still leave a buyer down $74,000. t. Rutt/Business Insider Here's another one of the toilet seats. t.Rutt/Business Insider FREE AppDownload
   Last week, my colleague Michael Kelley wrote about the introduction of HD Video from space, that allows people to see movement on the ground with a level of detail previously impossible. The technology has all kinds of potential uses, from military to corporate to humanitarian. One obvious angle here is hedge funds. Already hedge funds are using satellite images to monitor things how full a parking lot is on a key shopping day. HD imagery will take it to the next level, allowing people to track all kinds of things like shipping lanes, and mining activity, and the impact of weather on logistics. The possibilities seem endless. FREE AppDownload
If the past week was about the lack of escalation in both Russia/Ukraine and China, coupled with the ECB holding pat, next week may see the pendulum swing back a bit. This could lend itself to a more consolidative trading, which in the current context, may be somewhat supportive of the greenback.   With a referendum planned in Crimea next weekend that will likely lead Russia's annexation, the confrontation may escalate again.  Although the yuan strengthened in the past week, we suspect that uncertainty spurred by the first on-shore default and the apparent official desire to inject more volatility may weigh on the yuan.  China unexpectedly reported a large trade deficit in February, and although it was the distorted by the lunar new year, some will see evidence that the yuan is now over-valued.  The ECB did not change policy, but the large pay down of LTRO borrowings, and the strength of the euro, may spur speculation that the door to easing has not closed.  Moreover, official efforts to jawbone the euro lower may also increase.  Euro:  The rally in the second half of last week, left the euro stretched.  This is illustrated by the fact that it spent the pre-weekend session above the top of its Bollinger Band (two standard deviations about the 20-day moving average).     That last time it did anything close to this was in mid-September last year.     In addition, its proximity to the psychological and technically significant $1.40 area may change the risk-reward calculations for many participants.   This is not to say that a deep pullback is necessary, but we can see a move back into the $1.3780-$1.3825 band.  Sterling:  Short-term market positioning, judging from the Commitment of Traders remains extreme for sterling.  This might help explain the market's cautiousness as sterling approached $1.68.  There is a mild bearish divergence that is evident on the daily RSI.    Support is seen $1.6640-60.   Separately, we note that the euro's downtrend against sterling from last August high near GBP0.8770 has been approached.  We draw it coming in on Monday, March 10 near GBP0.8310, which is near the top of the Bollinger Band,  and GBP0.8298 by the end of the week.  While a convincing break has to be respected, we are are bit wary.   Yen:  The dollar is over-stretched against the yen.  At its high, the dollar was nearly 3 standard deviations away from its 20-day moving average (~JPY103.55).  The top of the Bollinger Band comes in near JPY103.10.     By this measure, the dollar is the most stretched against the yen as it has been in years, including the earlier run-up in anticipation of Abenomics beginning in late-2012.     We had suggested dollar potential into the JPY103.10-65 band, and now that it has reached it, we suspect a consoldative phase is near, especially if we are correct about the larger investment climate.  Initial support for the dollar is pegged near JPY102.80-JPY103.10 now, with additional support near JPY102.50.   Canadian dollar:   The optics of Canada's jobs data were worse than the details, but the Bank of Canada is now the most dovish within the dollar-bloc.  The US dollar tested important technical resistance near CAD1.11 before the weekend.  This corresponds to a retracement objective and a trend line off the Feb 21 high near CAD1.12.   Our reading of the technical indicators warn that the dollar will likely rise through the CAD1.11 area and test CAD1.12 in the days ahead.   Australian dollar:     With the help of spectacular first tier data, especially robust retail sales and trade surplus, the Australian dollar was the strongest currency last week gaining about 1.75% against the US dollar.  It closed on March 6 above the top of its Bollinger Band, for the first time since mid-January and moved back barely within in before the weekend.  The close was near its lows after new four month highs were recorded.   The close below $0.9080, which corresponds to both the 100-day moving average and the minimum retracement objective of the Aussie's slide since last October, warns of additional near-term losses. There is potential from a technical point of view back into the $0.9015-40 range.    On the upside, the $0.9200 is an important psychological level and coincides with the 50% retracement objective of the slide.   Mexican peso:   The peso participated in the move against the dollar at the end of last week.  After breaking  below the lower end of the trading range since mid-January around MXN13.20, the greenback found support near MXN13.11.   Technically, we see the risk that the break is not sustained and the greenback moves back into the MXN13.20-MXN13.40 trading range and possibly toward the middle to upper end again.  On March 6, the US dollar closed below the bottom of the Bollinger band for the first time since last September.  It moved back into the band before the weekend.  The 20-day moving average, the middle of the Bollinger Band comes in near MXN13.26 and that seems to be the immediate risk.  Observations from the speculative positioning in the CME currency futures:  1.  Position adjustments remained minor.  In the previous reporting period there were no gross position changes of more than 10k contracts.  In the most recent reporting period there was one:   the gross long euro position rose 10.9k contracts to 103.9k.  This is the largest gross long position since last November.    There were no other gross position adjustment that exceeded 6k contracts.  2.  Among the small adjustments, the general pattern was to add to gross short currency positions.  They were only reduced in sterling (-4.3k contracts to 41.4k) and peso (-2.6k to 29k contracts). In both of these currencies, exposure was reduced as both the longs and shorts were pared.   3.   Outside of the euro, which as we have noted saw a large rise in the gross longs, the gross longs of the other six currencies we review were evenly split between buying and selling.   4.  The gross long euro and sterling positions dominate the speculative currency future long positions (103.9k and  71.0k respectively).  None of the other currencies' gross long position is more than 24k.   The 12.2k gross long Australian dollar futures position and the 6.2k peso futures position seems particularly small.  It may be begging for a contrarian stance, but as we note above the technical outlook suggest this is not the time.   5.  The gross short positions are less concentrated.  The yen, of course, is the leader with 100.1k gross short futures contracts, but the euro's 80.4k and Canadian dollar's 84.4k contracts are also substantial.  They are followed by the Aussie (53.4k contracts) and sterling's gross short 41.4k contracts).  The lower level of gross short peso (29.0k contracts) and franc (19.7k contracts), in part simply reflects the lack of participation presently. Read more posts on Marc to Market » FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersIBM workers shout slogans as they protest at an IBM factory in ShenzhenSHANGHAI (Reuters) - A wildcat strike at an IBM factory in southern China illustrates how tectonic shifts under way in the country's labor market are emboldening workers to take matters into their own hands, raising risks for multinationals. More than 1,000 workers walked off the job last week at the factory in Shenzhen, bordering Hong Kong, after managers on March 3 announced the terms of their transfer to new ownership under Chinese PC maker Lenovo Group Ltd. Lenovo agreed in January to pay $2.3 billion for International Business Machine's low-end server business. The strike, which continued into Sunday, fits a growing pattern of industrial activism that has emerged as China's economy has slowed. A worsening labor shortage has shifted the balance of power in labor relations, while smartphones and social media have helped workers organize and made them more aware than ever of the changing environment, experts say. "Chinese workers, after being exploited for so long, are now more and more aware of their rights and united. They have more of an idea of collective action," said labor lawyer Duan Yi. A report by the advocacy group China Labour Bulletin last month said it had talled 1,171 strikes and protests from the beginning of June 2011 to the end of December 2013. Many worker protests during that time in Guangdong province, a manufacturing hub where the IBM server factory is situated, were sparked by the closure, merger or relocation of factories. In November, hundreds of employees stopped work at a Nokia factory in Dongguan, near Shenzhen, complaining of changes following Nokia's sale of its mobile phone business to U.S. software giant Microsoft Corp. Lawyer Duan is seeking arbitration for a group of 70 Nokia workers who were laid off at the time. Last August, 5,000 workers in eastern Shandong Province went on strike to protest Apollo Tyres Ltd's proposed $2.5 billion acquisition of U.S.-based Cooper Tire &amp; Rubber Co. The deal was eventually scuttled and Cooper reported this month that the work stoppage in China had cut operating profit by $29 million in the third quarter. The labor shortage has pushed up wages, impelled employers to cast a wide net to find employees and enhance benefits to retain staff. Workers have gained leverage. "Workers know they have greater power," said Geoffrey Crothall, a China labor expert with China Labour Bulletin. IBM said last week the terms offered to the workers at the International System Technology Company factory in Shenzhen were "comparable in aggregate to what they currently are receiving" and severance packages would be "equitable". Lenovo has declined to comment. Technology has helped China's workers. When the Nokia factory employees took to the street, they organized through the online chat system QQ and other social media, one worker told Reuters by telephone from Dongguan. In the IBM case, the workers had all read about prior strikes, including Nokia's, and suspected ahead of time that they might have to make a similar stand, said a 28-year-old worker surnamed Chen who has worked there for three years. "We were basically prepared and expected in advance there wouldn't be a good deal," he said by telephone from Shenzhen. He declined to allow his full name to be published out of concern he might face repercussions. In both cases - and many others, experts say - the impetus for a strike was underpinned by the fact that the factory branch of the state-backed union was seen as a farce. Independent unions are banned in China. The state-backed All-China Federation of Trade Unions and its affiliates have a reputation for being ineffectual and often siding with management. "Because there's no real channel of communication at these workplaces just about the only thing the workers can do is go out on strike and demand that management address their grievances," Crothall said. "In most cases the union plays no positive role and sometimes it's even a negative role," he said. Chen, a striking IBM factory worker, had stronger words. "The union exists in name only. It's useless," he said. (Additional reporting by James Pomfret in HONG KONG; Editing by Michael Perry) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA statue depicting European unity is seen near EU flags outside the European Parliament in BrusselsBRUSSELS (Reuters) - European Union governments and parliamentarians will try to reach a compromise this week on how to wind down failing banks, in marathon talks intended to settle who decides to close banks and who picks up the bill. A deal in the negotiations, set to span three days, would be the final step in a European banking union that would mean one supervisor for all euro zone banks, one set of rules to close or restructure those in trouble and one common pot of money to pay for it. The banking union, and the thorough clean-up of banks' books that will accompany it, is meant to restore banks' confidence in one another and boost lending to other businesses and households. New lending has been throttled by banks' efforts to raise capital and reduce the bad loans that proliferated in the recession triggered by the global financial crisis and deepened by the euro zone's own sovereign debt crisis. Policymakers agreed last year that the European Central Bank (ECB) will be the single supervisor for all euro zone banks and the ECB will take on its new responsibilities from November. But talks on a single European agency to wind up or close failing banks, and on a single fund to back it up, have entered a crucial stage: EU governments, represented by finance ministers of the 28-nation bloc, and the European Parliament must reach a deal next week. If they don't, there won't be enough time to complete the legislative process for the resolution mechanism before the last sitting of the current parliament in mid-April. The key law would be delayed by at least seven months, probably more. "The ground is very well prepared, now we have to show political will. We will stay there (in the meeting) as long as it takes to find a solution," one EU official involved in the preparations for the talks said. "It's clear to all EU member states that if we want to achieve an agreement there's only one direction to go - to try to accommodate the parliament," the official said. The problem is that European governments and the European Parliament want different things. EU finance ministers agreed in early December that a decision on closing down a bank in the euro zone would be taken by the board of the resolution agency, but that decision must be signed into law by the EU's executive Commission and by all the EU finance ministers. The European Parliament wants no involvement of EU finance ministers, arguing it would politicize the process. Parliament also wants the ECB - the supervisor of all banks - to be the only institution that can declare a bank is failing and that its fate has to be resolved. EU governments want the single resolution agency board and national authorities to have a say. Governments and parliamentarians also disagree on how quickly to build up the shared resolution fund and how soon all the money in it should be accessible to all countries. The fund will be filled from contributions of all euro zone banks and is to reach, eventually, around 55 billion euros ($76 billion). Governments want the fund to reach full capacity over 10 years and agreed the amount of money that would be available to all euro zone countries would increase by 10 percent each year, so that the fund would be fully mutualised after a decade. In the meantime, if a euro zone country does not have enough money accumulated from the contributions of its own banks to cover the costs of closing one, its government would have to come up with the cash. If it cannot borrow that from the markets, it could ask the euro zone bailout fund for a loan. The parliament believes this would not break the vicious circle of highly indebted governments trying to rescue banks that are failing because they lent to the government. Parliamentarians therefore want all bank contributions to the resolution fund to be fully available to all euro zone countries after three years, not 10. This could make it unnecessary for governments to borrow at all, providing relief to battered public finances. Whether banks would therefore have to pay in all the 55 billion more quickly as a result is another contentious issue. Finally, policymakers have to decide if they will allow the single resolution fund to borrow on the market against the security of future contributions from banks if it is short of cash at any point, or if it should be allowed to borrow from the euro zone bailout fund or given government guarantees. Even though all these issues have been known since early December, there has been no progress so far. "No major issue has been solved, because we will go for solving them all together," the EU official said. A deal is to be worked out over Monday and Tuesday, when euro zone and EU finance ministers meet to amend their initial position from December, and Wednesday when they will present the new stance to parliament. ($1 = 0.7214 euros) (Reporting by Jan Strupczewski; Editing by Ruth Pitchford) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Beawiharta "LUMPY, unpredictable, potentially large": that was how Tim Geithner, then head of the New York Federal Reserve, described the need for dollars in emerging economies in the dark days of October 2008, according to transcripts of a Fed meeting released last month. To help smooth out those lumps, the Fed offered to "swap" currencies with four favoured central banks, as far off as South Korea and Singapore. They could exchange their own money for dollars at the prevailing exchange rate (on condition that they later swap them back again at the same rate). Why did the Fed decide to reach so far beyond its shores? It worried that stress in a financially connected emerging economy could eventually hurt America. But Mr Geithner also hinted at another motive. "The privilege of being the reserve currency of the world comes with some burdens," he said. That privilege is the subject of a new book, "The Dollar Trap", by Eswar Prasad of Cornell University, who shares the world's ambivalence towards the currency. The 2008 financial crisis might have been expected to erode the dollar's global prominence. Instead, he argues, it cemented it. America's fragility was, paradoxically, a source of strength for its currency. In the last four months of 2008 America attracted net capital inflows of half a trillion dollars. The dollar was a haven in tumultuous times, even when the tumult originated in America itself. The crisis also "shattered conventional views" about the adequate level of foreign-exchange reserves, prompting emerging economies with large dollar hoards to hoard even more. Finally, America's slump forced the Fed to ease monetary policy dramatically. In response, central banks in emerging economies bought dollars to stop their own currencies rising too fast. Could Fed swap lines serve as a less costly alternative to rampant reserve accumulation? If central banks could obtain dollars from the Fed whenever the need arose, they would not need to husband their own supplies. The demand is there: India, Indonesia, the Dominican Republic and Peru have all made inquiries. The swap lines are good business: the Fed keeps the interest from the foreign central bank's loans to banks, even though the other central bank bears the credit risk. The Fed earned 6.84% from South Korea's first swap, for example. But it is not a business the Fed wants to be in. As one official said, "We're not advertising." Swap lines would help emerging economies endure the dollar's reign. But will that reign endure? Mr Prasad thinks so. The dollar's position is "suboptimal but stable and self-reinforcing," he writes. Much as Mr Prasad finds America's privileges distasteful, his book points to the country's qualifications for the job. America is not only the world's biggest economy, but also among the most sophisticated. Size and sophistication do not always go together. In the 1900s the pound was the global reserve currency and Britain's financial system had the widest reach. But America was the bigger economy. In the 2020s China will probably be the world's biggest economy, but not the most advanced. America's sophistication is reflected in the depth of its financial markets. It is unusually good at creating tradeable claims on the profits and revenues that its economy generates. In a more primitive system, these spoils would mostly accrue to the state or tycoons; in America, they back a vast range of financial assets. Mr Prasad draws the obvious contrast with China and its currency, the yuan, a "widely hyped" alternative to the dollar. China's GDP is now over half the size of America's. But its debt markets are one-eighth as big, and foreigners are permitted to own only a tiny fraction of them. China's low central-government debt should be a source of strength for its currency. But it also limits the volume of financial instruments on offer. America has a big external balance-sheet, if not an obviously strong one. Its foreign liabilities exceed its overseas assets. But this worrying fact conceals a saving grace: its foreign assets are unusually adventurous and lucrative. Its liabilities, on the other hand, are largely liquid, safe and low-yielding. America therefore earns more on its foreign assets than it pays on its foreign liabilities. Alongside its economic maturity, America also has a greying population. This ageing is a source of economic weakness. But, Mr Prasad argues, it may be another reason for the dollar's global appeal. America's pensioners hold a big chunk of the government debt that is not held by foreigners. A formidable political constituency, they will not allow the government to inflate away the value of these claims. Thus America's powerful pensioners serve to protect the interests of its generous foreign creditors. America's sophistication has one final implication: the dollar has no long-term tendency to strengthen. That again contrasts with its principal long-run rival. China is still a catch-up economy. As it narrows the productivity gap with America, its exchange rate, adjusted for inflation, will tend to rise. The yuan has appreciated by about 35% against the dollar since mid-2005. The dollar's depreciation over that period is, of course, bad for anyone holding American assets. But the dollar is not merely a store of value. It has also become a popular "funding" currency. Banks and multinational firms borrow in dollars, even as they accumulate assets in other denominations. Since no one wants to borrow in a currency that only goes up, this is not a role that China's currency could easily play. Moreover, because of its role as a funding currency, the dollar tends to strengthen in times of crisis. That explains why emerging economies feel a "lumpy", "unpredictable" need for dollars. America's currency may not hold its value against others. But in times of stress, the appeal of a dollar asset is that it always holds its value against a dollar debt. The dollar is a global hegemon partly because it is also a global hedge. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
