Looks like another hellacious day of smog in China.        Spot the aircraft in the haze #Beijing pic.twitter.com/IG6Rl3IMbb FREE AppDownload
Australia’s employment rate has increased slightly to remain at 5.8%. The AUD was getting absolutely smashed after the announcement, down 1.09% against the USD at 88 cents (chart below). Our markets correspondent Greg McKenna will have the analysis up shortly. Here’s the ABS release: Australia’s seasonally adjusted unemployment rate increased by 0.1 percentage points but the rounded estimate remained at 5.8 per cent in December, as announced by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) today. The ABS reported the number of people employed decreased by 22,600 to 11,629,500 in December. The decrease in employment was due to decreased full-time employment, down 31,600 people to 8,067,700, offset by increased part-time employment, up 9,000 to 3,561,800. The decrease in total employment was driven by decreases in male and female full-time employment and male part-time employment. The number of people unemployed increased by 8,000 people to 722,000 in December, the ABS reported. The ABS monthly seasonally adjusted aggregate hours worked series increased in December, up 0.6 million hours to 1,634.0 million hours. The ABS reported a seasonally adjusted labour force participation rate decrease of 0.2 percentage points to 64.6 per cent in December. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook and Twitter This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Piracy at sea reached its lowest levels in six years in 2013, with 264 attacks recorded worldwide — a 40 per cent drop since Somali piracy peaked in 2011. The figures were confirmed today by the International Maritime Bureau. The body’s annual global piracy report showed more than 300 people were taken hostage at sea last year. Of that number 21 were injured — nearly all with guns or knives. A total of 12 vessels were hijacked, 202 were boarded, 22 were fired upon and a further 28 reported attempted attacks. Nigerian pirates were particularly violent, killing one crew-member, and kidnapping 36 people to hold onshore for ransom. “The single biggest reason for the drop in worldwide piracy is the decrease in Somali piracy off the coast of East Africa,” said IMB director Captain Pottengal Mukundan. He said Somali pirates had been deterred by a combination of factors, including the efforts of international navies, the use of private armed security teams, and the stabilising influence of Somalia’s central government. “It is imperative to continue combined international efforts to tackle Somali piracy. Any complacency at this stage could re-kindle pirate activity,” Mukundan warned. The 15 incidents attributed to Somali pirates in 2013 include the hijacking of two vessels, both of which were released within a day as a result of naval actions. A further eight vessels were fired upon. The figures are the lowest since 2006, when 10 Somali attacks were recorded. 237 pirate attacks took place off Somalia in 2011, but the figure dropped to 75 the following years as the clampdown got under way. West African piracy made up 19 per cent of attacks worldwide last year. Nigerian pirates and armed robbers accounted for 31 of the region’s 51 attacks, taking 49 people hostage and kidnapping 36 — more than in any year since 2008. Pirates from Nigeria ventured far from their bases — into waters off Gabon, Ivory Coast and Togo, where they were linked with at least five of the region’s seven reported vessel hijackings. Malaysian waters saw the hijacking of two product tankers with 27 crew taken hostage, resulting in the theft of ships’ property and cargo. The IMB’s Piracy Reporting Centre has monitored worldwide piracy since 1991. FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Natalie BehringJCPenney is cutting 2,000 jobs and closing 33 stores as the battered department store seeks to revive revenue growth, the company announced Wednesday.  The move will save about $65 million annually beginning in 2014, the company said. JCPenney, which has about 1,100 stores, has struggled to turn a profit since former CEO Ron Johnson was fired in April. The firings and closings are the latest effort by the retailer to reverse Johnson's aggressive reinvention plan, which alienated millions of customers. The decision will enable the company to focus resources on the highest growth opportunities while shedding underperforming stores that have been a drag on revenues, JCPenney said in a press release. "While it's always difficult to make a business decision that impacts our valued customers and associates, this important step addresses a strategic priority to improve the profitability of our stores and position JCPenney for future success," JCPenney CEO Mike Ullman said in a statement. In another effort to boost a turnaround, the company will overturn Johnson's decision to end sales commissions, Bloomberg reported Wednesday. The change, which will affect 3,000 employees, is meant to spur sales growth, especially in jewelry and home furnishings. Here's the list of stores that will be closed: via JCPenney FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg News' Maud van Gaal found a video that Dutch bank ABN Amro posted on YouTube of their chairman Gerrit Zalm dressed in drag at a company cabaret in Amsterdam earlier this month.  Zalm, a former Dutch finance minister, portrays his brothel-owning "sister" named "Priscilla" in an effort to teach their bankers about values. Prostitution is legal in The Netherlands.  Check it out. The video is in Dutch, though [via Dealbreaker]   FREE AppDownload
Goldman Sachs (GS) is set to release FQ4’2013 earnings before the market opens on Thursday, January 16th and hedge funds are not expecting things to go well. This quarter several hedge fund analysts on the Estimize.com platform are expecting Goldman to miss the Wall Street profit consensus by a wide margin. Here is what what the hedge fund analysts are saying compared to everybody else. The 4 hedge fund analysts who have submitted estimates to Estimize.com for Goldman Sachs this quarter have a mean EPS forecast of $3.28 EPS while Wall Street expecting $4.15. The aggregate estimate from buy-side and independent contributing analysts on the Estimize.com platform is $4.01 EPS. The hedge funds’ mean revenue forecast is also lower than either the Wall Street consensus or the Estimize consensus. The hedge fund analysts expect an average of $7.638B while Wall Street expects $7.751B revenue and Estimize.com is forecasting $7.840. Over the past 2 years Goldman has beaten the Wall Street consensus by wide margins in each quarter. The Estimize consensus has been more bullish than the Wall Street consensus every time over the past two years and therefore has been more accurate. This quarter we are seeing an interesting reversal, the Estimize profit consensus for Goldman is lower than Wall Street for the first time ever.  Estimate confidence ratings are calculated through algorithms developed by deep quantitative research which looks at correlations between analyst track records and tendencies as they relate to future accuracy. In the case of Goldman Sachs this quarter, the top rated estimate is taking an opposing view to the hedge funds. The confidence algorithm on Estimize.com has rated user BradHewitt91’s estimate as the top rated. BradHewitt91 also happens to be the #1 rated analyst in the 2014 winter earnings season so far and is ranked 14th overall among over 3400 contributing analysts on the platform. BradHewitt91 and the majority of contributing analysts are actually expecting Goldman to beat the Street on profit has represented by gray dots in the scatterplot above. The top rated analyst for Goldman this quarter is expecting $4.20 EPS and $7.925B in revenue. Over the past 4 months the revenue consensus from both Estimize.com and Wall Street have both fallen. At the end of the quarter we saw Wall Street revise its profit consensus upward while the Estimize consensus was dropping, but recently the Estimize revisions have changed direction to a small extend. Throughout the past two years Goldman Sachs has been an unstoppable force in terms of beating the Wall Street consensus. For the first time ever this quarter the buy-side and independent analysts on Estimize.com are expecting Goldman to miss the Street, and all of the hedge-fund contributors are expecting them to miss big.  Get access to estimates for Goldman Sachs published by your Buy Side and Independent analyst peers, and register to create your own estimates by heading over to Estimize now. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Danish Siddiqui Stocks climbed. Here's the scoreboard: Dow Jones: 16,479.19, +105.33, +0.64%S&amp;P 500: 1,847.76,+8.88, +0.48%Nasdaq: 4,212.94, +29.93, +0.72 And now top stories: DON'T MISS: Wall Street's Brightest Minds Reveal Their Best Investment Ideas For The Next Decade » FREE AppDownload
Low inflation is arguably the biggest justification for the Federal Reserve's continued use of extraordinary monetary stimulus. According to the latest data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the consumer price index was 1.2% higher from a year earlier in November. December data are released Thursday morning, and economists expect the headline annual inflation rate to jump to 1.5%. The chart below shows percentage-point contributions to the annual inflation rate of each of 175 components in the basket of goods that make up the consumer price index. (These numbers are calculated by multiplying the year-over-year inflation rate of an individual CPI component by its relative weighting in the index). It illustrates that the single dominant contributor to inflation over the past year has been owners' equivalent rent. Holding all else equal, if the price of OER had not changed over the past year, the headline inflation rate would be a little under 0.6 percentage points lower. Likewise, the single largest drag on inflation over the past year has been gasoline prices. Holding all else equal, if gas prices had not changed over the past year, the headline inflation rate would be about 0.3 percentage points higher. 106 of the components were provided a positive contribution to inflation, while 67 of the components were negative contributors. Two components (wine at home and sports vehicles including bicycles) had no effect. The mean contribution was 0.007 percentage points, while the median contribution was 0.001 percentage points. The standard deviation of individual contributions was 0.534 percentage points. Thus, the contribution of each item was within one standard deviation of the mean contribution, except for those of owners' equivalent rent of residences, rent of primary residence, electricity, motor vehicle insurance, hospital services, college tuition and fees, and gasoline. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from BLS)
This map is useful if you want to rub elbows with the wealthy. Or if you want to know exactly where to go to be exclusively among the common man. Phoenix Marketing International, a global marketing firm, puts together this ranking of how many millionaire households there are in each state per capita annually, so it notes the trends. For example Phoenix notes that North Dakota was the leader at minting millionaires in 2013, moving to #29 in the Millionaire Ranking, up from #43 in 2012. Maine and Louisiana were big gainers this year too, just so you know. Check out the map, and a table of more precise numbers below:  Image, Mike Nudelman; Data, Phoenix Marketing Internationa   Chart, Mike Nudelman; Data, Phoenix Marketing
This is cute...  A pair of penguins are on the New York Stock Exchange Floor.  SeaWorld is  ringing the closing bell today.  Penguins roaming the floor of the NYSE. pic.twitter.com/sNzzqbXZP3 FREE AppDownload
Jim EdwardsTesla took a drubbing in October and November last year, but the stock is gathering steam again. After reporting solid Q4 deliveries, the stock went on a tear on Tuesday. Morgan Stanley's Adam Jonas who has an overweight rating on the stock, cranks up the argument in favor of Tesla another notch. In a new note he says investors are beginning to seriously ask if Tesla can be much more than a car manufacturer. From Jonas: "Tesla's plans for a 'Giga' battery factory starting to get more attention as a call option on the economics of mass produced batteries and the business model. We found the final sentence of Tesla's prepared remarks on its plans to build the world’s largest lithium ion battery factory intriguing: "It is a massive, massive opportunity to push the cost curve down to levels people haven't even dreamed of yet." We find investors are starting to seriously ask if Tesla can be much more than just a car manufacturer. "If this company can establish a technological and scale lead in every storage and infrastructure, might we one day look back at Tesla's humble beginnings as a car maker much as Amazon began as a book seller?." Still there are many that question the green automaker and the role that the sale of zero emission vehicle (ZEV) credits has on it's revenue, and that point out, that in terms of just car sales the automaker has a long way to go. FREE AppDownload
Business InsiderAs regular readers know, I have a cautious view of the stock market these days. My concerns are mostly valuation-based: Many long-term valuation measures, including "Warren Buffett's favorite measure," suggest that stocks are very expensive. Importantly, this doesn't mean the market is about to crash — valuation is largely useless as a market-timing tool — but it does mean (in my view) that stocks are likely to provide lousy returns over the next 7-10 years. It also means that investors should be psychologically prepared for a market crash, because a crash from this level would not be surprising. Well, one investor I respect, Josh Brown, winces every time I use the word "crash." He worries that my using the word "crash" will cause nervous investors to freak out and sell their stocks when it would not be wise for them to do so. Josh, the CEO of Ritholtz Wealth Management, also has a more optimistic view of corporate profits and stock prices than I do, though he's hardly a towel-waving bull. I have assured Josh that I do not think any investors should "freak out and sell their stocks," at least not if they have a time horizon long enough to absorb significant but hopefully temporary losses (if they don't, they shouldn't be in the stock market to begin with). And I have pointed out that, if the market does crash, I would regret not having expressed my concerns about that crash as loudly and clearly as I could have before the crash. (I own stocks, by the way. And, for many reasons, including that market-timing is a terrible investment strategy, I'm not selling them. If stocks tank, I'll be going down with them and Josh and Josh's clients.) Anyway, Josh and I debated some of our respective views on Yahoo! DailyTicker this morning. And we even found one thing that we wholeheartedly agree on: Corporate America's current obsession with "profit" is crippling the U.S. economy and hurting the country. It's time companies stopped worrying so much about "ROI" and "maximizing quarterly earnings" and started investing in their future, their equipment, their people, and lower prices.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Shannon StapletonEighty-six current and former Yale University students have been named in two identical lawsuits over a fatal collision that occurred at the tailgate of the 2011 Harvard-Yale football game. One woman was killed and two other bystanders — a Yale student and a Harvard employee — were injured after a Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity brother lost control of the U-Haul truck he was driving to the fraternity's tailgate area. Now, the Yale Daily News reports, the injured student and the estate of the deceased woman have filed distinct identical lawsuits "individually naming all the students who were members of the Yale chapter of the fraternity at the time of the crash, regardless of whether or not they were present at the tailgate." According to the Daily News, the national fraternity has severed its ties with the local chapter for this case, saying that they have no legal connections to each other. The national organization's insurance agency will also not cover action from the Yale chapter. "[The local chapter] has been thrown under the bus … by the national fraternity, so the only remedy that our client has is to sue the local fraternity," one of the victims lawyers told the Daily News. He said that in 20 years of practicing, he had never seen a fraternity abandon its members. This is, to say the least, an unusual situation.  The other lawyer who filed suit against the Yale students told the Daily News, "I have no doubt that each and every one of [the members in 2011], in paying dues to the national organization, had an expectation that the national organization was going to get them the insurance coverage they needed and was going to stand with them." However, the fraternity may be helping the students behind the scenes, as 84 of the defendants are now represented by the same attorney, which was likely arranged by the national organization. Read the full story at the Yale Daily News &gt;&gt; FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Stefan WermuthInvestors still cowering in fear from their 2008 losses might have missed the stock market rally in 2013. Many chose to sit on the sidelines, and others are worried about a looming stock market bubble. Cash holdings on the UBS Investor Watch Survey were at 22%. And globally, UBS clients hold 30% of their assets in cash or cash equivalents. But this isn't the best idea because interest payments on cash deposits don't exceed the prevailing inflation rate. So what should an investor do? Here's what UBS is telling it's wealthiest clients to do. UBS' Private Wealth Investment Management division manages money for those with a minimum net worth of $25 million. Stocks  For those worried about a stock market bubble UBS' Andrea Fisher writes that "there is virtually no evidence that stocks have disconnected from fundamentals." She argues that until pretty recently, the S&amp;P 500 was actually lagging the recovery in earnings. While she is "optimistic [on] the upward march in US equities" she thinks investors need to prepare for more volatility. Some of the best opportunities lie in sectors tied to U.S. economic growth. Bonds Investors need to prepare for "several years of unusually low bond returns,"  Brian Nick, a senior portfolio strategist at UBS argues. Investors can lower bond risk by doing one of three things. 1. Lower the duration of the bond portfolio 2. Hold lower quality bonds 3. Try hedge fund strategies because they "traditionally exhibit low or even negative correlation to bond prices." "Most hedge fund strategies cannot match bonds’ income or downside protection," Nick writes. "But we believe they will generate better returns over the foreseeable future while adding little to portfolio volatility. This makes them a valuable complement to bond portfolios." Gold Investors with large gold holdings (2-3% of their portfolio) should reduce their exposure in 2014, writes UBS' Andrea Fisher. "Gold tends to do well when real interest rates are either falling or negative as well as when panic pervades the market. Over the past year, real interest rates have begun to increase. This development, along with softer demand from emerging markets, lower central bank purchases, and Fed policy tightening dialogue, help explain the sharp 21% year-over-year drop in global gold demand in 3Q13. Diminished investor appetite for gold in 2014 could result in an additional 300-500 tons (i.e. 7%-11% of yearly demand) of out- flows hitting the market. To balance supply and demand, gold could fall further to its marginal production cost of USD 1,050/oz-1,150/oz; an additional 12% loss from current levels." Broader strategies To get more from your portfolio this year, UBS' Michael Crook, head of portfolio and planning research, thinks investors should consider doing three things, that emerge from 2013 Nobel Prize winning research of Robert Shiller and Eugene Fama. 1. Change your liquidity preference (buy illiquid securities). These illiquid assets also help investors avoid market timing risk.2. Change your time horizon.3. Invest with managers that have an edge through better market knowledge.Active management Nick also suggests that investors reconsider active management as the trend of portfolio managers being bested by the S&amp;P 500 is beginning to reverse. "Regardless of the environment, we believe virtually all investors should invest using a balanced approach between active and passive management," writes Nick. "We find that higher-tracking error managers have greater potential to add value to portfolios, which makes them particularly useful for ful- filling asset classes on which we are neutral or underweight." 2014 is likely to be a challenging year for investors with higher stock market valuations and bond yields that are still low, but UBS thinks these strategies should help. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ueslei Marcelino FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Single Biggest Opportunity In U.S. Investing Right Now (Advisor Perspectives) Michael Porter, a professor at Harvard Business School tells John Heins, editor of Value Investor Insight, that energy in the U.S. is a secular trend that investors should pay attention to. "In the U.S. economy, the single biggest opportunity that will have ripple effects across many industries is the new energy situation," he said. "This is certainly not a secret and has already had significant impact on oil and gas producing regions and on the railroads and pipelines that transport all the new production." "The next-order effects, which are just beginning, will be on industries where oil and gas are important feedstocks or inputs, such as in chemicals and plastics where U.S. production now has a competitive advantage where it has had a disadvantage. Further down the line, other energy-intensive industries and companies will benefit." Jeff Kleintop Reveals His Best Investment Idea For The Next Decade (Business Insider)  When asked for his top investment idea for the next decade, Jeff Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial, told Business Insider that he would pick the S&amp;P 500. "I hate to be unimaginative here, but 10 years is a long time to hold a very specific investment.  Sure the energy renaissance has a long time horizon, but what will it look like in 3 years much less 10? Who can say? I’d say the S&amp;P 500. I have a chart below that is my favorite chart of all time. I created it over a decade ago and it hasn’t failed me yet.  It simply shows the trailing PE and the next 10 years price return for the S&amp;P 500. ...Anyway, right now it shows the S&amp;P 500 will generate about an 8% price return on average over the next 10 years. Add a 2% dividend and you get 10%. A 10% annualized total return is not a bad deal compared to bonds, commodities, or cash for the next 10 years. I'll take it." How Advisors Can Help Wealthy Clients That Have Just Sold Their Business (The Wall Street Journal)  Greg Curtis, chairman of Pittsburgh-based Greycourt, writes that his firm manages assets of clients with a net worth between $30 million to a few billion dollars. Often these clients have earned that wealth by building a business and selling it in boom times. Often they think that after they've sold a company, the should invest immediately but that's often a mistake.  "There's a chance that with the market this high, there could be a correction, or an event that's even worse," Curtis writes in a Wall Street Journal column. "For families who have just recently sold a business, I like to suggest that they wait one market cycle to invest. Encourage clients to be patient, and remind them to look forward a few generations. Their grandchildren are never going to criticize them from entering the market a few months later than they did. But, more than likely, they're going to be upset if the client lost their inheritance because they rushed to invest it." Merrill Lynch's Wealth Management Business Gets A Boost From Fee-Based Business And Higher Markets (Bank of America) Merrill Lynch's Global Wealth and Investment Management division saw a 35% year-over-year rise in Q4 profits to $777 million. Revenue was up 7% to $4.5 billion, "driven by higher non-interest income related to long-term AUM flows and higher market levels." Asset management fees were up 15% on the year to $1.8 billion. Client balances were up 10% to a record $2.37 trillion, driven by higher market levels and net inflows. Marc Faber: We're In A Gigantic Financial Asset Bubble That Could Burst Any Day (Bloomberg TV)  After stocks had a great run up in 2013 there have been growing concerns about stock market bubble. Marc Faber author of "The Gloom Boom And Doom Report," told Bloomberg TV that we are "in a gigantic financial asset bubble, but it is interesting that despite of all the money printing bond yields won't go down." "They bottomed out on July 25, 2012 at 1.43% on the 10-years. We went to over 3.0%. We're now at 2.85% or something thereabout. But we're up substantially. Now, this hasn't had an impact on stocks yet. In fact, it pushed money into the stock market out of the bond market. But if the 10-years goes to say 3.5% to 4.0%, then the 30-year goes to close to 5.0%, the mortgage rates go to 6.0%. That will hit the economy very hard. "[The bubble] could burst before. It could burst any day. I think we are very stretched. Sentiment figures are very, very bullish. Everybody's bullish. The reality is they're very bullish because they think the economy will accelerate on the upside. But my view is very different. The global economy is slowing down, because the global economy's largely emerging economies nowadays, and there's no growth in exports in emerging economies, there's no growth, in the local economies. So, I feel that the valuations are high, the corporate profits have been boosted largely because of the falling interest rates." FREE AppDownload
2013's drop in existing home sales due to rising mortgage rates has economists asking whether the housing recovery has fallen off the rails. "The slump in existing home sales has set the recovery in housing market activity back by 12 months," writes Capital Economics' Paul Diggle. "But there are good reasons to think that, like the timelier new home sales series, the decline in existing home sales will prove temporary." From Diggle: The number of new home sales fell by 17% m/m in July, shortly after rates started rising. But new home sales have since more than made up for that drop. Existing home sales are measured at a later stage of the home-buying process relative to new home sales (contract closing vs. contract signing). In other words, while the new home sales data reflect decisions made today, the existing home sales data capture sales initiated several months earlier. So it makes sense that they are taking longer to show an improvement. But we think that they will. "The bottom line is that the improvement in housing market activity during 2014 will be considerably weaker than the improvement during 2013 – even taking account of the soft end to last year," Diggle writes. "But we do at least expect a further improvement in activity." Check out the chart of new home sales versus existing home sales. New home sales are making up for slumping existing sales: Capital Economics FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe color beige.The Federal Reserve's January Beige Book is out. The report is a collection of anecdotes from businesses in each of the 12 Federal Reserve Bank districts across the United States. Below is the full text of the release: Prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and based on information collected on or before January 6, 2014. This document summarizes comments received from business and other contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials. Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest economic activity continued to expand across most regions and sectors from late November through the end of the year. Nine Districts indicated the local economy was expanding at a moderate pace; among these, the Atlanta and Chicago Districts saw conditions improve compared with the previous reporting period. Boston and Philadelphia cited modest growth, while Kansas City reported the economy held steady in December. The economic outlook is positive in most Districts, with some reports citing expectations of "more of the same" and some expecting a pickup in growth. Three-quarters of the Districts indicated that retail activity had increased since the last Beige Book report. The exceptions were St. Louis and Kansas City, where retail results were mixed, and the Richmond District, which cited a softening of retail sales. Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco noted strong auto sales. Districts mentioning nonfinancial services noted increased activity, except for Richmond, which cited "little change" in demand for non-retail services. All Districts reported year-over-year increases in manufacturing activity, although Kansas City noted slower growth in December. Real estate markets generally continued to improve, according to District reports. Although a few Districts indicated home sales or residential construction in some areas had slowed or declined in recent months, most cited increased residential sales activity and construction as well as rising home prices. Reports on commercial real estate were also positive, with commercial construction generally increasing. Two-thirds of the Districts reported increases in commercial sales and leasing activity. According to District reports that mention banking, loan volumes have not changed substantially since the last reporting period. The eight Districts reporting on energy indicated that activity continued increasing; Cleveland and Atlanta cited robust growth in the energy sector. Reports on agriculture were also mostly positive. Almost half the Districts reported that prices were stable; most other Districts noted small increases in prices. Upward movements in wages were cited by 8 of the 12 Districts; the increases were described as small to moderate. Two-thirds of Districts noted increases in hiring; the Richmond District cited "numerous reports of strong labor demand." Consumer Spending and TourismMost Districts reported that retail spending was up, with activity described as modestly to moderately higher and holiday sales on plan or up a bit compared with 2012. However, Richmond noted a general slowdown in retail spending in recent weeks and the Kansas City District cited lower than expected holiday sales, which retailers there attributed to a shorter selling season and harsh weather conditions. Atlanta and San Francisco both noted that in-store sales were softer than online sales. Apparel sales were reportedly strong in Boston and Richmond, while Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Chicago indicated that cold-weather gear and winter items were selling well. Home furnishings, home improvement items, and/or furniture sold particularly well in the Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, and San Francisco Districts. Demand for electronics was quite strong in the Cleveland and Minneapolis Districts, but San Francisco reported that electronics sales were weaker than in recent years. Kansas City and Dallas reported lagging sales for higher-priced big ticket items. New York, Philadelphia, and Kansas City reported that automobile sales declined a bit in December; dealer contacts in the New York and Kansas City Districts reported higher inventory levels. Contacts in the Richmond, Atlanta, and San Francisco Districts said that automobile sales remain strong. Auto sales were mixed across areas within the Dallas District. Chicago and Minneapolis reported that light-vehicle sales increased; Cleveland observed that consumers continue to shift from smaller, more fuel-efficient cars to SUVs, crossovers, and light trucks. The 2014 outlook for vehicle sales is strong in the Philadelphia, Richmond, Cleveland, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts. Reports on leisure and tourism spending were mixed across and within Districts. The Richmond District reported flat to slower bookings in recent weeks, except for resorts specializing in winter activities. San Francisco indicated that travel and tourism were down in Hawaii and remained somewhat weak in Las Vegas. Minneapolis reported that winter tourism activity was off to a solid start on account of snowy weather. The Kansas City District indicated that tourism activity increased slightly since the last survey and increased modestly year-over-year. Hospitality contacts in the Atlanta District reported strong advance bookings and increases in occupancy rates, room rates, and revenue per room during the 2013 holiday season compared with year-earlier levels. Nonfinancial ServicesDistricts mentioning consumer and business services reported that demand for nonfinancial services increased moderately since the previous Beige Book report. The Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts cited increased growth in information technology services; in the San Francisco District, this growth reflected strong demand for cloud services. The Boston District generally reported strengthened activity in the consulting and advertising industries with the exception of a firm that provides consulting services mostly to government agencies. Healthcare, internet technology, restaurant, telecommunications, and distribution firms expanded in the St. Louis District. Other reports of growth included legal and real estate services in the Dallas District and professional and business services in the Minneapolis District. By contrast, contacts in the Richmond District generally reported flat nonretail service growth, citing soft demand in the trucking and healthcare sectors. Demand for staffing services increased in the New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas Districts, notably to serve the internet technology and engineering sectors. Reports on transportation services were generally positive. Port activity remained strong in the Richmond District. Logistics contacts in the Atlanta District reported expansion in the movement of industrial and healthcare-related goods. Rail contacts noted year-over-year increases in intermodal traffic in the Atlanta District and heightened cargo volumes in the Dallas District. Similarly, freight transportation executives in the Cleveland District reported that shipping volume was in line with or exceeded expectations. One contact in the Philadelphia District observed "booming" growth for most modes of transportation. In contrast, transportation companies in the Kansas City District reported a slight decrease in business activity in recent weeks, while both intermodal cargo volumes and air cargo volumes fell in the Dallas District. Airline demand in the Dallas District was largely unchanged. The outlook for 2014 is positive, with most Districts reporting that contacts expected activity in nonfinancial services sectors to continue to increase at a moderate to strong pace. ManufacturingReports from the 12 Districts generally painted a picture of steady growth in manufacturing. All but one District reported both growing sales and an optimistic outlook; only Kansas City reported a decline in manufacturing production and shipments in December, although activity remained above year-earlier levels. A manufacturer in the Dallas District said that for the first time since before the recession, his firm had too many jobs to bid on. Employment was generally described as "steady" with few instances of rapid growth but very few reports of staff cuts or plant closings. Contacts in several Districts reported concerns about health care cost inflation. Capital spending was generally up and contacts anticipated further growth. Three specific areas of strength in manufacturing were mentioned by multiple Districts: commercial aviation, autos, and construction materials. The Boston, Chicago, and San Francisco Districts reported exceptional strength in commercial aviation driven by record backlogs at major aircraft producers. The Richmond, Chicago, and San Francisco Districts said that the recovering housing market had led to increased demand for construction materials going all the way from raw materials like lumber to finished products like kitchen cabinets. Similarly, the Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, and Chicago Districts reported above-average strength in the auto industry. Contacts in the Cleveland District said that most auto suppliers were at or near capacity; one respondent there estimated that 85 percent of auto suppliers should be adding capacity right now but indicated that many are reluctant to do so. News about semiconductors was mixed, with contacts in the Boston District citing strong demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment and contacts in the San Francisco District reporting gradually increasing sales of chips. Contacts in the Dallas District said that demand for memory chips was rising but demand for logic devices remained soft. The one area of weakness was manufacturers of defense-related products; contacts in the Cleveland District expressed hope that the recently enacted federal budget agreement would provide a boost to defense contractors this year and next. Real Estate and ConstructionMost Districts reported increases in home sales in the closing months of 2013 compared with last year, but the Atlanta, Cleveland, and Kansas City Districts indicated that year-over-year residential sales growth had slowed relative to earlier quarters in 2013. The Boston, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and Dallas reports noted that at least some areas within those Districts saw home sales below year-earlier levels. Home selling prices continued their upward trend in the Boston, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts, while remaining stable in the Cleveland and Richmond Districts; New York noted mixed changes in sale prices across the District. Residential construction saw slight to moderate increases in most Districts; by contrast, Dallas cited a slight decline, New York reported no change, and Cleveland cited strong growth. Notwithstanding its decrease in overall residential construction, the Dallas District noted elevated construction levels for multi-family units; the Atlanta, Cleveland, and Chicago Districts also cited strong multifamily construction. Reporting Districts indicated that residential real estate contacts remained optimistic looking forward, while voicing concerns about declining inventory and potential changes in the mortgage market. The Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts reported that contacts expected residential construction to pick up in the near term. District reports on commercial real estate contained much good news, although performance within some Districts was uneven across locations and property types. Commercial leasing activity increased in the Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts, as well as in New York City and Long Island, and held roughly steady in the Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts. Industrial leasing activity weakened in the New York District in the fourth quarter but improved in both the Richmond and St. Louis Districts. Office and other commercial vacancy rates were mixed across and within metropolitan areas and across property types. Commercial rents increased at least modestly on average in the Boston, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts and held steady in the New York and Richmond Districts. Commercial real estate investment continued to strengthen across numerous Districts, with brisk sales activity in the Boston, Chicago, and Minneapolis Districts and rising prices in those same Districts as well as in the Richmond and Kansas City Districts. Excepting the New York and Dallas Districts, which gave no information on recent construction, all other Districts reported increases in commercial construction activity in recent weeks. In the Boston and Richmond Districts, construction activity increased in the education and healthcare sectors. A significant number of commercial high-rise structures are being built (or planned) in the San Francisco District. Information concerning the commercial real estate outlook was largely positive where it was reported. Contacts in the Boston, Atlanta, and Kansas City Districts were optimistic that commercial real estate fundamentals would continue to improve at least slowly in 2014. The outlook for commercial construction activity was positive in the Philadelphia, Cleveland, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts. Banking and Financial ServicesAmong Districts reporting on banking, none noted substantial changes in loan volume. Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco reported slight to moderate growth. The Cleveland, St. Louis, and Kansas City Districts reported no change, whereas New York cited a moderate decline in loan volume. In addition, while no Districts reported major changes in credit standards, Philadelphia, Chicago, and San Francisco cited instances where financial institutions relaxed their underwriting standards. Some contacts attributed this relaxation to increased competition in lending markets. Among reporting Districts, credit quality held steady or increased, with the New York District citing declines in delinquency rates for all lending categories. Residential real estate loans declined in the New York, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and Kansas City Districts, mostly due to slowdowns in refinancing activity rather than in new purchase loan applications; in fact, the latter have slightly increased in some Districts. The St. Louis District reported no change in residential real estate loan volume. Commercial real estate loans increased in the Cleveland District, remained steady in the New York and Kansas City Districts, and fell in the Philadelphia and St. Louis Districts. Business and industrial loan demand increased in the Richmond, Chicago, and San Francisco Districts while remaining stable in Cleveland and Kansas City and declining in the St. Louis District. The Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas Districts reported increases in auto lending. Regarding demand deposits at financial institutions, deposit volumes increased in the Cleveland and Dallas Districts, remained stable in Kansas City, and decreased in the St. Louis District. Contacts in some Districts expressed concern about new banking regulations and their potential negative impact on lending and operating costs. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesMost Districts reporting on agriculture indicated that yields and growing conditions were generally strong and improving in late November and December; by exception, the Atlanta District observed mixed results and Minneapolis cited weaker farm conditions. Corn and soybean prices remained very low across the country, and the Chicago and Kansas City Districts reported that some farmers have been holding onto fall crop inventories rather than sell at current prices. Kansas City and Dallas reported that the winter wheat crop is in good shape due to moisture provided by winter storms, although storms slightly delayed the cotton harvest. The Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts cited increased profitability in cattle production attributed to flat or rising cattle prices coupled with reduced feed costs and better pasture conditions. Builders in the San Francisco District reported that timber supplies were sufficient to meet rising demand. District reports indicated continued strong energy demand and production. The Atlanta, Kansas City and Dallas Districts cited robust oil drilling activity both inland and offshore, despite rising costs to transport crude oil along the Gulf Coast; meanwhile exploration in the Gulf of Mexico has been bolstered by the completion of pipeline infrastructure projects. Coal production was slightly up in the St. Louis and Kansas City Districts but mixed in the Cleveland and Richmond Districts, as Appalachian producers struggled with low coal prices and regulation. Natural gas production was stable at a high level in the Cleveland District, up slightly in the Richmond and San Francisco Districts, and mixed in the Minneapolis District. Most Minneapolis District iron ore mines continued to operate near capacity; however an environmental impact report on a proposed copper-nickel mine has brought the future of the project into question. A judge's ruling brought a proposed $250 million solar power project in Minnesota closer to development. Wages and PricesMost District reports indicated that wage and price pressures were contained and did not present major problems for local contacts. Prices were said to be generally stable in the Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Kansas City Districts; they reportedly increased slightly in the Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, and San Francisco Districts. New York and Dallas cited modest price increases; both mentioned that some service-sector firms plan to raise their selling prices in the near term. Most District reports indicated that cost pressures remained stable or increased only slightly. Manufacturers in a number of Districts reported that raw material prices were generally steady, with small increases in the prices of some metals. Kansas City cited an increase in the prices of some raw materials but not in the prices of finished products. Cleveland indicated that both input and finished products prices remained mostly unchanged. The Cleveland and Atlanta Districts reported steady wages, with Atlanta noting that merit increases remained in the 1 to 3 percent range. The Boston, Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco Districts reported slight to modest increases in wages; among these, Richmond noted that average wages declined in the service sector but increased in manufacturing, while Chicago and Kansas City observed that wage pressures were lower compared with the previous reporting period. By contrast, Dallas noted a pickup in reports of pay increases and wage pressures, while Minneapolis indicated that labor markets were showing signs of tightening, and wage increases were moderate. Return to top Retail and TourismRetail respondents in this round report December year-over-year sales changes ranging from a low single-digit decrease to an increase of 10 percent. Two contacts ended their fiscal years on December 31 and cite preliminary tallies showing 2013 sales up 1.5 percent and 5.0 percent compared to 2012. The latter result exceeded earlier expectations of 2013 comp store sales increases of 1.7 percent to 3.0 percent over 2012; this contact attributes the better-than-expected performance to increasing consumer confidence observed since late August. Respondents say demand is strong across all apparel categories, home furnishings, and items related to home improvement. One contact reports that inventories were down significantly due to stronger-than-expected sales, while others report "good" inventory levels. Retail contacts continue to cite steady prices and predict modest price increases for 2014 in the range of 1.25 percent to 2.0 percent. As noted in the previous round, respondents say consumer sentiment is improving based on a better outlook for the U.S. economy. One contact expects consumer spending in 2014 to be constrained by rising financing costs for mortgages and automobiles, given that wage increases remain modest at best. Manufacturing and Related ServicesOf the 11 firms contacted in this round, none reports falling sales and eight report increasing sales. Among the three firms reporting no change were a chemical firm for whom the flat demand was an improvement after falling sales and a publisher who cited falling demand for information from the financial services sector. Another firm, a manufacturer of storage devices for computers, said that they had lowered their earnings guidance for the fourth quarter. Many other contacts report relatively strong sales. A medical equipment manufacturer says that growth was strong not just for its new products, which typically grow at double-digit rates, but also for legacy products where there was pent-up replacement demand. A manufacturer of semiconductor equipment cites very strong demand, suggesting that the semiconductor industry is on an up-cycle after weakness in recent quarters. Many contacts say they are attempting to reduce inventories. A manufacturer of medical equipment indicates that an exceptionally large backlog has allowed them to tailor production more precisely as well as to lower inventories. In general, respondents report little pricing pressure from either suppliers or customers. One exception is a frozen fish producer for whom prices of shrimp and haddock were "through the roof." Another exception is a producer of parts for the commercial aircraft industry who said that Boeing has been putting exceptional pressure on its suppliers to lower prices, something reported earlier by other firms in that industry. A publisher plans employment reductions, but most manufacturing contacts report modest hiring plans, in line with or below sales growth. All but three contacted manufacturers cite increased capital expenditures. A firm that makes parts for commercial aircraft said it had revised up its capital expenditures by 20 percent in the fourth quarter after a similar-sized increase earlier in the year. A drug firm says uncertainty about the manufacturing R&amp;D tax credit had negatively affected investment plans. Another drug company says capital expenditures are falling because of financial problems at their parent company in Japan. The outlook is positive for all respondents except the publisher who is concerned that demand from the financial services industry will remain problematic in 2014. Selected Business ServicesConsulting and advertising contacts report a strong fourth quarter, consistent with a sustainably, but not rapidly, growing economy. The strongest business is driven by the healthcare industry, where demand has come from providers who need help preparing for and complying with the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and from providers and insurers who desire to use IT and analytics to improve efficiency. Economic consulting remains a strong growth industry and strategy consultant's report mixed results, with the industry split between larger firms who have done very well and smaller firms whose revenues are flatter. Marketing contacts estimate industry-wide growth of 6 percent to 7 percent, driven by large corporate orders and a continued shift in demand towards higher-value items as companies have more to spend on marketing and branding. Overall, consulting and marketing contacts report that large corporate clients have cash and are increasingly willing to spend it. Finally, a government consultant reports a slight drop in revenues and a reduced backlog as the sequester and federal budget uncertainty continue to reduce agencies' ability to purchase his firm's services. Contacts cite minimal cost increases, with the exception of a healthcare consulting contact whose regulatory compliance costs have skyrocketed due to fragmented state regulatory frameworks. Wages generally rose from zero to 3 percent, although several firms paid high bonuses because employees were busy. Firms raised the rates charged clients between zero and 4 percent, with firms facing stronger demand at the higher end of that range. Healthcare and economic consulting contacts report either rapid hiring (restrained by the difficulty of recruiting some skills) or a lull after recent rapid hiring. Strategy consultants, marketing contacts, and the government contractor cite flat employment. Firms say they are generally able to find qualified workers, with the exception of software engineers and IT personnel. Contacts are positive about 2014 and expect their recent growth to either continue or increase. Contacts express minimal concern about macroeconomic factors, with the exception of a healthcare consultant who worries that persistent high unemployment will reduce healthcare utilization. Several contacts mention some concern that Congressional decisions may yet cause a crisis. Overall, respondents are bullish about the future and worry primarily about idiosyncratic firm-specific factors. Commercial Real EstateCommercial real estate leasing activity in the First District held roughly steady on average in December, while investment sales activity and construction remained robust or strengthened significantly, according to contacts from across the region. In the Boston area, the Seaport District maintained a steady, "impressive" leasing pace, and office leasing activity picked up in some suburban areas. In Boston's Financial District, however, the vacancy rate remains in the mid-teens, allowing modest rent increases that are, according to one contact, probably only large enough to cover rising costs. Investment sales activity saw a year-end burst of activity in Boston, with strong contributions from foreign investors, pushing capitalization rates and loan spreads to historically low levels and reigniting concerns that prices are too high relative to reasonable expectations of rent growth. In Rhode Island, commercial leasing inquiries picked up modestly in December, but new tenants are still scarce. Investment sales activity in the state remains brisk and new developments--driven by the education sector--are slated for downtown Providence. In Connecticut, investment sales activity remained strong in December and, while leasing activity held roughly steady, contacts say some large, vacant tracts of office space in greater Hartford may be effectively obsolete and unlettable. Concerning construction activity, the pipeline of planned multifamily properties in greater Boston continued to dwindle, consistent with the perception among some contacts that the large number of unit's currently awaiting delivery may produce a glut. At the same time, planned construction in the education, health care, and life sciences sectors increased significantly in recent months, and the number of retail projects under construction in greater Boston appears to be rising, according to contacts. A regional lender closed a higher volume of commercial real estate loans in 2013 than in 2012, despite facing brisk competition and steady, intense pressure on interest rate spreads. The outlook among contacts for 2014 is generally optimistic. As reasons for optimism, one contact perceives that recent developments in Washington have reduced economic uncertainty, while some others say that macroeconomic "momentum" is on the rise. Downside risks include the upcoming costs to businesses of compliance with the ACA and the trend toward office downsizing on a space-per-person basis. Residential Real EstateResidential real estate markets in three New England states followed national trends, as October or November sales of single family homes and condominiums came in below year-earlier levels in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Connecticut; meanwhile home sales increased year-over-year in Maine, Rhode Island, and Vermont. As happened nationwide, the median sales price for single family homes rose in four of the six states. After many consecutive months of year-over-year sales increases, regional contacts attribute the recent sales declines to lower consumer confidence as a result of the most recent government shutdown, to a shift in sales toward earlier quarters due to lower interest rates at the time, and to a lack of inventory. One source notes, "[the market] lost a little steam in Q3 and continued at a slower pace in Q4." A Massachusetts contact says limited inventory is constraining the market, as the available months of supply for single family homes and condominiums were 4.3 and 2.8 months respectively in November. "New listings are up, but we have been burning through inventory," reports a source in Massachusetts. Despite the recent decline in unit sales, New England realtors agree that 2013 has been a good year overall and they remain optimistic about sales increases looking forward. Return to top Consumer SpendingRetailers report that sales were on or ahead of plan over the holiday season, with same-store sales steady to up moderately from a year earlier. Contacts at major malls in upstate New York report that business was strong in November but mixed in December; overall, holiday season sales were roughly on par with 2012 levels. More broadly, a trade association survey of retailers across New York State indicates that sales overall were up 1-3 percent from a year earlier and roughly on plan. Contacts report that sales were hampered by harsh weather in late November into early December across much of New York State. Contacts at major retail chains indicate that sales in the region were somewhat ahead of plan and up roughly 5 percent from comparable year-ago levels, though one notes that post-holiday sales were somewhat disappointing. There was a broad consensus among retail contacts that there was heavier promotion and deeper discounting than in the 2012 season. Auto dealers in upstate New York report that new vehicle sales were quite strong in November but there were preliminary signs of weakening in December. There are scattered reports of inventory accumulation. Sales of used automobiles have continued to be soft since the last report. Wholesale and retail credit conditions for auto purchases continue to be characterized as favorable. Tourism activity has been mixed in late 2013 with some signs of softening. Manhattan hotels report that revenues per room fell more than 10 percent from a year earlier in November--the first 12-month decline since the fall of 2012. Occupancy rates slipped by more than the seasonal norm in November, and room rates were down from a year earlier. While November 2012 hotel metrics were distorted by Superstorm Sandy--with some hotels shut down for part of the month but others accommodating displaced residents and rescue workers--this does not account for the more recent weakness. Broadway theatres, however, continue to report brisk business: attendance and revenues were fairly strong in December, running 4 and 10 percent, respectively, ahead of 2012 levels. Consumer confidence has been mixed but generally a bit improved since the last report. The Conference Board's survey of residents of the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) shows confidence falling to a more than one-year low in November--following the government shutdown--but rebounding briskly in December. Based on Siena College's survey of New York State residents, confidence, which had fallen to a more than one year low in October, rebounded tepidly in November and held steady in December. Construction and Real EstateResidential real estate markets in the District have seen increased activity since the last report, while prices have been mixed. Contacts in western New York State report that sales activity has continued to be brisk, and inventories remain low; home prices have retreated from their recent highs, though there are still reports of multiple offers. Manhattan's co-op and condo market registered its strongest 4th quarter sales activity on record; one contact surmises that a spike in mortgage rates drove many fence-sitters to buy. Sales prices of Manhattan apartments were little changed in the 4th quarter and up around 2 percent from a year earlier; price increases have been more pronounced in Queens and especially Brooklyn. Manhattan's rental market appears to have reached a plateau, with rents essentially flat and down slightly from a year earlier. A contact in New Jersey's housing industry describes the market as stable to improving gradually, with an overhang of distressed properties continuing to restrain prices of both new and existing homes. Commercial real estate markets were mixed at year end. In Manhattan, the outer boroughs, and Long Island, office availability rates were steady to down slightly in the fourth quarter, ending 2013 at multi-year lows; Midtown Manhattan registered particularly brisk leasing activity in the 4th quarter. In Northern New Jersey, Westchester and Fairfield counties, and across upstate New York, office availability rates were little changed at or near multi-year highs. Asking rents for office space were generally steady across the District and little changed from a year earlier. Industrial markets weakened slightly in the fourth quarter of 2013: vacancy rates across the New York City metro area moved up from multi-year lows, though rates across upstate New York were little changed at elevated levels. Other Business ActivityThe labor market has continued to improve gradually since the last report. A major employment agency reports that hiring activity was more robust than usual in December, particularly in the finance industry, though it is difficult to gauge the labor market from December, which is typically a slow month, they are optimistic about prospects for early 2014. One employment agency contact, however, has noticed more resumes from job applicants previously employed in the health care industry, and still a number of applicants from the legal industry. More broadly, the vast majority of business contacts report that staffing levels have been flat in the final months of 2013. However, substantially more businesses plan to expand than reduce their workforces in 2014. More generally, firms in a variety of industries in the District, including manufacturing, report some pickup in activity in recent weeks. Business contacts also express increasingly widespread optimism about the near-term outlook. Overall, price pressures remain stable and generally subdued; though a growing number of service sector firms plan to raise their selling prices in the months ahead. Financial DevelopmentsSmall to medium sized banks across the District report decreased demand for consumer loans and, especially, residential mortgages, while they reported no change in demand for commercial loans and mortgages. For residential mortgages, half of the bankers reported a decrease, while the other half reported no change. Bankers also report decreased demand for refinancing. Credit standards are reported to be unchanged across all loan categories. Respondents note a decrease in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for all loan categories--particularly residential mortgages. Most bankers indicate that average deposit rates are unchanged. Finally, bankers report widespread declines in delinquency rates for all loan categories--particularly commercial loans and mortgages. Return to top Despite a slower pace of growth in some sectors, contacts overall maintained an outlook for moderate growth--similar to the last Beige Book. Contacts in most sectors continued to express confidence in the underlying economy. Confidence was bolstered for some as the climate for a less volatile federal fiscal policy seemed to improve. In regard to hiring and capital expenditure plans, firms continued to expand cautiously and will do so until the pace of growth strengthens and exhibits sustainability; in addition, they face ongoing uncertainty from implementation of the Affordable Care Act. ManufacturingThird District manufacturers have reported continued increases in orders and shipments at a slight pace of growth overall since the last Beige Book. The share of all firms reporting increases or decreases in general activity was about the same as before, with nearly one-third reporting increases in general activity and a little less than one-fourth reporting decreases. The makers of food products, fabricated metals, and industrial machinery have reported gains since the last Beige Book. Reports of decreases came from the makers of paper products, chemicals, and electronic and other electric equipment. Some firms noted the impact of seasonal trends on business, which were positive for some but negative for others. One contact reported, "We are experiencing the usual holiday increase, but not at the levels of previous years." Most firms reported steady conditions. Optimism that business conditions will improve over the next six months remained high and was widespread across sectors. Over half of the firms continued to anticipate increases in activity, though some firms expected decreases in activity, new orders, and shipments. Optimism is also evident from two recent announcements: a Pennsylvania-based firm will acquire one of China's largest confectioners--greatly expanding its market presence in Asia, and a large Chinese firm announced $40 million of investments in Pennsylvania--$30 million to build a high productivity (heavily automated) 500-employee manufacturing plant in the Harrisburg area (products were unspecified), plus $10 million for research in collaboration with a Pittsburgh-based university. Firms also expected to see the largest increase in health benefits costs compared with other input and labor costs in 2014. Though still positive overall, contacts have reported lower expectations of hiring and capital spending plans since the last Beige Book. RetailThird District retailers have continued to report modest growth overall since the last Beige Book. According to one contact, the shorter holiday shopping season and the winter weather disruptions created more motivated buyers: "Traffic was down about 10 percent in December, but the average purchase almost doubled." Retailers reported that people bought more "gifts for the home" this holiday season; the home improvement segment had been largely overlooked since the recent recession. Jewelry and cold-weather wear also sold very well this season. Some retail contacts reported lower inventory levels in the wake of the holiday sales--a good problem that may reduce January sales. Results of the post-holiday gift card sales remain uncertain. Retailers remain optimistic for 2014. Outlets operators anticipate opening seven to 10 new centers this year. Auto dealers have reported a moderate pace of sales since the last Beige Book period--a little off the strong growth they reported for most of the past year. Pennsylvania dealers reported that sales fell off the year's pace in November but remained a little better than last year; December sales were "just OK," although the final week was strong. New Jersey dealers reported that December sales were slightly softer than a year ago; however, last year's sales were boosted by sales of replacement vehicles in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy. Year-end sales in 2012 were also strong due to higher-than-normal year-end bonuses and to accelerated purchases for tax purposes. The outlook for 2014 is very positive; however, some retailers are beginning to take note that the pent-up demand accrued during the recession may be abating. FinanceOverall, Third District financial firms continued to report modest increases in total loan volume. Most loan categories appeared to grow somewhat; however, contacts reported slight decreases in commercial real estate loan volumes and some small consumer credit lines. Credit card utilization increased seasonally for holiday shopping and grew through the month of December at a slightly faster pace than last year. Contacts were heartened by "better economic news" and a sense of "greater government fiscal stability." However, some continued to express caution--for their part and on behalf of their customers--that they need to see a sustained pickup of activity, especially among small businesses. Contacts continue to see credit quality improvement; one expressed an expectation that as mortgages flow into the seriously delinquent category, they will perform better than those from the recent past. "Many of these newer loans will cure," as the job market is improving, housing is appreciating again, and the underwriting is better. Overall, most bankers remained optimistic for continued slow, steady growth and an opportunity for some acceleration. Real Estate and ConstructionThird District homebuilders have reported that construction has continued at a slight pace of activity since the last Beige Book. One builder reported significantly greater activity in the past few weeks after securing a partially developed subdivision on which to build. Land acquisition at marketable prices remained an oft-cited challenge. Competition for labor from rebuilding projects along the Jersey Shore remained a problem for New Jersey homebuilders; in central Pennsylvania, the labor availability has improved somewhat, as competition from Marcellus shale activity has abated. According to residential real estate brokers, sales of existing homes declined (year over year) in most of the Third District's major metropolitan areas. Reported decreases ranged from barely negative in southern New Jersey and the Lehigh Valley to about 10 percent in the Harrisburg and Philadelphia metropolitan areas. However, reports of pending sales remained positive, and the inventory of homes for sale continued to fall in most markets. Contacts remained bullish for a "continued, gradual rise" in 2014 despite the somewhat deeper lull than is normal for December. Nonresidential real estate contacts indicated little change in the slight growth rate of construction and the modest pace of overall leasing activity during this seasonally slow period of the year. New construction of industrial warehouse buildings remains in strong demand, as does new construction of institutional buildings. The summer/fall of 2014 is slated to bring groundbreakings for two major 47-story construction projects: an office/residential tower in University City Philadelphia anchored by the corporate headquarters of a specialty chemical firm and a hotel/condominium tower for Center City Philadelphia. Based on these and other projects, most contacts reported good results for their respective firms in 2013 and expectations for stronger growth in 2014. ServicesThird District service-sector firms continued to report a moderate pace of growth, and tourism received a boost from an early winter snowstorm. Overall, more firms reported increases in sales and new orders than reported decreases, although the trend was slightly less positive than reported in the last Beige Book. The early December storm that interrupted retail shoppers laid a solid base of snow for mid-Atlantic ski resorts; tourism along the Delaware and New Jersey shores remains seasonably slow. Other service firms reported modest to moderate growth rates. Business information technology service contacts reported strong activity, while contacts for defense-related firms continued to adjust staffing for lower budget allocations. A transportation services contact described "booming" growth for most modes and support facilities in the primary corridor through central and eastern Pennsylvania that serves the Northeast. A concern was expressed that small manufacturers could be forced into costly plant shutdowns if shippers were unable to expand rapidly enough to meet demand for intermediate goods from a potential economic surge. Overall, nearly all service-sector firms reported an expectation that current activity will continue to increase. Prices and WagesOverall, Third District contacts reported no change to the steady, slight pace of price level increases, similar to other recent Beige Books. Manufacturing firms reported that prices paid and prices received tended to once more rise slightly. Auto dealers and general retailers reported little change in pricing, and most builders reported holding prices steady. Many contacts reported coping with tight, or narrowing, margins. Generally, real estate contacts continued to report rising prices for lower-priced homes, while higher-priced homes are aligned to local market conditions. Very few contacts are seeing wage pressures, other than for a few highly skilled occupations. Return to top Hiring was sluggish across most industry sectors, though the pickup in construction jobs continued. Staffing-firm representatives reported that the number of job openings and placements rose slightly, with vacancies found primarily in healthcare, information technology, and oil and gas. Wage pressures were contained. Input and finished goods prices saw little change, apart from some increases in metals and residential construction materials. ManufacturingReports from District factories indicated that demand continued at a moderate to robust level during the past six weeks. Firms seeing the strongest activity were suppliers to the aerospace, housing, motor-vehicle, and oil and gas industries. Declines in demand were attributed to seasonal variation The recently enacted federal budget agreement is viewed as providing a boost to defense contractors in the upcoming year. Compared to a year ago, manufacturing production levels are mainly higher. Almost all of our respondents expect demand will remain at current levels through at least the first quarter of 2014. Steel shipments during the fourth quarter were generally characterized as stable or slowly increasing. Demand is strongest from the transportation and oil and gas industries. Defense orders were still described as weak. Shipments in the first quarter of 2014 are expected to be higher relative to the previous quarter. Several contacts in the steel industry noted that confidence on the part of their customers is improving. District auto production showed a seasonal decline during November. However, November production numbers were moderately higher than those recorded a year ago. Most manufacturers reported that their capacity utilization rates were within a normal range. Numerous respondents said that they have excess production capacity and could easily absorb any demand spikes. Auto parts suppliers were described as operating near capacity. One industry executive estimated that 85 percent of all parts suppliers need to increase capacity, but many are reluctant to do so. In contrast, aerospace suppliers have invested heavily in capacity expansion during the past year. A few steel producers reported lowering capacity utilization, due in part to excess global capacity. Capital expenditures for the upcoming fiscal year are expected to be in line with current year outlays or somewhat higher. Monies are being allocated primarily for rehabbing production lines, technology enhancements, and new equipment. Raw material prices were stable, except for a modest increase in metals. Several of our contacts announced price increases across their product lines, which will go into effect during the first quarter of 2014. On balance, factory payrolls were stable. A majority of our contacts cited rising healthcare insurance premiums as a concern. ConstructionSales of new single-family homes have been trending slightly lower since October. Nonetheless, single-family construction starts continued at a robust pace and were significantly above year-ago levels. Multifamily construction remains strong. We heard several reports about the inventory of improved lots being at a low level. New-home contracts were found mainly in the move-up price-point categories. Only a few starter homes are being built. Selling prices of new homes have stabilized. One builder observed that he has now reached the limit of how much he can raise prices before impacting demand. Existing home values rose moderately year-over-year. Builders are confident that demand for new homes will persist into 2014, especially in the higher-end segments of the market. Nonresidential building activity continued to improve, although builders reported that some high-value projects remain stalled in the pipeline. This project stagnation was attributed mainly to lingering uncertainty. Most builders indicated that they are comfortable with their backlogs and that the number of inquiries is rising. Demand was strongest for distribution facilities, industrial buildings, and multifamily housing. Our contacts are cautiously optimistic about near-term prospects, and they are expecting slow, but steady growth during 2014. Prices for residential construction materials--lumber and drywall--has increased substantially in the past year, but the rate of increase is slowing. A majority of general contractors we spoke with reported hiring some field and back-office personnel since our last report. Most of our contacts experienced increases in health-insurance premiums, generally around 5 percent. Builders reported a scarcity of high-skilled trade workers. As a result, there is upward pressure on wages, and subcontractors are demanding and getting higher rates. Consumer SpendingRetail sales at the start of the holiday shopping season were above year-ago levels. Electronics, cold-weather apparel, and footwear were selling especially well. In some regions of the District, retailers experienced a tapering off as December progressed. They attributed the decline in part to persistently poor weather conditions. One contact reported a slowdown in sales of teen clothing and school items throughout 2013, which he believes is due to a high level of teen unemployment. A furniture dealer observed that his sales started to pick up recently following a large drop-off that began midway through the third quarter. His outlook is optimistic. Overall projections for the month of January call for sales to be slightly too significantly higher relative to the same time period in 2013. Inventories were described as being in good to great shape. Vendor and shelf prices held steady. Several of our respondents noted that the use of promotions was higher than normal for this time of year. Hiring during 2014 will be mainly limited to staffing new stores and for e-commerce support. Year-to-date sales through November of new motor vehicles showed a moderate increase when compared to the same time period in 2012. On a month-over-month basis, November purchases of new vehicles exhibited a seasonal decline. Buyers continued to shift from smaller, fuel-efficient cars to SUVs, crossovers, and light trucks. Some of the increase in truck sales was attributed to growing demand for vehicles by residential builders. Reports on new-vehicle inventories were mixed. The rate of growth in new-vehicle sales during 2014 is expected to be positive, but not as strong as in 2013. Used-vehicle purchases declined from October to November, but year-to-date sales were higher when compared to 2012. Dealers are planning fewer capital projects in 2014 relative to the past couple of years. Payrolls held steady since our last report. BankingDemand for business credit was stable or down slightly during the past six weeks. No loan category is performing considerably better than others, although many bankers said that commercial-real-estate lending continued to pick up. Organic loan growth was characterized as slow, due in part to businesses holding excess cash. Several respondents commented that long-term interest rates need to rise more than 200 to 300 basis points before any meaningful impact will be seen on spending decisions by businesses. Consumer credit demand was described as steady or down slightly. Auto lending drew the highest demand, while home-equity products slowed. A few bankers saw a pickup in credit card usage, which they attributed to holiday shopping. Most contacts reported a net slowdown in residential mortgage activity. While there was an increase in new purchase applications, they did not offset the decline in refinancing's. Several bankers raised concerns about new banking regulations related to real estate--residential and commercial--and their potential negative impact on lending and operating costs. For the most part, delinquency rates were stable. No significant changes to loan-application standards were reported. Core deposits by businesses and consumers grew. We heard a few reports about staffing cuts due to branch closures and cost containment. EnergyAggregate coal production across the District remains slightly below year-ago levels. A large decline in eastern Kentucky is being offset by increases in Ohio and northern West Virginia. Going forward, little change in output is projected. Spot prices for steam coal increased, reflecting seasonal variation, while metallurgical coal prices held steady. The number of drilling rigs increased across the District since our last report. Natural gas production was stable, but at a high level. Well-head prices for natural gas rose slightly, while oil prices declined. No change was reported in the cost of production equipment and materials. Payrolls held steady. Freight TransportationFreight executives reported that shipping volume was in-line with or exceeded expectations during the past six weeks. The industry outlook for 2014 is more favorable compared to our last report, with year-over-year volume expected to grow at a moderate to strong pace. One respondent attributed the upbeat outlook to the rebound in manufacturing. A few contacts noted that the limited availability of qualified drivers and the recently enacted hours of service (HOS) regulations have resulted in a tightening of capacity during the fourth quarter. They believe this issue will intensify during 2014. Operating costs were mostly stable. Capital outlays for the fiscal year were in line with budgets. Little change in capital spending is forecast, with monies allocated more toward replacement. The industry has been hiring for replacement and, as a result of HOS, to maintain current capacity. Return to top ManufacturingManufacturing grew moderately overall in recent weeks, although there were scattered reports of weakness. According to the latest manufacturing survey, shipments and new orders had solid growth. In addition, a West Virginia cabinet manufacturer remarked that steady growth in new construction boosted sales for his firm's higher-end cabinets. Further, an electrical components manufacturer in Virginia and a custom plastics executive in North Carolina reported stronger new orders. Food production executives in Virginia also reported a slight increase in demand for their products. In North Carolina, textile and composites manufacturers broke ground for new plants. On the other hand, a Maryland machine tool manufacturer stated that orders from builders and distributors were down. Also, a copper and aluminum materials producer in South Carolina noted a softening in sales, and a South Carolina food manufacturer reported a slight decline in shipments. Prices of raw materials and finished goods rose at a slower pace, according to our survey respondents. PortsPorts reported strong year-over-year traffic, even after eliminating effects of diversions to the Fifth District from northern ports as a result of last year's major hurricane. Paper, pulp, and agricultural exports were especially robust. Auto units were down slightly from a year ago, but remained strong. Exports of agricultural and construction machinery increased compared to earlier this fall, but declined mildly from a year ago. In contrast to softer demand in domestic markets, foreign coal shipments were up slightly year over year. On the import side, manufacturing supplies such as pipe and wire have risen significantly and port administrators expect that re-shoring of manufacturing will continue to build demand for such imports. RetailRetail sales growth generally slowed, with a few exceptions in recent weeks. A retail representative in central Virginia remarked that the pace of sales at small merchants in that area was "pretty depressing." In addition, a discount department store manager commented that holiday sales were slightly below last year's. Auto sales remained strong, ending the year slightly above year-ago levels, as manufacturers of both domestic and foreign cars offered incentives to move the 2013 inventory. A dealer commented that people have more confidence in the economy and are now willing to get that new car "they've been hankering for." He expected prices of used cars to decline as trade-ins continue to flood the market. In addition, sales of heavy trucks in West Virginia are being driven by increased natural gas production in that state. Furniture sales were strong, with an upscale furniture retailer reporting customer preference shifting to products produced in the U.S. and Canada. Pharmacy and apparel sales also rose. Survey responders indicated that average retail prices increased more quickly in recent weeks. ServicesNon-retail services contacts reported little change since our last report. An executive at a national trucking firm said demand had slowed in recent weeks, which would result in capacity tightening as some smaller firms shut down or idled trucks rather than renew vehicle registrations for 2014. An accounting firm in West Virginia reported generally flat demand for services, with the exception of an increase in audit work for non-profits due to federal grant requirements. Demand was generally soft at hospitals and other healthcare organizations, and administrators reported that they expect decreasing utilization along with declining Medicaid and Medicare reimbursement under the Affordable Care Act. One executive reported that the only change was an increase in flu and Norovirus cases in central North Carolina. Prices rose at a slightly faster pace at non-retail services firms. The tourism industry had slow to flat bookings in recent weeks, outside of resorts specializing in winter activities. In Virginia, a resort manager remarked on the good skiing weather this season, having already sold several times the number of passes as last year at this time. Tourism was moderate on the outer banks of North Carolina, where the re-opening of the Hatteras Bridge reduced the need for ferrying tourist traffic. In Charleston, South Carolina, the restaurant industry is growing, but parking and congestion remain a problem. Rates were unchanged at most hotels. FinanceConsumer borrowing generally weakened in recent weeks, while commercial lending strengthened. Reports across the District indicated low demand for mortgages on existing homes and refinance loans. In contrast, new construction lending improved. A South Carolina lender noted that loans for luxury autos were robust as consumers took advantage of low interest rates. According to a Virginia lender, mortgage interest rates rose recently, while consumer credit standards were unchanged. Another lender commented on the competitive atmosphere, and said he expects lenders to become more aggressive. Additionally, a Virginia bank executive reported that underwriting exceptions were more prevalent, especially in nonrecourse lending. In commercial lending, applications for large business expansion loans have increased. A North Carolina banker noted a pick-up in capital investments, particularly for construction projects. However a central Maryland banker reported that small business lending slowed. Real EstateResidential real estate grew moderately in the past four to six weeks. Brokers reported a mild increase in sale prices, steady buyer traffic, and a slight uptick in property sales. According to a central Virginia Realtor, cash sales increased and higher end houses were "selling fast." However, a few agents stated that prices remained flat, and reports on higher end home sales were mixed. On balance, the average days-on-market and inventory decreased. In addition, brokers reported a positive outlook for the spring market, noting higher inventory of better quality homes as well as fewer short sales and foreclosures. Overall, residential construction remains tepid. A few brokers stated that single family home construction is picking up, primarily where developers are completing previously started projects. Commercial construction increased, with a contact reporting new projects underway for college campus housing and small medical centers in Maryland and the District of Columbia. Brokers also reported continued growth in grocery-anchored commercial construction. Multi-family housing remains active, while office building continues to be depressed. Commercial leasing was mixed since our last report. Most Realtors reported little change in demand for Class A office space, although a Virginia Beach broker reported relatively high vacancies. Demand for retail space in the Tidewater area of Virginia was mixed. A broker in the District of Columbia retail market reported that large blocks of space are in short supply. In North Carolina, a Realtor has received steady inquiries for industrial distribution space. Realtors indicated a slight increase in commercial sale prices, and little change in lease rates. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesAgricultural reports were generally positive in recent weeks. A few sod and seed companies reported a decline as a result of poor weather conditions. A vegetable farmer in North Carolina said that the excessive rain this season was less destructive than expected, and with increased demand, the year ended better than anticipated. Additionally, a Maryland fruit farmer reported excellent fruit yields due to the cold weather. Another Maryland contact remarked on this season's increase in corn sales, and added that corn was the leading export crop in his region this year. In animal farming, a West Virginia source noted strong growth in poultry processing. Reports regarding input and output prices were mixed. Natural gas production edged up slightly. A West Virginia contact stated that the industry continued to grow in all facets of production. Growth in natural gas was also said to be helping other businesses in the region. Coal miners indicated little change in production since our last report, but said output was slightly down compared to a year ago. A contact commented that Central Appalachian coal producers were struggling with low coal prices, regulation, and a decrease in employment. Labor MarketsConditions continued to improve throughout the District in the last several weeks with numerous reports of strong labor demand. However, few of our contacts offered permanent positions to seasonal workers, and many employers remarked on the high turnover among low-skill workers. A staffing consultant in Maryland noted that "there is a greater sense of confidence going into 2014," and that the highest demand is for IT and engineering skills. Elsewhere in the District, a Virginia contact reported that skills related to healthcare were in high demand. According to our manufacturing survey, hiring expanded robustly while the service-sector survey reported marginal growth on the retail side and only small increases in the non-retail subsector. In addition, several sources continued to report difficulty finding qualified workers or having to pay a premium to get them. In fact, one manager suggested that qualified candidates seemed to be basing employment decisions on more than just salary, and were also considering factors such as the work environment. Employers continued to express concern about potential cost increases related to the Affordable Care Act. Average wages rose moderately at manufacturing establishments, but declined at services firms, according to our latest survey.  Return to top District merchants noted positive year-over-year holiday sales growth with on-line sales outpacing traditional store sales. The hospitality sector continued to experience the same solid pace of activity that it had all year long. Similar to the previous report, residential housing brokers noted that existing home sales growth continued to slow, while homebuilders experienced modest growth in new home sales. Commercial contractors described construction activity as improving, especially in the multifamily segment of the market. Manufacturers indicated that overall activity strengthened since the previous report. Banking contacts noted that applications for mortgage loans were down. Employment levels across the District grew at a mild pace, while cost pressures remained stable. Consumer Spending and TourismPrior to the start of the holiday season, retailers expressed concerns about the fewer number of shopping days as compared to 2012 due to the timing of Thanksgiving. However, many merchants indicated that by offering deeply discounted merchandise and extended hours of operation, their stores experienced positive sales growth over the reporting period. Reports also indicated on-line retailers fared better than the traditional brick-and-mortar stores. Automotive dealers continued to cite solid vehicle sales. Hospitality contacts noted that occupancy rates, revenue per available room, and room rates for the holiday season exceeded year-ago levels. Hoteliers anticipate that this winter season will outperform last year based on advanced bookings. In the coming months, some District cities are expecting an increase in visitors from the addition of new direct international flights as well as new area attractions. Real Estate and ConstructionDistrict brokers indicated that growth in existing home sales slowed in recent months. The majority of brokers said sales were flat to slightly up compared with a year earlier but below their plan for the period. By most accounts, inventory levels were flat to slightly down on a year-over-year basis. Most contacts reported that home prices remained ahead of the year earlier level but that price gains have slowed on a month-over-month basis. The outlook among brokers has improved since our last report with more contacts anticipating that sales will be slightly up on a year-over-year basis over the next several months. Reports from District builders were more positive than broker reports. Most contacts agreed that recent activity was in line with their plan for the period. The majority of builders noted that construction activity and new home sales were ahead of the year earlier level. Reports indicated that unsold inventory levels were flat to slightly down. The majority of builders reported modest home price appreciation. The outlook for new home sales and construction activity remained positive among most contacts. District brokers noted that demand for commercial real estate continued to improve, though they cautioned that the rate of improvement varied by metropolitan area, submarket, and property type. Construction activity continued to increase at a modest pace from earlier in the year; contacts noted that apartment construction was still much more robust than construction in the other sectors. New build-to-suit projects continued to break ground across the region and landlords continued to update and reconfigure existing space to make it ready for tenants. The outlook among District commercial real estate contacts remained positive with further improvements expected early in 2014. Manufacturing and TransportationManufacturing activity strengthened slightly during the reporting period. Contacts reported gains in new orders and production. Manufacturers also noted that commodity prices were relatively flat and employment modestly increased. Finished inventories decreased as businesses looked to reduce inventory levels, and purchasing agents experienced longer wait times for materials ordered from their suppliers. Optimism regarding future production continued as auto manufacturers experienced strong sales in November. Nearly half of contacts expect production levels to increase over the next three to six months. Logistics contacts noted year-to-date increases in the movement of industrial and healthcare-oriented goods. Delays in holiday shipments to consumers were reportedly due to the shortened shopping season, higher than expected on-line sales, adverse weather conditions, and lower inventory levels at distribution centers. Rail contacts cited year-over-year increases in intermodal traffic supported primarily by significant increases in the movement of petroleum products. Trucking contacts anticipate that tonnage will increase substantially over the previous year buoyed by growing sectors of the economy that generate heavier freight loads, such as residential construction and energy production. Banking and FinanceCommunity bank contacts expressed continued concern about the implementation of qualified mortgage requirements in 2014 and the possible negative effect on mortgage lending, particularly as some mortgage lenders exit the mortgage lending business altogether or change their business models because of the added risks. Some lenders indicated they were shifting their focus from residential mortgages to small business and commercial real estate loans. Overall, applications for mortgage loans were down as refinancing activity slowed. Competition for qualified borrowers continued to increase and individual bankers attributed much of their increased market share of lending to luring loans away from other banks. Non-revolving credit continued to increase mostly due to robust vehicle sales. Employment and PricesBusinesses did not indicate a significant pickup in hiring, nor did they report any staff reductions. Businesses continued to employ technology and utilized overtime and contract labor as an alternative to increasing permanent staff. Contacts in manufacturing, construction, professional, and energy sectors report persistent difficulty in finding qualified workers. On balance, many firms expressed continued hesitancy caused by concerns about healthcare reform in terms of their overall hiring plans. Cost pressures remained mostly stable, according to business contacts. Healthcare was the most cited exception, with reports of larger cost and price increases than usual. Merit increases remained in the 1 to 3 percent range. However, skilled and professional positions in energy, construction, information technology, and logistics continued to see above-average wage increases and higher starting pay. Year-ahead unit costs expectations were 1.9 percent in December, unchanged for the fourth consecutive month, according to the Atlanta Fed's survey on business inflation expectations. Natural Resources and AgricultureCapacity utilization in the energy industry remained near historic highs, according to contacts. Deep water oil exploration in the Gulf of Mexico picked up, bolstered by the completion of recent pipeline infrastructure projects. Contacts noted that costs to transport domestic crude oil to refineries along the Gulf Coast via land or barge continued to rise. However, the outlook for demand, pricing, and productivity for the industry was optimistic on the whole for the coming year. Recent rains improved soil conditions in some areas of the District, while parts of Georgia, Alabama, Louisiana, and Florida experienced dry conditions. Monthly prices paid to farmers for rice and soybeans were up; prices for beef and broilers remained unchanged; and prices for corn, cotton, and hogs were down. The most recent domestic crop production projections for soybeans, corn, and rice were unchanged. Cotton and orange projections were down, although cotton was only down slightly. Similarly, projections for domestic beef and pork production rose, while broiler production remained unchanged. Return to top Consumer SpendingGrowth in consumer spending picked up to a moderate pace in late November and December, with holiday sales modestly exceeding expectations. Total holiday spending was lower this year, though contacts indicated that improving consumer confidence and falling unemployment boosted retail activity in many areas. Luxury goods continued to sell better than non-luxury discretionary items. Severe winter weather, while reducing store traffic in some locations, spurred sales of winter-related items. Contacts also noted a negative impact on late holiday sales as some customers were hesitant to use debit and credit cards after a data security breach at a large national retailer. Light vehicle sales moved up in the District, with mid-size sedans, larger SUVs, and pick-up trucks some of the strongest-selling segments. Business SpendingBusiness spending also picked up in late November and December. Inventories remained at comfortable levels for most retailers. Auto dealers continued to report that they were keeping inventories slightly higher than normal in anticipation of increased demand in the coming months. Manufacturer's inventories were somewhat lean. Growth in capital expenditures picked up slightly, led by spending on structures; examples included grocery stores, automobile dealerships, and expansions at auto supplier plants. Contacts also reported investing in equipment, information technology, and vehicles. Capital spending plans for the next six to twelve months declined slightly, and a few contacts noted plans to either pay down debt or halt further expansion after significantly ramping up capital expenditures in previous years. The pace of hiring picked up, as did expectations of future hiring. A staffing firm reported continued growth in demand, with improvement in both industrial and professional sectors. Many contacts noted continuing strength in demand for skilled and experienced workers, with positions often difficult to fill in engineering, technology, accounting, and other technical occupations. Several contacts also reported difficulty retaining skilled workers because of improving job and income prospects in the labor market. Construction and Real EstateConstruction and real estate activity increased modestly in late November and December. Demand for residential construction continued to expand, with strong growth again in the multifamily sector. Contacts expected that record low vacancy rates for apartments would continue to boost new multifamily construction over the coming year. Home sales, prices, and rents all rose, though the slow foreclosure process continued to impede existing home sales. Contacts noted an increase in the number of single-family homes purchased for rental or investment purposes. Demand for nonresidential construction remained modest, but picked up some from the previous reporting period. Commercial real estate activity also improved, with vacancies declining and rents increasing. Contacts noted especially strong growth in high-end retail and investments in income generating properties. ManufacturingManufacturing production growth was solid in late November and December. Contacts were generally optimistic about the outlook for manufacturing in 2014, pointing to expected strength in the auto, aerospace, and energy industries. The auto and aerospace industries in particular were a source of strength for the District in the second half of 2013. Low steel service center inventories continued to boost the demand for steel, and contacts noted that demand for other industrial metals also increased. Manufacturers of construction materials reported a moderate increase in demand as the housing market continues to improve. Increasing construction also led to some improvement in the demand for heavy equipment, though the overall level of activity remained soft. Demand for heavy- and medium- duty trucks was down following the pull-forward of spending earlier in 2013 in response to new EPA emissions standards. Manufacturers of durable consumer products and recreational vehicles also expected to see faster growth in 2014, with wealth gains from the rising stock market and home prices boosting demand. Banking and FinanceCredit conditions loosened slightly over the reporting period. Equity markets continued to rise, with investors' risk appetite increasing according to financial market contacts. Corporate borrowing spreads narrowed, especially in the high-yield debt market. In addition, banking contacts reported increased competition from local and regional banks was leading to downward pressure on pricing and looser and fewer covenants in deal structures for both small and middle market firms. Aggressive lending in the institutional leveraged loan market was also cited, increasing debt-to-equity multiples. Business loan demand improved, with higher utilization of lines of credit and an increase in borrowing for purchases of equipment and to tenants looking to purchase properties that they were currently leasing. However, contacts noted some softness in loan demand from agricultural and mining firms. Household loan demand was more mixed, with a decrease in mortgage refinancing and a slight increase in auto lending. Furthermore, contacts indicated that tight lending standards remain a barrier to new mortgage finance. Prices and CostsCost pressures increased slightly over the reporting period, but remained mild. Contacts reported increases in commodity prices, in particular for cement, concrete, brick, natural gas, steel, and other industrial metals. Overall, wage pressures were down slightly, though several contacts indicated rising wage pressures for skilled workers. Non-wage labor costs also increased, with a number of contacts reporting higher healthcare premiums. AgricultureCorn and soybean prices moved a bit higher over the reporting period, but remained well below their levels of a year ago. Current prices for corn will not cover expected costs for 2014 production, whereas soybean prices would. This may lead to increased soybean planting in the spring. Farmers continued to store crops in anticipation of future price increases. In some locations, however, there was an incentive to sell corn sooner, in part because of an increase in demand for ethanol production, which has returned to profitability. Hog prices moved lower, while cattle prices were little changed. Milk prices edged up, and there was evidence of some expansion in District dairy herds. Parts of the District remained in a drought, which makes the timing of spring precipitation more critical. In addition, there was less fertilizer application last fall due in part to cleaner water regulations. Return to top Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityReports of plans for manufacturing activity have been largely positive since our previous report. Several manufacturing firms reported plans to add workers, expand operations, or open new facilities in the District. Firms in automobile, silicon metal, overhead distribution products, tanker barge, primary metal, furniture supply products, fiber board, air conditioner parts, laboratory equipment, oilfield equipment, medical device, automation equipment, and railroad tie manufacturing announced plans to hire new employees and expand operations in the District. In contrast, a firm that manufactures aluminum products reported plans to close a plant and lay off workers in the District. Reports of planned activity in the District's service sector have also been positive since the previous report. Firms in health care, online shopping, information technology, telecommunications, restaurant, distribution, and insurance services reported new hiring and expansion plans in the District. In contrast, a firm in wholesale grocery services announced plans to lay off employees. Retail contacts across the District reported openings of new facilities. Retail contacts in the Louisville area noted that sales for 2013 were mostly flat to slightly higher than those in 2012, while retail contacts in the St. Louis area noted that Black Friday sales were lower than anticipated. In Louisville, restaurant contacts noted an increase in corporate dining. In St. Louis, tourism contacts reported the closure of a hotel in the downtown area. Real Estate and ConstructionHome sales have continued to increase throughout most of the District on a year-over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2012, November 2013 year-to-date home sales were up 16 percent in Louisville, 17 percent in Little Rock, 8 percent in Memphis, and 5 percent in St. Louis. November 2013 year-to-date single-family housing permits increased in the majority of the District's metro areas compared with the same period in 2012. Permits increased 8.3 percent in Louisville, 16 percent in Memphis, and 13 percent in St. Louis. In contrast, permits decreased 8 percent in Little Rock. Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have improved throughout most of the District. A contact in central Arkansas noted growing activity in the industrial real estate market. Contacts in both Louisville and St. Louis reported thriving downtown commercial markets. A contact in Memphis reported that office and retail vacancy rates declined during the third quarter of 2013. Commercial and industrial construction activity also improved throughout most of the District. A contact in Memphis reported a new commercial construction project in Horn Lake, Mississippi. A contact in Louisville reported construction of several new commercial buildings in the downtown area. A contact in northwest Arkansas noted an emerging market for medical office space. Contacts in St. Louis reported plans for a new commercial construction project in the midtown area, as well as multiple commercial development projects in the Grove neighborhood. Banking and FinanceTotal loans outstanding at a sample of small and midsized District banks remained largely unchanged from mid-September to mid-December. Real estate lending, which accounts for 72.9 percent of total loans, saw no change. Commercial and industrial loans, accounting for 15.6 percent of total loans, decreased 0.6 percent. Loans to individuals, accounting for 5 percent of total loans, increased 0.9 percent. All other loans, accounting for 6.5 percent of total loans, increased 0.7 percent. During this period, total deposits at these banks decreased 0.5 percent. Agriculture and Natural ResourcesAs of late November 2013, around 98 percent of the District's winter wheat crop was rated in fair or better condition, as 89 percent of the winter wheat crop had emerged, on average, across the District states. This rate of progress was moderately faster than the average over the past five years. Year-to-date red meat production in the District for November 2013 increased by 0.5 percent compared with the same period in 2012. Arkansas experienced a noticeable 62.3 percent decline in red meat production over the same period; however, production in Arkansas accounts for less than one percent of total red meat production in the District. Year-to-date coal production in the District for November 2013 was 3.9 percent higher compared with the same period in 2012. On a monthly basis, coal production for November 2013 was 5.7 percent higher than in November 2012. Return to top Consumer Spending and TourismConsumer spending increased moderately. A Minnesota-based retailer noted that electronics and gaming product sales were particularly strong during the holiday season. A couple of snowmobile and all-terrain vehicle dealers in Minnesota reported strong sales during November and December compared with a year earlier. Recent car and truck sales were above year-ago levels in Minnesota. Meanwhile, in Montana a mall manager noted that December sales were about the same as last year. According to a mall manager in North Dakota, holiday sales were about level with last year's very strong numbers. Winter tourism activity was off to a solid start due to snowy weather. A ski resort in Minnesota noted that lodging and early reservations were up from a year ago; however, frigid weather during late December slowed ski admissions. Snowmobiling and cross country skiing have benefited from early snow in northwestern Wisconsin, according to a representative of a chamber of commerce. Construction and Real EstateCommercial construction activity continued to grow since the last report. Construction sector respondents to the Minneapolis Fed's annual business outlook poll expect sales volumes to increase but capital investment to remain flat at their firms in 2014. "Our local economy looks better all the time," commented a Minnesota commercial construction firm. Overall residential construction activity was up slightly. In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, the value of December residential permits grew by 20 percent from December 2012. The value of December residential building permits in Sioux Falls, S.D., increased from 2012. The value of November residential building permits in Billings, Mont., grew significantly from November 2012. However, a housing construction firm in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan and northwestern Wisconsin noted that the industry was "not looking good." Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the last report. Recently, several office and industrial buildings were sold in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. A Sioux Falls commercial real estate firm noted a lot of corporate leasing and sales activity. Residential real estate markets experienced mixed activity since the last report. In the Sioux Falls area, November home sales were up 14 percent, inventory was down 3 percent and the median sale price increased 7 percent relative to a year earlier. In La Crosse, Wis., November home sales decreased and the median price increased from November 2012. Meanwhile, November home sales were down 9 percent from the same period a year ago in Minnesota; the inventory of homes for sale increased by 3 percent, and the median sale price rose 10 percent. The University of St. Thomas Minneapolis-St. Paul residential real estate report predicts a solid year in the housing market for 2014. ServicesActivity at professional business services firms increased since the last report, and the 2014 outlook is positive. Services sector respondents to the business outlook poll expect sales volumes and capital investment at their firms to grow in 2014; four out of five were optimistic for their community's economic performance. Several contacts in the technology sector noted increased demand for consulting services, especially for information analytics. Contacts from the health care sector reported increased capital expenditures. ManufacturingManufacturing activity grew at a solid pace since the last report. A December survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) showed that manufacturing activity increased in Minnesota and the Dakotas. The Minneapolis Fed's 2013 manufacturing survey results indicate that respondents on average expect orders, production, employment, capital investment and profits at their operations to increase in the coming year. A new wool mill in Minnesota will be the second-largest such operation in the nation. A manufacturer of hoses for the automotive industry will open a new production facility in the Upper Peninsula. Energy and MiningActivity in the energy and mining sectors increased. Late-December oil and gas exploration activity increased in North Dakota and decreased in Montana from a month earlier. A proposed $250 million solar power project in Minnesota came closer to development, due to a judge's ruling. Most Minnesota iron ore mines continued to operate at near capacity. Minnesota released an environmental impact report on a proposed copper-nickel mine showing substantial long-term costs, bringing the future of the project into question. AgricultureOverall conditions for District farmers weakened, although livestock and dairy producers saw improvement. Annual production decreased from a year earlier in District states for wheat, soybeans, dry beans and sugar beets; District corn production increased, but price reductions likely outweighed the benefits to farmers. A farm equipment retailer saw a reduction in sales revenue sooner than expected, due to falling crop prices. District sugar beet farmers are facing steep losses this year due to a decline in sugar prices. December prices received by farmers fell from a year earlier for corn, soybeans, wheat, hay, hogs and chickens; prices increased for cattle, turkeys, eggs, milk and dry beans. Employment, Wages, and PricesLabor markets showed signs of tightening. According to the business outlook poll, 30 percent of respondents expect to hire more full-time employees in 2014, while 18 percent expect to have fewer full-time employees. According to a recent St. Cloud (Minn.) Area Quarterly Business Report, 47 percent of survey respondents expect to increase the number of employees over the next six months, while 8 percent expect decreases. An air distribution product firm announced plans to open a facility in Minnesota that is expected to hire 40 workers. Meanwhile, a representative of a North Dakota employment service agency reported more long-term jobs offered in response to the strong state economy. Overall wage increases were moderate since the last report and are expected to remain moderate during 2014. According to the business outlook poll, 93 percent of respondents expect wages and salaries in their communities to increase 3 percent or less in 2014, the same percentage as last year. However, a Minnesota company was reporting offering signing bonuses and moving expenses to attract manufacturing workers. Overall prices remained level. Late December Minnesota gasoline prices were up only about 10 cents per gallon from the month earlier and a year earlier. Pressure to increase prices is expected to pick up modestly in 2014, as a somewhat larger share of respondents to the business outlook poll and survey of manufacturers expect to increase prices for their own products and services compared with the previous year. Return to top Consumer SpendingConsumer spending was mixed in late November and December as automobile sales and hotel occupancy declined, while retail sales slightly increased. Most contacts reported sales activity as lower than they had expected although retail sales increased compared to the prior month and were higher relative to the same time last year. However, district retailers had expected higher levels and attributed the lower than expected sales to a shorter and slower holiday shopping season, and harsh weather conditions. Sales of appliances and lower-priced items continued to be strong, while sales of hardware, outdoor, as well as higher-priced items lagged. Auto sales declined and were lower than anticipated, but auto dealers foresaw higher sales in the coming months. The strongest sales came from light pickups, small SUVs, and crossovers. Auto inventories increased moderately from a month ago, and dealers expected an elevated level going forward. Restaurant sales were unchanged and remained steady compared to their levels last year. Restaurant contacts restated their concern about increasing food prices and anticipated a further rise in the near future. Tourism activity grew slightly since the last survey and increased moderately compared to the same time last year. Occupancy and room rates were down in the survey period, but held steady compared to year-ago levels. Manufacturing and Other Business ActivityManufacturing and transportation activity fell slightly in December, while sales at high-tech service firms remained stable. Durable manufacturing production, shipments and new orders decreased modestly since the last survey. Nondurable goods manufacturing activity also decreased slightly, with the exception of new orders. Some contacts cited poor weather, and continued fiscal and regulatory uncertainty as reasons for the December slowdown. However, activity in the manufacturing sector remained well above year-ago levels and expectations for future activity rose modestly, with the majority of contacts expecting to increase or maintain current levels of employees and capital expenditures. Sales at high-tech companies held at previous reporting period levels, with most contacts expecting higher levels of activity in the future. Transportation companies reported slightly lower sales compared to the previous month and to the previous year though expectations for future activity were also little changed. Real Estate and ConstructionActivity in the residential real estate sector showed signs of a slight decline, while commercial real estate activity remained mostly flat, with the exception of construction, from the previous survey period. Residential realtors reported strength in sales of low to mid-range priced homes, but condos and higher-end home sales were sluggish in parts of the District. Residential and commercial real estate prices maintained their upward trend and they were expected to rise further. Housing starts remained unchanged in late November and December, though they were higher compared to last year. Contacts anticipated positive future home building. Some builders indicated difficulties finding qualified labor and said it impeded their ability to start new projects. Construction supply companies' sales slowed, but firms were optimistic about future sales. Mortgage activity was again lower this period and also as compared to a year ago, caused primarily by a decline in refinancing. However, lenders expected mortgage activity to increase in the future. Commercial real estate construction rose, and vacancy rates remained low. Commercial real estate prices and rents were also higher, and contacts expected the rise to continue. BankingBankers reported steady overall loan demand, improved loan quality and stable deposit levels in December compared to the prior survey period. Respondents reported increased activity in agricultural loans, and steady demand for commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans. Demand for residential real estate loans declined further during the survey period. Bankers remained positive concerning loan quality compared to a year ago, and nearly all bankers anticipated loan quality to either improve or remain the same in the near future. Credit standards remained unchanged in all major loan categories, along with stable deposits reported. AgricultureAgricultural growing conditions improved in late November and December, but low crop prices limited farm income expectations. The winter wheat crop was rated in mostly good condition with winter storms providing soil moisture and protective snow cover. However, wheat prices fell slightly since the last survey period, and corn and soybean prices remained at their lowest levels since 2010. Some farmers were holding fall crop inventories rather than selling at current prices. Lower income prospects boosted demand for farm operating loans and dampened farm capital spending at year-end. In the livestock sector, weaker demand for pork from Asian markets placed downward pressure on hog prices. While cattle prices were relatively flat, profit margins for cattle producers may improve as better pasture conditions lessen the need for supplemental feed. EnergyEnergy activity rose modestly in late November and December. Contacts indicated greater drilling and business activity. Capital expenditures in the energy sector also increased modestly. Hiring by contacts in the sector grew at a stronger pace compared to the prior survey period. The number of oil rigs in District states increased slightly. Natural gas prices increased during the survey period, but were expected to decline in the coming months. Oil prices also increased slightly and were anticipated to hold steady. Wyoming's coal production increased modestly, but remained lower than year-ago levels. Wages and PricesContacts reported prices for most raw materials were on the rise, yet prices for final goods were mostly unchanged. In general, wage pressures edged down in late November and December, despite a mild rise in labor shortages. However, wage pressures were noted for some positions including skilled construction positions, software developers, and technicians. Retailers reported a slight increase in prices and expected modest price growth in the coming months. The prices manufacturers received for final goods were lower, though the prices they paid for raw materials were higher than in the last survey period. Most manufacturing contacts foresaw both of these prices rising in the months ahead. Transportation companies also saw their input prices rise while keeping their prices mostly unchanged. Builder input prices were steady over the last month. Restaurant menu prices went up only slightly last month, but contacts anticipated moderate price growth in the near future. Restaurants continued to see a rise in food costs, and expected the trend to continue. Return to top PricesMost responding firms said prices were stable to up slightly over the reporting period. Fabricated metals producers noted rising prices and input costs, and some food producers said prices rose slightly. Some transportation service firms said prices were up slightly, partly due to rising fuel costs, and an airline respondent noted an increase in ticket prices. Accounting and legal firms expected to raise rates in the near term. Retail and auto contacts said prices were stable, and retailers anticipated normal holiday markdowns. A housing contact noted an increase in builder costs was leading to higher new home prices, although some contacts said home prices were rising at a somewhat slower pace. Energy prices increased over the reporting period. The price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil rose since the last report, and natural gas prices increased to the highest level since mid-2011. Domestic prices for gasoline and diesel also moved up. Labor MarketEmployment levels held steady or increased slightly at most responding firms. Staffing firms said employment levels were up, particularly in professional and technical recruiting areas. Some food, fabricated metals, and transportation manufacturing firms noted continued hiring, and scattered reports of adding workers came from auto dealers and high-tech and accounting firms. Other respondents noted steady employment levels while one high-tech firm made cuts and a transportation services firm continued with an incentivized voluntary buyout to reduce employment levels. Acute labor shortages were reported for auditors, engineers, construction workers and truck drivers. Reports of upward wage pressure increased. Staffing firms said there was pressure on wages and one began offering signing bonuses. Legal firms cited increased pressure on compensation for corporate associates. Wages rose in metals manufacturing, and petrochemicals producers noted rising wages for plant maintenance and heavy construction as well as several skilled positions. A Houston housing contact said labor shortages were pushing up wages for construction workers. ManufacturingReports from manufacturers were mostly positive with a few occurrences of seasonal or weather-related weakness. Construction-related manufacturers reported slow demand in early December due to poor weather, but business bounced back soon after. Demand for primary metals softened seasonally over the reporting period but was slightly better than what is typical for this time of year. Fabricated metals manufacturers reported very strong demand and said sales were up notably from last year. One contact said his company is able to pick the work they will bid on for the first time in a few years. Energy-related manufacturing increased slightly over the reporting period and demand growth continued for food producers, with sales up about 10 percent from a year ago. Paper producers noted that demand was flat to down from six weeks ago yet was slightly stronger than normal. Contacts across the board said sales outlooks were positive. High-tech manufacturers said sales have been flat to down slightly since the last report. One contact noted that sales of memory chips continued to grow at a strong pace but that sales of logic devices remained weak. Respondents said they were cautiously optimistic about the outlook for the first half of 2014. Most expect modest growth and some reported that they were more likely to be surprised by strong growth rather than a sharp decline. Contacts noted that petroleum refinery utilization rates strengthened with the end of the fall maintenance season and rising exports. Chemical production was flat to up depending on the product, and year-over year growth in Gulf Coast chemical production continued to slow. Retail SalesRetail sales reports were mixed over the past six weeks, ranging from much stronger due to holiday shopping, to a slight decline. Texas' sales performance was in line with or better than the nation, according to national retailers. Gift items were, as normally, strong sellers, while big-ticket items experienced weakness. Contacts were optimistic in their 2014 outlooks. Automobile sales reports were also mixed. Dealers in the Dallas-Fort Worth area were negatively impacted by the ice storm in early December, but other areas saw slightly improved demand. Year-over-year demand was up. Respondents expected a good finish to 2013 and were optimistic for 2014. Nonfinancial ServicesMost nonfinancial services contacts reported stronger demand. Staffing firms said demand increased over the past six weeks, with one contact reporting a significant rise in demand for workers in engineering and technical professions. Another contact noted the highest demand for temporary workers in the past 10 years. Outlooks were positive for the first part of 2014, but some contacts remained concerned about the impact of the Affordable Care Act on business. Accounting firms said demand increased modestly across most lines of business, and contacts noted transactions work was extremely busy. Outlooks remained positive, with a healthy pipeline for future business. Legal firms saw steady growth over the past six weeks. Demand increased slightly in litigation and corporate work, and real estate work continued to grow at a strong pace. Contacts were cautiously optimistic in their outlooks. Transportation service firms noted mixed demand. Intermodal cargo volumes fell slightly during the reporting period but were even with year-ago levels and air cargo volumes fell slightly. Railroad contacts said cargo volumes grew fairly strongly compared with the same period a year earlier as most categories showed positive growth, including petroleum, chemicals and motor vehicles. Small parcel shipping accelerated during the reporting period, with retail trade remaining the strongest driver of growth. Outlooks were mixed; rail volumes are expected to see strong growth heading into 2014, while other contacts expect slower growth. Airline demand was mostly unchanged. One contact noted broad-based growth across most customer segments while another noted that demand had slowed seasonally but was up from last year. Outlooks were generally more optimistic than six weeks ago. Construction and Real EstateSingle-family new home sales and buyer traffic picked up over the past six weeks, although sales remained below year-ago levels. Houston was an exception, with contacts reporting sales above last year's strong activity. While new home construction slowed in some parts of the District, contacts expect it to increase in early 2014 because of extremely low home inventories. Apartment demand remained steady, and contacts said multi-family construction remained at elevated levels. Some respondents said increases in building costs could slow activity going forward. Office and industrial leasing activity remained stable, according to contacts. Investment activity slowed, however, and rising rents and high occupancy levels may be keeping some building owners from selling. Outlooks remained positive, and one respondent expects a large increase in commercial construction activity in 2014. Financial ServicesLoan demand ticked up for most lines of business over the past six weeks. Auto lending, personal loans, mortgages, and mergers and acquisitions increased slightly, but retail was mostly flat compared with last year. Loan pricing remained competitive, with mortgage rates only rising slightly. Respondents said the quality of loans continued to strengthen, and deposit volumes increased moderately with no corresponding changes in deposit rates. Outlooks were cautiously optimistic as year-end reports showed steady improvement, albeit at a mild pace, and regulatory changes continue to take effect. EnergyDemand for oil-field services increased slightly over the last six weeks. Drilling activity in Texas was particularly strong, both inland and offshore, according to respondents. Shale-driven activity was heating up in the Permian Basin, and that play is a bright spot for growth in 2014 for North America. Contacts expect 2014 energy activity to be better than 2013 but not as good as 2012. AgricultureDrought conditions in the District continued to ease slightly. The winter wheat crop has had a good start, with crop conditions in better shape than they were a year ago. Severe winter weather in many parts of the state in late November and early December slightly delayed some of the cotton harvest, but the moisture improved soil conditions. Cattle producers continued to benefit from low feed prices and high selling prices, prompting optimism for the industry outlook. Return to top Prices and WagesPrice inflation for most final goods and services remained subdued on net. Contacts noted that some firms expect benefit-related cost increases, which may be passed through to final prices this year. Food industry contacts noted ongoing price gains for shrimp but sustained price decreases for other items, such as beef and coffee. Prices for branded drugs trended up as producers attempted to maximize revenues before facing a potential increase in competition from generic brands. Prices firmed for some construction-related inputs, including lumber, insulation, and asphalt. A few contacts mentioned slight concerns about deflation prospects. Upward wage pressures were modest overall. Many contacts observed wage gains of 2 to 3 percent in 2013 and projected a similar increase in 2014. However, contacts pointed to above-average wage growth in certain metropolitan areas, particularly those that have experienced robust employment growth in recent months. High-skilled workers in the technology industry experienced relatively strong wage gains. Most contacts indicated that end-of-year bonuses were flat compared with 2012. Retail Trade and ServicesDespite a short holiday shopping season in 2013, many retailers reported that holiday retail sales were up over 2012. However, contacts also noted that the level of promotional activity in 2013 exceeded that in 2012. Traditional brick-and-mortar retailers faced fierce competition from online vendors, and in-store sales were soft relative to online sales. Sales of home furnishings were robust, but sales of electronics, including televisions, personal computers, and cameras, were weaker than in recent years. Some contacts expect the market for personal computers to stabilize in 2014. While some retail grocers were hesitant to build up inventories prior to the holiday season in anticipation of weak demand, year-over-year sales in most areas exceeded expectations. New auto sales were robust while used auto sales were more moderate. Auto dealers expressed a positive outlook for sales in the year ahead. Demand for business and consumer services edged up. Strong demand for cloud services supported solid overall business conditions for providers of information technology services. Contacts in the quick-service and casual dining segment of the food service industry noted that sales expanded over the prior year, albeit at a slower pace than last year. Providers of health-care services were uncertain in their outlook for consumer demand. Travel and tourism activity stepped down in Hawaii and remained somewhat weak in Las Vegas. ManufacturingDistrict manufacturing activity advanced during the reporting period of late November through late December. Semiconductor producers noted that business conditions improved gradually. Contacts from the commercial aerospace industry maintained a positive outlook based on strong financial performance of firms and further expansion in the backlog of orders for commercial aircraft. Defense-related manufacturers remained cautious, with many firms expecting to lay off workers as a consequence of delays or cutbacks in production contracts related to sequestration. Producers of pharmaceutical products were upbeat about growth prospects in the industry this year. A wood products manufacturer noted that orders and production activity expanded, spurring increased hiring. Relative to the previous reporting period, conditions held steady for steel producers; contacts reported stronger conditions for manufacturing of automobile and aircraft-related inputs than for nonresidential construction inputs. In addition, capacity utilization for steel producers was unchanged. Agriculture and Resource-related IndustriesOutput in agricultural and resource-related industries expanded on balance. Demand remained strong for most crop and livestock products. A healthy corn harvest in the District contributed to a decline in feed costs. Water resources were adequate in most areas. Demand for petroleum and gasoline was strong, with contacts reporting the highest deliveries by refineries in three years. Builders noted that timber supplies were sufficient to meet rising demand. However, in some areas, availability was limited due to seasonal weather factors. Sales of electricity and gas to industrial customers ticked up, and power companies reported ample energy inputs. Real Estate and ConstructionDemand for residential real estate climbed further, and commercial real estate activity improved. Home prices increased further across most of the District. Prices stagnated in selected spots, with some contacts citing seasonal factors. The pace of home sales picked up in a few areas that had seen a drop-off earlier in the year. However, some builders were concerned that further increases in mortgage interest rates would dampen home sales. Some contacts reported strong growth in stand-alone and condominium residential construction, and increases in permit issuance suggest that growth will be sustained in 2014. Public infrastructure projects, as well as a large number of high-rise commercial construction projects, have been announced or are under way in Honolulu, Los Angeles, and the San Francisco Bay Area. Financial InstitutionsReports from financial institutions suggest that overall loan demand increased. Lending grew robustly in selected areas, and some regions that had experienced declining loan volumes for several years saw a modest uptick. Several contacts also reported an increase in projects in planning stages and expect healthy loan growth this year. However, contacts from other areas reported that businesses remain cautious about the future and desire little credit, perpetuating substantial competition for high-quality commercial borrowers. Contacts continued to observe instances of other financial institutions relaxing their underwriting standards to retain or capture loan business. In the District's Internet and digital media sectors, mergers and acquisitions activity was moderate. The pace of initial public offerings slowed, following a surge of activity earlier last year. Private equity activity was on par with recent months, and venture capital financing in the third quarter of 2013 reached its highest volume since mid-2007. FREE AppDownload
BP is out with its annual energy outlook. The big news: the U.S.is "on a path to achieve energy self-sufficiency." BP does not define what this means, and as we've said before, full U.S. energy independence is a myth — we just consume too much of it. We would only be energy independent if imports fell to zero, which they're not.  But, BP also says the U.S. will become a net exporter of energy by around 2018. The reason: the Great American Shale Boom, as measured by supply, won't peak until after 2020 for oil, and after 2035 for gas. BP has actually revised its North American oil and natural gas supply outlook upward by 7% due to "evolving expectations for shale gas/tight oil plays."  Here's the chart: BP FREE AppDownload
Flickr/Ian WilsonMANHATTAN — Meatpacking District hotspot Bagatelle has canceled a SeaWorld party scheduled for Tuesday night — after an announcement that the bash would include two live penguins sparked an outcry from animal rights activists. Bagatelle's co-owner Remi Laba told DNAinfo Tuesday morning that the high-end restaurant had canceled the party Monday evening, shortly after People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals announced plans to protest outside.  Laba declined to comment on the reason for the cancellation, but he said in an email that the reservation had come through "a third party agency" and Bagatelle "didn't know the content of the party until 72hrs ago." Bagatelle's Facebook page was bombarded with comments Monday slamming the restaurant for working with SeaWorld. Many mentioned the documentary "Blackfish," which accused the aquarium and amusement park of abusing killer whales they use in performances. In an email to PETA on Monday evening, Laba said Bagatelle's team had been caught off guard by SeaWorld's plans to bring penguins to the restaurant. "We were very disturbed by what you told us and have let the reps of sea world [sic] that no live animals will be let in our establishment and that we will cancel their event if this was meant to take place," Laba wrote in an email released by PETA.  Bagatelle staffers wrote an email to PETA on Monday adding that the event was canceled, and added added that they would appreciate the animal rights agency spreading the word on "how good Bagatelle was to your cause." "We are not involved in this and we did all we could to do what was right in our hearts," Laba said in an email, after initially trying to pacify PETA by promising to exclude live animals, but go forward with the event. After noting that canceling the event cost the restaurant "a tremendous amount of money," Laba wrote, "We now hope that you will, in return, demonstrate that you are appreciative of our gesture," according to emails released by PETA. PETA representatives told DNAinfo New York they were grateful for Bagatelle's choice. "We are very happy that Bagatelle made the decision to do the right thing and cancel the event with SeaWorld, and that they chose kindness over profit," PETA spokeswoman Ashley Byrne said. SeaWorld released a statement accusing PETA of "attempting to disrupt tonight’s event through harassment and misinformation." "The reception has been cancelled. This is the right thing to do out of concern for our friends, guests and patrons who planned to attend," SeaWorld added, saying the penguins travel frequently for events and are well cared for. "Such public appearances do not cause stress as suggested," SeaWorld's statement added, "It’s disappointing that PETA and other animal rights activist groups, which have no relevant experience with these animals, would make up baseless facts to advance extreme and uninformed agendas." FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Africa often gets left out of the emerging markets conversation. If anything, most of the continent is still considered a frontier market, or an emerging market of the future. While countries like China represent the most attractive growth opportunities today, Africa is arguably the most exciting opportunity for the next century. Why? In one word: demographics. "In Africa, the “young continent,” projections are for the African population to exponentially grow from current levels, close to Europe, to four times the size, and approaching Asia, in the next 100 years (see Figure 3)," said Citi's Philip Watson. "The emergence of the Africa demographic boom, with its underdeveloped infrastructure and untapped resources, suggests a period of rapid growth for those African economies that are increasingly well-managed," he added. And the anecdotal growth stories are incredible. "The same is true for specific industry sectors," said Watson. "One example of this is the Telecom industry. According to a survey by the International Telecoms Union (ITU), Africa recently became the world’s fastest-growing mobile phone market. Mobile phone usage in the continent has increased at an annual rate of 65% over the past five years, which is twice the global average. Nigeria has become one of the fastest growing markets in the world for mobile communications, propelled by a young population, market liberalization and telecom-sector reforms, with an estimated 88 million mobile phones in use compared to a population size of 170 million. Are investors positioning their portfolios for these demographic changes?" As much of the developed and developing world struggle with unfavorable demographic trends, Africa's trends point to growth. Citi Private Bank FREE AppDownload
“New all-time highs” Just reading or hearing the term itself engenders a certain kind of hysteria in people. It suggests that things are about to tip the other way any second, as we all carry within ourselves a cognitive defect known as the Gambler’s Fallacy. We innately believe that random occurrences are meant to balance out over short periods of time. That ten straight coin flips landing on heads virtually assures that a tails flip will be next – despite the fact that the next flip is its own event and nothing that came before it matters. That the roulette wheel “shouldn’t” be able to land on black or red more than five or six times straight – despite the fact that it most certainly can and will. In 1945, the mobster Bugsy Siegel figured out that almost all of us fall prey to the Gambler’s Fallacy before it even had a name and he showed up in the middle of the Nevada desert to capitalize on it. An entire city sprouted up virtually overnight like the fabled beanstalk, avarice and good old innumeracy was the fertilizer. It is tempting to hear about previously unheard-of prices for individual stocks and to reflexively declare that they are due to tip back over and bring order to the chaos they’ve wrought in our perfectly ordered mindscape. If only the world worked this way, predictions would be a snap – anytime we saw something unprecedented take place, like a stock trading at prices it had never seen before, all we’d have to do is bet the other way! But, in fact, behavior like this would quickly wipe our capital out, completely and permanently. There is more meaning in an all-time high than meets the eye.  This isn’t just a data point or a plotted roadside rest stop on the open highways of chartdom.  This is a coronation of sorts. When a stock hits an all-time high it means that people were willing to pay a price that no one before them has ever paid. It means that no one has a loss in the stock or is “waiting to get back to even so they can sell”. It means that a host of people who had been waiting for that pullback to get in are now ripping their own skin off in aggravation. It means that it is the new favorite stock of those who are long, one that they will not easily part with because it is now “one of their winners” and it “has been good to them”. It means the people who “bought small” are pissed even though they are up, these are the people sitting just below the offer like Tick Tock the crocodile loitering below Captain Hook’s gangplank – just waiting for a bite. It means that every single analyst downgrade or estimate revision lower or silly piece of neutral commentary has been instantly invalidated – it all meant nothing and was a waste of ink. It means that everyone who sold along the way, in varying degrees of course, was wrong – even if they were up big. It means that any and all media carping over the company’s “fundamentals”, “model”, “management” or “outlook” were a total and utter waste of time and energy. It means that these are the stocks that will be brought back to life the fastest from the depths of any market-wide sell-off or correction as they are now the hot money names. Finally, it means that the stock must be on its best behavior from here on out.  There will be more margined-up positions and quicker trigger fingers on any adverse headlines than ever before.  There’s an apropos piece of advice that branch manager Lou Mannheim once gave to his broker Bud Fox:  “Kid, you’re on a roll. Enjoy it while it lasts, ’cause it never does.” But this does not mean that the coin is about to flip tails or the roulette wheel’s destined for to land on the other color any time soon. And so while our DNA and 100,000 years of evolutionary programming may lead us to believe that a new all-time high is a precarious perch and presages an imminent turn in the other direction, it isn’t ever quite that simple. Many new all-time highs are merely stepping stones toward the next set of new all-time highs, after all. FREE AppDownload
Shares of multi-level marketing company NuSkin are getting slammed this morning after an article in "The People's Daily" in China criticized its marketing practices.  Shares of Nu-Skin were last trading down more than 17%.  A spokesperson for NuSkin said the article in "The People's Daily" is full of "inaccuracies and exaggerations."  From NuSkin:  "The article contains inaccuracies and exaggerations that are not representative of our business in China.  The publication did not request any information from Nu Skin nor did it attempt to verify any information that it has since reported as fact. "We are dedicated to operating in full compliance with applicable regulations as interpreted and enforced by the government of China. Nu Skin has an 11-year history of doing business in China under these regulations, and the government has regularly reviewed our business activities.  Nu Skin has received direct selling licenses to operate in various provinces and municipalities in China. The most recent government licensure in July expanded our direct selling footprint to include 19 of the country’s 32 provinces and municipalities. "We actively educate our sales force to follow all regulations and company policies and procedures. Any member of our sales force not operating in accordance with local law or with our company policies is subject to discipline.” Here's the stock chart: Yahoo! Finance FREE AppDownload
Screenshot Via JoyRidersSince everyone's talking about junior staff hours in investment banking, we might as well bring this story up again. It's an ugly one. Back in June of 2012, a bank intern tipster sent Business Insider the sad (and embarrassing) story of a junior bank analyst who had a complete meltdown while his bank was short staffed. The story takes place right before this analyst was about to be given some respite, quite sadly. The bank had just hired another analyst for his desk to start on Monday. However, the Thursday before this new analyst was supposed to start, the work had really started to pile up. Our poor burnt out analyst asked for help, but his co-workers weren't interested. Work distribution had become a tense topic on the desk since they'd become short staffed, and seeing a light at the end of the tunnel, they decided run right to it. On Monday the new analyst showed up for her first day.There was a deliverable in the morning that had to get shipped out, and the burnt out analyst was supposed to have been in the office early in the morning to take care of it. But the burnt out analyst didn't show up. The hours passed — 9:00 am, 10:00 am — basically the afternoon on Wall Street. Calls went unanswered — straight to voicemail. At 11:30 am, the burn out analyst showed up, but he wasn't alone. His parents had been visiting him from China and brought him into work themselves. He looked like hell, according to our source. Burnt out analyst's parents walked up to our source, since he speaks Chinese, and told him that Burnt Out Analyst needed to go to a hospital because he hasn't slept all weekend. While all this was going on, the burnt out analyst went to his desk, started talking gibberish and slammed his mouse and his head on the keyboard. He kept on saying he'd get everything done right away. Our source describes it as something out of The Exorcist. Burnt out analyst ended up going to the hospital. His replacement, starting that day, didn't last long either. After a few months she was out. It's an unbelievable story, so maybe you don't believe it. Maybe you do, because you've seen something like it. Your call. Either way, over the last week, I've gotten a few e-mails from older bankers saying that these junior bankers are complaining too much. One told me that they hadn't figured out the concepts of genuine work and sacrifice. The senior bankers feel that when went through this process, it made the stronger, and better, and like with any tradition, they consider it a part of their culture. It's a rite of passage. But the problem with that mentality is that now banks aren't the most lucrative, prestigious employers on the block. Ambitious young people have alternatives — not just going to private equity or a hedge fund after two or three years working at a bank — they have big companies like Google and Facebook. And as banks help turn startups into big companies through initial public offerings, there will be more alternatives. It's good for the economy, and it's something every American should want. The most talented young people will be able to take advantage of these options, and as banks now fear, there will be a brain drain — not just for one analyst, for one weekend, but for the whole Street. Not that banks aren't considering this. It has become increasingly clear that they are very, very aware. Lisa Du also contributed to the reporting of this story. FREE AppDownload
This sell-off is being partly attributed to Verizon's win over the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) net neutrality rule.  The ruling lets Verizon charge extra fees to deliver content faster. The FCC has said it could challenge the ruling.  The decision against the 'net neutrality' rule, would potentially increase costs for Netflix. Netflix is currently trying to ramp up original programming while also investing in obtaining rights to TV shows and movies. If Netflix had to pay a higher fee to internet providers this would increase costs and weigh on profits. This five-day chart shows the slide in Netflix we've seen today: Google Finance FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gopal Chitrakar Most agree that we have witnessed the end of a massive, three-decade bull market in bonds. Some are also skeptical of the potential for returns in the stock market in the years ahead, given common valuation multiples that are currently above historical averages. We asked a few of our favorite traders, strategists, and economists for their best investment ideas for the next 10 years. Here's what they told us: "These instruments are a bi-product of Greek debt restructuring and will pay a cent a year if and when Greek GDP hits certain thresholds. They won't pay those cents for several years yet because Greek GDP is still some way from the triggers, so they are suited to the patient professional investor with a long term horizon. But in the meantime default risk is tiny; it's hard to default when you only have to pay in good times." —Gabriel Sterne, fixed income economist at Exotix "On a ten year view I'd invest in the Tehran stock exchange, but given its difficult for US citizens in particular to do so, I'd pick the Doha Stock Market in Qatar. Qatar is a country with a GDP per citizen of around $1m that will be investing aggressively into World Cup 2022 to transform itself into a destination for millions of tourists. The country's stock exchange is being promoted to the main MSCI Emerging Markets index this May and trades at under 10x earnings (versus a historic level of 15-20x) with a 5% dividend yield and likely EPS growth of 10%, backed by the government who are extremely shareholder friendly given the locals own the majority of shares. The currency is pegged to the US dollar with appreciation potential. If/when US rates start to rise, net interest margins of local banks will expand dramatically. An easy way to invest is the closed-end Qatar Investment Fund listed in London, which gives you index exposure at a 10% discount to NAV. This should easily triple over 10 years in dollar terms with minimal downside risk." —Emad Mostaque, strategist at NOAH Capital Markets "No brainer." —Jim O'Neill, former chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management "There is a great deal of room to rebalance income and output domestically from tier-1 cities that do not have the productivity to justify their high prices and incomes into tier-2 cities. Cities that are competitive may not be the outright cheapest: they are cheaper than tier-1 cities, but still have the fixed capital and stability to support enterprise." —Matt Busigin, editor and principal author of Macrofugue Analytics "I'd choose ZIV, an ETN that tracks short exposure to medium-term VIX futures. The reason for this choice is that the volatility risk premium is one of the best and most persistent sources of risk-adjusted returns, and selling the middle of the VIX curve has outperformed a lot of related volatility strategies." —Jared Woodard, principal of Condor Options "Ten years is a long time in investments (this time 10 years ago, Eastman-Kodak was a Dow component) so a ten-year single lock-in investment is going to have to meet some criteria: (1) unlikely to be disrupted by technology; (2) meets a need somewhere towards the bottom of Maslow's pyramid; (3) produces a yield; and (4) expectation of capital gain. With this in mind, my ten-year lock-in investment would be agricultural land. The customer base is growing. The customers have little choice about buying the production from agricultural land. It produces a yield. Supply is limited (full disclosure — I own a farm)." —Lorcan Roche Kelly, strategist at Agenda Research "You are getting paid a premium for risk (extension and prepayment) that has largely been removed. And if we are entering a rising rate environment, you get to reinvest amortizing principal in higher coupons. Rates would have to fall significantly to accelerate prepayments. Plus supply will be shrinking acting as a natural cap on yields. Banks still have tepid loan demand and rising deposits. Buying Fed induced market pukes has been very profitable." — Vince Foster, interest rate strategist "The one investment I think I'd make to hold over the next 10 years would be in oil services, particularly focusing on international pressure pumping. While crude oil continues to ratchet upwards in price and get more and more expensive to find, natural gas through hydraulic fracturing seems to get easier with the boundaries for ever wider-scale production halted by the factionalism and arbitrary hypocrisy of government controls, particularly in the shale rich areas of South America. Those barriers must fall, given the price differential that continues to expand between crude and gas; and the international services group will be the most likely long-term benefactors — think Schlumberger (SLB) and Baker-Hughes (BHI)." —Dan Dicker, president of MercBloc "On the horizon of the next ten years I would probably be looking at Southeast Asia, very favorable demographics and growth potential, and property in the U.S." —Michael McDonough, chief economist at Bloomberg LP "In particular, residential housing looks like an attractive long term bet, especially in places where big adjustments have taken place – or there hasn’t been a bubble in the first place. Baltics in Europe is one good spot with favorable macroeconomic environment amidst stimulative external conditions. Latvia joining the euro zone this year, and Lithuania likely from 2015, the countries will likely catch up with Estonia where home prices are already rising at a double digit pace." —Aurelija Augulyte, macro strategist at Nordea "And sunscreen." —David Bianco, chief U.S. equity strategist at Deutsche Bank "Phew, it’s going to be low return world. Something with as solid yield as possible in a decent currency. I own a yield play in Singapore dollars, as an example. Or, if you can find it, rural land with a yield (so probably counts out US farms)." —Gerard Minack, principal of Minack Advisors "If I could own something for the next 10 years, it’d have to be base metal and rare earth mining companies. It’s an area that has not matched in any sense the uplift in global equities. China is key. Any dips in copper prices have been bought by the Chinese as they add to inventories. Once these start to run out and when we see a proper return to growth here in Europe and the US, I would expect to see these very much in demand. On the rare earth metals, the fact that China is moving to tighten control on this industry. Their uses in defence and telecommunications, particularly make them a relevant investment for the future." —Brenda Kelly, chief market strategist at IG Markets —Rich Bernstein, founder of Richard Bernstein Advisors "Not only do I think this is the best investment out there on a risk-adjusted basis, I don't think it's particularly close. White flight and the de-industrialization of our cities is a trend that's over. The white population of Detroit shrank by 96% from 1950-2010. Meanwhile, while the outer suburbs of those cities continues to shrink, the inner cores are getting younger and more educated. While house prices per square foot are north of $1,000 in parts of San Francisco and New York, you can buy into most of these cities for under $100/square foot. It's only a matter of time before we start talking about places like Buffalo and Pittsburgh and Milwaukee as the Berlins and Brooklyns for the next generation. Not all of these cities will be home runs, and it'd be preferable to live in one yourself if you're going to invest, but the list of options is very long: Milwaukee, Chicago, Indianapolis, Cleveland, Cincinnati, Detroit, Pittsburgh, Buffalo, Hartford, Providence, Kansas City, St. Louis, Memphis, and Birmingham, for starters. I'd focus on ones with pro sports teams, strong universities, and busier airports." —Conor Sen, portfolio manager at New River Investments —Joe LaVorgna, chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank "For the next 10 years: healthcare, pharmaceutical, bio-pharma and bio-tech stocks with significant markets exposure outside the US. Investment case for these is made by the expectation that once Emerging and Middle-Income economies' middle and upper-middle classes satisfy their demand for leather couches and SUVs, their demand will refocus on their health and life expectancy. This demand acceleration will likely coincide with continued build up of health threats to the emerging markets from internal pollution and environmental degradation, and accelerating ageing and health concerns in the advanced economies. Timing for the demand pressures materialisation is a lot longer than 10 years, but investment window for pricing these risks forward is closing fast. The next 'perfect storm' in global economies is likely to be ageing-related one." —Constantin Gurdgiev, adjunct professor of finance at Trinity College, Dublin, and University College, Dublin "In yourself, from both a physical and educational perspective." —Sam Stovall, chief equity strategist at S&amp;P Capital IQ "For the next 10 years, I like shorting commodities. I expect little inflation—and more likely, deflation—so changes in real and nominal commodity prices will be about the same. The attached chart shows that real commodity prices have fallen steadily since the mid-1800s, despite huge growth in commodity demand from the American Industrial Revolution after the Civil War, forced industrialization of Japan in the late 1800s, mass-produced autos starting in the 1920s, etc. Commodity price spikes caused by demand leaps in the Civil War and World Wars I and II were soon reversed as were price leaps due to the oil supply constraints in the 1970s. Many look for jumping commodity prices in future years since there are limited amounts of copper in the earth’s crust, two billion more mouths to feed, upgrading of diets and rising consumer spending in developing countries, etc. The reality, however, is that human ingenuity always beats threatened shortages. Coke made from coal saved the Industrial Revolution, which was threatened by a shortage of hardwood trees to make charcoal to smelt iron. In the early 1800s, overhunting had decimated the world’s whale population to the point that the lights would go out from a lack of whale oil, many feared. Then in 1858, Edwin Drake drilled a crude oil well in Titusville, Pa., and kerosene lamps rode to the rescue. I can recall when serious economists forecast the end of telecommunications growth because of shortages of copper for wires. Then came fiber optics." —Gary Shilling, economist "I hate to be unimaginative here, but 10 years is a long time to hold a very specific investment.  Sure the energy renaissance has a long time horizon, but what will it look like in 3 years much less 10? Who can say? I’d say the S&amp;P 500. I have a chart below that is my favorite chart of all time. I created it over a decade ago and it hasn’t failed me yet.  It simply shows the trailing PE and the next 10 years price return for the S&amp;P 500.  Below is the shortened version of the one I have going back many decades. It’s amazing right? Future Nobel Prize, baby! AMIRIGHT?! Take that Shiller—this one actually WORKS. But I digress… Anyway, right now it shows the S&amp;P 500 will generate about an 8% price return on average over the next 10 years. Add a 2% dividend and you get 10%. A 10% annualized total return is not a bad deal compared to bonds, commodities, or cash for the next 10 years. I'll take it." —Jeff Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial "Energy-intensive manufacturing in the USA, generic biopharmaceutical products and any company globally that will be able to lever off the Chinese consumer."  —David Rosenberg, chief economist and strategist at Gluskin Sheff + Associates and author of "Breakfast with Dave" "As it turns out, that is an easy question: Our own business. I have been plowing money into our own asset management business. This is not a reflection on the price of stocks or bonds, but more on the state of the financial industry. Wall Street is very good at serving its own interests, but terrible at serving its clients. This has created a huge opportunity or anyone who wants to put their clients first. I expect we have a 5 year ramp up before the rest of Wall Street starts to notice something is amiss. I believe there are 4 areas ripe for disruption: 1) Full service Financial Planning/Asset management, 2) Retirement Planning, 3) low cost asset management, 4) RIA Advisory services to members of the industry. We are in the midst of a very significant set of changes; The financial services industry is likely to look very different 10 years hence." —Barry Ritholtz, chief investment officer at Ritholtz Wealth Management "10 years is a long time. I am partial to Asian growth and was initially going to offer EWH or EWS but they both have small populations. The Indonesian ETFs give exposure to a large population with trading relationships throughout Asia but also seems too concentrated.  I would offer up Vanguard's Total World Stock Index ETF (VT) as a decent alternative. Though not having nearly enough exposure to emerging markets, it should offer downside protection in a big sell-off and inflation + performance on the upside."  —Daniel A. Baffoe, Treasury sales/strategist at large "Practice Investment discipline — conduct quarterly portfolio reviews, practice diversification midst, rotation, use losses to offset tax liabilities from profit taking — back to basics. Never forget the quote Mark Twain is credited for: 'History may not repeat itself but it often rhymes.'" —John Stoltzfus, chief market strategist at Oppenheimer "GVAL (Cambria Global Value ETF) buys equities in the 10 cheapest countries as determined by long-term valuation metrics like the Shiller CAPE ratio." —Meb Faber, chief investment officer and portfolio manager at Cambria Investment Management "Giving stocks picks and the like is not the business of Abnormal Returns  I have written a lot over the past couple of years talking about the advances in low-cost investing. So in that regard investors would do well to take advantage of this 'free lunch.' So instead of spending countless hours trying to tease out the next hot stock why not invest in yourself. I know that sounds like a bit of new age cliche, but hear me out. The best investment you can make with your marginal dollar (or hour) is in your intellectual, social, physical and emotional capital. Most investment advice is about staying rich. The key to a richer, fuller life is maximizing your potential. For the vast majority of people, time spent in front of the computer searching for the next Twitter or Tesla isn't it." —Tadas Viskanta, founder and editor of Abnormal Returns "The demand from frontier and emerging economies will collide with inefficient and archaic storage and distribution systems in the developed world. Climate change is altering the natural supply areas." —Kevin Ferry, chief market strategist at Cronus Futures Management FREE AppDownload
This tapering plan is much more aggressive than what I had anticipated. I had thought that the FOMC would pare its securities purchases back from $85 billion per month to $75 billion per month early in 2014, hold them there until mid 2014, and then pare them back to $65 billion per month for the remainder of 2014. My assumption was clearly wrong by an order of magnitude. If the Fed were to follow through with its announced tapering plan, then, all else the same, this would represent a significant tightening in U.S. monetary policy, with negative implications for the behavior of the U.S. economy and U.S. risk-asset prices starting sometime in the second half of 2014 and extending into 2015. Of course, all else is unlikely to be the same. From my perspective, the most important factor bearing on the restrictiveness of the Fed’s tapering plan will be the amount of credit created by commercial banks and other depository institutions. If banks should step up their credit creation to its 50-year median pace of 7-1/2%, then the Fed’s tapering will not have resulted in any meaningful tightening in monetary policy. Alternatively, if bank credit continues to grow in 2014 at its paltry 2013 December-over-December pace of 0.92%, then I would expect a sharp deceleration in the growth of nominal domestic spending to take hold sometime in the second half of 2014. The reason I mentioned 1937 in the title of this commentary is that in the aftermath of Fed restrictive policy actions commencing in the summer of 1936, the U.S. economy, which had been experiencing a vigorous recovery, slipped back into recession in mid 1937. On August 16, 1936, March 1, 1937 and May 1, 1937, the Federal Reserve raised the percentage of reserves banks were required to hold against deposits. The cumulative effect of this was to double the required-reserve ratio. The rationale on the part of the Fed for this doubling in the required-reserve ratio was to “soak up” what, at that time, was a massive amount of bank regulatory excess reserves. The Fed feared that banks would aggressively begin using these excess reserves to create credit, which, in turn, might result in a sharp acceleration in inflation. What the Fed did not understand was that these excess reserves held by banks were not “excess” in an economic sense. Because of the experience of bank runs in the early 1930s, banks desired to hold more idle cash reserves for liquidity purposes. As the Fed increased the required-reserve ratio, which converted hitherto regulatory excess reserves into required reserves, banks, trying to maintain their higher desired liquidity ratios, pared back their loans and securities. Bank credit, which had started growing again in 1934 after its severe contraction in the early 1930s, stalled out in the second half of 1936 and began to contract in the second half of 1937. The business expansion that had commenced in the spring of 1933 peaked out in May 1937. Now, I am not predicting that the current U.S. economic expansion will peak out later this year or early in 2015 because of Fed tapering. But what I am suggesting is that Fed monetary policy will become more restrictive in 2014 and that it would be prudent for investors to keep track of what bank credit is doing as the Fed cuts back on its credit creation. In the chart below, I have plotted four 2014 scenarios for the growth in combined Fed credit (Fed securities holdings obtained via outright purchases and repurchase agreements) and break-adjusted commercial bank credit along with actual growth in this credit aggregate from December 2008 through December 2013. The Fed-credit component in all of the scenarios is the same. Per Bernanke’s December news conference, the Fed is assumed to taper its outright securities purchases by $10 billion per FOMC meeting, which implies that it will have terminated it securities purchases by the end of 2014. Scenario 1 assumes that bank credit in 2014 will increase at an annual rate of 0.92%, the December-over-December increase in 2013. Scenario 2 assumes that bank credit in 2014 will increase at an annual rate of 3.66%, the annualized rate of increase in the three months ended December 2013. Scenario 3 assumes that bank credit in 2014 will increase at an annualized rate of 5.85%, the annualized rate of increase in December vs. November 2013. And Scenario 4 assumes that bank credit in 2014 will increase at an annualized rate of 7.50%, the median month vs. year-ago month percent change from January 1960 through December 2013. The Econtrarian At the end of December 2013, the sum of Fed and bank credit was up 9.4% vs. December 2012. The projected December 2014 vs. December 2013 changes in the sum of Fed and bank credit are 3.8% for Scenario 1, 5.8% for Scenario 2, 7.4% for Scenario 3, and 8.6% for Scenario 4. Although growth in the sum of Fed and bank credit slows in all four scenarios, the most significant decelerations in growth occur in Scenarios 1 and 2. I would assign a low probability to Scenario 1 occurring. Credit quality is improving and bank capital is high. Under these circumstances, it is highly likely that in 2014 bank credit growth will exceed 0.92%. On the other end of the spectrum, I would assign an equally low probability to Scenario 4. The last time growth in bank credit was in the 7-1/2% range on a consistent basis was during the inflation of the last housing bubble when the only requirement for a loan qualification was the ability to fog a mirror with one’s breath – anyone’s breath. Although bank lending terms are easing, they are not easing that much. So, my best guess right now – and that is exactly what it is, a guess – is that in 2014 bank credit will grow on a December-to-December basis in a range bounded on the low side of about 3-1/2% and on the high side by about 5-3/4%. If bank credit growth in 2014 comes in toward the low side of this range and the Fed hues to its current tapering plan, then I would expect a significant deceleration in the growth of nominal U.S. spending to occur no later than the fourth quarter of 2014 and to persist into the first half of 2015. In the event, the performance of risk assets would begin to falter early in the second half of 2014 and the performance of investment grade fixed-income securities would begin to improve. Alternatively, if bank credit growth in 2014 comes in toward the high side of this range and, again, the Fed maintains its announced taper plan, then I would expect only a moderate deceleration in the growth in nominal U.S. spending during the second half of 2014 and I would expect continued outperformance of risk assets vs. investment grade fixed-income securities. Before signing off, I want to comment on how the Fed determines its tapering decisions. From reading FOMC minutes and listening to public comments by Fed officials, I do not believe that the Fed understands how its securities purchases affect the economy. The Fed seems to think that securities purchases affect aggregate spending by lowering the yields on longer-maturity securities, which, in turn, increases the quantity of borrowed funds demanded. Perhaps the more academic of Fed officials believe that Fed securities purchases stimulate aggregate demand through some complicated portfolio-substitution effect. As I have written in many previous commentaries, I believe that Fed securities purchases stimulate nominal spending because they inject funds into the economy that are created, figuratively, out of thin air. Because these funds are created out of thin air, the recipients of these funds can now spend them without anyone else needing to cut back on his/her current spending. Also, as I have written in many previous commentaries and have implied in this current one, the way I evaluate the degree of accommodation or restriction of Fed policy is by the growth in the sum of Fed securities holdings and loans/securities on the books of depository institutions. If, in my, admittedly, minority opinion, the Fed does not understand how securities purchases “work”, how would it determine how many securities to purchase? When the Fed announced on September 13, 2012, that it planned to purchase each month $85 billion of securities, it did not explain how it arrived at this amount. I seriously doubt it was based on the fact that in August 2012, year-over-year growth in the sum of Fed and bank credit had decelerated to 3%. Rather, the decision was likely based on the fact that growth in economic activity was punk, resulting in an unemployment rate stuck at an undesirably high level. Fast forward to December 18, 2013, when the Fed announced the commencement of its tapering program. Again, I seriously doubt that the tapering decision was based on the fact that in November, the year-over-year change in the sum of Fed and bank credit was 9.4%. No, the decision to begin tapering was most likely based on information that growth in economic activity had picked up and the unemployment rate was now falling at a more satisfactory pace. The behavior of the economy has a lagged response to the behavior of the sum of Fed and bank credit. Moreover, the data pertaining to the behavior of the economy is reported with a lag and is subject to significant revisions. In other words, Fed policy decisions are made on the basis of what it sees in the “rearview mirror”. As my scenarios for the 2014 in the chart above suggest, except for Scenario 1, growth in combined Fed and bank credit does not exhibit significant decelerations in the first half of 2014, especially in the first quarter of 2014. So, I would not expect a significant deceleration in the growth in nominal U.S. spending in the first half of 2014. If anything, I would expect some acceleration in the growth of nominal spending given the growth acceleration in the sum of Fed and bank credit in the fourth quarter of 2013. So, if bank credit growth in 2014 were coming in toward the lower bound of my suggested range, around 3-1/2% annualized, the Fed would be unlikely to cease its tapering of securities purchases until the fourth quarter of 2014, by which time it would be too late to avert a significant deceleration in growth in nominal spending. To summarize, with the Fed having embarked on its program to taper the amount of securities purchases, monetary policy in 2014 will almost assuredly become more restrictive. How much more restrictive remains an open question and depends critically on the behavior of bank credit growth in 2014. On Thursday afternoons at 4:30 ET, the Fed releases the H.4.1 report of factors affecting reserve balances from which Fed holdings of securities can be found. On Friday afternoons at 4:30 ET, the Fed releases the H.8 report of assets and liabilities of U.S. commercial banks from which bank credit can be found. I suggest that you monitor these two reports to determine how restrictive Fed monetary policy is getting in 2014. I know I will. FREE AppDownload
Short-term interest rates are rising fast today after a similar jump yesterday as traders fade the initial market reaction to Friday's release of worse-than-expected December jobs numbers. The chart of the day shows expected future yields on 3-month U.S. dollar deposits held in banks outside of the United States, known as eurodollars. The curve can be used as a proxy for the market's expectation of the path of the Fed's policy rate. The green line shows that at the close of trading last Thursday, before the release of the jobs report Friday, expectations were for a sooner and steeper path of rate hikes than at the close of trading Monday (red line), the peak of a two-day post-payrolls rally. The blue line shows where yields are today — significantly higher across the curve than where they closed Monday. In the 2015-2016 maturity range, yields have almost completely returned to pre-payrolls levels. Today's price action suggests that market participants are rethinking the idea that the pace of the Fed's monetary policy normalization effort could slow going forward. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) FREE AppDownload
I saw a lot of interns come and go during my time at the Brothers Lehman. Some were good, some were bad, but honestly, I can’t remember any of them. You know why? Because I had other s*** to do than to deal with stupid interns. I was running a giant trading desk with a multi-billion dollar book, and I was spending most of my time plugging holes, trying not to lose money to customers or to sales guys or to errors. When I wasn’t fixing other people’s f***-ups, I was drinking in a bar or drinking at home. I had very little energy to sit around at teach the futures basis to some kid. So the first thing you will learn as an intern is that Wall Street folks are primarily self-interested and they don’t really care what you do as long as you stay out of the way. Some of them will even give you a “project” whose sole purpose is to keep you out of the way. Beware the “project.” Nobody really cares whether you do a good job on the project or not. If you sit in a corner working on a project all summer, chances are that when the HR people come around to ask if you should be hired full-time, even if they remember your name, they won’t have an opinion about you. But the alternative, sitting right next to someone at the desk all day and constantly asking questions for six weeks is a bad idea, too. Unless you are an excellent conversationalist, and you actually know something about the markets (you don’t), this is going to get old fast. So being an intern is all about a good mix of being visible and invisible, and being visible and invisible at the right times. But here is the key point: although most financial folks are cranky and insufferable, the one thing they do have in common is that they have a passion for what they do, otherwise they wouldn’t be sitting there doing this stressful job for progressively less pay while being called a**holes on a daily basis by the financial press. As I’ve traveled around, nobody loves their job more than traders and bankers, even though you’ll never hear a rah-rah speech about it. So, as an intern, if you know enough to ask the right question, that shows that you are informed about what is going on and that you care about the industry, too, then you’ll get me talking and we’ll have a nice conversation. And maybe I will remember your name. Read the rest of the post at Wall Street Oasis &gt; dailydirtnap.com, author of Street Freak Twitter: @dailydirtnap This article originally appeared at Wall Street Oasis.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Markets are already acting as if the bad jobs numbers released Friday may have been just noise, and that the economy is still doing fine. Already we're seeing interest rates rise again, and other markets continue to bet that the Fed will move toward tightening. Treasuries are falling and interests rates are rising this morning as investors sell bonds in the wake of the release of two better-than-expected economic data points: the New York Fed's Empire State Manufacturing Activity Index, and December producer prices. The Empire State index surged to 12.51 from December's 0.98 reading, and sub-components of the index (most notably, employment) were strong across the board. Producer prices excluding food and energy rose three times faster than expected, but most of the rise was concentrated in prices of tobacco products, which were up 3.6% in December. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note is trading at 2.90%, three basis points higher from yesterday's close. The sell-off is being led by the belly of the curve, with yields on 5-year and 7-year notes each up four basis points. Normally the Empire State index and producer prices aren't big market movers, but market participants seem to be rethinking Friday's release of the December jobs report, which was much worse than expected. Treasuries surged Friday in the wake of the jobs release, and extended their gains in Monday's session. Tuesday, however, there was heavy selling. "Two of the driving forces of the selling pressure yesterday were eurodollar futures and MBS selling," says Tom Tucci, head of U.S. Treasury trading at CIBC World Markets. "[Philadelphia Fed president Charles] Plosser introduced the potential that the Fed would not reinvest MBS portfolio proceeds once QE is fully tapered. This is the first time I have heard that stance and may have been one of the factors in the MBS selling." Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg)Chart 1 shows expected future yields on 3-month U.S. dollar deposits held in banks outside of the United States, known as eurodollars. The curve can be used as a proxy for the market's expectation of the path of the Fed's policy rate. The green line shows that at the close of trading last Thursday, before the release of the jobs report Friday, expectations were for a sooner and steeper path of rate hikes than at the close of trading Monday (red line), the peak of a two-day post-payrolls rally. Today, however, the market is moving back closer to its pre-payrolls state as participants express skepticism over the weak jobs numbers. The idea is that given a plethora of other economic data points that point to robust labor market trends, the December jobs report may be an outlier. "Very few bullish participants out there given the way the market underperformed yesterday," says Tom di Galoma, head of fixed income rates sales at ED&amp;F Man Capital Markets. The next big event is the release of December consumer prices data on Thursday morning at 8:30 a.m. ET. Economists expect the headline annual inflation rate to have risen to 1.5% in December from 1.2% in November, reflecting rising food and energy prices, while the core inflation rate (which excludes food and energy prices) is expected to have been unchanged at 1.7%. In its December monetary policy statement, the FOMC emphasized the distance of current inflation levels from its 2% target as a key justification for continued extraordinary monetary stimulus. If inflation surprises to the upside — especially the core measure — short-term interest rates will likely continue to rise as traders continue pulling forward expectations for when the Fed will begin hiking rates. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Jonathan Alcorn It's officially earnings season, with the world's major companies already reporting how their fourth quarter of 2013 fared. For his part, RBC's Jonathan Golub believes that analysts are underestimating how good earnings will be. From his recent note: — Historical Precedence: Bottom-up EPS estimates imply 6.6% YOY growth in 4Q. However, history indicates that results will come in meaningfully higher. More specifically, actual reports have topped forecasts in each earnings season throughout the recovery, with an average beat of 3.2% over the past 2 years. As the exhibit below highlights, such a beat in the current earnings season would result in 9.9% growth. — Better Economics Not Reflected in Guidance: Over the past six months, forward- looking economic indicators, such as ISM, have ticked up. This is also reflected in an upturn in RBC’s Economic Surprise Index. However, despite this recent improvement, corporate guidance remains quite negative, holding down analyst forecasts. — Analysts Underestimate Earnings Around Turning Points: Economists forecast a 2.3% YOY increase in GDP in 4Q. This is a pickup from a pace of only 1.3% earlier in the year. Our research indicates that changes in GDP have a leveraged impact on EPS. History shows that analysts tend to underestimate this leveraged relationship. As a result, earnings beats tend to be larger during periods of economic acceleration, or rising ISM. And check out the chart: RBC FREE AppDownload
Paramount PicturesHuge upside potential!Nestor Inc is a Providence, R.I.-based company that sells automated traffic enforcement systems to local governments. It has 89 employees and trades over-the-counter under the ticker "NEST" (update: It has been in receivership since 2009). That's not to be confused with Nest — the high-tech thermostat and smoke detector company founded by former iPod genius Tony Fadell and sold to Google for a cool $3.2 billion earlier this week. But don't tell that to savvy investors! Nestor Inc. (the penny stock) is up 1900% on the news, as investors confuse the two companies. There's actually pretty decent volume here too, suggesting that a good amount of people made the mistake or are trying to anticipate that people might. The surge was first noted by Kid Dynamite's blog. Bloomberg's Matt Levine asks the natural follow-up question. If you had advance knowledge of the Google/Nest deal, would you buy some Nestor, Inc. shares? And would that be insider trading? It sounds like a scene out of "The Wolf of Wall Street." Reuters' Felix Salmon and CNBC's John Carney both argued on Twitter that, yes, that would in fact be insider trading. If you made material gains via non-public information of the deal, that's insider trading folks! But we're probably not likely to see this taken to court. And, as Salmon noted, you might as well just wait for the deal to have been announced, since you'd make as much money the legal way. FREE AppDownload
Warner Brothers/IMDBProducer prices were up 0.4% on the month and 1.2% on the year in December. This was pretty much in line with expectations for a 0.4% month-over-month and 1.1% year-over-year rise. Meanwhile, core PPI (ex food and energy) was up 0.3% on the month and 1.4% on the year. This was ahead of expectations for a 0.1% MoM and a 1.3% YoY rise in November. Nearly half of the December increase in finished core goods can be attributed to the 3.6% increase in prices for tobacco products. This was the biggest one-month spike in six years. "Manufacturers tend to impose one big price increase per year, in Dec, so this is not the start of a sustained trend," Ian Shepherdson of Pantheon Macroeconomics said in a note. "With core materials price down 5.9% y/y we see no threat to core finished goods prices for the foreseeable future. To the extent we worry about inflation, the risk is in services - rent - not goods." Ahead of the data release, Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman wrotes, "[T]obacco prices are not seasonally adjusted in the PPI report even though there’s been a regular pattern of December cigarette price hikes in recent years. That will probably again provide a boost to the core PPI this December, but excluding tobacco we look for the core to remain near 0.1%." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike BlakeThe release of weekly mortgage application data from the Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA) showed mortgage apps were up 11.9% in the January 10 week after rising 2.6% the previous week.  Purchase applications were up 12%, compared with a 1% fall the previous week. Meanwhile, the refinance index was up 11%, compared to a 5% rise the previous week. Paul Diggle, a property economist at Capital Economics, told Business Insider that the rise in mortgage applications coincides with the first week-on-week decline in 30-year mortgage rates in 10 weeks. The 30-year mortgage rate sits at 4.51% as of January 9. Most of the rise in mortgage rates occurred prior to the Fed's December 18 announcement that it would taper down its monthly asset purchase program to $75 billion a month. That being said, the overall trend in mortgage applications has still been down. Earlier this week, the MBA lowered its forecast on 2014 mortgage originations by $7 billion to $1.12 trillion, based on declining mortgage application activity and rising interest rates. FREE AppDownload
Bank of America just reported an earnings beat, but its mortgage business — a sector everyone's been watching — was a disappointment. First-mortgage originations declined 46% from this time last year. And BAC isn't alone in this. Both JP Morgan and Wells Fargo reported declines in their mortgage businesses yesterday. Wells Fargo managed to crush earnings through cost-cutting measures. JP Morgan, weighed down by legal costs, was unable to do the same, and posted slightly disappointing numbers despite its earnings beat. This decline didn't come out of nowhere. The Federal Reserve's recent survey of loan officers showed weaker demand for loan origination in both prime and nontraditional mortgage loans, according to FactSet. That's a big change, as the same survey has reported a strong demand for prime mortgages over the last eight quarters before October. Even in July 2013, 50% of the loan officers the Fed surveyed were reporting strong demand. Over at Bank of America, Consumer Real Estate Services posted a $1.1 billion loss. That's less than the same time last year (a $3.7 billion loss) but at that time, the bank had legal fees to pay out to Fannie and Freddie. This time, the bank is clear about the fact that the decline is due to weaker demand: CRES first-mortgage originations declined 46 percent in the fourth quarter of 2013 compared to the same period in 2012, reflecting a corresponding decline in the overall market demand for mortgages. Core production revenue declined in the fourth quarter of 2013 to $403 million from $986 million in the year-ago quarter due to lower volume as well as a reduction in margins resulting from the continued industrywide margin compression over the past year. JP Morgan's mortgage origination saw a pretax loss of $274 million, "a decrease of $1.1 billion from the prior year, reflecting lower volumes, lower margins and higher legal expense, partially offset by lower repurchase losses."  Across the board, Wall Street banks put aside less money to deal with losses this quarter. BAC, for example, set aside $959 million less for its mortgage provision than it did at this time last year, putting its provision at $474 million. The bank cited "increased home prices and improved portfolio trends." And that may be true. Banks are seeing less delinquency and reduced expenses, which is a solid reason to cut provisions. But at the same time, they are still dealing with litigation (though less than they were before) and more importantly, they're seeing rising interest rates, which is hurting mortgage demand. It's a delicate balance.  FREE AppDownload
The New York Fed's Empire State manufacturing survey surged to 12.51. That's the highest reading since May 2012. Consensus was for a reading of 3.50. December was revised higher, to 2.22 from 0.98. The index for expected number of employees rose to 20.7, and the future average workweek  index climbed to 9.8. The index  for future general business conditions was little changed at 37.5, but the index for future new orders climbed nine points to 39.1. The index for future prices paid fell three points to 45.1, and the index for future prices received fell to 23.2. Barclays' Cooper Howes commented: "Despite the positive headline readings in recent months, the underlying trend had been softer; on an ISM-adjusted basis, which re-weights each component using the same weights as the manufacturing ISM, the index printed 47.2 in December and 49.3 in November. This trend reversed in January, however, as the new orders (11.0, previous: -1.7), shipments (15.5, previous: 4.7), and employment (12.2, previous: 0.0) indices now all stand firmly in positive territory. These improvements resulted in an ISM-adjusted print of 53.3 in January, the highest since May 2012. While some of the notable components have been volatile in recent months (Figure 1), we expect the index to remain in positive territory in the coming months as manufacturing activity continues to pick up." We've now been in positive territory — meaning manufacturing activity has been expanding — for about a year: New York Fed Full report »  FREE AppDownload
ScreenshotBarring a few changes – such as chip-and-pin technology, contactless payments – the standard mix of loyalty cards, credit and debit cards, and cash in a wallet is much the same as it was 20 years ago. But there's a big prize waiting for the first company to convince us to ditch all our metal and plastic for something more 21st century. Here's what you need to know about the groups jostling for position in your back pocket. 1 The big three A small group has taken the lead in digital payments online: Google, Amazon and PayPal. Now they are trying to build their businesses in the physical world. Google's Wallet service lets users put cash on their phone to spend in-store as well as online. And, with near field communication technology, it turns a compatible Android phone into a contactless card. 2 Google Wallet's real wallet If your favourite coffee shop isn't hooked in to Google's system, the company has also just released a physical Wallet Card, which lets you spend your balance anywhere in the US where Mastercard is accepted. It's basically just another debit card but hooked up to the Bank of Google. 3 The Coin card The aim of the $100 Coin, launching in the US in the summer, is to allow one card to do the job of every other one in your pocket, from debit cards to supermarket loyalty cards. It scans the magnetic strip on the back of the cards, and then replicates the strip electronically on its own back. With the click of a button, you can switch from paying with a debit card to paying with a credit card and back – and even swipe for loyalty points in between. 4 Square Digital wallets have a chicken-and-egg problem: they're useless to customers without shops which take them, and no shop will accept payment in them if their customers don't use them. Square, Twitter co-founder Jack Dorsey's new company, provides small businesses with an appendage that plugs into the headphone jack of a mobile phone and allows merchants to swipe cards and take payments. But Dorsey's real goal is removing cards altogether. Every merchant using Square to take card payments can also take payments directly from the Square app on customers' phones – and thanks to a high-profile deal with Starbucks, that's now quite a few customers. 5 US Google's Wallet Card, Coin and Square are unavailable outside the US. There are the standard commercial pressures to blame, plus in the UK we've moved to a chip and pin system. That is significantly more secure than the magnetic stripes still used in the US, but also harder to programme for. It's doubtful that something like the Coin card could exist with chip and pin payments, for instance. 6 iZettle Some companies are dealing with chip and pin. Stockholm's iZettle lets stores use an iPhone or iPad to take credit card payments, but the more complex technology comes at a cost: whereas PayPal and Square offer free mag-stripe readers in the US, iZettle's chip and pin reader costs almost £100, as does PayPal's competing hardware. 7 NFC payments Mobile phones that can carry out contactless payments have been available in the UK since 2011, but the technology hasn't taken off. Phones with the required technology are still quite rare. And most of the services require you to set up a separate digital wallet, rather than linking directly to your bank account, adding an extra layer of bureaucracy between you and your money. 8 Horrible fragmentation Every company has its own, non-transferable, digital wallet app. In 2014 some of that fragmentation should end as Vodafone, EE and O2 form a mobile wallet service, "Weve". But the days of digital wallets being as straightforward as credit cards seem a long way off. 9 Bitcoin Despite news stories about bitcoin being illustrated with shiny metallic discs, bitcoins are simply chunks of data on a hard drive that can be bought with "real" money or them by getting a computer to chug through some complex maths. Their fully digital nature gives them potential as an international currency, and allows users to transfer them between each other without having to go through banks. 10 The elephant in the room Some suspect Apple has a plan up its sleeve: a combination of its vast horde of credit card data, Touch ID fingerprint scanners and new "iBeacon" technology for short-distance communications could create a fearsome competitor. This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Lucy NicholsonA dog prepares to compete in the Surf City surf dog competition in Huntington Beach, California, September 29, 2013.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. — Wells Fargo is now the most profitable bank in the U.S., beating out the previous title-holder J.P. Morgan. Morgan's annual profits dropped 16% from the year prior to $17.9 billion, dragged down by massive legal fees. Wells, on the other hand, earned $21.9 billion despite slipping in its mortgage unit. — The Thai government is holding firm in its plan to hold a February election, but protestors looking for the ouster of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra have brought Bangkok to a near standstill, Reuters reports. Demonstrators have threatened to blockade the stock exchange and an air traffic control facility if the PM does not step down by 8 p.m., according to the report. — The Indian inflation rate dropped to 6.2% in December, down from 7.5% the month prior. Vegetable prices dropped almost 30% month over month, led by onions and potatoes that had spiked in the months before. While the move could prevent India's central bank from hiking rates, the inflation rate is still way above the 4-5% target, the AP reports. — This morning at 8:30 a.m. ET, we'll see the U.S. producer price index. Economists expect PPI climbed 0.4% month-over-month in December, 0.1% excluding food and energy, and 1.3% year-over-year for core PPI. "[T]obacco prices are not seasonally adjusted in the PPI report even though there’s been a regular pattern of December cigarette price hikes in recent years," wrote Morgan Stanley's Ted Wieseman. "That will probably again provide a boost to the core PPI this December, but excluding tobacco we look for the core to remain near 0.1%." — Also at 8:30, we'll get the Empire State Manufacturing survey. Economists are looking for the regional index to jump to 4.00 in January from 0.98 in December. Not everyone is bullish though. "We look for a decline in the January Empire State manufacturing index to -2.0 after a December print of 1.0," noted Barclays' economists. "While the headline prints have been close to the breakeven level in the past three months with an average of 0.1, the underlying details have been soft and the index has averaged 49.2 on an ISM-adjusted basis over that same time period." — Then at 2:00 p.m., the Federal Reserve will release the monthly Beige Book, its collection of business anecdotes from the regional banks. "The Fed’s next Beige Book may describe 'moderate' growth in the US. If so, this would be an upgrade from the 'modest-to-moderate' language used in the crucial lead sentence of each of the previous five reports," Credit Suisse's economists wrote clients. "The information to be summarized in the report probably was collected by January 3. Retailers’ reactions to holiday sales and any anecdotes regarding the appetite for business investment would be of particular interest." — Asian markets rocketed in overnight trading, led by Japan's Nikkei (2.5%). Korea's KOSPI was also up 0.37% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng edged up 0.49%. Markets in Europe started in the green on the back of Germany, and U.S. futures were pointing north. — Deutsche Bank has suspended currency traders in New York and possibly elsewhere in the Americas after an internal probe found emails "that led to suspicion that rates had possibly been manipulated," according to German newspaper Die Welt. Regulators have been looking into currency market rigging for some time now, with many different banks already implicated. But it remains to be seen whether charges, criminal or otherwise, actually materialize. — China Mobile, the world's largest mobile company, will begin selling iPhones in China this Friday. The company said that as of January 13, it had received 1.2 million pre-orders, CNBC reports. That's 60,000 per day since December 25. "It's a huge announcement...we're incredibly impressed with them, we have deep respect for them," Apple CEO Tim Cook told CNBC. "We see this as bringing the world's best smartphone to the largest and now fastest network in China." — The latest leak from whistleblower Edward Snowden, as reported by the New York Times, reveals that the U.S. National Security Agency has used a secret technology to access computers not even connected to the Internet. The NSA has put software in almost 100,000 computers globally to survey those machines and can also "create a digital highway for launching cyberattacks," according to the Times. "The N.S.A. calls its efforts more an act of 'active defense' against foreign cyberattacks than a tool to go on the offensive," reports the Times. "But when Chinese attackers place similar software on the computer systems of American companies or government agencies, American officials have protested, often at the presidential level." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Rebecca CookBank of American announced its fourth quarter earnings for 2013 this morning beats analyst estimates by $0.02 with an earnings per share of $0.29 and revenue at $21.7 Billion. Analysts expected an earnings per share to come in at $0.27 with a revenue of $21.1 billion. Shares are up 2% in premarket trading on this news. There are two major things Wall Street is waiting to see in this report — how the 'New BAC' plan of cost cutting that Brian Moynihan has championed is going, and how Bank of America's mortgage business. One crazy cost cutting fact for you — the number of employees at Bank of America is down 9% since New BAC started. An yesterday, we got a look at how the mortgage business is doing at JP Morgan and Wells Fargo, and it wasn't great. Wells Fargo managed to get through it by cost cutting, but JP Morgan, weighed down with legal fees, disappointed the Street. Federal Reserve survey results showed weaker demand in both prime and on traditional mortgage loans this quarter, according to FactSet data, so this shouldn't be too surprising. Here's what CEO Moyninhan said in his letter accompanying earnings. Bank of America Corporation today reported net income of $3.4 billion, or $0.29 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of 2013, compared to $732 million, or $0.03 per diluted share in the year-ago period. Revenue, net of interest expense, on an FTE basisA rose 15 percent from the fourth quarter of 2012 to $21.7 billion. For the year ended December 31, 2013, net income increased to $11.4 billion, or $0.90 per diluted share, from $4.2 billion, or $0.25 per diluted share, in 2012. Revenue, net of interest expense, on an FTE basisA rose 7 percent to $89.8 billion. "We are pleased to see the core businesses continue to perform well, serving our customers and clients," said Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan. "While work remains on past issues, our two hundred forty thousand teammates continue to do a great job winning in the marketplace." “We enter this year with one of the strongest balance sheets in our company’s history,” said Chief Financial Officer Bruce Thompson. “Capital and liquidity are at record levels, credit losses are at historic lows, our cost savings initiatives are on track and yielding significant savings, and our businesses are seeing good momentum.” Now check out BAC's the release below: Income of $3.4 Billion, or $0.29 per Diluted Share, on Revenue of $21.7 Billion(A) Fourth-quarter 2013 Results Included Pretax Negative DVA/FVO Adjustments of $0.6 Billion due to Tightening of the Company's Credit Spreads Pretax Litigation Expense of $2.3 BillionEffective Tax Rate of 10.6 Percent Fourth-quarter 2013 Highlights Compared to Year-ago Quarter Period-end Consolidated Deposit Balances Increased $14 Billion to Record $1.12 Trillion Period-end Loan Balances Increased $20 Billion to $928 Billion Combined Debit and Consumer Credit Card Spending Rose 4.0 Percent to $123 Billion Period-end Commercial Loan Balances Increased $42 Billion to $396 Billion Global Wealth and Investment Management Pretax Margin Increased to 26.6 Percent From 21.1 Percent Record Global Banking Revenue of $4.3 Billion, up 9 Percent Achieved New BAC and Legacy Assets and Servicing 2013 Cost Savings Targets Credit Quality Continued to Improve With Net Charge-offs Down 49 Percent; Ratio at 0.68 Percent Basel 1 Tier 1 Common Capital of $145 Billion, Ratio of 11.19 Percent Basel 3 Tier 1 Common Capital Ratio of 9.96 Percent, up From 9.25 PercentD Full-year 2013 Highlights Compared to Full-year 2012 Nearly $90 Billion in Residential Home Loans and Home Equity Loans Funded in 2013 More Than 3.9 Million New Consumer Credit Cards Issued in 2013 Record Earnings of $3 Billion in Global Wealth and Investment ManagementBank of America Merrill Lynch Gained Market Share and Maintained No. 2 Ranking in Global Investment Banking Fees CLiquidity Remained Strong at $376 Billion; Parent Company Time-to-required Funding Improved to 38 Months From 33 MonthsInitiated Capital Return to Shareholders Through Repurchase of $3.2 Billion of Common Stock at an Average Price of $13.90 per Share FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsLONDON (Reuters) - Deutsche Bank &lt;DBKGn.DE&gt;, Germany's biggest bank, has suspended several currency traders in New York in an internal probe that forms part of an international investigation into alleged manipulation of the global currency markets, a source familiar with the matter said on Wednesday. "Multiple traders" in New York and possibly elsewhere in "the Americas" are affected after investigations into "communications across a number of currencies," the source said. German daily Die Welt, citing people familiar with the investigations, said on Wednesday one trader in New York who traded Argentine pesos had been suspended. According to Die Welt sources at the bank, emails were found that led to suspicion that rates had possibly been manipulated, the paper said in a story published in its Wednesday edition. Deutsche Bank said it would not comment on individual staff members. "Deutsche Bank has received requests for information from regulatory authorities that are investigating trading in the foreign exchange market. The Bank is cooperating with those investigations, and will take disciplinary action with regards to individuals if merited," it said in a statement. (Reporting by Jamie McGeever) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonA trader works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in the Manhattan borough of New York January 13, 2014. It’s all in the numbers. Last year was a good one for financial markets, a time of recovery in equity markets, of stronger economies and firmer confidence. The S&amp;P 500 had its fifth straight up year and posted a 20 per cent plus gain after two years of single digit gains. It’s been so good, with a recovering US economy and a better outlook for Europe, that 2014 should continue at the same pace. However, Colin Cieszynski, Senior Market Analyst at CMC Markets, says it’s possible the index may have moved up too fast two quickly, leaving it vulnerable to a correction in 2014. And the history of the numbers may be on his side on this. Cieszynski says analysis of previous cycles suggests stock markets may have difficulty repeating their strong performance in 2014. Over the last few decades, years ending in 3 have been particularly strong with four of the last five posting double digit percentage gains. 2013 was no exception. Years ending in 4, however, have had a much rougher ride with the last three showing only small increases, or decreases, over the course of the year. Years ending in 4 have been only one of two (those ending in 8 being the other) to average a loss since 1970. While 1974 and 1984 had outright losses, the marginally profitable 1994 and 2004 were consolidation years which finished with gains that were much smaller than the previous year. Cieszynski, in his 2014 Market Outlook Report, says: Since 2000, US stocks have been in an inflationary bear market similar to the one that prevailed between 1966 and 1982, where markets remain flat for a long period but traders lose on an inflation-adjusted basis. Last year’s performance was quite strong and moved the Dow well ahead of the performance of the previous cycle. The question heading into 2014 is whether indices are due to fall back to trend, or if the end of this inflationary bear has arrived early and a new bull market is getting underway. For the first time in many years, the influence of politics on the global economy and markets turned a corner in 2013 and appears set to decrease in 2014. However, Cieszynski has taken a look at the Presidential cycle in the USA, focusing on the parties’ second term in office. Year 5, coming off a re-election, has historically been very strong, particularly for the Democrats who racked up big years in 1997 and 2013. However, Year six appears to have been difficult for Democrats in the last 50 years. This suggests, says Cieszynski, that US indices could struggle in 2014. Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook and Twitter This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
MUMBAI, India (AP) — India's inflation eased in December as vegetable prices fell from the previous month. The fall in the inflation rate to 6.2 percent could persuade the central bank to hold off from an interest rate hike this month, though the inflation is still far above its target of 4-5 percent. The inflation rate was down from 7.5 percent in November. Prices for vegetables dropped by 29.7 percent in December from November, led by onions and potatoes that had soared in cost in previous months. Still, vegetables overall cost 57.3 percent more in December than they did a year earlier. Food inflation in India is partially driven by an inefficient distribution system that results in some 30 percent of produce spoiling before reaching markets. Copyright (2014) Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Brendan McDermidThere's two interesting economic data points coming out today. From Calculated Risk: • At 8:30 AM, the NY Fed Empire Manufacturing Survey for January. The consensus is for a reading of 3.3, up from 1.0 in December (above zero is expansion).• Also at 8:30 AM, the Producer Price Index for December. The consensus is for a 0.4% increase in producer prices (and 0.1% increase in core PPI). PPI is frequently a snooze, but one of the questions for 2014 is whether inflation will start to re-assert itself a bit, so this one's worth watching. And the regional Fed surveys are always fun to watch. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
CNBCA deal to sell iPhones on China Mobile's vast network is a "watershed" moment,Apple CEO Tim Cook told CNBC on Wednesday. China Mobile will start selling iPhones in China this Friday. The premium, 16-gigabyte, 5S model will be priced at 5,288 yuan, or about $874, the world's largest mobile company said. The 64-gigabyte 5S will be priced at 6,888 yuan ($1,139) and the 5C model will be priced at 4,488 yuan for the 16-gigabyte model. A long-awaited deal between Apple and China Mobile was announced last month. Access to China Mobile's network of an estimated 760 million subscribers - the largest in the world - is seen as a crucial next step for Apple. "This is a watershed day," said Cook, who is in Beijing ahead of Friday's launch. He referred to China Mobile as a great cellphone firm with a "very fast network." "It's a huge announcement...we're incredibly impressed with them, we have deep respect for them," Cook said. "We see this as bringing the world's best smartphone to the largest and now fastest network in China." China Mobile said it did not have exact sales estimates for the iPhone. But the firm added that as of January 13, it had received 1.2 million pre-orders or 60,000 per day since December 25. Shebly Seyrafi, an analyst at FBN Securities predicted after the announcement in December that Apple would sell an incremental 17 million units to China Mobile, on top of the roughly 42 million China Mobile subscribers that already use the iPhone. (Read more: Biggest loser of Apple-China Mobile deal: Samsung) The deal with China Mobile means that the iPhone will now be available through all state-run telecom carriers in China, home to the world's biggest population and a growing class of consumers. The two latest iPhones have been sold by rivals China Unicom and China Telecom since they were launched last year. Both firms have trimmed contract prices for the iPhone to keep existing customers and tempt new ones away from China Mobile, according to media reports. China Mobile said it was not releasing details of subsidies, which will be released with its annual results in March. The pricing of the iPhone on China Mobile's network was seen as key since it's likely to impact profitability and potential sales for the two tech heavyweights. While Apple gets access to China Mobile's vast network of customers, the tech firm also faces stiff competition from the like of Samsungand Lenovo. (Read more: Cost of Cool in India? An Iphone) Apple shares have risen in recent months each time a report suggested a China Mobile deal was near, only to fall when a deal did not materialize – highlighting the importance of the deal to the U.S. tech firm. The deal between Apple and China Mobile will not be limited to handsets, but also involve broader co-operation between the two firms, China Mobile Chairman Xi Guohua was quoted saying by the Wall Street Journal on Wednesday. Apple's shares jumped 3.84 percent a day after the deal was announced on December 22, but has since given up most of those gains. Shares of the China Mobile listed in Hong Kong meanwhile have slipped almost 5 percent. FBN Securities raised their price target on Apple after December's announcement from $625 to $650 and maintained its "outperform" rating. Another research frim, Trefis, said the deal could add $45 billion to Apple's value if China Mobile is able to lead the race into 3G and 4G network technology in the same way it has dominated 2G.   FREE AppDownload
I found these comments from BlackRock pretty interesting with regards to the US Dollar’s potential performance in 2014: 1.   The US economy is improving. As I discussed in a recent post, the economy is firming, and it’s improving at a pace faster than most other developed countries. For 2014 I would expect U.S. growth of 2.5% to 2.75% versus less than 2% for Japan and as little as 1% for Europe. 2.   The Fed will be pulling back at a time when many other central banks will need to maintain an ultra-loose monetary policy. By the end of the year, the Fed is likely to have exited its quantitative easing program. In contrast, most other developed market central banks – with the possible exception of the Bank of England – are likely to remain in an easing mode. In particular, the Bank of Japan will continue with its very aggressive asset purchase program for another couple of years. This should lead to a weaker yen. 3.Valuation. Today, based on purchasing power parity, many of the key developed market currencies look expensive relative to the dollar. Based on the Purchasing Power Parity Index compiled by the OECD, the Swiss Franc and the Australian dollar look to be 25% or more overvalued against the dollar, while the Canadian Dollar and British Pound look 10% to 15% overvalued, and the Euro appears roughly 5% above where fair value would suggest it should be. Of the major currencies, the yen looks the cheapest relative to the dollar, but as stated above, it’s still likely to weaken on the back of aggressive easing by the Bank of Japan. The one that really jumps out at me is Fed policy.  Europe, Japan and China look pretty weak on a relative basis.  And there are certainly no signs of central bank tightening in any of those nations.  And since FX is ultimately a relative value game, you have to consider how interest rates and central bank policy will come into play.  I think BlackRock probably has this one right.  If you had to single out a strong currency in 2014 the USD looks like the one to pick. FREE AppDownload
@britt_mogul_coxIt's been kind of a weird year so far for markets. Things are significantly choppier than they were in 2013. On Monday, things were pretty ugly with declines in the US. Japan got hammered in Tuesday trading.  But then yesterday was solid. And today is looking good as well. The Nikkei soared 2.5% today. Germany is up 0.9%, despite German GDP slightly missing (0.4% vs. 0.5% that was expected). European stocks in general are at new 5-year highs. And US futures are up as well. Today in economic data we have the PPI and Empire Fed manufacturing. FREE AppDownload
