TwitterMtGox is resigning from the board of the Bitcoin Foundation as it remains unable to restart full operations after claiming to have been hit by a bug. They've also deleted all Tweets from their Twitter account. A person familiar with the situation said it was not clear when MtGox would next update users about its technical problems. "They seem to be struggling with everything," the person said via email. A second person said they did expect the exchange to make an announcement in the coming days. Prices on the exchange briefly rallied this morning — reaching as high as $349 — on rumors they were ready to restart withdrawals, but have since come back down to below $200. The remain at $580 on Coindesk. For two weeks, MtGox users have not been able to withdraw Bitcoins from their wallets because of a bug in how the wallets are processing transactions, the group says. They were also recently moved offices over what they said were security issues, which coincided with protests from users demanding their money back. But even before the recent issues, MtGox users have long complained of withdrawal issues, along with an apparent lack of responsiveness from company head Mark Karpeles. The latest issues got the exchange kicked off Coindesk's Bitcoin price index, and has left the exchange with a blackeye within the Bitcoin community.   Here's the full statement on the resignation from the Bitcoin foundation: Effective immediately, Mt. Gox has submitted their resignation from the board of directors. We are grateful for their early and valuable contributions as a founding member in launching the Bitcoin Foundation. MtGox Co. Ltd. (Japan) held one of the three elected industry member seats. Further details, including election procedures, will be forthcoming. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSA worker wields a hammer at a demolition site in front of new residential buildings in Hefei, Anhui province, October 19, 2013.Chinese now home prices were up 9.6% year-over-year in January. This was down from 9.9% in December. Home prices were up in 69 of 70 cities surveyed. CNBC's Dierdre Wang Morris pointed out that Chinese developers were taking a hit after the data. This also comes on the back of news that Industrial Bank Co. has restricted lending to developers and related industries like steel and cement, reports Bloomberg.  Bloomberg BRIEF economist Tom Orlik tweeted this chart that shows that home prices in top tier cities are starting to cool. Bloomberg BRIEF FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/SupriThe weekend is over and Asian markets are open. China's finance minister Lou Jiwei tried to stem concerns about the yuan depreciation, after some volatility last week, and downplay concerns about shadow banking, reports Bloomberg. Meanwhile, central bank governor Zhou Xiaochuan signaled that China could grow between  7-8% GDP growth this year. Japan's Nikkei is up 0.5% after starting down 0.2%. Australia's S&amp;P/ASX 200 is up 0.1%. Korea's KOSPI is up 0.1%. Hong Kong's Hang Seng is up 0.8%. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsShanghai, ChinaChinese GDP growth slowed to 7.7% last year, hitting its lowest level since 1999. Some of the biggest issues we're seeing in the headlines these days are concerns over shadow banking, rising local government debt, and trust defaults. The credit crunch China experienced last year, and the worry that deleveraging could trigger a hard landing is also getting a lot of attention. We asked six China experts the same question. What worries you the most about China? Here are their responses: Alaistair Chan, Moody's: "The central bank’s campaign to cut risky lending practices and over-leverage in the financial sector via monetary tightening is a big concern. The PBoC seems to have learned from the June 2013 Shibor scare, but it is still unclear how monetary tightening against a backdrop of potential defaults in corporate bonds this year will unfold." David Cui, Bank of America: "Debt growth and corporate sector solvency issue." Patrick Chovanec, Silvercrest Asset Management: "I'm worried that Chinese leaders actually believe it when they say everything is under control. The clock is fast running out on China's tactic of using runaway credit to fuel investment-led growth.   "At best China faces a growth squeeze from a mounting burden of bad debt, at worse that bad debt will blow up in its face. Either way, China faces a wrenching economic adjustment. If China's leaders recognize not just the direction but also the urgency of change, they have some hope of getting to the other side. If they kid themselves into complacency, they are courting disaster." George Magnus, Formerly UBS: "Among many things that worry me, the most urgent issue is if, how and under what circumstances China will tame credit creation and put a troublesome genie back in the bottle. We've had a few trust loan defaults that haven't caused a big stir yet, but there have been a couple of depositor bail outs that don't point to a determined attempt to curb the excess yet.  "There's a tension between the PBoC and the China Banking regulatory Commission over shadow banking restraint. I expect credit to slow and to lead to slower growth. I worry that the authorities will try to soft pedal this, leading to a bigger denouement later." Jim Rogers, Rogers Holdings: "The high levels of debt in some areas. Some of the provinces and companies have built up debt in recent years during the recovery, since there has been so very much artificial liquidity all over the world. All the money printing in the developed world is causing distortions everywhere including China." Tom Orlik, Bloomberg: "The biggest worry about China this year is the state of the financial system. Massive credit growth has left banks overexposed, and as the economy slows the cracks are starting to show." Bill Bishop, Sinocism: "A. Environmental crises: air, water, soil, food. There are and will continue to be huge opportunities for investors and companies in cleaning up the mess, but the human toll is massive and will get worse before it gets better. It could lead to significant unrest but more likely will lead to cancer epidemics and emigration by those who can afford to;  B. Corruption. Xi's crackdown on official corruption is serious and having an effect. Of course there are political reasons and scores to settle, but the crackdown has changed behavior. It has not however addressed the corruption that is pervasive in Chinese society, and it is hard though to see how that can be changed materially in the midst of increasing restriction on public discourse and transparency;  C. Ideological retrenchment. No, Xi is not a "neo-Maoist", but he is a pragmatic Marxist and there is a broader tightening of discourse and more aggressive rejection of "Western" values and Neo-liberalism than we have seen in a while. But most people here do not believe in Marxism and a Marxist morality campaign will not work. So the real glue is nationalism, and that has only grown stronger, intentionally, over the years;  D. Growing anti-foreign, and especially anti-American, sentiment as more and more people are told, and start to believe, that the West is trying to keep China down and prevent its rejuvenation. Tensions from an economic slowdown, economic reform/restructuring and/or the corruption crackdown and its political re-ordering could lead to even more external friction than would normally be expected with a rising power.  Geoff Dyer's new book "The Contest of the Century: The New Era of Competition with China" is worth reading." Note: We updated the post to include Tom Orlik's view. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsPyrocumulus cloud ice capping over the Mazatzal Wilderness during the Willow Fire near Payson, AZ.After a long snow-related delay, Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen will give the second half of her semi-annual "Humphrey-Hawkins" testimony to Congress. On Thursday at 10:00 a.m. ET, she meets with the Senate Banking Committee. This week comes with more economic data that's sure to be touched by the unusually harsh winter. But we've been learning more and more that the slow down in economic activity has been about much more than chilly weather. Here's your Monday Scouting Report: Top Stories Economic Calendar Market Commentary Last weak, Facebook announced it would acquire text-messaging app WhatsApp for a whopping $19 billion. This was a major-headscratcher for investment analysts trying to justify the price. Legendary NYU finance professor Aswath Damodaran saw the deal as an opportunity to share some wisdom on the workings of financial markets: "My experience with markets has been that no one has a monopoly on virtue and good sense and that the hubris that leads to absolute conviction is an invitation for a market take-down. To investors [who] view deals like the WhatsApp acquisition as evidence of irrational exuberance, remember that there are traders who are laughing their way to the bank, with the profits that they have collected from their social media investments. Similarly, for traders who view fundamentals and valuation as games played by eggheads and academics, recognize that mood and momentum may be the dominant factors driving social media companies right now, but markets are fickle and fundamentals will matter (sooner or later)." FREE AppDownload
Robert Johnson — Business InsiderEarlier Sam Ro posted a flyer showing a sample of San Francisco rent prices that are totally insane. But San Francisco doesn't have the highest rents in the country. That honor belongs to Williston, N.D. Williston, which finds itself at the epicenter of the North Dakota shale boom, is now among the fastest growing cities in the country, with a current estimated population of 33,000 compared with just 14,716 at the 2010 Census. It could reach 77,000 by 2020. This week, Apartment Guide said the city now has the highest rents in the country, with a 700 sq. ft. one bedroom costing north of $2,000 on average. According to their methodology explanation in a blog post on their site, they only counted 16 listings. That sample seemed small, so we reached out to the locals for some more color. We reached out to Katie Long of Williston's economic development council. She said that in a recent random phone survey she conducted of 12 units on her list of available Williston apartments, only one or two had something in the +$2,000 range. "Some of our locals are definitely taking advantage of the situation — can you blame them? But their rents are $1,000, not $2,000. So I think what you're seeing are listings posted on websites, and these are the 'creme de la creme' — if you can call it that, luxury apartments in Williston." But Mike Galt of Bakken Realty told us by phone that the Apartment Guide report is probably accurate, because the new units represent the majority of available rents. Rental occupancy is north of 90%, Long said.  "If you can find a one bedroom, it's going to be $2,000-$2,500," he told us by phone Wednesday. "There are some established apartments [that are cheaper], but there really isn't that much, so everything is basically new. They didn't have enough housing for this influx of people, so the majority are under construction." Sandy Haviland, a developer whose group just began putting up high-end units in town, said he's asking $2,700 for a one bedroom. But he also said the majority of Williston residents aren't living in these types of places. "Williston is high, but that's not the whole story," he told us by phone. In a follow-up email he added: "their methodology was that they compared the CHEAPEST rent for each type of floor plan.  Most markets in the US have some crappy old building where you can live for nothing. In Williston, there are no low-end places on the market -- that's the difference."   The report also jibes with where average wages now stand in the town — $71,000, the highest in the country.   Of course, more units coming online will have the perverse effect of bringing rents down. But for now it does seem that Williston is No. 1 in the country. Here are the leasing rates at the Renaissance Heights, which abuts the town's airport. The units are expected to come online within the next few months. You can see they're pretty much in-range with Apartment Guide's figures. Renaissance Heights FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Turney DuffTurney DuffI moved to New York in 1994, aged 24, looking for a job in PR or journalism. It wasn’t working and I was getting very frustrated, so my mum suggested I call my uncle, who knew all about finance. I had no idea about Wall Street but he arranged a few interviews for me. The first one was at Lehman Brothers. There was something about the grandness of the trading floor I was instantly attracted to. I knew I wanted the money and the lifestyle; I knew I wanted in. I didn't get the Lehman Brothers role, but I did get a job working for Morgan Stanley as a sales assistant, which is like a glorified secretary. But a few years later I moved onto the ‘buy side’, investing and managing other people's money for hedge fund firm Galleon Group. We would have this huge pot of commission from private investors or institutions, and the rest of Wall Street was fighting for part of that pot. Everyone wanted my business and they would do anything to get it. I had access to every single restaurant, club and sporting event. Soon I was making as much as $2m a year and being taken all over the country by people who wanted me to work with them. The benchmark for parties was the Super Bowl trip, which usually involved a private jet and every expense paid. One of the wildest was in 2002, in Ohio. I got invited to this super-underground party with about 40 guys and the same number of women. When I got there - I don’t know whether it was the cologne I was wearing or what - literally every single woman in the place wanted me. I was on fire. Everything I said was funny. It was only later I found out that all of them were hired escorts. The first time I was offered cocaine was during the same period as the Ohio trip. I went to the bathroom with it but I didn’t take any - just pretended I had and handed it back. There was this ‘80s basketball player called Len Bias who took it for the first time and died when I was a teenager, so I’d always thought 'you take cocaine, you die'. But six months and a couple of promotions later, I was hanging around with a faster crowd and it didn’t look so menacing. The first time I really took cocaine, it was the most amazing thing ever. It was so good I knew it was going to be a problem. By 2006 I was spending between $600-$700 a week on cocaine - that didn’t include the large amount I was being given or the booze I was drinking with it. I had a girlfriend and a baby daughter by that time but these were dark days. I was taking it five or six nights a week; if I took it easy I wouldn’t be shaking, sweating or bleeding the next day - but I still wouldn’t be able to go into work. There was one point when I’d been up for about three days on cocaine and alcohol. I’d called in sick so many times that year that I knew I'd be fired if I did it again; I also knew I'd be fired if I showed up in the state I was in. I remember circling the block around my office, wondering what to do. I told myself (I obviously wasn’t having rational thoughts) that if I’d been mugged they wouldn’t expect me to work. I ran a few blocks and threw myself into a puddle repeatedly until my trousers were ripped and my hands and knees were all bloody. I got into the office limping and soaking wet, barely able to speak, and told them I’d been attacked. Needless to say, 72 hours later I had left my job and was on a plane to my first rehab. I was clean for a year before I relapsed and had to go back to rehab. After that I had the option of going back to Wall Street for a seven-figure paycheck, but it just didn’t feel right. I sabotaged the interview and walked away. I don’t know if I have any regrets from that whole period. I do wish that maybe I hadn’t hurt some people, especially my family, but I don’t think I could be the person I am today without everything I went through. Now I’m a writer - I turned my time on Wall Street into a book called The Buy Side and have just submitted a paranormal thriller - and I live on Long Island, two miles away from my daughter, who’s eight, so I can see her everyday. When I was writing the first book I made sure there were no cliches in the language, but I realized my character had become the biggest cliche there is - the stereotypical Wall Street douche-bag. Nothing’s left of the $10m I earned there; I made some bad investments and the rest went along the way. But here’s another cliche: money’s not going to bring you happiness and none of the things I had made me feel better on the inside. The Buy Side by Turney Duff is published in paperback by Constable and Robinson and available for £12.99  FREE AppDownload
A lot of new investors assume that managing money is like golf — where Tiger Woods whips the amateur who steps out on the course with him 100 times out of 100. But it’s not like that at all. In investing, unlike golf, the amateur can crush the pro for an appreciable period of time. That’s one of the most wonderful things about the game and one of the most frustrating things about the game, all at once. In addition, the professional golfer gets to keep his trophies and wins regardless of the subsequent decline in his skills. In contrast, the professional investor’s average or below-average years will dilute the benefit of his “winning” years as mean reversion knocks his lifetime track record back down to earth. Peter Lynch must have known this when he retired in 1990 at the top of his game — he left the magic intact before reality and probability could strip him of it. Randomness and Time team up to take almost all of us down, one way or the other. Here are three charts from a recent presentation from Towers Watson on equity investing that show this phenomenon graphically (emphasis mine): Past performance in particular can sound a plausible basis upon which to form an opinion. This is because we are programmed to recognize patterns in nature and to extrapolate what we believe we have observed. However, studies have shown that there is a high degree of randomness in relative investment returns and that to be statistically significant, a performance record should be intact for nearly 15 years. Few investors meet this criterion. Fewer still meet this requirement and have not experienced other changes which have a direct impact on future performance, such as staff turnover or growth in assets under management which can affect portfolio construction. Consequently, we strongly believe that — considered in isolation – past performance is a poor basis for assessing investment skill. Josh here — in other words… Excess returns can show up anywhere, in any portfolio, and are randomly achieved in aggregate: eVestment Alliance, Towers WatsonAny schmuck can hang with the pros, for a long time, and beat a skilled investor for years before his information disadvantage becomes apparent. And the skilled managers are very capable of underperformance as well, Towers Watson notes that even Warren Buffett recorded two three-year rolling periods of negative relative-performance, despite his 45-year marathon track record of outperformance:  eVestment Alliance, Towers WatsonAnd finally, we are all, in the end, victims of our own success. Identifying a manager with durable skill and a sustainable investing process only assures one thing — that others will discover that manager as well and pour their dollars in. And then, like hearing your favorite indie band on Top 40 Radio, you’re totally grossed out and uncomfortable. And with good reason – your alpha is now dust in the wind. Nothing ruins an outperforming investor or an indie rock band like mass appeal: eVestment Alliance, Towers WatsonAfter seeing these charts and this evidence of futility, you might be asking yourself the following: If anyone can win and anyone can lose at any time in the markets, why bother trying at all? Fair question. But I submit to you that successful investing is a lifetime pursuit, and in the end, it’s the pursuit itself that offers the rewards along the way. The destination was never the thing — most of us aren’t meant to end up as Peter Lynch or Warren Buffett. No, it was what you learned on the way there that made all the difference. As the poet C.P. Cavafy reminds us: Ithaka gave you the marvelous journey.Without her you would not have set out. A lifetime of outperforming the markets is unattainable for most. But a lifetime of self-improvement and the acquisition of skill and knowledge — that’s available for anyone who’s willing to go for it. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSClerks relay orders from traders on the trading floor behind them during a frenzy of activity in the Chicago Mercantile Exchange May 15, 2001.Here's a remarkable statistic — right now just 25 stocks on the S&amp;P 1500 index have a consensus analyst rating of "sell" or "underweight," according to FactSet. Sure, investors are generally bullish about 2014, but only 25 stocks? History repeats. Business Insider's own Henry Blodget wrote in Slate way back in 2004 about the same problem. He highlighted a few points worth paraphrasing again: Read Henry Blodget's full piece at Slate » FREE AppDownload
Credit SuisseThe makeup of the global economy has evolved dramatically in the past century. The stock market has changed too. From Credit Suisse's Global Investment Returns Yearbook:: Figure 1 shows the relative market capitalizations of world equity markets at our base date of end-1899. Figure 2 shows how they had changed by end-2013. Markets that are not included in the Yearbook dataset are colored black. As these pie charts show, the Yearbook covered 98% of the world equity market in 1900 and 91% at end-2013. Being such a young economy with such a young stock market, it's little surprise that the U.S. wasn't the biggest market in the world in 1899. One thing these two pie charts don't capture is that the Japanese stock market was by far the world's largest during the late 1980s. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Carlos Garcia RawlinsA demonstrator wears a homemade gas mask as they confront police during a protest against the government of President Nicolas Maduro in Caracas, February 22, 2014.It’s been a tragic two weeks in Venezuela. Six people have died at protests and a prominent opposition leader was arrested after student marches escalated into large opposition-led demonstrations. Fierce mudslinging between President Nicolas Maduro and his opponents, the killing of a local beauty queen at a protest on Wednesday and the expulsion of three American diplomats have made for dramatic headlines and prompted international media outlets to question whether the president’s days in power might be numbered. While alarming, the recent events in the South American country aren’t exactly new. Under former President Hugo Chavez, who died from cancer nearly a year ago, opposition rants against the government were met with daily government diatribes charging its critics of being coup plotters backed by Yankee imperialists. Then as now, students and opposition protesters demanding more security and freedom of speech were met with tear gas and water cannons, American diplomats were routinely chastised, and protesters died on the streets—such as the 19 people killed during an opposition march just before a 2002 coup against Chavez. Still, concern is growing that the situation may become prolonged and increasingly disruptive. Local blogs and social media—which have become a vital source of information as local television is providing little live coverage of the protests—contain reports of increasingly violent clashes between protesters and national guard troops. Demonstrations are also expanding from Caracas to encompass a greater swath of territory. Clashes in cities such as Barquismeto, Merida, San Cristobal and Valencia may make it more difficult for the government to control its use of force against protesters. “We expect the situation to remain very fluid with continued potential for violent confrontations over the weekend,” Credit Suisse analyst Casey Reckman said. There’s one clear distinction between the Chavez era and now: the state of the economy. Currency controls and price regulations made doing business a contorted art under Chavez, but it didn’t matter much while he had an oil price boom as a tailwind. But today, those economic restrictions have been in place long enough to take a heavy toll. Inflation is out of control, stores can’t stock basic products and businesses can’t find dollars. What’s more, these ominous economic conditions, which are fueling the current protests, are expected to worsen. How did the economy get so dire? Let’s begin with consumer prices, which accelerated an astonishing 56 percent in January over the previous year. Government intervention in the economy and chronic underinvestment have created an increasing need for imports, which add to inflation when they’re more expensive than locally produced goods. The central bank has also been printing money to help cover a large consolidated public sector deficit. That practice mostly takes the form of local currency-denominated cash advances to help PDVSA fund non-oil activities it executes on behalf of the central government. This has injected excess liquidity into the economy, putting additional upward pressure on consumer prices, and also increased the state oil company’s debt with the bank to $35 billion at the end of 2013. The government has tried to shield some segments of the population from the inflationary pressures. Public sector workers have received sizeable wage increases, and lower-income Venezuelans can shop at subsidized supermarkets. But it’s unlikely that the world’s ninth-largest oil producer can forever use crude revenues to shield these groups from the effects of high inflation, according to Reckman. That’s especially true given the country’s decrease in oil production. Even though oil accounts for around 45 percent of the federal budget, PDVSA’s investments in new exploration and production have been insufficient to offset falling output at mature fields. According to PDVSA, crude production fell to 2.9 million barrels a day in 2012 from 3.2 million barrels a day in 2008. Other sources estimate current production to be lower.  “That’s the essential question: how compromised is their cash flow already?” Reckman said. Eleven years of currency controls have hastened the economic deterioration by making it hard for businesses to import goods and for individuals to obtain dollars. The country currently operates under a dual exchange rate, which values the dollar at 6.3 bolivars for essential goods such as food and medicine and 11.3 bolivars for areas such as tourism and oil investments. The system has so far failed at its intended goal of cracking down on a growing black market for currency, which pays upwards of 90 bolivars per dollar. Meanwhile, across the country, the controls have exacerbated shortages of a wide variety of goods such as toilet paper, corn flour and fish. Some local newspapers even cut sections in their print editions or shut completely because they couldn’t find paper to print on. The Venezuelan central bank’s scarcity index, which measures shortages of products, rose to a record 28 percent in January. Foreign companies are also feeling the pinch. International airlines, afraid the currency controls would reduce the value of the dollars they hold in Venezuela, have either limited or completely halted sales of tickets in bolivars. Toyota announced this month that it would halt vehicle assembly in the country because a shortage of hard currency kept it from obtaining parts. “Getting access to dollars from the government is a longstanding issue,” Reckman said. “They’re making more noise about it now, which makes me think it’s worsened.” It should come as no surprise that economic fundamentals are expected to slide further. Credit Suisse recently lowered its 2014 economic growth forecast to 1.2 percent from 2.7 percent, and projects that government and PDVSA debt will reach 41.9 percent of GDP this year, up from 39.8 percent in 2013. In December, both Moody’s Investors Service and Standard &amp; Poor’s lowered Venezuela’s credit ratings after Maduro forced retailers to lower prices. “Our base case is that the economy will continue to deteriorate,” Reckman said. Officials have said they expect to launch yet another foreign exchange system next week. That mechanism is expected to allow the private sector to directly trade dollars and dollar-denominated bonds by way of brokers, and would likely draw on a weaker exchange rate than the two currently being used. Reckman says the new system is likely to be a “favorable development” that has the potential to increase foreign exchange flows to the private sector. “This could help reduce goods shortages, support growth and relieve pressure on the parallel exchange rate,” she says. “We also think it is positive that the government is moving ahead with creating the market despite elevated domestic political tensions.” For the moment, the main question is whether the worsening economy and the demonstrations it’s helping to fuel could erode support for the Maduro government. On one hand, the splintered and uncoordinated opposition is actually giving chavistas a reason to band together after their deflating near-loss in last year’s presidential elections, Reckman says. But there is a possibility that further unrest could hurt Maduro, who doesn’t command the level of respect from his base that the charismatic Chavez did. Says Reckman: “we believe that risks to President Maduro’s popular and military backing could rise if the demonstrations continue to spread across the country and violence against protestors escalates further.” FREE AppDownload
IvanpahLast week, dozens of people, including Google energy chief Rick Needham and Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz, trekked out to the California-Nevada border in the middle of the Death Valley to dedicate what is believed to be the world's largest solar thermal facility in the world. At 392 megawatts, the Ivanpah solar thermal plant will be able to power 140,000 homes — the equivalent of all of Newark (averaging two people per household). We covered the project when BrightSource, the main developer behind the project, first put up a stunning 3-D tour of the site. But for all its scale and beauty, in terms of the future of renewables, Ivanpah is already irrelevant.   Solar thermal creates electricity by using mirrors to direct intense amounts of heat at a centralized collector, which is used to heat a substance like water to create steam power. Solar photovoltaic, meanwhile, directly converts solar energy into electricity through semiconductors. If solar thermal sounds unnecessarily complicated, you're right. Solar photovoltaic has seen explosive growth in the past few years thanks to plummeting material costs, state incentives, and eco-conscious homebuyers putting up panels on their roofs. But solar thermal growth has stalled, and is expected to continue to do so. Ivanpah cost $2.2 billion. Warren Buffett paid the same amount for the world's largest photovoltaic plant just up the road outside Bakersfield. That plant will generate 1.5-times as much power as Ivanpah.  As the New York Times' Diane Cardwell and Matt Wald wrote Friday, Ivanpah probably represents an end, not a beginning.  "When BrightSource and other companies asked [investor] NRG to invest in a second thermal project, said David Crane, NRG’s chief, he responded: 'We’ve got $300 million invested in Ivanpah — let me see that work for a few months and then we’ll decide whether we want to be involved in more.' " And here's what Lux Energy analyst Matthew Feinstein told them: “I don’t think that we’re going to see large-scale solar thermal plants popping up, five at a time, every year in the U.S. in the long-term — it’s just not the way it’s going to work... Companies that are supplying these systems have questionable futures. There’s other prospects for renewables and for solar that look a lot better than this particular solution.”  It's not that Ivanpah itself won't be cost-effective. BrightSource locked in a 20-year power purchase agreement with local utilities that includes fixed pricing, and the vast majority of costs were borne up front, according to Shayle Kann, director of GTM Research. That means the Energy Department, which lent the project $1.6 billion, and Google, which put up $168 million, will likely see a decent return.  "So it's not so much an issue for Ivanpah as it is for any future solar thermal project," he told us in an email. But it's a sign of how fast renewable energy technology is moving these days. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonThe Apple logo hangs in a glass enclosure above the 5th Ave Apple Store in New York, September 20, 2012. Apple's iPhone 5 goes on sale tomorrow. Brandirectory has released its list of the world's 500 most valuable brands, which is measured by estimating the future revenue attributable to a brand and determines the value a company would be willing to pay to license its brand as if it did not own it.  In terms of individual countries, U.S. brands occupy 185 of the 500 spots, including 9 of the top 10. Japan is second as the brand value of its three biggest brands — Toyota, Mitsubishi and Honda — increased in value by more than 30%.  The survey notes that Germany, France, and the UK complete the top 5 while China, the world’s second biggest economy, comes in 6th in terms of total brand value as its brands are still developing. Notable rises from last year include Verizon (from 10 to 5), Nike (60 to 35), and Allianz (75 to 38) while drops include Shell (from 12 to 18), Home Depot (18 to 25), and Marlboro (57 to 81). Check it out: brandirectorybrandirectorybrandirectoryBrandirectoryBrandirectoryCheck out all 500 &gt; FREE AppDownload
Kevin RooseThink of it like 'Real World, Wall Street': One journalist followed around eight young strangers in their first years of banking. Then the journalist, New York Magazine's Kevin Roose, put it all together in a book. The book is called "Young Money, Inside the Hidden World of Wall Street's Post Crash Recruits," and it's out today.  Roose spent years interviewing his subjects, crashing parties and recruiting events, even taking an Excel modeling classes. The work shows. His book is an honest portrait of young kids who, like everyone else, are engaged in the arduous business of growing up. They just happen to have a weird environment in which to do it. It's clear from Roose's writing that you don't watch this sort of evolution without evolving yourself. That's why Business Insider caught up with him to get some answers about what he found — what is it that desensitizes kids when they get to The Street, how he found eight (eight!) young bankers who weren't too scared to talk to him, and more. Here's what he learned: Business Insider: What did you think about Wall Street before you started this project and how has that changed? Kevin Roose: To be honest, I don't think my opinions of "Wall Street," as an entity, have changed that much. I still think banks are too big; I still think greed and insufficient regulation are a problem; I still think the financial crisis was a terrible, preventable thing. What changed is how I think about bankers. I don't judge the young ones as a group anymore. There are good ones, and bad ones, and you kind of have to evaluate them on their individual merits, rather than writing them all off at once. BI: How could you tell when you found someone who would make a good subject? KR: I wanted to get a good cross-section of young Wall Street, so I had to make sure that in the group I chose, women would be represented, people of color would be represented, and they'd be spread out across Wall Street in terms of their firms and their job functions. Of course, the most important consideration was whether they were willing to be honest and real with me. If they just wanted to brag about how many beers they crushed last night or how many models they'd slept with, I wasn't that interested. BI: Now that you've done this, why do you actually think people go to Wall Street? KR: I think some people, especially people who come out of college with student debt, or whose parents are working-class, do it for the money. But other people do it because it's easy. If you go to Yale or Princeton, all your friends are going into banking, it pays well and gives you a prestigious launching pad and all you have to do is drop your résumé into a box to apply — a lot of kids say, why not? BI: What do all these kids have in common after their experience on the Street? KR: Gray hair. BI: In a sentence, what does Wall Street do to your brain? KR: Can I do it in a GIF? BI:  Do you think these kids got paid too much? KR: I mean, it's a lot of money. Most of them were making somewhere between $90,000 and $130,000 their first year, and more after that. I heard some of them say that if you calculate it hourly, based on how much they work, it's like $16 an hour. That's a good job! But it isn't as amazing as most people think. BI: Have any of the kids you followed who left Wall Street shed the habits that they picked up there, or are they forever changed? KR: I think a lot of the day-to-day habits are sheddable, especially if you get out within two years. But even the bankers who left finance told me that working on Wall Street had changed the way they thought about the world. It's a very strong belief system. I don't know if you can ever really leave it behind. BI: Did you ever for any moment during your research wish you had become a banker? Even a little bit? Why? Why not? KR: Nope! I'd be a terrible banker. I took an Excel boot camp, to learn how to make Excel models and stuff, and I think I came in last in the class on every exercise. And seeing how miserable my sources were at their jobs wasn't exactly a glowing testimonial. Also, I'm pretty sure I'm blackballed now, even if I did have a change of heart. BI: The bottom line is that a lot of the kids you wrote about weren't happy. How should schools or recruiting programs change so that kids who won't be happy on Wall Street don't end up there? KR: I think it's happening naturally as the industry's prestige wears off. It used to be that the kid at Yale who majored in archaeology would go into banking, just because that was the popular and cool thing to do. Now, that kid has more options, like going to Teach For America or Google. More of the students who are interested in Wall Street now are the ones who actually want to be bankers. There are fewer unhappy dilettantes who just do it because it's the next step on the path. BI: Did you ever get mad or frustrated at your subjects? And if so, why? KR: Once, I remember prodding a guy who was feeling sorry for himself. This guy was making something like $200,000 a year as a 24-year-old in private equity and he still wasn't happy, and he was pouring out his woes to me, and I kind of stopped him short. Like, do you know how lucky you are compared to the rest of the world? Most of the time, though, the bankers I followed had a good perspective on the relative size of their problems. BI: What was the most obnoxious thing you saw in your research? KR: I went to a Fashion Meets Finance dating mixer, which is where they put a bunch of Wall Street dudes in a room with a bunch of women who work in fashion. That was an atrocious party, just horrible. I actually heard a guy use the phrase "PJ," as in "private jet." BI: What is it about Wall Street that desensitizes people? KR: I think it's the pace. When you're 22 and working at a bank, you don't have much time to be sensitive and introspective. It's all about getting things done, avoiding mistakes, and impressing the boss. BI: Did any banks seem to have a better culture than others or were they all the same? KR: You know, I actually didn't see much of a difference between banks. I certainly think there are tendencies within the divisions of a firm — the stereotypical oil trader is a little more jock-like and macho than the investment banker at the same firm. But all the bankers I followed tended to have a fairly common set of experiences, no matter where they worked. BI: Do you know any adults who made it through Wall Street well adjusted? How do you think they did it? KR: I think it has to do with avoiding social isolation. If everyone you interact with all day is a millionaire or billionaire and works in finance, it warps your perspective. The people I know who work in finance and are the best-adjusted are the people who have diverse groups of friends — you know, they play pick-up basketball with cops, or they volunteer at a school one day a week. Their lives are bigger than just banking. FREE AppDownload
"Although the survey says 'long,' the outcome feels more like an absence of shorts rather than a statement of conviction for lower yields. One way to interpret last week’s survey results is that being short rates is a bit like a waiting taxi with a running meter. It’s costly, and if you’re unsure how long you’ll be waiting, you’re probably better off letting this cab go and flagging another one later. It is the same with interest rates right now, and we suspect market participants may be waiting a while before they’re ready to resume their journey to higher yields."—JPMorgan strategists Alex Roever and Kimberly Harano   FREE AppDownload
asdcas Built for over a million people, the city of Ordos was designed to be the crowning glory of Inner Mongolia. Doomed to incompletion however, this futuristic metropolis now rises empty out of the deserts of northern China. Only 2% of its buildings were ever filled; the rest has largely been left to decay, abandoned mid-construction, earning Ordos the title of China's Ghost City. Last year I travelled to Inner Mongolia for myself, to get a closer look at the bizarre, ghost metropolis of Ordos... and the experience, as I would discover, was far stranger than anything I could have prepared for. China's property market is in a strange place. With a population reckoned at 1,351,000,000 and rising fast, the resultant boom in property development has led to scores of new-made millionaires and a rapidly growing elite class; at the same time however, analysts fear that this property bubble is set to burst. The country itself owes coming on for a trillion dollars in debt. Meanwhile, a billion people are waking up to the possibilities of fast cars, smartphones, broadband Internet and credit cards. Darmon Richter Some of China's most rapidly developing cities are virtually unheard of in the West; but for every overnight economic success story, there seems to be a hidden swathe of near misses, dead ends and bankruptcies. Out of all these phantoms however, nothing compares to the strangeness of China's 'Ghost City': Ordos. The city of Ordos is a heavily stylised population centre located close to the Ordos Desert, and it's one of the main cities of Inner Mongolia. This area is famed for its rapidly expanding population and developing urban areas – the region of Inner Mongolia boasting a higher GDP than even Beijing itself. Inner Mongolia is an interesting place. Once the birthplace of Genghis Khan, only 79% of the population belong to China's predominant Han ethnicity, while 17% are of Mongol origin. It was once a part of Greater Mongolia, though consecutive Chinese empires and the latter-day rise of the Communist Party saw Inner Mongolia moulded and cast, time and time again, as a subservient province of China. Interestingly however, Inner Mongolia is one of the only places in the world that still uses traditional Mongolian script. While Mongolia itself adopted Cyrillic during the communist years, perhaps the Mongols of China felt they had more to prove; clinging fiercely on to their heritage, and with it, the ancient characters that still now appear on street signs across Ordos and Kangbashi. When a conglomeration of property developers began planning a new urban centre just outside the existing city of Ordos in 2003, the Kangbashi New Area, Ordos seemed set to become the futuristic jewel in China's crown of city states. However, nobody quite anticipated how quickly this new development would fall flat on its face. Deadlines weren't met, loans went unpaid, and investors pulled out before projects could be completed – leaving entire streets of unfinished buildings. The ridiculous cost of accommodation in this dream city put off many would-be inhabitants, so that even fully completed apartments became difficult to sell. Darmon Richter According to one local taxi driver I spoke to, many of those who did make the move to Kangbashi were already abandoning their homes – and breaking out of the ghost town. While some developers still labour on with their thankless construction projects, others are busy slashing prices. Typical housing prices in Kangbashi have fallen from $1,100 to $470 per square foot, over the last five years alone. Nowadays the Kangbashi district, planned to accommodate a population in excess of one million, is home to a lonely 20,000 people – leaving 98% of this 355-square kilometre site either under construction or abandoned altogether. A November 2009 report on AlJazeera exposed the city of Ordos to a worldwide audience, and the story was run the next year by Time Magazine. Pretty soon, Ordos had earned the accolade of 'China's Ghost City'. Journalists and photographers representing a number of world-renowned publications have since been to capture Kangbashi's empty streets, its row upon row of apartment blocks abandoned mid-construction. Darmon Richter Darmon Richter However, none of these reports seemed to venture far from the city centre and its adjoining streets; resulting in broad, post-apocalyptic cityscapes that left much to the imagination. The more I read about Ordos, the more I wanted to know what lay beyond these hastily fitted doors and windows; to actually see inside, and under the skin of a city that never came to be. Last year, my dream became a reality. I teamed up with Gareth from Young Pioneer Tours – a man just about crazy enough to share my fascination for this otherworldly ghost metropolis – and together we started planning our journey into Inner Mongolia.   The city of Ordos is served by the newly-built Eerduosi Airport. From the moment we got off our plane, it was apparent that someone, sometime, had made grand plans for this city. Darmon Richter The futuristically sculpted terminal building is decked out with fountains and hanging baskets, chic coffee shops and sub-lit escalators glowing in shades of green and blue. While the population of Ordos is now just 10% Mongolian to 90% Chinese, nevertheless the airport was resplendent with proud icons of a Mongolian heritage; effigies of horses and minstrels gaze down across the central concourse, while the departure hall features a vast mural, a ring of painted scenes depicting the life of Genghis Khan. For all this opulence though, the airport was close to empty. Darmon Richter Darmon Richter We took the second of two daily flights from Beijing to Eerduosi; departing from the smaller, former military airfield in the suburbs of the capital. It brought us to Inner Mongolia after dark, and we hopped onto the transfer coach headed towards Ordos city centre. We were on this luxurious coach for around half an hour, enthroned in soft reclining seats replete with cup holders, leg rests and a movie channel... all the while, half-seen hulks of concrete and metal sped past our windows, distant, shadowy shapes appearing and disappearing out of the gloom. I felt hemmed in on all sides by invisible construction sites. It was hard to make out much of our surroundings, given the bright interior lighting on the coach. On the final stretch into Ordos however, we passed by the shell of a stadium-to-be; the vast, skeletal seating areas rose up in a ring around a central playing field, lit by industrial spotlights and the regular, telltale flares of several hundred welding guns. Never in my life have I seen anything so closely resembling the second Death Star. Darmon Richter We arrived in Ordos sometime in the early hours of the morning, checked our bags into a hotel, and grabbed a beer for the road. The city centre is not a long way off completion: it has shops and apartments, cafés, bars and restaurants. For all this seeming normality however, downtown Ordos is presided over by a series of doom-struck towers, grey office buildings, flats and shopping malls – and most of them are completely empty. We walked for a few hours, past restaurants, bars, casinos and sex shops. The lights were shining bright in every establishment, but the people were nowhere to be seen. Cutting through one backstreet, we passed the pink lights of a brothel. The shop front was lined in wide, glass windows, to expose a troupe of young girls stood as if on parade in a wardrobe of matching lingerie. These dozen-or-so prostitutes numbered more than any pedestrians we'd managed to count all evening. Darmon Richter Everywhere, there seemed to be a show of readiness; of establishments with their doors thrown wide open, not just to welcome guests but also, perhaps, to prove a point. To show this city for the functional, hospitable destination that it so desperately wants to be. We tried to get something to eat at a backstreet restaurant, approaching the doorway where local kids were fighting with a water hose. "Do you have food?" we asked. "Come in, come in," they said, gesturing at a dimly lit booth within, at the fridge beside it stocked with cold noodles and soft drinks. There was no sign of an adult on the premises, no sight nor smell of a chef at work. As with so much else in Ordos, the lights were on but nobody was home. By the time we got back to our hotel, to its luxuriously oversized beds and in-room bars that featured whisky, peanuts and gas masks, we were still struggling to get to grips with this place, to make sense of the city. Through and through it felt like a construction site: a builders' canteen stretched to accommodate a full city. For working men, there were primal comforts aplenty – bars, snacks and brothels – but while the fine restaurants and casinos made a show of being ready for tourists, delegates, or better still, investors, most of them were no more than empty fronts and meaningless displays. By the light of the following morning, we got our first impression of the sheer scale of abandonment. We stopped off for a fast-food breakfast, the restaurant cowering in the shadow of the city's CBD. In place of industrious office buildings however, a series of hollow fingers rose up to the sky; the shells of would-be towers, one after another, row after row, vanishing off into the distance. Immediately above us towered what could have been the headquarters of a bank – forty floors of office space, wrapped in a shell of mirrored panels. In its un-maintained state however, these reflective scales were falling away in great swathes, to expose the bare concrete beneath. Not even finished yet, and already it needed a makeover. Darmon Richter Darmon Richter We found a mosque near the city centre, a modern, cubist structure formed out of clean, white blocks. On closer inspection, it appeared as though the temple had never yet been used; peering through the glass doors we saw nothing inside but open space, while the doors themselves were still wrapped in plastic - as though fresh out of a warehouse somewhere, and hastily assembled. Before proceeding to our main destination, we decided to get a better look around this, the older, more densely populated centre of Ordos. We found an amiable taxi driver, who was more than happy to take us past some of the city's main sights. He drove us down a long boulevard, lined with ornate lamps crafted into 1930s-style art deco figurines; past an overgrown park, and row upon row of concrete shells. Eventually we came to a halt, before a grand statue of a horse set into the middle of a roundabout. Darmon Richter "Ordos," the statue's inscription proclaimed, to nobody in particular, "The Outstanding Tourism City of China." It was almost too much to process... but as it would turn out, so far we had only glimpsed the tip of the iceberg. Nothing could have quite prepared us for the unadulterated strangeness of the Kangbashi district.   The new residential zone of Kangbashi was built on the north bank of the Wulan Mulun River, where its spacious layout, innovative monuments and striking, sculpted skyscrapers look every part the 21st century metropolis; or they would have, that is, if anybody had been living in them. "They will come," our taxi driver kept insisting, on the drive over from the old heart of Ordos. "You don't think our city is beautiful? You'll see. The people will come." His confidence was to be paraphrased by almost every local that we spoke to on that trip; a blind assurance that these beautiful buildings couldn't stay empty forever. It was inconceivable that all of this hard work might have been for nothing. We drove back along the freeway, which links old Ordos to Kangbashi, before continuing northeast towards the airport at Dongsheng. On the way we passed by the stadium again, less dramatic by the light of day, while beyond that a forest of dusty, unfinished towers fanned out from either side of the road. Cranes stood sentry over some of these construction sites, many of them rising as much as forty, fifty stories high above the desert. In contrast, the road itself was smooth and well maintained; its shoulders and central reservation decorated with well-watered shrubs, and artistic horse motifs. The taxi dropped us off at the top end of Genghis Khan Square, from where we gazed out across the desolation of Kangbashi. Around us rose the figures of khans and their royal advisors, of men, women and horses dressed in traditional Mongolian finery. Darmon Richter Darmon Richter Roughly 600 feet to the south, at the heart of a wide, open courtyard reared up two colossal horses, perhaps the most iconic of Kangbashi's monuments. Beyond the horses, this vast central plaza fed into a park, dusty sand in place of grass and with paths that fanned out to form the shape of a sunburst. Residential and corporate towers rose up in all directions – a satisfyingly symmetrical alignment of blocks and skyscrapers – while before that, hemming us in, Kangbashi's most notable works of architecture lined the paths of Genghis Khan Square. Along the left hand side, past the two rearing horses sat the Kangbashi Theatre: a curious building, its shape supposedly inspired by a traditional form of Mongolian headwear. Darmon Richter Darmon Richter To our right, the library building resembled a cluster of leaning books while beside it, the Ordos Museum sat like... well, it's hard to say exactly. Mad Architects, the aptly-named firm behind the project, have suggested that the design reflects, "the crossroads faced by the surrounding community which is striving to interpret their local traditions within the newly constructed urban context." Make of that what you will. The square around us was not completely empty. A man watched nearby, as his son flew a kite; the bright sail drifting high above the heads of the noble khans. There was very little traffic about, but the occasional car or bike would cruise past us now and again, none of them seeming to be in any particular hurry. There was a steady trickle of people moving in and out of the Ordos Museum, and we spied a few more stood around the horses' hooves; though as we drew closer, we'd notice these were dressed in the drab uniforms of street sweepers. Over the course of the day, we'd find that maintenance teams in Kangbashi outnumbered pedestrians tenfold. Ambling around the paths that lined the city centre, we passed small speakers mounted on stems, which blasted out Mongolian folk music to no one in particular. Further down the plaza, past the horses and the theatre, printed signs advertised a café and we decided to have a look inside. We took the elevator up to the top floor, where the doors opened to reveal a gaggle of giggling, school-age girls stood in a line to greet us. It looked much the same as the brothel we'd passed the night before, save that this time the girls were fully dressed. A wave of surprise and curiosity rippled through the staff when two foreigners stepped out of the lift. We were shown to a window seat, from where we looked down across the vast expanse of Genghis Khan Square. Kangbashi, without a doubt, was the strangest city I'd ever seen. We had a coffee, then a beer, as we chatted excitedly about the empty streets, the bizarre monuments beneath us. This was everything we'd seen from the photographs, a surreal, desolate metropolis; ancient Mongolia spliced with scenes from the distant future, set against the swirling sands of the Mu Us Desert. Up until this point though, we'd only seen the city from the streets, from its roads and pedestrian paths ... It was time to go deeper. We finished our drinks, and set off to do some proper exploring. Darmon Richter It was time to see the real Ordos – to see what the BBC, Al Jazeera, the New York Times et al., had, in my opinion, failed to show. It was time to get off the approved footpaths, to start opening some doors and ignoring no entry signs, as we attempted to infiltrate the world's largest ghost town. From Genghis Khan Square we turned east, crossing a patch of scrubland that I can only guess had been intended to some day burst into green grass. Soon a long, square building rose up to our right, decorated with complex ridges and textured beams along its hull. We figured it for a supermarket – though from the outside there were few clues as to what the building might contain... if it even contained anything. Darmon Richter Along this main road, a steady trickle of vehicles passed us on their way towards Dongsheng and its airport in the east. We needed to get away from the cars though, get out into the forest of unfinished towers, the shells of apartment buildings that rose out of the sand like dead trees in a drought. Turning away from the road, weaving this way and that onto the smaller, narrower backstreets, we found our way into a residential estate. The buildings were linked here by a series of winding footpaths, the roads diverted around the block to leave a pedestrianised space at its heart. Paving stones formed a track through the shifting sand, looping from one building to the next amidst towering stacks of plastic-wrapped outdoor furniture; unassembled amenities piled in every corner, as if freshly tipped from the back of a lorry. Turning the corner into a courtyard between tall, concrete towers, we passed a capsized statue: a modern, stylised figure of a mother and child, lain forgotten behind a stack of building materials. Darmon Richter   It was clear how the small square had been envisaged, as comfortable, high-rise apartments facing in towards a communal garden area. Perhaps it would have featured flowers, fountains and benches when complete – perhaps it still will, some day. Impossible to tell. Here and there between the buildings, the occasional glass-panelled box rose up out of the ground; each one of them featuring an elevator shaft or a flight of stairs heading downwards. Soon enough we found a lift shaft with a broken glass panel at the rear, and, squeezing through the gap we made our way swiftly down into the bowels of Kangbashi. Beneath the street plan, a whole lower level of the city seemed to have been set aside for parking. It made sense, keeping the cars away from these residential zones by redirecting traffic underground instead. More and more we'd see just how much thought and planning had gone into the Kangbashi New Area. Darmon Richter The lights came on as we entered, and the long, wide tunnel ahead shone in shades of silver and green. There were two, maybe three parked cars in sight – and expensive looking ones at that. Despite these few lonely residents however, the whole place still had that freshly varnished look about it: not a footprint nor a tyre mark in sight. Here and there along the tunnels, between the series of subterranean parking halls that fed one into another through a network of identical bulkhead doors, we'd see elevators leading back up towards the surface. I tried one – the lights fired up immediately, and we rode a lift right up into the building above. If you're imagining a carpeted, stainless steel elevator, perhaps even fitted with a mirror, then you'd be wrong. This lift was little more than a plywood cage, a terrifying, creaking box that seemed to wobble as it rose... as if hoisted up by a rope slung over the branch of a tree. First we had a look around the ground floor of the building; bare concrete for the most part, though all the lights came on at a touch. In the corner of a corridor, a massive fuse box was set into one raw, unplastered wall. I popped it open, the creaking cover unlocked, to reveal a vast array of crude solder joins and trailing, loose wires. I quickly snapped the lid closed again with the back of my hand. Then, plucking up the courage, I knocked on the door of an apartment. No answer. I waited a while, knocked again, then slowly turned the handle. The door opened freely, and we took a look inside – at the dusty unfinished floors, the bare gypsum walls that formed the basic foundations of what had the potential to be a spacious family flat. In the largest room, beneath the window, a children's table and chairs had been arranged, set with plastic cups and bowls and chopsticks. We tried a couple more homes – all of them the same – before making our way up to the highest level. Stepping out of the lift onto the 12th floor corridor, I found myself instinctively tiptoeing... as if sneaking past the occupants of a normal, busy building. Of course, the chances of anyone being home were next to zero; but then, the cars parked down below had presumably belonged to someone. At the end of the corridor, around the corner, a flight of steps went upwards to a simple wooden door. It seemed too large to fit its frame, and so rather than being locked the exit was fastened tight with wire; a long tangle of stiff cable had been twisted around the door handle, looped about a stair rail and then tied up into a sharp and prickly mess. It took a few minutes of bending, twisting and bloody fingers before we were finally stepping out onto the roof of the apartment building. Up until this point we'd been sheltered; contemplating only one empty street after another. From this height though, we finally started to get a sense of scale. Row after row after row of towers spread out around us, many of them no more than skeletons attended by rusty cranes. I began to realise for the first time quite how large this city was supposed to have been. As good as the view was though, we were still shielded on all sides by taller builders. What we saw of the cityscape – the desert beyond – came to us in glimpses between the looming concrete shapes pressed in on all sides. I wanted to get higher still, to escape above the horizon and look down on the ghost city as a whole. Darmon Richter But for that, we were going to need a bigger building.   Heading back down to street level, we wandered for a while through the estates. Residential towers rose up around a series of consecutive dirt bowls, each one of them sown with the seeds of utopia, each one of them a doomed and withered crop. Reaching the end of the zone we hopped a fence and crossed the road; I guess by now we were heading northeast. Darmon Richter We walked along a main street, hemmed in on all sides by shops, apartment blocks, colourful school buildings and the vast bulk of Kangbashi Hospital. The occasional car or bike hummed past, but the pavements around us were empty save for the occasional crew of street sweepers. Even now, it was hard to get one's head around the idea that all of this was uninhabited. On our right, we passed a police station. It met the typical Chinese design: a square, officious building set back behind a courtyard, a sentry box watching over the folding fence out front. It seemed hard to believe that even this station was unoccupied. I didn't know which way to turn next, so consumed as I was with a desire to explore everything. Marching headlong into the police station seemed a leap too far, however... so we tried the hospital instead. It was impossible to tell whether the building had seen use, or whether, like so much of the city, it had so far only welcomed the boots of construction crews. We decided to put it to the test. Darmon Richter Approaching the side of the hospital building we tried a small door, found it open, and ducked beneath the curtain that hung across within. Before us a narrow, grotty staircase led down several levels under the ground. We strolled on in, beneath electric lights that burned for no one, onwards and downwards to who knew what. We never did find out. A babble of shouted words tumbled down the staircase behind us, hot from the mouth of an angry security guard. We tried reasoning with him – "just a few photos, yeah?" – but it clearly wasn't going to happen. After being frogmarched back to the street by a man who could have passed as a Triad tough-guy in any Hollywood thriller, we crossed over the road, and made a beeline for our next target. One of the signs on the building opposite said something about solicitors, though this concrete shell fell a long way short of a functioning office. The ground level was boarded up, but there was a small hole punched through the thin wooden veneer - so I ducked on through and slipped inside the building. It was silent inside, a still, dusty space that could well have grown into a shopping centre in time. This first room fed through a doorway into a larger space beyond, and I swung around the corner almost headlong into a work crew. In true Chinese style, two men operated heavy tools while another five smoked and watched them. One of them looked up, caught my eye: I smiled back warmly, then backed out fast the way I had come. By now we'd walked a fair distance from our last rooftop, and the towers now surrounding us rose significantly higher than the last batch – a good 20-or-so storeys. We decided to give it another go and so we nipped across the forecourt of a bare, plastic-fronted kindergarten, and into another residential estate. Darmon Richter There were roads between the buildings this time, a couple of cars parked on corners and even one in motion; its occupants eyeing us warily as they cruised on by. We made for one of the closest towers before trying the door, finding it open, and letting ourselves in. This building was in a much better state than the last apartment block. The walls were finished, and several doors were decorated with the Chinese symbols for luck and fortune. We made straight for the lift and rode it to the top. Upstairs, an open door led into a lavish apartment hung with chandeliers and textured wallpaper; an opulent penthouse suite. There were sounds of activity inside and so we crept past quickly, before taking the last flight of steps up to the roof. The door opened at a push, and we stepped out into the sky. Darmon Richter Darmon Richter   This rooftop was smaller than the last – just a square, open space, and a second door that opened onto the whirring, rusted mechanism that powered the lift. If the view from the top of the other block had been impressive though, this one was spectacular. Ordos fell away beneath us: a wide, sweeping wasteland of empty towers and silent, disused streets. I tried looking out for signs of motion, clues to life in the metropolis. The odd car moved slowly along the main road, where it looped around the centre of Kangbashi to cross the Ordos bridge, and out towards Dongsheng – but for the most part, from this height, Kangbashi looked like a model city; its radical architecture reduced to novelty ornaments, its unfinished towers scattered like broken bricks across a sandpit. Perhaps the biggest problem that presented itself now, was deciding on our next destination. We looked about us, turning in 360 degrees to take in the bridge, the high-rises, the city centre at Genghis Khan Square, the futuristic exhibition centre, the would-be residential estates fading off row after row into the desert... and then our eyes fell across the newly-built Kangbashi sports centre. Darmon Richter The green pitch seemed to glow through the heat haze, the brightly coloured seating unfolding around it like the petals of a strange desert orchid. We made a mental note of the direction, of the landmarks that would lead us – street by street – to the city's sports ground; and then we made our way back down to the street.   Coming out of the estate and back onto the main road, at first we retraced our footsteps; back past the hospital, the building sites and the police station, back in the direction of the colourful sports grounds. When we'd passed the police station earlier, we had still been courting disbelief – trying in vain to process the desolation, the utter emptiness of Kangbashi. It simply hadn't seemed possible. Besides, a lifetime's worth of social programming had told me not to attempt to trespass on what might turn out to be a live police station. By now though, we'd passed through the stage of tentative disbelief, and into one of absolute freedom – the slow-dawning realisation that virtually everything in Kangbashi was open to be explored. So, crossing the road to the open gates, we checked the empty street around us before stepping over the threshold into the police station's forecourt. It was just as empty as we'd expected, not a car nor an officer in sight. We were just ambling across to the main building, when a voice behind us called out something in Chinese. At first, we instinctively guessed we'd been caught... but as it turned out the voice belonged to a caretaker. More than anything else, the man was simply surprised to see foreign faces here in Ordos. My companion spoke reasonable Chinese, and so we were able to have a conversation with the man. He told us he was part of the maintenance crew, and offered to give us a tour of the place. It seemed like the novelty of showing visitors around his little corner of the Ghost City was just too exciting an experience to pass up. We walked, and our new friend took great pleasure in pointing out the elaborate features around us – while explaining how much each one had cost to install. "Four thousand Quai!" he said, laughing at a large ceramic pot inlaid with traditional Mongolian figures. That's about £400. It was clear that this man saw Kangbashi as one colossal folly. He would quote prices, then wave his arms about at the empty streets, his gestures doing much to communicate the madness of such grandiose investment in a ghost town. We followed him through the station compound, past glass panes that opened onto empty offices; between the virgin buildings and through to the rear, where the police station backed onto a school. Darmon Richter A series of colourful sculptures had been placed in one corner of the yard, apparently united by the theme of apples. Isaac Newton's face appeared engraved on one giant, metal fruit – another installation bore the familiar profile of Steve Jobs. "Ten thousand Quai!" laughed our guide. He seemed to find the concept of Kangbashi hilarious; although judging from his clean-cut appearance, his smart and comfortable clothes, the ghost town nevertheless kept its workers in decent money. The man led us through a courtyard, around the back of the school buildings, and suddenly there it was: the yard opened up into a wide, grassy playing field, flanked on one side by raised seating. Darmon Richter On the edge of the grass pitch – regularly mowed, yet never used – we were pointed towards a series of bronze statues. The figures showed children in traditional Chinese dress, frozen in play as the pink silk scarves tied about their necks flapped noisily in the wind. "Fifty thousand Quai!" the man giggled, ecstatic, before explaining to us that the silk scarves were washed and replaced on a weekly basis. At this point our guide suddenly bid us farewell, explaining that he had other duties to attend to. He told us to feel welcome though, and invited us to explore the rest of the facilities. We assured him we would, before making our way towards the raised seating and the building underneath. It was a strange feeling to walk past those rows of plastic seats and know that none of them had ever been sat on; past the green grass so neatly marked with white boundary lines and penalty zones, a well-kept pitch which had never yet known a ball. A passage opened beneath and between the rows, to lead deep within the seating block. We followed it through to a pair of glass doors, marked with a sign reading, 'Young Pioneers Activity Room'. My friend Gareth, the owner of Young Pioneer Tours, burst into a childish grin as he posed for a photo beneath. Naturally the door was open (we were yet to find a single locked door in Ordos), and so we headed on inside. The first room we entered, bizarrely, appeared to be a ballet studio. Light filtered in through pink, silken drapes, to cast the mirrored walls and polished floors in an almost supernatural aura of opulence. Next door, a trophy room – shelves lined one wall in miniature cast figurines, their bases left blank and ready for inscription. We wandered from room to room, admiring the facilities. This was a fully fledged sports centre, ready to open its doors at any moment. One room held a case of basketballs, all brand new and with the smell of freshly formed rubber still clinging to them. The next was a music studio – a computer sat in one corner was hooked up to a small indoor PA system, complete with microphones and an eight-track mixing desk. Scattered about the various tables lay an assortment of trumpets, drums and guitars. As we explored, I tried to estimate the total value of the items that lay scattered about the centre: I got into the thousands before I gave up trying. It was simply baffling to think that anyone could have walked in from the street, tried any one of the unlocked doors, and wandered straight inside; exactly as we had done, in fact. The lack of security around the sports centre – around Kangbashi as a whole – was like nothing I had ever seen. But then, there simply wasn't anybody on the streets to wander straight inside. Kangbashi is so remote, so isolated, that there seemed to be an general assumption that nobody could be here without a very good reason. After all, why would thieves and vandals travel to an empty city in the Ordos Desert? After the sports ground we headed north, past unfinished statues, their scaffold still attached, into a hidden courtyard where a vast monument reared up above us: a silver globe, adorned by a suspiciously Soviet-esque star. Eventually we emerged onto a main road, reaching the space-age silver domes of the Kangbashi Exhibition Centre. Taking a quick look inside, we stumbled across locals engaged in fierce pingpong tournaments. I picked up a brochure which touted Ordos as the 'Brave City of The Future'. Our last stop was a restaurant: we'd been walking for a full day, and it was time to refuel. A sign near the exhibition centre pointed towards a fast food restaurant and we followed it to a seemingly unfinished building, whose automatic doors nevertheless sprung open at our approach. We walked inside to be met by silence. The place was set up ready for service, tables laid and lights burning bright... but there was nobody to be seen. Gareth inspected the menu as I ducked behind the bar, checking out the wide range of beverages on offer. Amusing as it was to entertain the notion of a free bar, we were both painfully hungry – and so we resolved to try another floor. Darmon Richter The lift took us up one level, to an open-plan office: desks and computers, water coolers and potted plants, but not a sign of life. We had almost given up by the time we reached the third floor. The lift doors opened in silence, and then suddenly we were being welcomed in by a team of uniformed staff. I found myself wondering how long they had stood on ceremony, waiting like automatons for a customer to arrive.   As we waited for our noodles – and after that, the flight back to Beijing – we reflected on our time in the Ghost City. Over the course of our 24 hours in Ordos, we had tried every door within reach – and not one of them had been locked. We'd seen virtually no one out of uniform, and no sign whatsoever of the authorities. Even the few security guards we'd met had been so surprised at the appearance of foreigners, as to have more or less forgotten their duties. The homes and facilities, meanwhile, ranged from concrete shells to sheer luxury; and yet, in all that time we saw nothing with the appearance of having been lived in. The thing that really got me thinking though, was the sheer size of the city. If the freedom we'd experienced was anything to go by, it would take weeks – months, even – to explore the whole metropolis. Our day had been spent on rooftops, in office buildings and sports halls... but had we simply picked another direction, it could just as easily have been factories, colleges or law courts; churches, mosques, prisons, pools, shopping centres or train depots. I've been to ghost towns before, and large ones at that – just last September I took a tour of Pripyat, for example, in Ukraine's Chernobyl Exclusion Zone. Kangbashi is like nothing else, however. While perhaps this unfinished city is less elegant, less historical, less tragic, less decayed or moreover less photogenic than sites such as Pripyat, the sense of freedom it offers is unique. While I'm interested in every aspect of urban exploration, for me, the emphasis has always been on the exploration part... and not only is Ordos 200 times larger than the infamous city of Pripyat, but it is virtually unknown to foreigners. For an urban explorer then, Ordos is a vast, alien playground that offers nothing but discovery. Darmon Richter Suffice to say, I can see myself visiting Ordos again. This article originally appeared at The Bohemian Blog.  Copyright 2014. Follow The Bohemian Blog on Twitter.
REUTERS/Larry Downing The "Grand Bargain" — the mythical agreement between Democrats and Republicans to cut entitlement spending — has died. The cuts to Social Security that were included in President Barack Obama's budget last year were viewed as a necessary olive branch to Republicans at the time. Many Democrats in Washington, including the president, thought it should be on the table to strike a deal — the elusive "grand bargain" on the budget. A year later, the paradigm has completely swung. Obama will drop the proposal from his budget this year. Led by Sens. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), and Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), many Democrats now not only oppose the cuts, but also favor an expansion of Social Security benefits.  "It is really amazing how much the conversation has shifted," one Senate Democratic aide told Business Insider. Key members of both the House and Senate Democratic caucuses — including Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi — applauded Obama on Thursday for removing the proposal from his budget.  A lot of the credit, people on and off the hill say, goes to outside progressive groups who began the momentum against the "chained CPI" cost-of-living adjustment, which cuts Social Security benefits by recalculating the growth of benefits with an index that doesn't rise as quickly as inflation.  Though many Democrats in Washington were willing to sacrifice the cuts in the name of the "grand bargain," progressive groups never thought they should be on the chopping block. In turn, it took much of Washington until Thursday to realize that the elusive grand bargain was finally dead after a four-year run. The progressive groups say that they were bolstered by the dose of reality outside Washington, and by vast opposition to the cuts from Americans.  Becky Bond, the vice president and political director of the progressive group CREDO, is hard-pressed to remember a quicker shift on an important — and often divisive — issue. "This is an issue where Republicans and Democrats agreed, but it was separated in some sense," Bond, CREDO's political director, told Business Insider. "Inside the beltway, Democrats and Republicans in the White House and on the hill agreed we should cut Social Security benefits to cut a deal. But outside the beltway, Democrats and Republicans agreed, too — but they agreed on the opposite." CREDO delivered more than 1.3 million petition signatures and 51,000 calls to the White House and members of Congress pushing against the possibility of Social Security cuts. Democracy for America, the group founded by former presidential candidate Howard Dean, delivered 2.3 million signatures soon after Obama included the proposal in his budget last year.  AP PhotoThe Progressive Change Campaign Committee was one group that put the Social Security cuts at the forefront of its advocacy. And in July, it led a big strategic shift that would keep swinging the conversation — it decided to "stop playing defense" and go on offense, leading the push to expand Social Security benefits. It rallied in support of bills to strengthen Social Security benefits. One such proposal was a bill from the liberal Sens. Harkin and Brown, which would increase benefits by undoing the cap on payroll taxes at $113,700. The middle of November served as a turning point for the shift. On Nov. 17, Warren announced her support of Social Security expansion in a speech on the Senate floor. With Warren's name and a bigger push, more media outlets began taking notice. In the lead-up to the release of Obama's budget, Rep. Allyson Schwartz (D-Pa.), who is running for governor in Pennsylvania, spearheaded an effort in the House against the Social Security cuts. She led 117 members of the House in sending a letter to Obama, urging him to not use seniors as a "bargaining chip." "This is a huge progressive victory — and greatly increases Democratic chances of taking back the House and keeping the Senate," PCCC co-founder Stephanie Taylor said after Obama announced he was dropping the cuts from his budget on Thursday. "Now, the White House should join Elizabeth Warren and others in pushing to expand Social Security benefits to keep up with the rising cost of living." Indeed, the final nail in the coffin of the grand bargain may have surprised some in Washington. But the people who realized it long ago are already looking ahead. "We have changed the conversation in Washington," Neil Sroka, the communications director for Democracy for America, told Business Insider.  "To the point where, these 'Very Serious People' know that it is just not an acceptable view in the Democratic Party today to be talking about cutting earned-benefit programs that people have been contributing to their entire lives. ... So, let's start talking about what Americans actually want — which is expanding these programs." FREE AppDownload
The recent slowdown in economic activity has many investors reassessing the positive outlook on the U.S. economy that seemed to be the consensus view headed into 2014. Unseasonally harsh winter weather has caused disruptions across the country over the last two months, and has been assigned some of the blame for the weakness in December and January economic data points like employment, retail sales, housing, construction, and industrial production. Goldman Sachs economist David Mericle estimates a little more than half of the slowdown can be accounted for by the effects of extreme weather. NOAA, Goldman Sachs Global Investment ResearchAfter all, as Mericle puts it, "Snowstorms have been more frequent than usual: of the 52 snowstorms ranked as high-impact on the NESIS scale since 1956, five have occurred this winter." Aside from bad weather, however, there are likely a few other forces at work causing the economy to slow. "We see much of the recent weakness as payback for unsustainably strong growth in the second half of last year," say JPMorgan economists Michael Feroli and Robert Mellman. "In particular, a step-down in the pace of inventory accumulation was an inevitable headwind to growth in the first quarter, and the rate of export growth also appeared due for a pullback. While that was expected, and built into our forecast, two unforeseen developments may also be weighing on aggregate expenditures early this year. First, contrary to most expectations Congress did not reauthorize extended unemployment benefits, thereby depressing income and perhaps spending growth early this year, and second, the lapsing of favorable tax treatment for capital spending may have had a greater impact than we estimated in pulling forward capex into 2013." BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research, Bureau of Economic AnalysisAs Feroli and Mellman point out, the inventory story is fairly well known, given that an acceleration in stockbuilding was a major driver of GDP growth in the second half of 2013. "Inventory investment can’t keep accelerating every quarter," says Ethan Harris, an economist at BofA Merrill Lynch. "Assuming a stable inventory-sales ratio and assuming steady growth in final sales of about 3.5%, inventories should be growing about $60 billion per quarter. In other words, in Q4 inventories were growing about $67 billion faster than is sustainable over the medium-term. Getting from here to there would mean a 1.7 percentage point headwind to growth over the coming quarters. The correction could be even more severe if the recent inventory building is unintended, triggering below-normal inventory building later." The other two factors cited by Feroli and Mellman — the expiration of emergency unemployment compensation and the expiration of tax credits that allowed companies to write off 50% of equipment purchases as an incentive to boost capital expenditure — are a bit harder to analyze at this stage. In fact, if the January jobs report is any indication, the former development may have actually given some of the employment metrics a boost. However, it is also easy to see the negative impact such an event could have on consumer spending, for example. The effects of the latter development — the expiration of business investment tax credits — seem equally unclear for the time being. This did appear to be the story of the November durable goods orders data, which showed an explosion in core capex when the numbers were first reported in December, suggesting companies were pulling spending forward to take advantage of the program. However, the release of December durable goods orders data in January subsequently revised away nearly half of the November rise in spending on core capex, while December registered an outright decline. January durable goods orders data will be released on Thursday at 8:30 AM ET. Economists predict another decline. Pay attention to revisions to the December data — they could shed more light on the effects of the expiring tax credit on business investment. FREE AppDownload
Bitcoin prices on MtGox are up about 200% this weekend to more than $300, reaching as high as $349. The reason appears to be reports that the exchange has begun testing restarting Bitcoin withdrawals. They've been suspended for more than two weeks because of a software glitch in Gox's customer wallets. The surge comes after MtGox prices briefly dipped below $100 Thursday. Many in the Bitcoin community still dislike MtGox for their unresponsiveness during the withdrawal suspension — recent protests, though they've apparently been halted by Japanese police, caused the exchange to move offices — and even if withdrawals do resume, MtGox still faces complaints that withdrawals in all denominations, not just Bitcoin, remain slow.  MtGox no longer figures in Coindesk's calculation of the average Bitcoin price, which currently stands at $619. Bitcoin price swings are highly subject to rumor and speculation, and this is especially on MtGox. So the rally could evaporate with equal force. Anyway here's the chart: ClarkMoody FREE AppDownload
    Durand Guion, vice president and men's fashion director at Macy's Inc., explains the difference between men's shoe styles and how to get beyond wearing just black or brown. Produced by Alana Kakoyiannis. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser. Keep up with BI Video on Facebook and YouTube FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bob StrongGeorge SorosFRANKFURT (Reuters) - George Soros wants to invest in Europe's financial sector, according to a German magazine's interview with the billionaire investor on Sunday. "I believe in the euro," weekly Der Spiegel quoted him as saying. "Therefore my investment team is looking forward to make a lot of money soon in Europe by, for example, pumping money in banks which urgently need capital," he added, noting the euro zone needs this kind of private investment right now. Soros, who founded Soros Fund Management, is one of the hedge fund industry's most closely watched investors. Soros told Der Spiegel his management team was also considering investing in Greece. "The economic conditions in the country have improved. The question now is whether one can earn money there on a sustainable basis. If that is possible we will invest," he said. Soros renewed his criticism against Germany's policies to save the euro, saying the austerity measures Chancellor Angela Merkel had forced upon Europe had aggravated the crisis. Euro zone financial markets have calmed down in the meantime, but a sustainable recovery still does not exist, he said. "I fear that the euro zone could experience a long phase of economic stagnation similar to Japan's in the past 25 years," he said. (Reporting by Marilyn Gerlach; Editing by Louise Heavens) FREE AppDownload
He's become a successful CEO and a generous person, but ten years ago, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg used to have something of an attitude. For example, he used to carry a business card that read, "I'm CEO…Bitch." Once, back then, Zuckerberg played a pretty nasty prank on top venture capital firm Sequoia Capital. It was 2004, and Zuckerberg still wasn't convinced that he wanted to run Facebook forever. He thought maybe another startup idea of his, called Wirehog, would be a bigger success.  So he was out talking to venture capitalists about raising money. Sequoia Capital reached out to him. Zuckerberg had no intention of considering an investment from Sequoia. That's because Zuckerberg had hired, and become friends with, Napster co-founder Sean Parker. Sequoia had invested in Parker's startup Plaxo, and it hadn't gone well. There was bad blood. But even though there was no way Zuckerberg was going to take Sequoia money, he took the meeting anyway. He had a prank in mind. There were three elements to it: First, Zuckerberg showed up intentionally late to the 8 a.m. meeting. Second, he showed up late wearing … pajamas. Third, Zuckerberg walked to the front of the room and presented a PowerPoint deck titled "The Top Ten Reasons You Should Not Invest." In the style of David Letterman, he began to tick his way down the list. Some of those reasons: Obviously, Sequoia did not invest in Wirehog.  It never invested in Facebook either. Even by 2010, Zuckerberg felt bad about the prank. He told David Kirkpatrick, author of "The Facebook Effect," "I assume we really offended them and now I feel really bad about that." Yesterday, Zuckerberg made amends. Yesterday, Facebook announced that it would acquire messaging startup WhatsApp for $19 billion. Guess who was WhatsApp's sole venture investor — according to the New York Times, owner of about ~18% of the company? Sequoia Capital. The firm Mark Zuckerberg pranked when he was a kid will make about $3 billion dollars on the deal. Update: An earlier version of this story said that Sequoia owned 40% of Whatsapp, based on a Forbes article. We updated it with information from a New York Times story. Thanks to CityNotes CEO Dan Frommer for reminding me of the Sequoia prank, and to David Kirkpatrick for telling the story of the prank so well in "The Facebook Effect." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonA woman wearing a mask makes her way amid the heavy haze in Beijing February 23, 2014.  Beijing suffered some of its worst smog levels ever starting Friday, when the Chinese government raised the city’s four-tiered smog alert to “orange,” the second-highest level. The alert prompted schools to cancel outside sports and health officials to issue advisories suggesting children and the elderly stay indoors. The alert was raised to Orange on Friday as heavy smog rolled into China’s capital, blanketing the metropolis in a thick, gray haze that is expected to last for the next three days. According to the Associated Press, officials were reluctant to raise the urgency level because it would be difficult to enforce certain measures – like taking half of the city’s cars off the road – meant to alleviate high levels of pollution, but public outcry on the Internet and in the media pressured the government to issue the warning. "When the alert is at a low level, the measures are not effective, but those for the high-level alert are not feasible," Ma Jun, of the non-governmental Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs in Beijing, told the Associated Press. "The government is reluctant to raise the alert level." Beijing’s tiered air pollution alert system was introduced in October. But despite periods of heavy and dangerous smog, the plan’s stricter measures have never been implemented. The orange alert also led to bans on barbecues, fireworks and even halted demolition work in the city. Reuters reports that if the pollution urgency alert is raised to red – the highest level – the government would be forced to close schools and yank half the city’s vehicles off the road, based on the last number on their license plates. According to Reuters, city officials sent inspectors to several factories around the capital and warned them that any emissions violations they found would be met with fines. If the current level of air pollution in Beijing lasts for more than three days, the government will have to raise the urgency level to red. In January, Beijing officials recorded dangerous levels of poisonous smog. Density readings that measure the amount of particulate matter in the air exceeded 500 micrograms per cubic meter – about 20 times as high as what the World Health Organization considers safe. Over the past several decades, as China has rapidly developed, many tons of pollutants have been spewed into the air. Health officials estimate that China’s air pollution is killing hundreds of thousands of people every year. Between 2002 and 2011, lung cancer cases in Beijing nearly doubled. The government has issued several statements about its plans to curb China’s air pollution problem, including spending 982 billion yuan ($162 billion USD) to clean up rivers and target primary sources of airborne pollutants, but the benefits of these measures are years down the road. FREE AppDownload
Wikipedia YOUNG PEOPLE, EVEN those with good jobs and mortgage approval from banks, face an unequal struggle to buy a home right now. Out-gunned by rival bidders armed with cash they are trying to buy houses and apartments in a shrunken market which has long since ceased to work. If you want to know how bad this can get, go to London where purchasers are  paying prices north of Stg£500k for former council flats in gentrified parts of the East End and where young buyers are now being asked to make bids for houses and apartments without being allowed to inspect them first. In Dublin the frustration felt in a market suffering from an acute supply shortage is aggravated by the return of endless over-dinner conversations about soaraway prices in prestige districts and by the unwelcome return of property puff-writing to the big newspapers. The familiar philistine hyperbole of the Tiger years is back. This time it’s not in a market pumped up by limitless amounts of democratically available low-cost credit. It’s in a market where the rich and the professional elites (financial services and IT whizzes, overseas buyers and consultant doctors) hold all the high-value cards in the deck. Some 10,000 properties changed hands in Greater Dublin last year according to the national property register. That’s not half enough to meet demand. And unless the government acts the problem will get worse, not better. TRACKER MORTGAGES The Irish Banking Federation claims 54% of mortgages at end 2012 were ‘trackers’, the vast majority priced at a small margin above the ECB base rate which is now a paltry 0.25%.  Others think the number is well in excess of 60% with AIB, Bank of Ireland, Ulster Bank and PTSB carrying €70bn worth of the loss-making loans. The problem is that trackers are a thing of the past, now unobtainable. Nobody holding an-ECB linked tracker is going to forfeit it by moving home and replacing it with a new, variable rate mortgage carrying a coupon which is up to 3% per annum higher. Counting buy-to-let mortgages there are 830,000 home loans in the country. So if the 60% figure is correct some half a million of these homes are off the market more or less permanently. NEGATIVE EQUITY Some official estimates suggest 400,000 mortgaged homes are in negative equity. That is to say the outstanding debt to the bank exceeds the market value of the property. Sell such a property and you crystallise a permanent liability with no residual matching asset. The bulk of this property – some 300,000 units – was probably bought during the overheated market from 2004 to 2007. A lot of these borrowers will also fall into the ‘tracker’ mortgage group. Will the banks ultimately be forced to split the cost of picking up the tab for negative equity with the borrower? Persistent reports suggest that AIB (and others) are doing this already. Faced by uncertainty over how the banks will jump, owners who are in negative equity won’t be willing sellers in the short term. Many will hold off, hoping that the idea of cutting a deal with your lender will become the norm and, simultaneously, hoping that the market will continue to improve thereby floating them away from their uncovered debts. Taking the prevalence of trackers and the negative equity problem together a significant part of the housing stock is not for sale. This is happening at a time when the number of new house completions nationally has withered away to less than 9,000 a year or 10% of peak levels achieved during the boom. The forward outlook for construction remains poor, even if indices of sectoral sentiment are improving. The number of planning permissions being sought across the entire construction sector is less than a quarter of peak levels. Despite rhetoric from the banks about their willingness to lend the main banks’ exposure to the housing market continues to decline by about 5% a year in net terms. More than half of house purchases in some districts are being made by cash buyers who can shut out purchasers who must get clearance for home loans from the banks. To add to the complexity of a market which is not satisfying demand and which won’t do so anytime soon there is the issue of householders who are deep in arrears on their housing loans. Some 150,000 mortgages are in arrears, of which 107,000 are over 90 days in arrears. Defaulting loans account for 16.4% of mortgages provided to owner occupiers and for 26.6% of loans used to purchase buy-to-lets. The application of codes of conduct by almost all lenders in the housing market, effectively delaying re-possession of property in both categories, must limit any tendency towards distressed selling by mortgage holders who are ‘in over their heads’. In other housing markets, such as the US, such property might simply be put up for sale.  Here many homeowners may be holding on to property: some 80,000 of the home loans in arrears are behind for periods in excess of 360 days. The government has also been pushing hard for banks to agree arrangements for ‘permanent restructuring’ with distressed borrowers. These arrangements include extended loan terms, mortgage splitting and arrears capitalisation. Very little analysis appears to have been done on the impact such arrangements might have on future mobility within the housing market. And this is not a simple issue. The official policy of forbearance clearly produces social gains: lower levels of homelessness, the sustaining of family units and the avoidance of damaging social dislocation. No matter which way you look in the big urban centres, supply is a big problem that’s here to stay. Is there a solution? So far, there are the usual prosaic ‘solutions’ on offer. Like suggestions to Dublin’s four local authorities that they should speed up the planning process or that they should facilitate the development of infill sites. There are even suggestions that some unwanted ‘commercial’ property be converted to ‘residential’. But the elephant in the (planning) room remains untackled. That is the need for a strategic programme of high-rise development in chosen districts. It is, of course, the only way to avoid urban sprawl and the attendant 40-mile commutes. It is also the way to ensure the most efficient use of expensive items of public infrastructure like suburban trains and light rail. Sustained economic growth will progressively unravel the problem of negative equity, but paradoxes abound in this area. Employment is already growing by 2% a year: more growth means more jobs and this means higher demand for housing. And this, in turn, means more expensive housing. Which may leave you with a vicious circle. On tracker mortgages the government has tried to find an EU-backed solution, but only to half the problem. The idea being mooted is to remove the loss-making trackers from the banks and put them in a special purpose vehicle whose funding would come from low cost European bond issuance. This would solve a financial headache for the banks but it would not improve the mobility within the housing market of those with tracker mortgages. Surely the best way to do this is for the government/EU/banks to offer a lump sum ‘bounty’ to the mortgage holder every time an existing tracker is extinguished. In other words, if you pay off a tracker and exchange it for a variable rate mortgage part of your old debt should simply be written off. There is no point in leaving a problem to market forces if market forces cannot operate. Mistakes made in the past by banks, government and consumers coupled with the issue of legacy debt will immobilise many consumers indefinitely unless action is taken. Cheap European money and banks obsessed with market share created the credit bubble and the associated asset price bubble. Both must help government find a solution. Don’t forget that EU promise of special help for Ireland made on the final weekend of June 2012. One thing is certain, radical ideas are needed right now, not in five years’ time. Otherwise young people won’t be able to buy apartments and houses in a marketplace where there is no great tradition of providing high quality rented accommodation on long term leases. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ismail Zitouny  TRIPOLI (Reuters) - Investing in Libyan stocks may sound like an absurd idea at a time when the North African country is descending into chaos and armed militias seize oil ports or ministries at will. Ever since the ouster of Muammar Gaddafi in 2011, Libya's government has been struggling to establish law and order and assert control over a vast desert nation awash with arms. But despite the turmoil, Libya's stock market is getting ready for the first launch of Islamic investment funds, the most prominent bourse debut since the eight-month uprising. Authorities also hope a regulator, another novelty for Libya, will bring transparency to an opaque market and put it on the radar of risk-willing investors. A recent sell-off has made Libyan stocks cheaper than other regional bourses. Major banks were once worth as much as 25 Libyan dinars ($20) a share, but now cost less than 10. Still, even bourse officials admit that it will be hard to sell a country making headlines with political infighting, shootings and hardline Islamists roaming the streets. "We need stability," said Ahmed Karoud, the energetic bourse director, whose office is almost as large as the trading room. Officials hope the turbulence in the OPEC producer will calm down at some point, enabling the economy to grow. Libya badly needs reconstruction after the devastating civil war. The $55 billion budget calls for new airports, universities and hospitals, but political paralysis has blocked spending. Despite the turmoil, Libya is a potentially rich nation, sitting on Africa's largest proven oil reserves. Western brands such as Nike and Marks &amp; Spencer have set shop in the same upmarket Tripoli district as the stock market. REGIONAL MINNOW The Libyan bourse is tiny even by regional standards with a market value of around $3 billion, compared with its Cairo counterpart's $70 billion and Casablanca's $50 billion. In the Arab world, only the Khartoum and Damascus stock exchanges are smaller. Libya has only 11 stocks, two fewer than in the Gaddafi era, mostly banks and insurance companies. When Libya set up the bourse in 2007, it wanted to attract capital after years of isolation. But foreigners were reluctant to commit money due to corruption, currency curbs and arbitrary rulings from Gaddafi and his inner circle. Though the bourse treats foreigners on an equal basis with Libyan investors, they account for only 1.5 percent of trades. One problem is that the central bank makes it difficult to transfer hard currency out of Libya, something the bourse is trying to change, Karoud told Reuters. The bourse now hopes for a fillip from Islamic funds tapping into a new market. Parliament has ruled that banks must comply with Islamic law, with interest payments banned by 2015. Two Islamic real estate funds are in the works. The first issue worth 165 million Libyan dinars is expected in April, with a projected annual return of 20 percent. A second fund worth 300 million dinars will follow a few months later, said Karoud. He said several firms are planning to list pending final regulatory approval. Authorities have been mulling the float of large state firms such as cell operator Libyana, which would bring liquidity and end the dominance of banking stocks. But plans have been delayed as any sale offer would throw up the sensitive question of job cuts at the overstaffed firms. One firm that plans to float in 2015 is HB Group, a holding company with stakes in an array of retail and financial units. "We don't want to float before the overall political and economic environment is in place," said HB Group's chairman, Husni Bey, who says he still believes in the bourse. "It is just a question of time and it (the bourse) will move." "WILD MONEY" Still, foreigners remain wary. Gary van Staden, senior political analyst at South Africa's NKB Independent Economists, said institutional interest in Libya was low as other African markets offered lower-risk returns. "However, I believe Libya has a long-term future brighter than the current environment suggests so it may just be a matter of timing for the serious money to look at Libya," he said. "But in the meanwhile there will be those with some wild money to invest and Libya may offer attractive returns to mitigate the risk." The biggest problem is the lack of liquidity. Some stocks move little, as a bored dealer in the trading hall points out. "We've been open for more than hour today but we have only had two deals so far," he said, sitting in a row of desks with several empty chairs assigned to rival brokerages. Daniel Broby, chief investment officer at UK frontier asset manager Silk Invest, said the conversion to Islamic law might help outdated state banks to move towards a more viable business model, but also e sleepy bourse needed more action. "We looked at it in the past and decided then it was too illiquid with not enough depth," Broby said. For Libyan investors, the bourse has taken them on a painful journey since it reopened in March 2012. Libya's chaos knocked the market down by 25 percent in 2013, according to Karoud. It has lost some 40 percent since its 2007 launch. "Can you see this? Is this acceptable?" said gold trader Miftah Shibl, struggling to believe the latest price quotes displayed on a large screen in the reception hall. He said he had bought shares worth 15,000 dinars a year ago, some of which have lost 40 percent. "I had no big expectations but wanted to diversify my savings," he said, blaming weak government institutions for the bourse decline. ($1 = 1.2353 Libyan dinars) (Editing by Alistair Lyon) FREE AppDownload
If you ever wonder what’s fueling America’s staggering inequality, ponder Facebook’s acquisition of the mobile messaging company WhatsApp for $19 billion. That’s the highest price paid for a startup in history. It’s $3 billion more than Facebook raised when it was first listed, and more than twice what Microsoft paid for Skype. (To be precise, $12 billion of the $19 billion will be in the form of shares in Facebook, $4 billion will be in cash, and $3 billion in restricted stock to WhatsApp staff, which will vest in four years.) Given that gargantuan amount, you might think WhatsApp is a big company. You’d be wrong. It has 55 employees, including its two young founders, Jan Koum and Brian Acton. Whatsapp’s value doesn’t come from making anything. It doesn’t need a large organization to distribute its services or implement its strategy. It value comes instead from two other things that require only a handful of people. First is its technology — a simple but powerful app that allows users to send and receive text, image, audio and video messages through the Internet. The second is its network effect: The more people use it, the more other people want and need to use it in order to be connected. To that extent, it’s like Facebook — driven by connectivity.   Whatsapp’s worldwide usage has more than doubled in the past nine months, to 450 million people — and it’s growing by around a million users every day. On December 31, 2013, it handled 54 billion messages (making its service more popular than Twitter, now valued at about $30 billion.) How does it make money? The first year of usage is free. After that, customers pay a small fee. At the scale it’s already achieved, even a small fee generates big bucks. And if it gets into advertising it could reach more eyeballs than any other medium in history. It already has a database that could be mined in ways that reveal huge amounts of information about a significant percentage of the world’s population. The winners here are truly big winners. WhatsApp’s fifty-five employees are now enormously rich. Its two founders are now billionaires. And the partners of the venture capital firm that financed it have also reaped a fortune. And the rest of us? We’re winners in the sense that we have an even more efficient way to connect with each other. But we’re not getting more jobs. In the emerging economy, there’s no longer any correlation between the size of a customer base and the number of employees necessary to serve them. In fact, the combination of digital technologies with huge network effects is pushing the ratio of employees to customers to new lows (WhatsApp’s 55 employees are all its 450 million customers need). Meanwhile, the ranks of postal workers, call-center operators, telephone installers, the people who lay and service miles of cable, and the millions of other communication workers, are dwindling — just as retail workers are succumbing to Amazon, office clerks and secretaries to Microsoft, and librarians and encyclopedia editors to Google.    Productivity keeps growing, as do corporate profits. But jobs and wages are not growing. Unless we figure out how to bring all of them back into line – or spread the gains more widely – our economy cannot generate enough demand to sustain itself, and our society cannot maintain enough cohesion to keep us together. FREE AppDownload
