Thomson ReutersBank of Japan Governor Kuroda attends the Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson HoleJACKSON HOLE Wyo. (Reuters) - The Bank of Japan may have to pursue its aggressive monetary policy easing for "some time" to fully vanquish deflation, BoJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said on Saturday.Speaking at a global central banking conference here, Kuroda said the central bank's efforts to overcome deflation by stimulating Japan's economy with large-scale asset purchases was proving effective.He added, however, that the public was not yet convinced Japan's central bank would hit its 2 percent inflation target. Creating that expectation was necessary to get firms to raise wages - a key step in Japan's long war with deflation, he said."We have committed ourselves to continuing the increasingly accommodative stance until the 2 percent inflation target is met and maintained in a sustainable manner," Kuroda said. "That means inflation expectations are anchored to 2 percent ... (and) that may take some more time."The BoJ deployed an intense burst of monetary stimulus last April, when it pledged to double its money base with a quantitative easing program of asset purchases. Kuroda wants to accelerate consumer inflation to 2 percent in roughly two years. Japan has been mired in 15 years of grinding deflation.The program was initially successful, with consumer inflation having recently hit 1.3 percent, excluding the impact of an April sales tax hike. Inflation is expected to slow in the coming months as the boost from a weak yen on import costs begins to fade.Speaking on a panel alongside central bankers from Brazil and Britain, Kuroda said public inflation expectations are moving up gradually but still low at around 1 percent.Low long-term interest rates will likely not rise until the 2 percent target is reached, he said, adding that the BoJ's 2 percent inflation target, once met, could serve as a benchmark for wage negotiations.Turning to labor markets, which was the focus of the high-profile Jackson Hole conference, Kuroda said Japan is showing "significant improvement," though it still faces challenges including a large share of part-time workers in the service sector.The quantitative easing stimulus is helping Japan escape from a deflationary cycle of falling wages and demand, he said, adding that the BoJ is trying to manage the program to avoid any "abrupt shock" to markets.He also said Japan needs a favorable work environment for woman and older workers to help counter its declining labor force.Bank of England Deputy Governor Ben Broadbent, speaking on the same panel, said in a prepared speech that slow wage growth is not certain to pick up soon in Britain, despite signs of skills shortages. He added that the BoE will not raise rates until there is a clear prospect of stronger wage growth.In separate remarks, Broadbent said the BoE's new financial stability goals were not in conflict with its inflation and growth goals. He also said there are potential but surmountable "coordination issues" between the BoE's new financial stability committee and other bank functions."There is not a first-mover advantage to any of the bodies. They meet pretty regularly and share three members," Broadbent said.(Additional reporting by David Milliken in London; Writing by Jonathan Spicer and Michael Flaherty; Editing by Paul Simao)   FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBenjamin Broadbent, Deputy Governor of the Bank of England, arrives at the Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson HoleJACKSON HOLE Wyo. (Reuters) - There are potential "coordination issues" between the Bank of England's (BoE) new financial stability committee and other bank functions, a senior BoE official said on Saturday, adding that these issues can be resolved. "There is not a first-mover advantage to any of the bodies. They meet pretty regularly and share three members," Bank of England Deputy Governor Ben Broadbent said at the Federal Reserve's annual central banking conference here. Bank of England Governor Mark Carney announced in late June a major reorganization of the central bank, which included a newly empowered financial stability division. The move was meant to help contain risks from the housing market. Broadbent on Saturday said the new financial stability goals at the central bank were not in conflict with its inflation and growth goals.   (Reporting by Howard Schneider; Additional reporting by Michael Flaherty; Editing by Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
Steve Heap via Shutterstock31,000 single-family homes were flipped across America in Q2 2014 for an average gross profit of $46,000, according to latest report from RealtyTrac.  Flipping refers to the homes that were bought and sold within twelve months of purchase. It accounted for 4.6% of all U.S. single-family home sales, down 6.2% from a year ago. These speculators saw a 21% gross return on initial investment.  “Flippers no longer have the luxury of 20 to 30 percent annual price gains to pad their profits," Daren Blomquist, vice president at RealtyTrac said in a press release. "As the market softens, successful flippers will need to focus on finding properties that they can buy at a discount and efficiently add value to.” But that doesn't mean there aren't opportunities out there anymore. We drew on the report to highlight the 12 metros where investors made the biggest return on initial investment in the second quarter. Note: All data is for the second quarter. FREE AppDownload
Monday through Thursday at the Monarch Room in New York City, executive chef Michael Citarella prepares his off-the-menu burger, the Monarch Burger. It's 8 ounces of all-natural, ultra-premium beef ground from a single steer with a 20% fat ratio. It's served on a toasted caraway-seeded bun with aged cheddar, bibb lettuce, beefsteak tomatoes, and Monarch's special sauce. We visited Michael's kitchen, where he showed us how to make the juiciest burger right in your own home.  Produced by Sam Rega. Additional camera by Justin Gmoser. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
AP There will not be a repeat of last year's federal government shutdown, Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wisconsin), the chair of the House Budget Committee, told Business Insider in an interview Saturday. When it returns in September, Congress will have a handful of work days — likely between eight and 12 — during which it needs to tackle two bills that need to be addressed by a Sept. 30 deadline.  The first is a continuing resolution to keep the government operating and prevent it from shutting down. The second, which some have speculated could be thrown into the continuing-resolution debate, is a bill that would reauthorize the charter of the Export-Import Bank, the future of which has been hotly debated among Republicans in Congress. Some Senate aides had thrown around the possibility of Senate Democrats could attach the bank's reauthorization to the continuing resolution, forcing another game of chicken between House Republicans and Senate Democrats with days to go before another shutdown. Ryan is no fan of the Export-Import Bank, telling Business Insider it's a "chapter in the story of crony capitalism." But he said he expects the fight over the bank to linger into next year, with the likely outcome being a short-term reauthorization. "Many of us who are critical of the bank feel that the wisest course is to carry this fight into next year," said Ryan, whose new book, "The Way Forward," was released this week. "No, there will not be a government shutdown," Ryan added. "If there is a government shutdown, it'll be because the Democrats brought it about." That likely means the Republican-controlled House will pass a short-term reauthorization of the bank's charter, as well as a continuing resolution to keep the government funded. This outcome would help Republicans in a couple ways — it would remove the possibility of a damaging government shutdown a little more than a month before crucial midterm elections. And if Republicans retake a Senate majority in those elections this November, it would make for an easier path toward potentially scrapping the bank's charter next year. "If Republicans win the Majority, it would create the possibility of either major reforms or a deauthorization in an entirely Republican Congress fairly soon," a Senate Republican aide told Business Insider this week. AP The bank provides direct loans, guarantees, and credit insurance to aid foreign purchasers in buying American-made goods. The need for its reauthorization has triggered massive debate within the Republican Party and has created unusual alliances in Washington between the White House and Republican establishment-friendly groups like the Chamber of Commerce. President Barack Obama began a furious White House push for reauthorization on Saturday, making the bank the theme of his weekly address. Along with Ryan, powerful members of the Republican House opposed to renewing the bank's charter include new House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy and House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell also plans to vote against the bank's reauthorization next month, he told Politico this week.  In the interview with Business Insider, Ryan ticked off the reasons many in the Republican Party are opposed to renewing the bank's charter on a long-term basis. He said most of the bank's beneficiaries are big businesses, such as Boeing, Caterpillar, and General Electric. The bank's support, he said, goes to the powerful while small businesses get crowded out, and all at a risk to taxpayers. "You have big government and big business in concert with one another," Ryan said. "Its success goes to the connected, to the powerful. And it provides benefits with taxpayer dollars that most small businesses don't have a chance of getting. I believe that as conservatives, we should be pro-market, not simply pro-business." FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesMario Draghi continues to insist that the eurozone needed austerity, though he admits it has been quite harmful. Economically speaking, the eurozone is a massive failure. This is a point we've been making over and over again lately. That nearly six years after the financial crisis, there's been almost no growth revival, and unemployment remains sky high. And the European Central Bank (ECP), which has a single price-stability mandate, hasn't been able to fight an ominous disinflationary trend. This week at the Jackson Hole Economic Policy Symposium, ECB chief Mario Draghi basically acknowledged all this in a speech on the causes of chronic unemployment in the euro area. Everyone should read the first paragraph of his speech, because it's a reminder of what a tragedy unemployment is, and why it's so alarming that it still remains so high in Europe. Draghi says it really nicely and succinctly: No one in society remains untouched by a situation of high unemployment. For the unemployed themselves, it is often a tragedy which has lasting effects on their lifetime income. For those in work, it raises job insecurity and undermines social cohesion. For governments, it weighs on public finances and harms election prospects. And unemployment is at the heart of the macro dynamics that shape short- and medium-term inflation, meaning it also affects central banks. Indeed, even when there are no risks to price stability, but unemployment is high and social cohesion at threat, pressure on the central bank to respond invariably increases. He then quickly follows up with this chart, comparing the trajectory of unemployment in the United States and the eurozone. Whereas the U.S. saw a very severe dropoff, and then a turnaround that started quickly, Europe's crisis was allowed to get worse for many years, and since then the recovery has been mild at best.  So Draghi acknowledges a massive ongoing crisis. And he also uses some of his sharpest language yet to get at why things have been so bad: austerity. When the sovereign debt crisis started in late 2009, because investors started losing confidence that countries like Greece could pay their debts, the initial reaction was to cut government spending. Here's Draghi explaining that initially government spending helped keep unemployment in check, but that eventually the fiscal situation became a major drag. On the fiscal side, non-market services — including public administration, education and healthcare — had contributed positively to employment in virtually all countries during the first phase of the crisis, thus somewhat cushioning the shock. In the second phase, however, fiscal policy was constrained by concerns over debt sustainability and the lack of a common backstop, especially as discussions related to sovereign debt restructuring began.  Draghi also explains why the ECB has been somewhat powerless to counteract the austerity. Basically, even with the ECB cutting rates aggressively in the downturn, the sovereign debt crisis caused strains on the financial system that made getting financing expensive and difficult: Sovereign pressures also interrupted the homogenous transmission of monetary policy across the euro area. Despite very low policy rates, the cost of capital actually rose in stressed countries in this period, meaning monetary and fiscal policy effectively tightened in tandem. Hence, an important focus of our monetary policy in this period was — and still is — to repair the monetary transmission mechanism. Establishing a precise link between these impairments and unemployment performance is not straightforward. However, ECB staff estimates of the “credit gap” for stressed countries — the difference between the actual and normal volumes of credit in the absence of crisis effects — suggest that that credit supply conditions are exerting a significant drag on economic activity.  Austerity isn't everything. Draghi goes on to discuss other factors constraining employment, including possible structural factors, like a skills mismatch (which is a topic of heated conversation in the U.S. as well). But it's clear that the damaging effects of austerity represent the main thrust of his speech, and it's what he would most like to see changed. The key part of his speech is where he calls on more use of fiscal policy to jumpstart the economy, and he lays out how it could be done. If you don't want to read the block text below, he basically says that the eurozone could have a more positive fiscal policy, while not breaking the bank. This could be done by a greater use of aggregate fiscal policy (having a common eurozone budget), and by looking at opportunities to substitute spending for tax cuts, where research indicates that the economic multiplier would be hear. ...it would be helpful for the overall stance of policy if fiscal policy could play a greater role alongside monetary policy, and I believe there is scope for this, while taking into account our specific initial conditions and legal constraints. These initial conditions include levels of government expenditure and taxation in the euro area that are, in relation to GDP, already among the highest in the world. And we are operating within a set of fiscal rules – the Stability and Growth Pact – which acts as an anchor for confidence and that would be self-defeating to break. Let me in this context emphasise four elements. First, the existing flexibility within the rules could be used to better address the weak recovery and to make room for the cost of needed structural reforms. Second, there is leeway to achieve a more growth-friendly composition of fiscal policies. As a start, it should be possible to lower the tax burden in a budget-neutral way. This strategy could have positive effects even in the short-term if taxes are lowered in those areas where the short-term fiscal multiplier is higher, and expenditures cut in unproductive areas where the multiplier is lower. Research suggests positive second-round effects on business confidence and private investment could also be achieved in the short-term.   Third, in parallel it may be useful to have a discussion on the overall fiscal stance of the euro area. Unlike in other major advanced economies, our fiscal stance is not based on a single budget voted for by a single parliament, but on the aggregation of eighteen national budgets and the EU budget. Stronger coordination among the different national fiscal stances should in principle allow us to achieve a more growth-friendly overall fiscal stance for the euro area. Fourth, complementary action at the EU level would also seem to be necessary to ensure both an appropriate aggregate position and a large public investment programme – which is consistent with proposals by the incoming President of the European Commission.  This is all excellent and helpful. But there's one line in Mario Draghi's speech that represents a massive state of denial about what's gone wrong, and that has to do with why austerity was implemented in the first place. This may seem obvious to some, but it's not, and even Draghi contradicts himself a little on this question. Early on in the speech, when introducing austerity, he drops this line: The necessary fiscal consolidation had to be frontloaded to restore investor confidence, creating a fiscal drag and a downturn in public sector employment which added to the ongoing contraction in employment in other sectors. This line about how fiscal consolidation had to be frontloaded (i.e. the cuts had to happen right away) in order to restore confidence, is, to use a term of economics, BS. Vulnerable countries throughout 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012 announced this-or-that budget consolidation measure. And those announcements didn't accomplish anything. Here's a chart showing the yield on 10-year bonds for Spain (blue line), Italy (red line), two countries that faced significant bond market stress, but in the end didn't need a bailout: FRED   For both countries there were two peaks, when things got really hairy. The first peak came in late 2011, and that's when the ECB stepped in with an operation to provide liquidity to banks that enabled them to buy government bonds, which for a few months brought yields down. The second, and final peak, came in the summer of 2012, when Mario Draghi delivered his famous "whatever it takes" speech. That's the speech where Draghi solved one of the eurozone's core structural problems, which is that the central bank was not designed to be a fiscal backstop. In the U.K., Japan, and the U.S., the governments and the central banks are tightly linked, so the governments can't "run out" of money, because they have the power of the printing press. Eurozone countries don't have that. They still don't, but what Draghi did say is that if in the future, a eurozone country gets into fiscal trouble, they can get an unlimited ECB backstop, provided they also agree to outside supervision on their fiscal matters. These three words, "whatever it takes," did the trick. The ECB hasn't had to spend one cent on this operation, but just the promise that the ECB had the governments back in the event of an emergency significantly eased the fiscal strain, and brought borrowing costs much lower. This is key. "Front-loading" austerity did not calm the market and restore investor confidence. The ECB backstop did. Draghi admits this later in his speech in his speech, actually: Turning to fiscal policy, since 2010 the euro area has suffered from fiscal policy being less available and effective, especially compared with other large advanced economies. This is not so much a consequence of high initial debt ratios – public debt is in aggregate not higher in the euro area than in the US or Japan. It reflects the fact that the central bank in those countries could act and has acted as a backstop for government funding. This is an important reason why markets spared their fiscal authorities the loss of confidence that constrained many euro area governments’ market access. This has in turn allowed fiscal consolidation in the US and Japan to be more backloaded. Near-term austerity isn't necessary in countries where the central bank is a fiscal backstop. That backstop was missing in the eurozone up until summer of 2012, and consequently bond yields surged. The years spent trying to ease the fiscal strain via austerity were a waste, and ultimately an economic catastrophe. Now it may be true that politically speaking, Draghi might never have had the ability to put in place the backstop if there hadn't been austerity. The Germans might have cried bloody murder if Draghi had said "whatever it takes" before countries like Italy and Greece put themselves in fiscal handcuffs (though much of Germany cried bloody murder anyway). But even if this is true from a political perspective, Draghi is still wrong when he says that austerity was necessary to appease investors. Earlier this week, MIT professor and Nobel Laureate Peter Diamond said that historians are going to "tar and feather" Europe's central bankers for the ongoing disaster that is the eurozone economy. This is why. Austerity wasn't necessary. Yes, there were problems in the eurozone, but they had to do with the unsound currency structure. Draghi is still denying that there was massive self-inflicted harm for no reason at all. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersDennis Lockhart, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, arrives at the opening reception of the Jackson Hole Economic Policy SymposiumBy Howard Schneider JACKSON HOLE Wyo. (Reuters) - The U.S. Federal Reserve is focused on an initial interest rate hike between the first quarter and the middle of next year, with possible changes in its main policy statement as soon as next month, Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart said on Saturday. "It is reasonable with the improving data to begin to anticipate a change in the basic interest rate policy and,  therefore, it is quite a reasonable debate as to whether that ought to be early 2015 or mid-2015 or even later," Lockhart told Reuters in an interview here. "The debate is real." Lockhart said he continues to forecast a rate increase in mid-2015, with economic growth hovering around 3 percent, and that he feels it is "still early" to change the central bank’s main policy statement.  (Reporting by Howard Schneider; Editing by Paul Simao) FREE AppDownload
Kevin Thuot/DrillingInfo  We recently showed you a stunning animated map from DrillingInfo.com's Kevin Thuot showing the evolution of the last 14 years of fracking in the U.S. Now Thuot has put together a new incredible GIF showing how oil and gas drilling rigs are moving across states, and the country, in 2014 to the most productive formations. "We care about rig activity because it is a leading indicator of future production in an area," he writes. "Rig activity in an area today signals new production from that area in the near-term." The map shows both shale and conventional production centers, which is how we end up with hotspots in Bakersfield, Calif., the Mississippian Lime in Kansas, and the Gulf of Mexico, along with marquee plays like North Dakota's Bakken and Texas' Permian Basin and Eagle Ford.  Oil rigs recently hit a record 1,589 and total rigs were back to a two-year high of 1,913. That's despite the fact that fewer rigs are now needed to drill a given amount of wells, as each new well brings greater knowledge of the formation, and there are now tons of wells in the biggest plays. And here's the final image: Kevin Thuot/DrillingInfo.comU.S. oil rig counts recently hit a record.  FREE AppDownload
ABC / screengrabWall Street is a marketplace of eligible bachelors and bachelorettes. Right now, we're taking nominations for our "Wall Street's Most Eligible Bachelors/Bachelorettes" list. We're not just looking for someone with good looks and a great job, but also someone with a little extra. They have to be interesting and active, whether it's through volunteer/philanthropy work or with their extracurricular activities/hobbies/interests. You can send an email (subject line: bachelor/bachelorette) to jlaroche@businessinsider.com and llopez@businessinsider.com with your nomination. Please be sure to include reasons why the person should be included on the list. Make sure you send a photo or photos of the person.   FREE AppDownload
"Margin Call"/screenshotActors playing young Wall Streeters in the movie "Margin Call."Over the summer Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, and Bank of America have announced that they will be giving junior bankers (think analysts and associates under 30) a pay raise of about 20% to 25%. According to The Wall Street Journal, Citigroup is considering the move, too. There are two simple reasons for this. First, the industry is facing tougher competition for talent from forces both within and outside of Wall Street, and, second, because of a little thing we like to call "banker burn." Post-financial-crisis regulation has changed the way big banks do business. Riskier, lucrative sources of revenue like proprietary trading are on the outs thanks to the Volcker Rule, for example, and compensation has been cut. Without the fat paycheck, Wall Street isn't as attractive as it used to be overall. As an industry, it is facing competition from the startup world and tech giants like Google and Facebook that can also afford to pay employees quite handsomely. Within finance, more often than not, if a super-talented employee does start out at a big bank, he or she is ready for more intense action and bigger money at a private equity firm or hedge fund after about four years. Private equity, for its part, has started poaching that talent earlier and earlier as it grows as an industry. Private equity firms now make up 32% of investment banking fees — $6.5 billion out of $20.4 billion in total banking fees, according to Dealogic. And PE firms tend to pay their young employees far more than banks do, and more of those bonuses are in cash — not stock, as they often are at big banks. That brings us to our second reason for this pay bump — banker burn. Horror stories of overwork during a young banker's career abound on Wall Street, where the idea of "paying your dues" is sacrosanct. Some of these stories end up as humorous anecdotes; others are beyond serious. A lot of this talk about improving young bankers' work-life balance started after a 21 year-old Bank of America intern named Moritz Erhardt died after suffering an epileptic seizure in London. An investigation found that it was brought on by the long hours and stress he was under at work. This is the kind of stuff that makes the most talented youngsters entering the job pool wonder if Wall Street is really worth it. It's no wonder big banks feel as if they need to sweeten the deal. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe walls and towers of the Kremlin are reflected in a window of a closed McDonald's restaurant, one of four temporarily closed by the state food safety watchdog, in MoscowMOSCOW (Reuters) - Russian authorities are not planning to close down the McDonald's chain of fast food restaurants in the country, Itar-Tass news agency quoted Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich as saying on Saturday. Russia's food safety watchdog has launched sanitary inspections of McDonald's restaurants across the country against the backdrop of a standoff with the West over Ukraine. It has closed down three restaurants in Moscow citing breaches of sanitary regulations.  (Reporting by Vladimir Soldatkin; Editing by Christian Lowe) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsInvestment fund strategies can broadly be divided into either active management or passive management. The former refers to funds actively managed by financial professionals who typically try to outperform a given benchmark, while the latter describes funds that seek to track a particular index. For most investors, deciding on whether to use active or passive funds is largely a matter of faith or disposition. Occasionally, the debate becomes surprisingly impassioned, which often leaves people slightly amused, as investment professionals get in a froth about arcane topics such as tracking error or information ratios. However, while somewhat esoteric, the topic is not irrelevant. Over the long term, implementation, i.e. how you choose to use active and or passive funds in your portfolio, is a critical driver of investment returns. While the debate between active and passive will never truly be settled, investors can sidestep the acrimony and embrace a simple approach that blends both to help build a better portfolio.  That of course leaves the question of how and when to combine active and passive. Here are five criteria to consider as you’re figuring out the right blend for you. Active Funds Look for active funds with broad mandates. Like physics, finance has its key formulas. One of the most useful, if not the most famous, is the Fundamental Law of Active Management. It basically states that an active manager’s ability to add value is a function of his or her skill and the “breadth” of the mandate. Breadth refers to the number of different investments a manager can make. What this rule implies is that broad mandates – defined either by lots of countries or lots of asset classes – provide more fertile ground for active managers. Consider active funds for asset classes that are difficult to represent with an index. Some asset classes, U.S. large caps for example, lend themselves to indexing, as they are easy to replicate within an Exchange Traded Fund (ETF) or index mutual fund. Others asset classes, such as bank loans, are more difficult to represent with an index. For these, you may want to consider active management, which can potentially take advantage of the many illiquid issues that are often part of these asset classes. Think of active funds as long-term, core holdings. Most investors realize that timing markets, i.e. trying to trade in and out of stocks or bonds in an attempt to minimize losses, is difficult. So is trying to time active performance. In other words, if you have an active manager, give them a fair chance. For active funds, you want to make sure you hold them long enough, at least through an economic cycle, to give the manager enough time to potentially generate positive active returns. Passive Funds Consider passive funds when you’re trying to achieve precise exposure to certain asset classes (e.g. style-box investing) in a cost effective and tax efficient manner. Some narrow index benchmarks – think large-cap value stocks or medium-cap growth stocks — are generally easy to replicate with a passive fund. ETPs and other index products typically offer a low cost, transparent and tax efficient mechanism to gain exposure to such core asset classes, such as major equity or fixed income markets. Think of passive funds for tactical exposure. For investors looking to tactically (i.e. frequently) adjust their exposures to certain markets and asset classes, exchange traded products (ETPs) are an excellent vehicle. They are liquid and cost effective, thus providing an ideal vehicle to adjust portfolio exposures based on short-term market conditions. Many will notice one dimension that is missing from the above list: macro conditions. Investors often ask if there are certain economic or market conditions that favor one style over the other. BlackRock’s research suggests that adopting a long-term, strategic framework governing the blending of active/passive is more productive than trying to flip from style to style. Each investment strategy offers its own advantages, suggesting that the most robust portfolio is a combination of both. Of course, the right blend of index and active investments for you will depend on your particular risk tolerance and investing goals, but the five criteria above are a good starting point. For more information on the differences between index and active funds visit iShares.com. Sources: Bloomberg, BlackRock Research FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersTexas investor Wyly exits Manhattan Federal Court in this file photographNEW YORK (Reuters) - A lawyer for Texas tycoon Sam Wyly and the estate of his late brother Charles told a federal judge on Friday that a U.S. securities regulator's demand for more than $729 million in damages would "bankrupt" the one-time billionaire. Harry Susman told U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin in Manhattan the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's demand was excessively punitive and unsupported by the law, at the close of a nonjury trial to determine how much the Wylys should pay for their role in a fraudulent offshore scheme. "The total amount will bankrupt the Wylys," Susman said, adding there was no evidence their conduct harmed a single investor. But Bridget Fitzpatrick, a lawyer for the SEC, said the proposed award was appropriate given "egregious" violations that allowed the Wylys to accumulate "staggering wealth." The trial comes three months after a federal jury found the Wylys liable for fraud and other civil charges, in what was the SEC's largest case to reach trial in years. The agency accused the Wylys of creating a complex system of trusts in the Isle of Man that netted them $553 million in profits through more than a decade of hidden trades in four companies they controlled. The companies were Sterling Software Inc, Michaels Stores Inc [MSII.UL], Sterling Commerce Inc and Scottish Annuity &amp; Life Holdings Ltd, now Scottish Re Group Ltd. The SEC is seeking damages equivalent to unpaid taxes on the scheme's profits, arguing that failure to disclose the trades left the Internal Revenue Service with no clue as to what was happening offshore. Susman said the SEC should be barred from doing so because federal law only permits the IRS to assess tax penalties. But Fitzpatrick said the agency is not attempting to collect unpaid taxes but merely using them to gauge the Wylys' ill-gotten gains. In addition to the taxes, which total more than $540 million including interest, the SEC is seeking nearly $140 million in profits on sales of unregistered securities and a $51 million penalty for Sam Wyly, all amounts the Wylys dispute. Fitzpatrick said the Wylys should not be permitted to profit from the scheme, which she said grew so sophisticated that it became a virtual business in itself. "Since 1992, the Wylys have had what amounts to an interest-free loan from the government, and they have used it to accumulate staggering wealth," she told Scheindlin. Closing arguments will conclude on Friday, though the judge is not expected to rule immediately. Sam Wyly, 79, last appeared on Forbes' list of the 400 richest Americans in 2010 with a net worth of $1 billion. His brother Charles died in a 2011 car crash and an executor for his estate was substituted as a defendant. The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v. Wyly et al, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, 10-5760.   (Reporting by Joseph Ax; Editing by Tom Brown) FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesNEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. stocks have been on a roll of late, with the S&amp;P 500 hitting the latest in a series of records on Thursday, and investors expect the index's momentum to soon carry it to - if not far past - the 2,000 milestone. The S&amp;P is about 10 points, or 0.4 percent, from that landmark, which analysts expected would be reached toward the end of the year, according to the most recent Reuters poll. Reaching it ahead of schedule is the latest affirmation that stocks are widely preferred to bonds, even with further upside seen as limited as the Federal Reserve remains on track to end its bond-buying stimulus program in October.. The level has more psychological than fundamental significance, and it could prompt market participants to consider whether their holdings have become stretched. The "2,000 (level) has no fundamental significance outside of suggesting that stocks are fully valued and getting more so all the time," said David Joy, chief market strategist at Ameriprise Financial in Boston. "We should see some weakness as Fed policy winds down, but I'd still rather own stocks than bonds, as in the long run they'll continue to expand." The S&amp;P is up 7.8 percent this year, outpacing overseas indexes and shrugging off headwinds such as a weather-depressed first quarter and political unrest abroad. Both defensive and cyclical stocks have led at times, but traders expect technology and healthcare names, the market's current leaders, to drive it over 2,000. "Now is not the time to seek out value over growth," said Jeff Mortimer, director of investment strategy for BNY Mellon Wealth Management in Boston. "Price momentum tends to have stickiness in this kind of market." Every S&amp;P sector is positive year-to-date, with tech and healthcare both up about 13 percent, eclipsing the 11 percent rise of utilities, the previous leader. Despite record levels and the lack of any sustained pullback since 2012, investors are finding reasons to buy, with U.S. stock funds getting $9.9 billion in inflows last week, according to Thomson Reuters' Lipper service. Only two of the 27 industry groups that Wells Fargo monitors are down from 12 months ago, a breadth that leads to year-over-year gains 90 percent of the time, the firm wrote, with the S&amp;P rising an average of 12.7 percent. Optimism about near-term market direction hit a nine-month high in the latest AAII Sentiment Survey, with 46.1 percent of respondents expecting gains over the next six month. "There's a good underlying tone in the market and we still have plenty of prospects for more gains," said Michael Mullaney, chief investment officer at Fiduciary Trust Co in Boston. He added that he would not be concerned about valuation until the S&amp;P's forward price-to-earnings ratio was 17 and its trailing P/E was 20. Those metrics currently stand at 15.7 and 17.4, respectively.   (Reporting by Ryan Vlastelica.; Editing by Andre Grenon) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA sign is seen above the entrance to an HSBC branch in midtown Manhattan in New York CityNEW YORK (Reuters) - HSBC Holdings Plc was sued for $250 million on Friday for allegedly ignoring red flags that a colorful British entrepreneur, the late David Elias, was committing fraud through an investment vehicle he controlled. The complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court in Manhattan by the liquidator of Luxembourg-based SLS Capital SA, which failed in 2009, the same year Elias died. According to the complaint, HSBC had been a custodian of life insurance policies used as collateral for bonds that SLS sold to investors, and which were falsely marketed as safe. An HSBC spokeswoman declined to comment. Companies in the so-called life settlement business buy life insurance policies on older individuals, and can collect death benefits when the insureds die. Securities backed by such policies are sometimes known as "death bonds." One prominent seller of these bonds was Keydata Investment Services, which had business dealings with SLS, and whose sale of the bonds caused big losses for thousands of UK pensioners. Keydata also failed in 2009. Britain's Serious Fraud Office dropped a probe into that company in May 2011, saying it lacked enough evidence to prosecute. According to Friday's lawsuit, SLS began selling bonds in 2005, with investors buying them directly from the company, or buying bonds issued by Keydata and securitized by SLS. When SLS ran into cash-flow problems, Elias began siphoning investors' collateral to fund other risky ventures and support his lavish lifestyle of "corporate jets, luxury yachts, and island resorts," the lawsuit said. HSBC, for its part, ignored multiple signs of suspicious activity, including that Keydata looked "like a Ponzi scheme" and had ties to Elias, and "turned a blind eye" when Elias sold much of the collateral in a 2008 "fire sale," the lawsuit said. "Simple justice demands that HSBC be called to account for its role in (Elias') fraud," the lawsuit said. Born in Singapore, Elias's business interests stretched from operating a Malaysian club that leased jets and yachts to the ultra-rich who could pay $1 million a year for membership, to the ownership of 800,000 acres in the Brazilian rainforest. According to SLS liquidator Yann Baden, the lawsuit belongs in New York because HSBC Bank USA operates there, and much of its alleged improper conduct occurred there. The case is SLS Capital SA et al v HSBC Bank USA NA, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 14-06846.   (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersU.S. President Barack Obama delivers a statement from Martha's VineyardWASHINGTON (Reuters) - President Barack Obama on Saturday urged business owners to press Congress to reauthorize the U.S. Export-Import Bank, which could halt any new financing Sept. 30 - as some conservative Republicans hope it will - if lawmakers fail to act. The little-known institution provides loans to buyers of U.S. products abroad. Obama said in his weekly radio address that if Congress lets the bank close, it would be stunting U.S. export growth and impeding economic expansion. "If Congress fails to act, thousands of businesses, large and small, that sell their products abroad will take a completely unnecessary hit," the president said. While playing a relatively small role in the U.S. export universe, the bank has become a political flashpoint. Conservative Republicans single it out as an unnecessary and potentially risky government program, while moderates and most Democrats defend it as providing a useful boost to businesses seeking new markets. Household names such as Boeing Co, Caterpillar Inc and General Electric Co are big beneficiaries of the bank's services. Ex-Im Bank's critics say aiding well-established firms such as those serves little purpose and puts taxpayers at risk. Opposition to renewing the bank's charter includes influential lawmakers such as new House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy and House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling, both Republicans. Fueling concerns about the bank's role, Delta Airlines charges that the institution provides an unfair advantage to foreign competitors of the U.S. carrier. "If left to do business as usual, the Bank has proven that it will continue to help all foreign airlines indiscriminately, including well-funded and state-supported ones that competitively threaten U.S. airlines and their employees," Delta Senior Vice President Andrea Fischer Newman wrote to Hensarling this week. The airline wants a ban on Ex-Im Bank backing for deals to buy wide-body aircraft, such as Boeing's 747s. Boeing says that without Ex-Im Bank financing, airlines around the world would buy Airbus planes, usually with French or German export credit subsidies. "The U.S. aerospace industry would lose sales and market share, and the jobs associated with that lost business would end up in Europe," Boeing senior vice president Tim Keating wrote to Hensarling last week. The bank's supporters hope that Congress will temporarily renew the bank's charter in a stopgap government funding bill that must pass before Sept. 30. That would leave lawmakers more time to craft legislation that would provide a longer charter extension but contain reforms to the bank that would mollify critics. Paul Ryan, the Republican vice presidential candidate in 2012 and skeptic about the bank, said this week he thinks the bank's charter will be kept alive with a temporary extension.   (Reporting By Mark Felsenthal; Editing by Ken Wills) FREE AppDownload
Melia Robinson/Business InsiderSusana Ho celebrates her Flip Cup semifinal win at Club Getaway.More than 1 million adults attend camp each year, looking to relive their childhood memories or experience a summertime tradition for the first time. While kids' camp attendance has declined, forcing many organizations to shutter their cabins and sell off their land, the number of camps for grown-ups has swelled faster than a mosquito bite, totaling 800. That's an estimated 10% increase a year over the past 10 years, according to the American Camp Association affiliate GrownUpCamps.com. And when campfire s'mores and sing-alongs are mixed with "flip cup" tournaments and a bunch of singles cavorting to DJ music, the result is a rowdy sleepaway camp experience unlike the one you may remember from childhood. I recently attended Club Getaway in Kent, Connecticut, which hosts 10,000 adult campers annually, to see what all the buzz is about.
