
Thomson ReutersFile photo of a Chevron sign displayed at a gas station in BuckeyeCALGARY, Alberta (Reuters) - Chevron Corp  is putting a plan to drill for oil in the Beaufort Sea in Canada's Arctic on hold indefinitely because of what it called "economic uncertainty in the industry" as oil prices fall. In a letter to Canada's National Energy Board on Wednesday, the company withdrew from a hearing on Arctic drilling rules because it has walked away from plans to drill in the EL 481 block, 250 kilometers (155 miles) northwest of Tuktoyaktuk, Northwest Territories. The drilling project is the largest yet put on hold after oil prices dropped by nearly half over the last six months, even as a long list of oil companies cut their budgets for 2015 because of the price drop. "Chevron has put its drilling plans for EL 481 on hold indefinitely," the company said in its letter to the regulator, which was confirmed by a spokesman. The San Ramon, California-based company has been planning the well since 2009 and had planned to drill the prospect in the 2020s, according to filings. Imperial Oil Ltd , which leads a joint venture with Exxon Mobil Corp  and BP Plc , said on Wednesday that it has not changed early-stage plans to drill in the Beaufort Sea and that a final decision on the project has yet to made. Chevron has two licenses to explore in the Beaufort, holding EL 481 outright and controlling 60 percent in the other alongside Norway’s Statoil ASA . The company had previously outlined expectations to have “highly significant” capital outlays in the area. Chevron paid C$103.3 million for the rights to explore in the area of roughly 508,000 acres (206,000 hectares). The region is just east of the Canada-U.S. border.   (Reporting by Scott Haggett and Nia Williams in Calgary and Ernest Scheyder in Williston; Editing by Cynthia Osterman and Steve Orlofsky) FREE AppDownload
The situation in Russia isn't good. The ruble had a meltdown on Tuesday after the Russian central bank unexpectedly hiked interest rates, and following these developments many began wondering what the broader — or "contagion" — impacts could be. In a note to clients, Andrew Kenningham at Capital Economics put Russia's economy into a more global perspective, writing that "both trade and financial links between Russia and the rest of the world remain too small for Russia's plight to have major global implications." Kenningham notes that Russia accounts for just 2.7% of world GDP and the country's share of world trade is around 1.7%.  And while Russia is a big trade partner for countries like Poland and the Czech Republic, for economic heavyweights like the US, the UK, China, and Japan, "exports to Russia are of negligible importance." And even for Germany, Europe's biggest economy, Russia is just the eleventh biggest export destination, lagging countries like Poland and Belgium.  Capital Economics FREE AppDownload
Luke MacGregor/ReutersIf you often see the same books being read on your morning commute, it may be your cue to grab a copy yourself. Amazon just released its list of the 20 best-selling books of 2014, and chances are you've already seen people reading them on the train.  It's not too late to read — or reread — the bestsellers of the year. 1. "The Invention of Wings" by Sue Monk Kid: Set in the south in the early 1800s, this Oprah Book Club book follows the complicated relationship between Handful, a slave, and Sarah, her owner, as they grow up together from childhood. Their confusing friendship, in the face of politics and societal norms, becomes a beautiful and difficult thing to watch as it changes over time. 2. "Gray Mountain" by John Grisham: When the recession causes Samantha Kofer to lose her Wall Street law firm job, she takes a job at a legal aid clinic in Virginia until she can hopefully get back to big law. But while her new job, for the first time, puts her front and center in the court room, it also puts her in terrible danger. 3. "All the Light We Cannot See" by Anthony Doerr: This National Book Award Finalist follows both Marie-Laure, a blind French Girl living with her father during World War II, and Werner, a German orphan with a knack for building and fixing radios. As their paths cross, this haunting story will question how life and art are influenced by war. 4. "Twenty Seconds Ago (Jack Reacher, #19)" by Lee Child: After years of being out of the Army, Jack Reacher is pulled back into service at the CIA and State Department after someone tried to shoot the president of France. In Child's latest Jack Reacher installment, Reacher finds himself face to face with an old enemy and old memories. 5. "Big Little Lies" by Liane Moriarty: From the author of the bestselling "The Husband's Secret," this book focuses on three Australian moms, all with pre-schoolers in the same class. Sounds straightforward, except by the end of the book one of them will be dead. Each mother carries a secret in this witty book that dissects the lives of three suburban families. 6. "The Target (Will Robie series)" by David Baldacci: Will Robie and his partner Jessica Reel are called in by the President to take down an international criminal. Baldacci's thrilling page-turner keeps the reader hooked as Robie and Reel hunt down their target, yet become targets themselves. 7. "The Fixed Trilogy" by Laurelin Paige: Fans of "Fifty Shades of Gray" will love "The Fixed Trilogy," which follows Alayna Wither, a rising star at the nightclub she works at, and Hudson Pierce, her boss who can't keep his eyes off her, and who Alayna can't seem to stay away from despite both their troubled pasts. 8. "The Heroes of Olympus Book Five: The Blood of Olympus" by Rick Riordan: The fifth book in Riordan's hit series launches the reader right in the middle of the Argo II crew's battle with the earth mother, Gaia. The story is funny and action-packed as the crew races against time to stop Gaia and her giants before the world is destroyed. 9. "Top Secret Twenty-One (Stephanie Plum)" by Janet Evanovich: Stephanie Plum has to bring in a criminal used car dealer who missed his court date. But he's gone missing, and his No. 2 man is Stephanie's only clue and, to top it all off, now his old boss wants him dead. All in a day's work for Stephanie Plum. 10. "Killing Patton: The Strange Death of World War II’s Most Audacious General" by Bill O'Reilly: Just one of two nonfiction books to make the list, "Killing Patton" takes a look into the mysterious death of General George Patton, Jr., and theories about what, or who, may have really killed him. 11. "Unlucky 13 (Women's Murder Club)" by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro: With a loving husband, new baby, great job, and close friends, San Francisco detective Lindsay Boxer has it all figured out... until the FBI mails her a photo of a notorious killer, and Lindsay and fellow members of the Women's Murder club must find the killer before she finds them. 12. "The Edge of Eternity: Book Three of the Century Trilogy" by Ken Follett: The Century Trilogy follows five families from different countries through the 20th century. The third book spans from the '60s to the '80s — an engrossing look at how the events of these three decades impact families from around the world. 13. "Shadow Spell (Cousins O'Dwyer)" by Nora Roberts: In the second book of the trilogy, Connor O'Dwyer and his sister Branna's best friend Meara work together on a regular basis without incident, but a near-death experience brings the two of them closer than ever — which would be fine, except Meara is afraid to get too close, and Connor is afraid of what he might unleash if he falls for her. 14. "Mr. Mercedes" by Stephen King: Hundreds of people are waiting hopefully on line for a job fair when a Mercedes plows into the crowd, killing and injuring a number of people before driving off. Months later retired cop Bill Hodges gets a letter from the alleged driver threatening to do more damage, pulling him out of retirement to prevent history from repeating itself. 15. "Blood Magick (Cousins O'Dwyer)" by Nora Roberts: The second Nora Roberts book to make the list is the third in the O'Dwyer trilogy. This time Branna finds herself reunited with an old lover, yet both fear for a repeat of the heartache they caused each other years ago. "Blood Magick" is an entertaining, mystical finale to Roberts' beloved trilogy. 16. "Field of Prey" by John Sandford: When a teenage couple encounter a dead body in an abandoned cornfield, Lucas Davenport is called in. Then more bodies turn up — 15 to be precise, and Lucas starts to notice an unusual pattern about when the victims were killed, almost like clockwork. 17. "Written in My Own Heart's Blood (Outlander)" by Diana Gabaldon: It's 1778. France has just declared war of Great Britain, and the Fraser family is caught up in marriages, re-marriages, illegitimate children... and time travel. Gabaldon's thrilling series comes to life again in her latest installment. 18. "Diary of a Wimpy Kid: The Long Haul" by Jeff Kinney: Everyone's favorite "wimpy kid" Greg Heffley doesn't want to go on his family road trip. It's bound to be a disaster. But despite wrong turns, a fender bender, and gross gas station bathrooms, Greg is in for a bigger adventure than he imagined in Kinney's entertaining and cleverly illustrated short chapter book. 19. "City of Heavenly Fire (The Mortal Instruments)" by Cassandra Clare: In an alternate, fantasy world, Sebastian Morgenstern is turning shadowhunters into demons and against each other. Clary, Jace, and Simon must stop him, which would be easier if only he weren't Clary's brother. 20. "Flash Boys" by Michael Lewis: Post-financial crisis, the stock market is less free than before, and all the characters involved either benefit from it big time, or are set to level the playing field. "Flash Boys" is a compelling nonfiction book that reveals the darkness, greed, and corruption on Wall Street. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
 Sony Pictures has decided to cancel the Dec. 25 release of "The Interview" after major theaters said they wouldn't screen the movie. "We have decided not to move forward with the planned December 25 theatrical release of 'The Interview,'" the company said in a statement. Top movie theater chains in the US decided not to show "The Interview" after threats by hackers who have attacked Sony Pictures over the movie, according to The Hollywood Reporter. The Hollywood Reporter said Regal Entertainment, AMC Entertainment, Cinemark, Carmike Cinemas, and Cineplex Entertainment (Canada's largest theater) have all decided against showing the film. The cancellations would account for nearly 23,000 screens across the US and Canada. The decisions come a day after hackers — who melted Sony's servers and claimed to steal 100 terabytes of information in November — threatened to attack theaters that showed the film. Here’s the company’s full statement: "In light of the decision by the majority of our exhibitors not to show the film The Interview, we have decided not to move forward with the planned December 25 theatrical release. We respect and understand our partners’ decision and, of course, completely share their paramount interest in the safety of employees and theater-goers. Sony Pictures has been the victim of an unprecedented criminal assault against our employees, our customers, and our business. Those who attacked us stole our intellectual property, private emails, and sensitive and proprietary material, and sought to destroy our spirit and our morale – all apparently to thwart the release of a movie they did not like. We are deeply saddened at this brazen effort to suppress the distribution of a movie, and in the process do damage to our company, our employees, and the American public. We stand by our filmmakers and their right to free expression and are extremely disappointed by this outcome."  Here's the threat that was sent to several news organizations: WarningWe will clearly show it to you at the very time and places “The Interview” be shown, including the premiere, how bitter fate those who seek fun in terror should be doomed to.Soon all the world will see what an awful movie Sony Pictures Entertainment has made.The world will be full of fear.Remember the 11th of September 2001.We recommend you to keep yourself distant from the places at that time.(If your house is nearby, you’d better leave.)Whatever comes in the coming days is called by the greed of Sony Pictures Entertainment.All the world will denounce the SONY.  The Hollywood Reporter noted that the National Association of Theater Owners, which represents movie-theater owners nationwide, said that "individual cinema operators may decide to delay exhibition of the movie so that our guests may enjoy a safe holiday movie season experiencing the many other exciting films we have to offer," adding that "safety and comfort [of our guests] is and will continue to be a priority for theater owners." Over the past month, all hell has broken loose in the entertainment world as hackers dumped information online and news organizations scrambled to cover every possible angle. Here's a roundup of some of the leaked information: Watch a trailer for the controversial film below:    FREE AppDownload
XE.comWhile everyone was paying attention to Russia, Nigeria started having its own currency crisis. The naira has spiked to almost 187 NGN per dollar over the last month, up from a price in the 160-165 range earlier this fall.  This isn't a huge surprise. Falling oil prices hit Nigeria hard, and that blow amplifies the political instability within the country as February's national elections approach. Emad Mostaque at Ecstrat predicted the naira might go all the way to 200 back in November.  This is the relevant bit from Mostaque's note on the Nigerian economy published on November 11:  Nigerian FX reserves have already fallen from $48bn at the start of the year to $38bn now, with the lower oil price meaning that significant intervention may well cause a rate of depletion that exceeds the $1bn weekly we saw during the first quarter.  The Central Bank is also pursuing other actions at odds to its attempt to stabilize the currency, such as reducing the amount banks could park on the reserve account to mobilize around 400bn NGN of lending and restricting regular foreign auctions, increasing interbank demand. It is also stuck on rates with significant political resistance to increasing them beyond 12%. With oil production well off nameplate capacity and an official budget of $80 challenged, it is possible that consensus will move to Nigeria running a current account deficit next year, particularly in light of the usual increase in spending that accompanies potential tight elections and the challenge of a growing Northern insurgency. We would expect a speculative attack on the currency in the next few months similar to that Turkey experienced earlier this year and Russia has just experienced now. While the central bank may well be able to stabilize the market short-term, any measures they enact should lead to the Naira devaluing past our target from earlier this year of 190 toward 200. This is a story to continue to watch in the coming weeks.  For context, here's the 10-year view of the USD-NGN exchange rate.  XE.com FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Rapid Plunge In Oil Prices Suggests That A Global Recession Is Taking Place (Advisor Perspectives)  While the drop in oil prices is great news for average American consumers, it could be bad news for the overall economy. The problem is not so much that prices dropped, but rather how quickly they dropped, according to Gary Halbert. "The rapid fall in crude prices is a telling sign to some Wall Street analysts and economists that there may be a global recession taking hold and the slowing growth is pushing oil lower. Remember, at the height of the financial crisis, crude got down into the high $30s a barrel at the end of 2008 as the US and Europe went into a recession," writes Halbert. "This explains why the plunge in oil prices spilled over into the equity markets last week and so far this week," he adds. Merril Lynch Was Fined $1.9 Million Because They Didn't Have An Adequate Supervisory System (The Wall Street Journal)  "Merrill Lynch violated fair-pricing guidelines nearly 720 times in retail customer transactions over two years, according to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which find the bank $1.9 million," reports Angela Chen. Reportedly, Merrill Lynch's trading desk purchases notes from retail customers at 5.3% to 61.5% below the market price, and then sold them to other brokers at market price. "Even after factoring in the nature of the market for these types of instruments, the markdowns charged were simply unacceptable," said Thomas Gira, Finra's head of market regulation. Baby Boombers Don't Have Enough Savings (Financial Advisor Magazine) A huge amount of baby boomers haven't saved enough for retirement, according to a new study released by Bankers Life Center for Secure Retirement. Middle-income boomers believe that $500,000 in investible assets is the amount needed for retirement, but only 13% have that much. More than half (54%) only have $100,000 and one-third (34%) have less than $25,000. As a result, only 35% of baby boomers are expecting to retire at or before the age of 65. An Alternative Fund Manager Was Arrested For Diverting $12.6 Million (Investment News)  Daniel Thibeault, the chief executive of asset manager GL Capital Partner was arrested on securities fraud charges last week after the FBI accused him of diverting approximately $12.6 million from a fund, reports Mason Braswell. Thibeault took out fake loans to gain access to money in a closed-end interval mutual fund. Approximately $36.6 million worth were issued through the fund, and $12.6 million were taken out through an intermediary. The money from those loans never made it to individuals, however, reports Braswell. He was released on a $700,000 bail secured by the equity in his house. UBS Reps Are Going To See Bigger Bonuses (Think Advisor)  Along with its competitors Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley, UBS will also be changing up its payout plans for 2015, reports Janet Levaux. "The firm says its wealth-management award has been 'signifcantly enhanced' to encourage advisors to grow their practice. Wealth-management production will include fees tied to advisory services, insurance, lending and planning in 2015, with bonuses of up to 6% of production," reports Levaux. FREE AppDownload
WASHINGTON/BOSTON (Reuters) - Government investigators fear the hackers behind the unprecedented attack on Sony's Hollywood studio may never be caught if they are under the protection of North Korea, a U.S. official said on Wednesday. The law enforcement official, who declined to be identified because the investigation is ongoing, said authorities will require significant time to definitively confirm their suspicions that North Korea sponsored the attack, which severely damaged the movie studio's network. The likelihood of the hackers being brought to justice in the United States is presently regarded as low, said the official. A threat against theaters planning to show Sony Corp's controversial movie about the assassination of the leader of North Korea was published on the Internet on Tuesday. It promised a "bitter fate" for those who went to see the movie, "The Interview," a comedy whose villain is North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. The movie was scheduled for general release on Dec. 25 but they canceled that release late Wednesday afternoon. U.S. security authorities said on Tuesday they were investigating the threat but had so far seen no real sign of an active plot. A second U.S. official said on Wednesday that investigators are not aware of any people or entities capable of actually carrying out such threats against cinemas or audiences. North Korea complained to the United Nations in June, accusing the United States of sponsoring terrorism and committing an act of war by allowing the movie's production. Carmike Cinemas, operator of 278 theaters in 41 states, informed Sony late on Tuesday that it would not show the film, a person familiar with the matter told Reuters. Sony has also canceled the New York premier, which had been planned for Thursday. (Reporting by Mark Hosenball in Washington and Jim Finkle in Boston; Editing by Richard Valdmanis and Grant McCool) FREE AppDownload
Amazon is still cheaper than Wal-Mart, but that's changing fast.  Deutsche Bank recently compared prices for 65 identical items from Amazon.com, Walmart.com, and Target.com.  Amazon prices were 5% lower than Wal-Mart in the most recent analysis.  But in the same study two weeks ago, Amazon's prices were 8.3% lower than Wal-Mart's.  Wal-Mart has a renewed focus on offering cheaper merchandise amid a slowdown in its US business.  "We cannot let our competition beat us on price," US CEO Greg Foran told investors earlier this year.  Wal-Mart recently rolled out a new app called Savings Catcher, which helps shoppers compare prices on merchandise and then pays them the cost differences on a gift card.  Wal-Mart has also been investing heavily in its e-commerce business in a bid to catch up to competitor Amazon.  Deutsche Bank found that Target was the most expensive of the three retailers, with prices 7.9% higher than Amazon's.  Retailers are offering far more bargains and promotions this year than last, according to the analysts.  Compared with last year, prices are 12% lower at Wal-Mart, 9.7% lower at Amazon, and 3.5% lower at Target.   FREE AppDownload
Cory Sylvester knows a thing or two about wearing a suit. The baseball player, turned actor, turned clothier is now the man in charge of measuring and fitting at one of NYC’s premiere custom menswear shops; Michael Andrews Bespoke. I have to respect Cory’s hustle since I was his predecessor in that position (before AofS I apprenticed under Michael; learning the ins-and-outs of the tailoring business while simultaneously working-off my bespoke suit balance). When your job is making guys look their best in tailoredwear, you learn how to wear a suit with ease, comfort, and confidence. Here Cory shows us a few ways to take your suit game to the next level. Photography by Alex CrawfordPattern-mixing doesn’t have to be all bold and in-your-face. Try shrinking down your patterns for effect, like this micro shadow plaid on tight polka dot. Photography by Alex CrawfordThe fit is on point and the Ariston fabric is gorgeous, but it’s the details that make this suit a real killer. Little touches like the jean-style pockets (one of Cory’s signatures) make it a one-of-a-kind piece. This is also a perfect example of how much waistcoat should be visible under a jacket. Photography by Alex Crawford Photography by Alex Crawford(Blue/black shadow check suit by Michael Andrews Bespoke; Black monkstrap loafers by Scarpe di Bianco; Navy Knit Tie by Ralph Lauren; Sunglasses (vintage) by American Optical) Photography by Alex CrawfordAdding lapels to your waistcoat is a throwback move that can bring some life and dimension to your three-piece. It also makes the waistcoat more substantial on its own. I usually stick with notch lapel under notch lapel, or peak under peak, but there are no hard and fast rules to this. Here’s a super luxe shawl under peak, for example. Photography by Alex CrawfordIf you look very closely, this is also another example of micro pattern-mixing: houndstooth suit, hairline stripe shirt, and pindot tie. I love it when pieces look solid-colored until you get up close to see the texture and creativity. There’s taste in subtlety. Photography by Alex Crawford Photography by Alex Crawford(Brown micro houndstooth suit by Michael Andrews Bespoke; Sunglasses by Matsuda Eyewear; Brown slip-on loafers by Scarpe di Bianco) Photography by Alex CrawfordWe’ve done some pretty serious suited and booted looks, but never with a riding boot this sharp. Nobody makes a sexier harness boot than Saint Laurent. These are rugged enough to finish-off a black leather jacket and waxed jeans on the weekend, and sleek enough to keep up with the most luxurious of tailored suits (like this double-breasted Dormeuil shadow stripe). Photography by Alex Crawford Photography by Alex Crawford(Shadow stripe DB suit by Michael Andrews Bespoke; Black leather harness boots by Saint Laurent Paris) FREE AppDownload
Mike KelleyAll Fed, all day. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. It was all about the Fed. On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve released its latest monetary-policy statement, replacing "considerable time" with "patient" when describing how it plans to approach the beginning of interest-rate hikes, or what the Fed calls "policy normalization." Here's the key passage from the Fed statement: "Based on its current assessment, the Committee judges that it can be patient in beginning to normalize the stance of monetary policy." The Fed added that it sees this guidance as "consistent" with its prior guidance that it would wait a "considerable time" between the end of quantitative easing and the beginning of interest-rate hikes.  2. Fed Chair Janet Yellen also held a press conference following the meeting and added some more detail to what "patience" really means, saying that the Fed expects to keep rates pegged near 0% for "at least the next couple of meetings." Yellen again emphasized that the Fed would monitor incoming data, and said that faster-than-expected improvements in the economy could warrant more aggressive action. On the other hand, economic conditions that disappoint could see the Fed keep rates lower for a longer time than it currently expects.  3. Yellen was also asked about the impact that oil could have on consumer prices, as the declining price of oil is expected to keep headline inflation — which doesn't strip out the more volatile costs of food and energy — well below the Fed's target. Yellen said that the effects of oil prices on inflation are likely to be "transitory," adding that in the past, when inflation expectations have been "well-anchored," these declines in commodity prices have not had a lasting impact on inflation.  4. Oil had another wild session on Wednesday. Near noon on Wednesday, West Texas Intermediate futures surged to nearly $59 a barrel after sitting near $55 for most of the morning. But during the afternoon, oil gave back almost all of these gains as the commodity remains highly volatile.  5. With the Fed's latest policy statement, the Fed also released its latest Summary of Economic Projections, which included the latest "dot plot" showing expectations for future interest rates.  6. On Wednesday morning, the consumer price index fell by the most since December 2008. The "headline" index, which doesn't exclude the cost of food and gas, fell by 0.3% in November as the price of gas fell by 6.6% month-on-month. This was also the biggest monthly decline in gas prices since December 2008. "Core" inflation, which the Fed focuses on and strips out food and gas, rose by 0.1% in November and by 1.7% compared to the prior year.  Don't Miss: Saudi Arabia's Oil Strategy Is About More Than Destroying The US Shale Business »      FREE AppDownload
Goldman SachsGoldman Sachs partner Owen West finishes his 5K in 17:49. Goldman Sachs decided to raise the stakes in this epic battle, and for the past month, Goldman traders and bankers have been squaring off in a new firmwide fitness challenge.  The traders came out victorious. Goldman's inaugural "Team Fitness Challenge" was hosted by Goldman Sachs' Veterans Network, which is an internal employee-affinity network focused on recruitment, mentorship, and career development of veterans at the firm.  Goldman Sachs associate Michael Hanna, who served in the US Army and organized the challenge, said that in the military there were always competitions between squads and units. These competitions, he explained, helped build morale and cohesion. "We felt like it would be a good idea to do a competition between the divisions to build that espirit de corps."  Goldman SachsSomeone's hands were bloody after the 5000-meter row.  Those who participated had to post photos of their results from the rowing and biking. One even shared a photo of bloodied hands from the rowing machine.  The challenge ended on Monday with a 5K race at 7:30 a.m. along the Hudson River. There were rules, of course. The teams from each division had to be coed and they had to represent three age categories: 20-34, 35-44, and 45 and up. "It's also fun to put the other divisions in their place," Owen West, 45, a Goldman partner and captain of the Securities Division team, told us after finishing his 5K run in 17:49. "There's a very healthy rivalry. We wanted to test two theories today — whether a sound body equals a sound mind? And can a banker wake up at 7? We proved both concepts. Yes and no."  Traders and bankers have completely different cultures. Traders are at their desks by 7 a.m., while investment bankers tend to stay up late working on deals and socializing with clients.  Goldman SachsLloyd Blankfein with the winning team. The Securities Division team was stacked with athletes, including two former Princeton runners, Peter Bartlett and Sarah Cummings. Both are elite marathoners.  Cummings, who runs 100 miles per week while working full-time for Goldman, may try out for the Olympic marathon team. The traders' team also had Brian Kuritzky, a former Cornell soccer player who was the fastest Wall Streeter in the 2012 Empire State Building Run.  West was no slouch before he got to Goldman, either. He served in the US Marine Corps, and before that he rowed for Harvard and raced 400 miles across Borneo. His efforts garnered him the title "most badass" on Wall Street from Business Insider's Linette Lopez. Peter Bartlett was the top male finisher. The top female was Paige Madden, a former Cornell rower. On Tuesday, Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein presented the Bronze Boot trophy — a bronzed combat boot that has completed three tours in Iraq. Goldman SachsThe Bronze Boot. Blankfein also asked where the other divisions were during the ceremony on the 43rd floor of Goldman's 200 West Street headquarters. "Where are they? Are they represented here at the awards ceremony?" Blankfein asked. "Well, no, they lost." West said.  Maybe next year. Until then, the trophy will remain on the trading floor.  Goldman Sachs      FREE AppDownload
Scientists often test drugs in mice. Now some cancer patients are doing the same - with the hope of curing their own disease. They are paying a private lab to breed mice that carry bits of their own tumors so treatments can be tried first on the customized rodents. The idea is to see which drugs might work best on a specific person's specific cancer. Produced by Alex Kuzoian. Video courtesy of Associated Press. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
JP Morgan FundsThe earlier you begin saving, the better off you'll be. Today, it's increasingly become the responsibility of the worker to put money away for retirement in the form of a 401(k) plan or an IRA — that is, a defined-contribution plan. The goal of this post is not to explain the mechanics of retirement plans. Rather, we want to show you the importance of beginning to save sooner rather than later. It all comes down to one elementary mathematical principle: compound interest. Compound interest occurs when the interest that accrues to an amount of money in turn accrues interest itself. It's the deceivingly simple force that causes wealth to rapidly snowball. This is why it's the concept that is at the core of all finance. The folks at JPMorgan Asset Management demonstrate the true power of compound interest in their 2014 "Guide to Retirement." Their example consists of three people who experience the same annual return on their retirement funds: Intuitively, it makes sense that Chris would end up with the most money. But the amount he has saved is astronomically larger than the amounts saved by Susan or Bill. Interestingly, Susan, who saved for just 10 years, has more wealth than Bill, who saved for 30 years. That discrepancy is explained by compound interest. You see, all of the investment returns that Susan earned in her 10 years of saving are snowballing — big time. Those returns accrue to the point that Bill can't catch up, even if he saves for an additional 20 years. Of course, if Susan saved like Chris ... well, if you haven't noticed, Chris' savings are equal to the savings of Bill and Susan combined. The longer you wait to start saving for retirement, the more you miss out on the benefits of the incredible power of compound interest. Here's the chart, in slide form, from JP Morgan Asset Management. JP Morgan Asset Management     
Carl Quintanilla / TwitterThis is sorta accurate. But not really. At 2:00 p.m. Eastern time, we learned the Fed ditched "considerable time" in favor of the word "patience." (How is that different, you ask? No one is quite sure yet, but most people think its a shorter period of time). The phrase, however, remained intact for reference, and that may have tripped up some computer algorithms designed to flag it. Here's the new language from the Fed:  Based on its current assessment, the Committee judges that it can be patient in beginning to normalize the stance of monetary policy. The Committee sees this guidance as consistent with its previous statement that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time following the end of its asset purchase program in October, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal... CNBC was fooled. Almost immediately after the statement was released, CNBC's Carl Quintanilla tweeted a screenshot of the network (see above), which announced the Fed had kept the language.  Peter Tchir from Brean Capital sent out a note after the announcement suggesting this was an algorithm issue, since that's where the instant market reaction often comes from. Here's Tchir's reaction after reading the whole statement: I think this is more hawkish than the markets initial reaction. They are on the path to hiking rates (even if the dots moved down by an 1/8 which is somewhat irrelevant since the eurodollar futures are still pricing far less). I think this will NOT support Oil. Which means HY won't be supported. Which means equities, will not be supported. For now, the stock market rally that Tchir is skeptical of is holding up.      FREE AppDownload
FinViz The price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil on Tuesday rose to a high of $58.98 from $54.20, and then tumbled back to around $56. Brent crude rose to a high of $63.50 from about $58.70, and dropped to around $60.75. At this point, there seems to be no obvious explanation for the move. On Tuesday, oil prices tumbled to five-year lows. WTI touched $53.60 and Brent sank to $59.86, both were the lowest levels since May 2009. Oil has become the big story of 2014 since it began tumbling from its June highs. The plunge has been attributed to oversupply because of the US shale boom and deteriorating demand as Japan, Europe, China, and much of the developed and emerging economies slow or contract. Oil-exporting countries like Russia and Norway have felt a lot of pain. Russia's ruble crashed to all-time lows on Tuesday. "Looking ahead, the depth of Russia's problems and the consequences for the global financial markets will obviously depend on what happens next to the price of oil," Capital Economics' John Higgins said.   FREE AppDownload
I don't own any Tesla stock, but I did think about buying a few shares back in 2010, after the company's IPO.  "What the heck?" I thought. Having expressed skepticism about the prospects for Tesla's ongoing existence in 2008-09 — and being proved very, very wrong — I figured I could invest $100 and adjust my Karma. Didn't do it, could have turned that $100 into about $1,200 (if I'd sold the shares at the recent top, something I doubt I would have done). The truth is, back in 2010, I was still fairly skeptical about Tesla's prospects. Plus, I figured I had a conflict of interest that prevented me from owning shares in a company that I often covered as a journalist. Tesla is down substantially from its peak valuation, hovering around $200. But unlike in 2010, Elon Musk &amp; Co. are selling cars and gaining the loyalty of customers. The Model S sedan has been very well received and the new all-wheel-drive "D" version lit up the entire automotive world back in October when it was revealed.  But is the stock a riskier bet in 2014 it was in 2010? Morgan Stanley lead auto analyst Adam Jonas thinks so. In a research note published on Wednesday, he wrote that he and his team "see an investment in [Tesla] shares as even higher risk today than when the stock was trading at $25 — mainly in the form of market expectations that suggest very high mass market volume targets in just a few years." That last part is critical. To justify a $200-plus stock price, Tesla needs to make good on the promises of its future. As Jonas pointed out, that means a lot of cars, upwards of half a million yearly, for the every-persons of the world — not just luxury cars for the upper crust.  Jonas doesn't think that's what Tesla is all about. And that's why it's so risky to buy shares now. Not that he recommends against it: he thinks the ultimate return will justify the risk.  But he's right that market expectations are vast higher than they were in 2010. Tesla is the first successful automotive startup in decades. It was easy to write it off in the early days. But as the company has solidified itself, an opposite urge has kicked in: to ask too much of the Tesla. FREE AppDownload
 One RBS business analyst just tore Russell Brand a new one. The drug-abusing-playboy-turned-political-activist stormed the London headquarters of the Royal Bank of Scotland last week, confronting any and all employees he could find and demanding to know their salaries. Security quickly locked the doors to prevent his camera crew from entering, and in the process, prevented a number of bank employees from entering or exiting the building. That, according to blogger Joseph Kynaston Reeves, was so uncool that it deserved a proper response. Kynaston Reeves, whose LinkedIn identifies him as an RBS business analyst, penned an open letter to Brand on his personal blog, and berated the multimillionaire celebrity for inconveniencing people who had nothing to do with bank bailouts (and for ruining his lunch). Some gems include: You know what I have in my pocket? A security pass. Unauthorised people aren't allowed in ... That's not a global conspiracy, Russell; it's basic security. On the RBS bailout: The idea was to buy the bank with public money, wait until it became profitable again, then resell it ... In other words, the taxpayer will make a profit on this deal. And on the general disruption of the publicity stunt: Who did you inconvenience on Friday? ... How about some of the millionaire traders you despise so much (some of whom are nearly as rich as you, Russell)? Well, no, because you got the wrong f----ng building. You can read the full letter here.        FREE AppDownload
Wealth-X just announced its list of the biggest losers this year, proving that even the wealthiest hit rough patches.  Russian gas mogul Leonid Mikhelson lost the most, with over 40% of his fortune slipping away between Russia’s struggling economy and weak oil prices.  Here are the billionaires who lost the most in 2014: Mikhelson, CEO of Russian gas company Novatek, lost nearly 41% of his $17 billion fortune this year, leaving his current wealth at around $10 billion. His losses stem from a number of factors, including the decline of Russian currency, weak oil prices, and economic sanctions placed on Russia by Western nations in light of the Russia-Ukraine conflict.  Though he remains the richest man in Japan, the CEO of SoftBank, Asia’s top Internet and telecommunications corporation, lost nearly $6 billion this year. Losses from Sprint, which SoftBank purchased last year, dragged down the company’s overall earnings this year. Chinese casinos struggled overall this year, and Galaxy Entertainment Group, which Woo owns, saw a 20% drop in revenue. Despite earning a strong $8.3 billion in 2013 as gambling surged last year, Woo ended this year with a $5.5 billion loss instead.  As Amazon shares shares continue to drop — down 28% in 2014 — Amazon is predicted to lose an estimated $40.5 million this year, according to Bloomberg. Bezos’s personal wealth took a $5.5 billion hit as well, but the founder remains confident in Amazon’s recovery.  It was a tough year for casino mogul Adelson, who is the CEO of the Las Vegas Sands Corporation. In addition to his personal monetary losses, hackers effectively shut down a major Las Vegas casino of Adelson’s in February, stealing customers’ Social Security Numbers and clearing hard drives. Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
Barbara Corcoran and the rest of the "Shark Tank" cast have spent several seasons listening to investment opportunities on the hit show. We gave Barbara a chance to create her perfect cast and tell us what's the one investment she regrets missing on the show.  Produced by Sam Rega Follow BI Video: On Facebook
A 2002 Fortune magazine story, featuring Sallie Krawcheck on the cover, began like this: Sallie Krawcheck, dubbed "the last honest analyst" in the wake of that piece, was known for speaking the truth. That reputation helped catapult her to top leadership positions at Citigroup and Bank of America, tenures that were not without tumult. Today, she is Chair of Ellevate Network. Here, with the benefit of all of those experiences, she offers her advice to today's young analysts. Produced by Devan Joseph and Alana Kakoyiannis. Follow BI Video: On Twitter
AP ImagesJanet YellenJanet Yellen is holding her final press conference of the year following the Fed's last policy announcement this afternoon.  Yellen emphasized right at the top that the language does not represent a change in the Fed's intentions.  On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve made its last monetary policy announcement of the year, removing the phrase "considerable time" and replacing this with "patient." Regarding the labor market, Yellen said that overall the labor market has improved, and noted that underutilization of labor resources continuing to diminish.  On the broader economy, Yellen said that real GDP expanded 2.5% over the four quarters ending in the third quarter, with indications showing the economy continues to grow at that pace.  Yellen noted that the decline in oil prices "will likely hold down overall inflation in the near term." Yellen added that "as oil price declines and other transitory factors dissipate" the Fed expects inflation to move back towards its 2% target. The Fed has noted the decline in the "market based" measures of inflation — i.e. breakevens — and said these too look transitory, though these do bear close watching.  Yellen said that the Committee expects it will be appropriate to maintain its current policy stance "for at least the next couple of meetings." Yellen said that most FOMC members, however, believe that it will be appropriate to begin raising rates at some time in 2015, but that the time of year depends on the economic situation. At the time of lift off, FOMC members expect to see a further decline in the unemployment rate, with "core" inflation running near current levels, but remain confident that inflation will run back to target levels. Yellen is still stressing that the path of interest rate hikes will continue to depend on incoming data.  Here's the key passage: "Based on its current assessment, the Committee judges that it can be patient in beginning to normalize the stance of monetary policy." Yellen said that most FOMC members expect interest rates to get closer to its "normal longer-run level" by the end of 2017, particularly as impacts from the Financial Crisis continue to dissipate.  Yellen said "no meeting is completely off the table" for raising interest rates. Of course, Yellen added that this depends on incoming data, but if data are stronger than expected than normalization could happen sooner than expected, and the opposite would also remain true.  Yellen added that "a number" of FOMC members indicated that conditions could be appropriate by the middle of next year, but emphasized that there is "no preset" time for when the Fed would begin raising rates.  On inflation, Yellen expects headline inflation to be under pressure "for a while," adding that most FOMC members expect it will be appropriate during 2015 to being normalizing policy.  Yellen said that she would like to "strongly discourage" the expectation that policy moves, meaning interest rate increases, can only occur at meetings that are scheduled to be accompanied by press conferences. "Every meeting is a live meeting," Yellen said.  Yellen added that if the Fed felt it needed to hold a press conference to explain a decision, it would do so.  With regard to the Fed's observation on oil prices, Yellen said it is "one of the most important developments shaping the global outlook." Yellen added that the FOMC expects that for the US, the decline in oil prices will be, on net, a positive for the economy.  Yellen again noted that the decline in oil prices and the pressure put on inflation is likely to be "transitory." In response to a question about the market misinterpreting the Fed's intentions, Yellen said, "That's difficult to me to say."   Yellen said that the Fed recognizes that there are differences between the Fed's rate outlook on the market's. The FT's Robin Harding asked if this disconnect makes Yellen uncomfortable. Yellen said, "I can't tell you exactly what is driving market developments, but I can say we're trying to communicate our thoughts as clearly as we can."  Yellen emphasized that in the past, when inflation expectations were "well-anchored" big moves in commodities like oil had transitory impacts on inflation, and the Fed expects that will be the case this time as well.  When asked on if "a couple" of meetings means two, Yellen said that yes, a couple means two. Yellen earlier said that indicating it will be "patient" in raising rates meant that it expects to wait "at least a couple meetings."  Yellen said that as the Fed begins to normalize policy, it expects to be accommodative for a long time.  On inflation running below the Fed's target, Yellen said that though inflation is running below its target, a "small undershoot" of the Fed's employment target should facilitate inflation moving back towards that target. The Fed is not, however, expecting an overshoot of its 2% inflation target. On the decline in breakevens, Yellen said it could reflect inflation expectations, but also reflect a reassessment of risk and term premia. Yellen said it can also reflect "liquidity effects" in markets. "When there is a flight to safety, that tends to be a flight to Treasuries," Yellen said, which she added could be pressuring those measures.  With regard to having three dissents at the Fed's latest meeting, Yellen said the policy statement does a good job of "reflecting what a majority of the Committee thinks is appropriate policy." Yellen said it is "reasonable" to see divergences of opinion.  On how quickly the Fed plans to move when it begins raising rates, Yellen doesn't see the need to repeat rate hikes at a "measured pace" as the Fed has done in the past, when it raised interest rates 25 basis over more than a dozen straight meetings. Yellen again emphasized that until some of the economic conditions that were after effects of the Financial Crisis dissipate, it will likely be appropriate for the Fed to remain accommodative even after it begins normalizing rates.  On a question regarding the recent controversies at the New York Fed, Yellen said that she feels a "good sense of confidence" on how it has overhauled its supervision processes since the Financial Crisis.  Yellen added that it's important there are "channels" through which people at various Fed banks can express their disagreements with other members on their team. Yellen noted that the Fed board has undertaken a review of procedures at each regional bank.  On Russia, Yellen said that the linkages between Russian and the US economy are "really quite small." Yellen said she expects the spillover from Russia's financial situation to the US would be quite small as a result. The effects could be larger in Europe, and Yellen added that, "we are obviously watching [Russia] closely." When asked about contagion effects from the decline in oil prices, Yellen said that "leverage in the financial system in general is way down" from levels before the crisis, and said it isn't a "major" concern that some entities would be effected by the decline in oil prices. On the housing market, Yellen said she is "surprised" the market hasn't recovered more, attributing some of this to continued tight credit conditions. Yellen added that household formation has been depressed, but expects that an improving labor market will see this pick up and bolster the housing market.  FREE AppDownload
Stack Commerce 2014 was the year drones went mainstream. The 180 QX is a great drone that's ready to fly for pilots of any skill level. It's got high and low angle modes that focus on stability for photography or video, and agility mode for aerial stunts. It comes with a camera (but not a micro SD card), and is small enough to fly inside as well as take a little abuse outside. We have it for the same price as Amazon, but thanks to our friends at Stack Commerce, you can get it here with an extra battery and free shipping across the continental United States. Get 20% off The QX Drone + Extra Battery and Free Shipping ($189.99). Full specs below: Get 20% off The QX Drone + Extra Battery and Free Shipping ($189.99). Disclosure: This post is brought to you by Business Insider's Insider Picks team. We aim to highlight products and services you might find interesting, and if you buy them, we may get a small share of the revenue from the sale. This is not an advertiser sponsored post and we operate independently from our advertising sales team. We welcome your feedback.Have something you think we should know about? Email us at insiderpicks@businessinsider.com. FREE AppDownload
Mike KelleyAll Fed, all day. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Wednesday: 1. It was all about the Fed. On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve released its latest monetary-policy statement, replacing "considerable time" with "patient" when describing how it plans to approach the beginning of interest-rate hikes, or what the Fed calls "policy normalization." Here's the key passage from the Fed statement: "Based on its current assessment, the Committee judges that it can be patient in beginning to normalize the stance of monetary policy." The Fed added that it sees this guidance as "consistent" with its prior guidance that it would wait a "considerable time" between the end of quantitative easing and the beginning of interest-rate hikes.  2. Fed Chair Janet Yellen also held a press conference following the meeting and added some more detail to what "patience" really means, saying that the Fed expects to keep rates pegged near 0% for "at least the next couple of meetings." Yellen again emphasized that the Fed would monitor incoming data, and said that faster-than-expected improvements in the economy could warrant more aggressive action. On the other hand, economic conditions that disappoint could see the Fed keep rates lower for a longer time than it currently expects.  3. Yellen was also asked about the impact that oil could have on consumer prices, as the declining price of oil is expected to keep headline inflation — which doesn't strip out the more volatile costs of food and energy — well below the Fed's target. Yellen said that the effects of oil prices on inflation are likely to be "transitory," adding that in the past, when inflation expectations have been "well-anchored," these declines in commodity prices have not had a lasting impact on inflation.  4. Oil had another wild session on Wednesday. Near noon on Wednesday, West Texas Intermediate futures surged to nearly $59 a barrel after sitting near $55 for most of the morning. But during the afternoon, oil gave back almost all of these gains as the commodity remains highly volatile.  5. With the Fed's latest policy statement, the Fed also released its latest Summary of Economic Projections, which included the latest "dot plot" showing expectations for future interest rates.  6. On Wednesday morning, the consumer price index fell by the most since December 2008. The "headline" index, which doesn't exclude the cost of food and gas, fell by 0.3% in November as the price of gas fell by 6.6% month-on-month. This was also the biggest monthly decline in gas prices since December 2008. "Core" inflation, which the Fed focuses on and strips out food and gas, rose by 0.1% in November and by 1.7% compared to the prior year.  Don't Miss: Saudi Arabia's Oil Strategy Is About More Than Destroying The US Shale Business »      FREE AppDownload
Here is the Fed's latest dot plot. Federal Reserve The Fed just released its latest policy statement and Summary of Economic Projections. In the SEP, the Fed included its outlook for GDP, inflation, the labor market, and the future course of interest rates, also known as the "dot plot." In an email following the release of the dots, Russ Certo at Brean Capital said, "We read dots as dovish: the 2% in 2016 seems creeping out further of guidance dovish, 'patient' vis a vis considerable period also appears dovish."  The dot plot gives a median projection from FOMC members on the future path of interest rates over the next several years and over the long term.  As for its GDP, the Fed raised its expectations for 2014 GDP, to 2.3%-2.4% from 2%-2.2%, while also taking down its unemployment rate expectations for next year to 5.2%-5.3% from 5.4%-5.6%.   More to come ...  FREE AppDownload
Charles Dharapak/APFederal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen.The Federal Reserve has dropped "considerable time" from its policy statement. It just released its latest monetary policy statement of 2014, and said it will be patient in how long it waits to raise interest rates. Previously the Fed had said it would wait a "considerable time." Here's the key passage: "Based on its current assessment, the Committee judges that it can be patient in beginning to normalize the stance of monetary policy." The Fed added that it feels this guidance is "consistent" with its previous statement. Additionally, the Fed noted that economic activity is expanding at a moderate pace, labor market conditions improved further, and noted that inflation continues to run below its target, which reflects a decline in energy prices.  The Fed also continued to stress the data dependency of its future policy decisions, saying that if incoming data is better than expected, then rates will rise faster, while disappointing data would keep rates lower than expected. Here's the full statement from the Fed: Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in October suggests that economic activity is expanding at a moderate pace. Labor market conditions improved further, with solid job gains and a lower unemployment rate. On balance, a range of labor market indicators suggests that underutilization of labor resources continues to diminish. Household spending is rising moderately and business fixed investment is advancing, while the recovery in the housing sector remains slow. Inflation has continued to run below the Committee's longer-run objective, partly reflecting declines in energy prices. Market-based measures of inflation compensation have declined somewhat further; survey-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable. Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace, with labor market indicators moving toward levels the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the risks to the outlook for economic activity and the labor market as nearly balanced. The Committee expects inflation to rise gradually toward 2 percent as the labor market improves further and the transitory effects of lower energy prices and other factors dissipate. The Committee continues to monitor inflation developments closely. To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability, the Committee today reaffirmed its view that the current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate remains appropriate. In determining how long to maintain this target range, the Committee will assess progress--both realized and expected--toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This assessment will take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial developments. Based on its current assessment, the Committee judges that it can be patient in beginning to normalize the stance of monetary policy. The Committee sees this guidance as consistent with its previous statement that it likely will be appropriate to maintain the 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable time following the end of its asset purchase program in October, especially if projected inflation continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored. However, if incoming information indicates faster progress toward the Committee's employment and inflation objectives than the Committee now expects, then increases in the target range for the federal funds rate are likely to occur sooner than currently anticipated. Conversely, if progress proves slower than expected, then increases in the target range are likely to occur later than currently anticipated. The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. This policy, by keeping the Committee's holdings of longer-term securities at sizable levels, should help maintain accommodative financial conditions. When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum employment and inflation of 2 percent. The Committee currently anticipates that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels, economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run. Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair; William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Lael Brainard; Stanley Fischer; Loretta J. Mester; Jerome H. Powell; and Daniel K. Tarullo. Voting against the action were Richard W. Fisher, who believed that, while the Committee should be patient in beginning to normalize monetary policy, improvement in the U.S. economic performance since October has moved forward, further than the majority of the Committee envisions, the date when it will likely be appropriate to increase the federal funds rate; Narayana Kocherlakota, who believed that the Committee's decision, in the context of ongoing low inflation and falling market-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations, created undue downside risk to the credibility of the 2 percent inflation target; and Charles I. Plosser, who believed that the statement should not stress the importance of the passage of time as a key element of its forward guidance and, given the improvement in economic conditions, should not emphasize the consistency of the current forward guidance with previous statements. The Fed's announcement will be followed by a press conference from Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen at 2:30 p.m. ET.  Along with the policy statement, the Fed will release its latest "Summary of Economic Projections," which contains its outlook for GDP, inflation, and the latest "dot plot."  More to come ... FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVWendy's CEO Emil Brolick. But that's not likely to change any time soon because the morning market is too crowded and costly, according to Wendy's CEO Emil Brolick. "We have tested breakfast many times over the years and we feel, as virtually the only large national chain that hasn't gotten into breakfast, it's very difficult to enter that space today and commit the kind of marketing resources that we feel would be necessary to really entrench ourselves successfully," Brolick said in an interview with Bloomberg TV. Brolick said breakfast is the fastest-growing daypart in fast food and that it also attracts some of the most loyal customers. McDonald's, Starbucks, and Dunkin' Donuts, have all recently expanded their breakfast menus and Taco Bell entered the breakfast market this year for the first time in the company's history. But Wendy's breakfast menu tests have all failed. The most recent test, which included items like steel-cut oatmeal, artisan breakfast sandwiches, and sausage biscuits, lasted a year and ended in 2013.   Wendy's If Wendy's is "going to ask our teams to work hard and spend extra time in our restaurants, we want to make sure that we can do that in a highly profitable basis," he said. "And we felt based upon our last earnings that we weren't quite there." But Brolick said that he wouldn't totally rule out breakfast down the line. "We're not saying never, just saying not right now," he said. Watch the full interview.  FREE AppDownload
Snapchat CEO Evan Spiegel made candid comments about the tech sector and Facebook in particular in a Nov. 2013 email to a Sony executive who is a Snapchat board member, as revealed in the huge Sony hack. The mobile messaging company has already rejected a $3 billion offer from Facebook and is reportedly raising money at a $10 billion valuation. Although Spiegel's comments are 13 months old, the stocks he mention have only continued to rise while the Fed has kept rates low, so there's no reason to think his opinion has changed. Here's what he said: [M]y view of the market is as follows -- Fed has created abnormal market conditions by printing money and keeping interest rates low. Investors are looking for growth anywhere they can find it and tech companies are good targets - at these values, however, all tech stocks are expensive - even looking at 5+ years of revenue growth down the road. This means that most value-driven investors have left the market and the remaining 5-10%+ increase in market value will be driven by momentum investors. At some point there won't be any momentum investors left buying at higher prices, and the market begins to tumble. May be 10-20% correction or something more significant, especially in tech stocks. Facebook has continued to perform in the market despite declining user engagement and pullback of brand advertising dollars -- largely due to mobile advertising performance - especially App Install advertisements. This is a huge red flag because it indicates that sustainable brand dollars have not yet moved to Facebook mobile platform and mobile revenue growth has been driven by technology companies (many of which are VC funded). VC dollars are being spent on user acquisition despite unknown LTV of users - a recipe for disaster. This props up Facebook share price and continues to justify VC investment in technology products based on abnormally large mkt cap companies (i.e. "If this company attracts just 5% of users that FB has, it will be HUGE" - fuels spend on user acquisition as user growth is tied to values). When the market for tech stocks cools, Facebook market cap will plummet, access to capital for unproven businesses will become inaccessible, and ad spend on user acquisition will rapidly decrease - compounding problems for Facebook and driving stock even lower. Instagram may be only saving grace if they are able to ramp advertising product fast enough. Total internet advertising spend cannot justify outsized valuations of social media products that derive revenue from advertising. Feed-based advertising units will plummet in value (in the case of Twitter, advertising spend may not move beyond experimental dollars) similar to earlier devaluing of Internet display advertising. Spiegel, then-23, also commented on how his mobile messaging app fits into this environment: THAT SAID, we are still in very early days in mobile application market. I remember growing up wishing I had been a part of PC revolution - and I feel very fortunate to havethe opportunity to watch smartphones take off. Snapchat has become one of the top 5 mobile phone brands with Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, and Instagram.  For Snapchat to capitalize on market conditions in next 3 years, it is imperative that we become a revenue-generating company. That will allow us to attract the best talent and prosper despite extreme scrutiny on traditional social media that will have failed to deliver on $$$ dreams. Team is working overtime to drive revenue and innovate on core product - we have a solid 3-year roadmap that we intend to follow. As a profitable growth company with a focus on mobile we will not suffer from opportunities to raise capital at outsized valuations despite market conditions. Strategically it is important for us to keep expectations low with an understanding that Snapchat may be valued on revenues going forward and that $800mm valuation for a two year old company is remarkable and already more than enough to grow into. With 13-15 months of runway extended by minimally successful revenue generation activities I think we are positioned to capture the mobile communication market. I disagree wholeheartedly with the notion that mobile will be forever fragmented - we are the only differentiated messaging service in the United States and we will continue to provide a unique and innovative product experience. Snapchat is not valuable in the long-term because it is used by teens or because it is a threat to Facebook. It is valuable because it has fundamentally changed the nature of digital communication in &lt;2 years and will continue to do so for the life of the Company (may it be long and prosperous). Our focus in the immediate term is revenue generation, growth and product development.  FREE AppDownload
Most of America is unlikely to see a white Christmas. Jed Kolko, chief economist at real estate site Trulia, posted a map showing the historical likelihood of a white Christmas in each US county between 1980 and 2013 based on data from the National Climatic Data Center. Snowfall around Christmas is most common in the northern parts of the US, but areas where a white Christmas is most likely tend to be less populated than the less snowy southern states and coasts.  "Measured by land area, an impressive 40 percent of the U.S. has a better than 50-50 chance of having a white Christmas—30 percent if we exclude big, snowy Alaska. But just 19% of households live in those wintry regions," Kolko wrote. For more detail, check out Kolko's post here. Trulia FREE AppDownload
AmazonIf you're looking to decorate your home with some Ikea basics — stop right now. Matching furniture and solid paints wall colors are apparently "soon-to-be forgotten" interior decorating fads, according to the interior design experts at Zillow Digs. And you wouldn't want your house to look completely untrendy, now would you? But good news! The experts at Zillow Digs have also kindly announced the five new interior decorating trends that will take 2015 by storm. "Unexpected textures and an eclectic, modern vibe are about to find their way in 2015. Expect to see a more sophisticated look in 2015 that incorporates gold hardware, natural textures, and a subtle mid-century modern undertone," writes Kerrie Kelly, a Zillow Digs design expert. So what are these so-called "sophisticated" trends of 2015? Lets take a look. "In 2015, homeowners will no longer be limited to silver or stainless steel fixtures, and will feel free to mix and match finish colors, or go bold with all gold," according to the Zillow Digs report. So that means you can bling out your house exactly as you've always dreamed of doing in the new year. We think you should start with the bathroom — no sink is complete without a gold faucet. Amazon And since it's officially on-trend to mix finishes, you may want to consider a bronze-and-gold gryphon lamp fixture for your living room. Flickr If you're not quite sure exactly how to go with the whole gold design thing, you can take a cue from St. Petersburg's Hermitage. They really nailed the trend in the boudoir room. Flickr Without a doubt, there is nothing more "sophisticated" than the cowhide rug. Your apartment or house certainly won't be complete without one. “Cowhide is the ideal accent texture for 2015’s modern, yet approachable design aesthetic. Zillow Digs Designers say elements of cowhide will fight their pay into pillows, rugs, throw blankets, and even artwork this year," according to the Zillow Digs report. Just imagine how nice it would be to have a few guests over for a glass of wine in this living room: AmazonOr perhaps you would rather keep the cowhide all to yourself? You can also get a few cowhide pillows, and even a cowhide throw to add "the ideal accent texture" that's also an "approachable design." Amazon "Wallpaper is coming back in a big way," says Zillow Digs designer Jamie Backwith of Beckwith Interiors. According to the experts at Zillow Digs, consumers should expect to see an increase in available colors and textures in home stores because everyone's dying to spice up their wall game.  So say good-bye to those plain white walls in lieu of some bold light-blue mixed with yellow: Flickr Or maybe even a deep purple and white flower combination: Flickr But if you're looking for something a tad more demure, perhaps something like this lime-green option is your best bet. Flickr Blue will be the most popular accent color for interior decorating, and — believe it or not — it also happens to be the perfect complement to Marsala, the 2015 Pantone Color of the Year, according to the Zillow Digs designers. "Pops of indigo blue or deep navy will become a stable in home design this year, as their deep natural hues become extra vibrant against warm earth tones like Marsala," according to Zillow Digs home design expert, Kerrie Kelly. If you're not sure how you feel about the navy-accent trend, a pillow like this is a great way to dip your toes in. Flickr If you want to go a bit bolder, blue chairs could add that perfect "pop" of blue in your room, like so: Amazon And if you really want to take your decorating game to the next level, you should invest in a 2-in-1 navy blue and gold accent chair like this: Flickr Last but not least, a throwback to modern design elements of the 1950s through the 1970s. So that couch you saw on that 1970s family-style sitcom is officially trendy today.  However, "while this trend will be popular, Zillow Digs experts advise homeowners to be careful when integrating into homes, as the trend is great for inspiration, but shouldn't take over the house." Consequently, we think these are the best subtle ways to bring the 1970s to life in your home. First and foremost, a nice mustard and wood chair:FlickrOr maybe this orange and printed combo chair — just the right accent to punch up your room a bit. FlickrAnd if you want just a touch of mid-century sparkle, a funky mirror is the way to go. Amazon So throw out that out-of-date matching furniture, and get ride of your solid painted wall colors. It's time to bring one of these sophisticated, completely on-trend design staples to your home in the new year. Happy decorating. FREE AppDownload
These daredevil highliners put up a line between two hot air balloons to try their first completely movable highline.  Filmed and edited by Sébastien Montaz-Rosset. Sound design by Alexandre Gardic.  Video courtesy of sebmontaz.com Follow BI Video: On Facebook
AP ImagesFresh off the biggest IPO in history, Alibaba founder and chairman Jack Ma is now the richest person in China. Ma made more money that anyone else in the world this year. His wealth grew by $18.5 billion between December 2013 and December 2014, a whopping 173% increase. He's now worth an estimated $29.2 billion, which includes his 7.8% stake in Alibaba and a nearly 50% stake in payment processing service Alipay.  Ma's is a true rags-to-riches story. He grew up poor in communist China, failed his college entrance exam twice, and was rejected from dozens of jobs, including one at KFC, before finding success with his third internet company, Alibaba.  FREE AppDownload
Drink SpiritsSometimes you want to give your loved ones something you know they're really going to use. Holidays aren't just about ornaments, or the ornamental. That's when you get someone a bottle of liquor, and not just any bottle of any liquor — one that will surprise and delight them. Business Insider reached out to our friends in the booze business — Robert Haynes Peterson, a writer and liquor expert; Pam Wiznitzer, bartender at NYC cocktail standout The Dead Rabbit, and Jessie Dure of American Whiskey — and they told us which bottles are special enough to give. And if these bottles are special to them, they'll be special to you. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Desmond BoylanA U.S.-made car, used as a private collective taxi is driven beside a billboard in Havana, September 30, 2013. One time Havana was a hugely popular tourist destination for Americans. One time the Atlanta and Boston Federal Reserve banks opened their own offices there. And one time they had to bail out Cuba. The Atlanta Fed recently alerted us to this quirky chapter in the Fed's history. Though the U.S. had ceded sovereignty of the island to Cubans in 1902, the greenback was still the island's official currency. Several major U.S. and Canadian banks had substantial presences there, and the Atlanta Fed was overseeing $40 million circulating in the Cuban economy. Around 1920, Atlanta decided it wanted to open an official Havana office. After some heated negotiations, it was agreed that the Boston and Atlanta Feds would both open branches, with Atlanta overseeing physical circulation and Boston in charge of cables (Boston had argued that it was home to more banks operating in Cuba than in Atlanta). The two branches remained rivals throughout their stay there. Fast forward to the first week of April, 1926. Rumors about a Canadian bank failing began to circulate, and eventually escalated into a bank run throughout the country. By Friday, the Atlanta Fed's $10 million reserve fund had been drained. "Without more currency by Monday, the banking system in Cuba faced collapse," the Atlanta Fed recounts. So the Atlanta Fed's branch manager called in for an emergency shipment of $26.5 million in cash. Atlanta FedForty-two pouches of registered mail were packed into the gunboat "Cuba," which took off at 5 pm on April 11 from Key West.  The photo you see above shows the Cuban navy unloading the shipment, which arrived in Havana nine hours later. The run was successfully stanched when banks opened Monday. But the drama ended up jumping back stateside, when Atlanta Fed officials learned Washington was investigating them for having taken a "joyride." "...there were charges that 'on the way over from Key West to Havana the entire party from Atlanta became intoxicated' and that its men arrived 'in a disgraceful condition' that discredited the Bank," the Atlanta Fed writes. An initial investigation led from Washington said the charges were true: "...the demeanor of rescue had gone awry and that four members of the Atlanta party, including Deputy Governor [J.L.] Campbell, did become drunk on the boat. Campbell should 'be eliminated from the Federal Reserve System,' the report concluded. It also noted “a feeling of jealousy and mutual distrust between the two Federal Reserve Agencies in Havana.” But Atlanta Fed members denounced the findings and demanded a chance to conduct their own investigation, and accusing the Boston Fed's Havana manager of having maliciously initiated the charges. During a subsequent hearing, Campbell, the Atlanta Fed deputy governor "conceded that he had taken two drinks before dinner, but a parade of witnesses testified that he never appeared to be drunk," the Atlanta Fed says.  But it was not enough to save Campbell's job, and the Atlanta Fed eventually relieved him under protest. In fact, the entire Havana adventure continued downhill from that point. The Boston branch ended up folding the first day of 1927. And as financial activity became increasingly volatile as Cuba entered its revolutionary phase, the Atlanta Fed's office became increasingly unprofitable. On Sept. 30, 1938, it closed its doors for good. FREE AppDownload
Fearrington House Restaurant/FacebookFearrington House Restaurant in Pittsboro, North Carolina.OpenTable just announced their list of the Best Restaurants in America for 2014. To find the best dining options, OpenTable pored over more than 5 million restaurant reviews submitted by verified OpenTable diners for 20,000 restaurants, covering all 50 states and Washington D.C. SeaBlue Restaurant &amp; Wine Bar in North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina was named their top pick overall, but check out the full list here, in alphabetical order: Abe Fisher — Philadelphia, PA Acanto — Chicago, IL All Purpose — Milwaukee, WI Altius — Pittsburgh, PA Antebellum — Flowery Branch, GA Ariana — Bend, OR Atera — New York, NY Bacchanalia — Atlanta, GA Bazaar Meat by José Andres - SLS Las Vegas — Las Vegas, NV Bida Manda Restaurant and Bar — Raleigh, NC Blue Hill at Stone Barns — Pocantico Hills, NY Bodean Seafood — Tulsa, OK Bolete Restaurant — Bethlehem, PA Bouchard Restaurant and Inn — Newport, RI Boulevard Bistro — Elk Grove, CA Cafe 2825 — Atlantic City, NJ Cafe Monarch — Scottsdale, AZ Camp Verde General Store and Restaurant — Camp Verde, TX Carlos' Bistro — Colorado Springs, CO Carpe Vino (21+ Establishment) — Auburn, CA The Cellars — Virginia Beach, VA Chef's Table at the Edgewater — Winter Garden, FL Ciao Osteria — Centreville, VA Circle Brunch - The Breakers — Palm Beach, FL Charleston — Baltimore, MD Collage Restaurant — St. Augustine, FL The Copper Door — Hayesville, NC Dai Due — Austin, TX Daniel — New York, NY Daniel - Lounge Seating — New York, NY Del Frisco's Double Edge Steak House - DC — Washington D.C. Eleven Madison Park — New York, NY Enzo's on the Lake — Longwood, FL Erling Jensen The Restaurant — Memphis, TN Fearrington House Restaurant — Pittsboro, NC The Flatiron Cafe — Omaha, NE Forage — Salt Lake City, UT Fortify Kitchen and Bar — Clayton, GA Franklinville Inn — Franklinville, NJ The French Room — Dallas, TX goosefoot — Chicago, IL Halls Chophouse — Charleston, SC Hamptons — Sumter, SC Herons — Cary, NC Highlands Bar &amp; Grill — Birmingham, AL Kai - Sheraton Wild Horse Pass Resort — Chandler, AZ L'Auberge Chez Francois — Great Falls, VA La Grenouille — New York, NY La Mer at Halekulani — Honolulu, HI Laurel — Philadelphia, PA Le Bernardin — New York, NY Les Nomades — Chicago, IL Maison Blanche — Longboat Key, FL Mama's Fish House — Paia, HI Marx Bros Cafe — Anchorage, AK May Kitchen + Bar — Vashon, WA Meadowsweet — Brooklyn, NY Michael's - South Point Casino — Las Vegas, NV Modern Love — Omaha, NE Montalcino Ristorante Italiano — Issaquah, WA The Mulefoot Gastropub — Imlay City, MI NAOE — Miami, FL n/naka — Los Angeles, CA Natural Selection — Portland, OR o ya — Boston, MA Ocean — Kennebunkport, ME Orchids at Palm Court — Cincinnati, OH The Painted Lady — Newberg, OR Perry Street Brasserie — Galena, IL Red Hill Station — San Francisco, CA Renaissance Cafe — Assaria, KS The Restaurant at Meadowood — Saint Helena, CA Restaurant Iris — Memphis, TN Restaurant Lorena's — Maplewood, NJ Roe — Portland, OR Rudy &amp; Paco Restaurant &amp; Bar — Galveston, TX Russell's Steaks, Chops, and More — Williamsville, NY Saint Jacques French Cuisine — Raleigh, NC Saison — San Francisco, CA SeaBlue Restaurant &amp; Wine Bar — North Myrtle Beach, SC Seaons 52 - Sarasota — Sarasota, FL Second Empire Restaurant and Tavern — Raleigh, NC Ski Top Lodge — Keystone, CO St. Francis Winery &amp; Vineyards — Santa Rosa CA Sushi Nakazawa - Sushi Bar — New York, NY The Tailor and the Cook — Utica, NY Talula's Daily - Secret Supper Club — Philadelphia, PA Thomas Henkelmann - Homestead Inn — Greenwich, CT Twenty Eight Atlantic Wequassett Resort — East Harwich, MA Ulele — Tampa, FL 'Ulu Ocean Grill and Sushi Lounge — Kaupulehu, HI Rafain Brazilian Steakhouse — Fort Worth, TX ShinBay — Scottsdale, AZ The Chop House - Grand Rapids — Grand Rapids, MI The Joel Palmer House — Dayton, OR The Trattoria — Saint James, NY V.Mertz — Omaha, NE Watertable — Huntington Beach, CA White Barn Inn — Kennebunk, ME Wyebrook Farm Market &amp; Cafe — Honey Brook, PA FREE AppDownload
APIn this Dec. 10, 2012, file photo released by Cuba's state newspaper Granma, Cuba's President Raul Castro, right, receives Venezuela's President Hugo Chavez at the Jose Marti International airport in Havana, Cuba.  President Obama and Cuban President Raul Castro both offered remarks today about economic and political policy changes that should bring the two countries closer together. It sounds like the two countries have really overcome significant hurdles. That said, it's likely that Cuba didn't have a choice in the matter. Cuba's economy depends on a state on the verge of collapse — a disastrous repeat of its relationship with the Soviet Union. This time, though, its flailing partner is Venezuela. The two socialist countries have been buddies since former Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez was alive. Venezuela accounts for 20% of Cuba's GDP. Normally, Venezuela sends Cuba 80,000 barrels of oil a day, and in turn Cuba sends over doctors and medical supplies (Cuba prides itself on its medical professionals and exports them all over the world). ReutersVenezuelan dissident Leopoldo Lopez was arrested in February and still in jail. Economically, Venezuela's inflation rate is sitting at 60%, goods are scarce, and there are long lines to enter government grocery stores. The country's bonds have hit a 16-year low and it's struggling to make debt payments. The recent sharp decline in oil prices is absolutely savaging Venezuela as well, as oil makes up 95% of its exports. Bonds of its state oil company, Petroleos de Venezuela SA, are down over 40%. On Wall Street, traders are saying that default is the only endgame. "I am scared as hell," one Latin-American bond trader told Business Insider. "Default [is] likely within 12 months; the oil price collapse [is] just adding to a completely dysfunctional political and financial situation." According to reports, that's what Cuban doctors that have found in Venezuela, and they have been trying to get out. ReutersVenezuelan dissident Maria Corina Machado has been accused of plotting to kill Nicolas Maduro. "It was all a trick," Nelia told The Times. "They tell you how great it's going to be, how you will able to buy things and how grateful Venezuelans are to have you. Then comes the shock of the reality." When she got to her assigned clinic in Valencia it had no air-conditioning, and much of the ultrasound equipment she was supposed to use to examine pregnant women was broken. While all this is happening, Venezuelan President Maduro has reaffirmed his commitment to providing oil subsidies to friendly countries. That limits Venezuela's options for raising desperately needed cash. It's quite possible Venezuela will sell Citgo Petroleum, its US oil refining unit, for $10 billion. But that amount of cash won't last it long. The country needs a full-scale restructuring. All of this means that the "62 joint projects for social and economic development" Venezuela and Cuba signed for 2015 could collapse along with Venezuela. Then Cuba would be truly alone.  What choice did Havana have?    FREE AppDownload
Factsaboutherbalife.comBill Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, has released an internal Herbalife video from 2005 that he says shows a top distributor talking about deceptive recruiting practices. According to Pershing Square, the video is from a 2005 meeting of distributors and management in Anaheim, California.  The video shows the meeting's keynote speaker Stephan P. Gratziani, a former US national cyclist who is now an Herbalife Chairman's Club Member. "The Herbalife business model, at this point in time, is not based on customers purchasing, it‘s based on distributors purchasing volume," Gratziani says. Here are some of his statements from the video:  "We sell people on a dream business, that they can make it. Yet deep down inside, what do we really know? Yeah. We know that the reality is that most of them aren‘t going to make it." (Video 1, 1:00:16.) "Who wants to bring their family into a struggle to make it? Who wants to bring their family into an eventual deception?" (Video 2, 7:20.) "We tell people, hey, you know, sign on the dotted line, you know, start working from home, it‘s going to be unbelievable, you‘re going to have this incredible life. . . . So there really is this situation or this level of inauthenticity that‘s there." (Video 2, 8:28.) "The Herbalife business model is based on distributors purchasing volume from them. . . . The Herbalife business model, at this point in time, is not based on customers purchasing, it‘s based on distributors purchasing volume." (Video 2, 14:34.) "These sixty thousand people [whom the speaker lost as distributors over the preceding five years], primarily, why do you think they came into the business? Primarily? Primarily? Opportunity! Money! Right?" (Video 1, 46:05. "[S]uccessful people in retailing in our business, it‘s a very small percentage. (Video 2, 28:08.) "The majority of our people have a difficulty in selling products, in general." (Video 2, 29:46.) "‘Fake it =til you make it.‘ Some of us got so good at faking it, weforgot to make it!" (Video 1, 54:04.) Ackman, who runs Pershing Square Capital, has been publicly shorting Herbalife for two years. He believes the company operates as a "pyramid scheme."  Shares of Herbalife were last trading down 2.5%.  Here's the video:   You can watch the full presentation below:     FREE AppDownload
Rob Griffith/ReutersRussian President Vladimir Putin, left, with Crown Prince Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud of Saudi Arabia. At a panel discussion Wednesday hosted by the Overseas Press Club and Control Risks (the latter a global risk consultancy), the speakers seemed skeptical of the idea that Saudi Arabia was refusing to prop up oil prices because it wanted to force American producers out of the market. (US shale basins are among the most expensive sources of oil to tap.) There may be better political reasons for this move, with a reduction in American shale supply on the market just being the icing on the cake.  The more obvious losers in the current oil climate are Iran and Russia — the former of course being Saudi Arabia's archrival in the region, and the latter being no great friend of the Saudis' either. The pinch to shale may just be "a wonderful byproduct to screwing the Iranians and the Russians," said Michael Moran, Control Risk's managing director for global risk analysis. Further, he said, doing nothing has actually been a really smart move by the Saudis. With every move further down in price, the actions of the Saudis become more closely watched, reinforcing the country's position as the world's oil superpower.  Deutsche Bank / Business InsiderOPEC countries need high oil prices to break even. But they're also sitting on financial reserves. As for the impact of low prices on US shale, Levi says, even if the market figures out a breakeven price for American producers (which is hard, because it varies from well to well), that's going to change in two years and even more in five years, as the technology continues to develop. All of the above said, Levi cautions against thinking of Saudi Arabia as some sort of mastermind of the global energy story. It's unclear how many steps ahead the Saudis actually are.  "Don't overestimate the strategy of OPEC," he says.  FREE AppDownload
The multihull 210 Sunreef Power Trimaran superyacht is 210 feet long and has over 10,000 square feet of living space. The massive yacht can accommodate up to 12 guests comfortably in six guest cabins, all with their own private bathrooms and queen-size beds. An outstanding master suite offers a panoramic view and is outfitted with his-and-hers closets, toilets, and study areas. The lower deck is outfitted to accommodate a 12-person crew.Video courtesy of Sunreef Yachts Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Thomson ReutersCases of Pepsi are displayed for sale in CarlsbadBy Sinead Carew (Reuters) - PepsiCo Inc earnings could come under pressure in the fourth quarter due to currency fluctuations, investors said, as the company's biggest foreign markets - Russia, Mexico and Canada - have all taken hits to their currencies in recent months. While international expansion has helped PepsiCo diversify, it has exposed it to broader economic problems and forex volatility, particularly as the U.S. dollar has risen rapidly. "It probably will factor in to their earnings and it could cause some estimates to come down," said Lori Hudson, portfolio manager at Bahl &amp; Gaynor Investment Counsel Inc in Cincinnati, which owned 900,000 PepsiCo shares at the end of September. She added, however, that investors often shrug off earnings issues related to currency changes as they tend to be beyond a company's control. "They usually get a pass for that." Russia accounts for 7.4 percent of PepsiCo's sales. Mexico is the next-largest international market, at 6.5 percent, according to Thomson Reuters data, and 4.8 percent of sales come from Canada. All three have had their currencies drop sharply against the dollar, none more dramatically than the rouble, which has lost 36 percent of its value this quarter. PepsiCo shares have been pressured of late, losing 7.6 percent in the last 11 trading days after hitting a record of more than $100 a share on Nov. 28. PepsiCo shares were up 0.2 percent at $92.76 on Wednesday morning. PepsiCo said on Oct. 9 that it expects foreign exchange rates to take 4 percentage points off overall 2014 earnings and 3 percent off revenue. The company has not revised its guidance since and analyst estimates have changed little so far this quarter. It declined to comment when contacted by Reuters. PepsiCo is expected to earn $1.09 per share in the fourth quarter on $19.9 billion in revenue, according to Thomson Reuters estimates. Russia's rouble, which has been declining in value since June, has been crushed on the threats of more U.S. sanctions and the fall in oil. PepsiCo, which sells Frito-Lay snacks as well as beverage brands including Mountain Dew and Tropicana, expanded in Russia and became the country's biggest food and beverage producer when it bought juice and dairy maker Wimm-Bill-Dann in 2011. Eric Schoenstein, co-portfolio manager of the Jensen Quality Growth Fund, which holds roughly 3 million shares in PepsiCo, described its Russian issues as a short-term dynamic that could present opportunities for long-term investors. "It was a fairly attractive emerging market for them. It still can be but they have some structural issues to work out in the country. It remains to be seen how that plays out," said Schoenstein, whose company first invested in Pepsi in 2003. The Canadian dollar has fallen nearly 4 percent against the U.S. dollar during the quarter and now trades at 1.1638 per dollar. The Mexican peso is off by 8.4 percent, with the dollar buying 14.65 pesos now, in a similar time frame.  (Reporting by Sinead Carew in New York; editing by Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
 With the US announcing major policy changes in its relationship with Cuba, it's going to get easier to find the country's renowned cigars in the US. Senior Obama administration officials detailed the main elements of the policy shift, which were summed up as the beginning of normalized relations between the two countries, in a press conference call with reporters on Wednesday. An official said the change would include a "number of steps to significantly increase travel, commerce, and the flow of information to and from Cuba." The easing of these travel and commercial restrictions may result in more Cuban cigars in US humidors. A reporter specifically asked whether Americans would be able to buy Cuban cigars on the White House conference call. An official said the changes to commercial restrictions would mostly "open up certain kinds of products that will be mainly used by the private sector within Cuba." They said it would largely focus on construction goods and agricultural equipment for Cuban businesses "such as restaurants, barber shops, and small business operators." However, the official said the relaxed commercial restrictions "may facilitate the ability to do exports" by making it a more "general" process "rather than having to apply for specific licenses each time." Officials on the White House call also noted the eased travel restrictions would allow more Americans who qualify under the current license program to visit Cuba. An official said these visitors would be able to purchase "$400 of general goods and up to $100 of alcohol and tobacco products that can include cigars" while in Cuba. While these travelers can bring cigars back to the US, the officials noted they are only allowed to do so "for personal consumption" and not for resale.   FREE AppDownload
Marcio Jose Sanchez/APApple CEO Tim Cook came out.2014 gave us lots of reasons to smile, from the infamous Oscar selfie to the inescapable Ice Bucket Challenge. It was a year for standing up for what you believe in, setting records, and making a meme of everything. Before we "Let It Go," let's take a look at the year's highlights in entertainment, tech, business, science, and world news. FREE AppDownload
ReutersCuban soldiers hold flags of Cuba and Youth Communist league during a ceremony in Havana last month.President Barack Obama is set to make an announcement about a major shift in US policy towards Cuba at noon on Wednesday. Cuba released Alan Gross, a worker with the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) who was arrested in Cuba in 2009, prior to the announcement. In a conference call with reporters ahead of the president's remarks, senior administration officials detailed the policy changes that will occur, which one described as "beginning the normalization of relations between the United States and Cuba."  "These steps will be the most significant changes to our Cuba policy in more than 50 years," the official said.  Relations between America and Cuba, which is located less than 100 miles from the southernmost point in the US, began to deteriorate in 1959 following the revolution that brought the Communist regime of Fidel Castro to power. The US subsequently maintained an embargo against Cuba and severed diplomatic relations. Castro's regime has been criticized by many opponents for its human rights record and repression of free speech.  The official also detailed the different components of the US policy shift. They identified three major elements of the change: However, the senior administration official who gave the summary of the policy changes on the White House conference call noted Obama was "committed" to changing US posture towards Cuba since he took office in 2009 and they said the administration felt the current polecy "failed" to advance US interests. "If any foreign policy has passed its expiration date, it is the US Cuba policy," an official who spoke on the call said.  This policy shift comes on the heels of a prisoner swap between the US and countries. According to a senior administration official who spoke on the White House call, the swap included the release of Fross, who was accused of importing technology that is prohibited in the country in an attempt to establish a clandestine internet network for Cuban Jews. They said Gross was released on humanitarian grounds. The senior administration official also said there was a swap of "intelligence assets" between the two countries. Additionally, the senior administration official said the US agreed to release three members of the "so-called Cuban Five," a group of Cuban intelligence officers who were arrested in Miami, Florida in 1998. Two members of the group were released prior to the swap that was announced Wednesday. In exchange, the official also said Cuba agreed to release an unnamed "US intelligence asset who has been imprisoned in Cuba for nearly 20 years." They said this "asset" provided significant information, some of which helped led to the discovery of the so-called "Wasp Network" of Cuban spies based in the US, which included the Cuban Five.  In addition to Obama's remarks, Granma, the official newspaper of Cuba's Communist party is reporting Raul Castro, the country's president and Fidel's brother, will be making a special appearance on state television and radio to discuss relations with the US at noon on Wednesday. The senior administration official who summarized the policy changes on the White House conference call also said Castro and Obama spoke on Tuesday to finalize the details of the agreement.  According to the official, this policy change was set in motion after a "high level channel" was opened between US and Cuban officials. They identified the Americans who opened this "channel" as Ben Rhodes, an assistant to the president and deputy national security advisor for strategic communications and speechwriting, and Ricardo Zuniga, the senior director for the Western Hemisphere on the president's national security council. The official said "the majority" of the meetings between US and Cuban officials occurred in Canada. They also noted the Vatican hosted meetings and played a significant role supporting the talks. None of the meetings occurred in the US or Cuba. An official also said Fidel Castro, who retired in 2008 due to illness, was "not involved in the discussions." FREE AppDownload
I do most of my shopping online. So I compared Costco's online prices with Amazon's. It turns out you can buy many products from Costco online without a Costco membership. There are some drawbacks. Costco has very few food and household items available online. And many items I looked at were available only in very large sizes, and one required that you order a minimum of two. Amazon had every product I searched for and the exact size I found on Costco. Amazon certainly beats in selection. In fact, you can't buy Costco's Kirkland brand olive oil on Costco's website, but it was available on Amazon.  The prices reflected in the video are from the day I compared the prices. The product availability and prices may have changed. Produced by Sara Silverstein Follow BI Video: On Facebook Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions.
Bloomberg TVBill Ackman.Hedge-fund manager Bill Ackman of Pershing Square was just on Bloomberg TV's "Market Makers," talking about his infamous Herbalife short. "We've actually come up with some new stuff," Ackman said before showing a clip of an internal Herbalife video from 2005 he says shows deceptive recruiting practices.   According to Ackman, the video shows one of Herbalife's top distributors speaking, and it makes the company look pretty bad. It's a three-hour long presentation (you can watch a short clip below).  Perhaps that's fitting for a crusade that's lasted two years, like Ackman's crusade against Herbalife has. In December 2012, Ackman gave a 342-slide presentation publicly declaring that he was short $1 billion worth of Herbalife shares. Ackman believes that the company operates as a pyramid scheme that targets poor people, especially those from the Hispanic population. His investment thesis is predicated on regulators, specifically the Federal Trade Commission, shutting the company down. (The FTC opened an investigation into the company back in March of this year.) Ackman is shorting the company to $0. He has said that he will take this short to the "end of the earth."  After Ackman's initial presentation, numerous fund managers, most notably Ackman's longtime rival Carl Icahn, piled on by going long the stock.  Herbalife stock also surged in the months that followed. In October 2013, Ackman had to change the form of his short position. He said he covered a big chunk of the short and bought put options. He said this has "increased the potential for profit, but reduced the amount of capital at risk."  The position is about 7% of Pershing's portfolio. At its peak, it was 15%. "But the opportunity for profit is greater than it was at the peak," Ackman said.  It has definitely been a crazy ride up and down for the last two years.  Shares of Herbalife have fallen about 50% this year. It looks like Ackman is back in the money. The stock was last trading down 2.6% during Ackman's interview on Bloomberg.  Ackman said that the risk/reward looks more appealing now. He said the risk of the stock going to $50, $60 or $70 has "gone down enormously." He said he thinks the business is "deteriorating" and there's no longer a bull case for the stock.  This summer, Ackman and Icahn made up after a decade-long rivalry. Icahn has said he hasn't sold a single share.  Ackman told Bloomberg he has not had a recent conversation with Icahn.  "Unfortunately, I think he's kind of stuck," he said, pointing out that Icahn is on the board of Herbalife and can't sell.  Still, Ackman said, "I'd love to see him sell. I think it would be great to see him sell ... I think he's a stuck holder."  He said Icahn would be fine, though.  Here's the new video:   FREE AppDownload
Morgan Stanley lead auto analyst Adam Jonas published a research note to clients on Wednesday in which he expressed skepticism about Tesla's stated goal of building 500,000 electric cars annually by 2020. Jonas thinks it will be less than 300,000. He also cut his price target for Tesla, to $290 from $320. There's blood in the water around Tesla right now. The stock dipped below $200 per share for the first time in months. In morning trading on Wednesday, it fell to $193 before rebounding to around $200. Shares are down from a trading peak of $291, hit in early September. Here's Jonas:  So what's going on here? Two things. First, the Tesla story for the better part of a year and half has been a markets story — all about the stock, which is up more than 1,000% since the company's 2010 IPO. But now it's beginning to dawn on investors that Tesla is actually a car company. It's more of a tech company than any other car company. But like General Motors of Ford, its current and future business hinge on building automobiles and convincing people to buy them.  As CEO Elon Musk has pointed out, it isn't easy to build machines as complicated as cars. It also isn't cheap. The auto industry is highly capital intensive — Tesla is going to require an enormous amount of money to build 100,000 cars, much less 500,000. Second, Tesla doesn't exist in an economic bubble. The same dynamic that's turning consumers away from hybrids and that has doomed nearly every other electric car startup except Tesla is at least temporarily undermining Musk's objectives.  The world's major automakers are all now selling relatively inexpensive, high-quality, fuel-efficient cars that don't run on electricity. They committed to this just before and after the financial crisis, largely to satisfy U.S. government requirements to increase the overall mileage ratings of their fleets. AND the price of oil is collapsing. Over the six months, this will translate into much cheaper gas. Unless you are very loyal to Tesla, its business model, and the whole idea of replacing internal combustion engines with electric motors, you may not be a prospective customer for either the company's forthcoming Model X SUV or its mass-market Model 3, slated to arrive in 2017. A regular old SUV that burns (cheap) gas is affordable to own and doesn't need any special charging apparatus could be just fine. In this context, Jonas' questions about Tesla's pricing for the Model 3, when it does arrive, are critical. Significantly higher pricing than expected would be a problem. Every since Tesla made it through an existential crisis in the 2008-09 period, the company's destiny has relied in having a lineup of electric cars. The electric car companies that have failed struggled to sell one car. Tesla has so far been able to sell two: the Roadster and the Model S sedan.  All along, the plan has been to sell a portfolio of three cars: S, X, and 3.  The S, at $100,000, and the X — likely to be priced around $60,000-70,000 — can be luxury cars. But the 3 needs to appeal to the masses. If it doesn't, Jonas is right: Tesla will not become a high-volume automaker — it will remain a premium player in the same ballpark as BMW and Mercedes. Yahoo FinanceTesla was up from recent lows in early trading on Wednesday. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesAlibaba founder Jack Ma.  Ma's net worth rose by $18.5 billion this year, eventually reaching $29.2 billion in December.  It was an increase of 173%, the biggest wealth increase of anyone in the world.  Ma's good fortune was helped by Alibaba's September initial public offering, the biggest public debut in the history of the New York Stock Exchange. He became the richest person in China after the stock continued to perform well in the following months.  Warren Buffett came in second on the Wealth-X list, adding $13.5 billion to his fortune in 2014. Bill Gates was third, making $10.5 billion and increasing his total net worth to $83.1 billion this year. It was a year-to-year increase of 10.5%.  Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg earned the fourth spot on the list, increasing his net worth by $8.4 billion to reach $33.1 billion at the end of the year. It was a gain of 8.4% over his December 2013 net worth of $24.7 billion. Swiss telecom billionaire Patrick Drahi rounded out the top five, with an increase of $5.1 billion.      FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsFOMC minutes come out at 2:00 p.m. Wednesday. The Federal Reserve's last monetary-policy announcement of the year is set for release at 2:00 p.m. Eastern time on Wednesday. The release will also be followed by a 2:30 p.m. press conference from Fed Chair Janet Yellen and accompanied by the Fed's latest summary of economic projections. The SEP contains the GDP and inflation outlooks from Federal Open Market Committee members, and also includes the famous "dot plot." The "dot plot" shows FOMC members' median projection for interest rates at the end of the next three years, as well as over the long term.  Yellen has stressed in the past that the "dot plot" is not a policy tool, but merely reflects what FOMC members think about the future course of interest rates.  The "dot plot" is also a median projection from FOMC members, so it isn't clear what the range of expected interest rates is from various committee members.  We'll have a lot to digest this afternoon, including an updated dot plot. Here's what the dots looked in September. Federal Reserve      FREE AppDownload
NASDAQShares of the Herzfeld Caribbean Basin Fund jumped by more than 20 percent on record volume on Wednesday morning following reports that the Obama administration was preparing to announce sweeping changes to U.S. policy about Cuba. The fund, a closed-end mutual fund listed on Nasdaq under the ticker "CUBA," holds stocks and assets that fund manager Thomas Herzfeld believes would benefit from an eventual end to the U.S. economic embargo againstCuba. In early trading, shares of the fund shot to as high as $8.61, their highest in nearly at year, from the previous day's close of $6.81, a two-month low. They last traded at $8.08. Volume topped 3.65 million shares, by far a record amount of trading, compared with a daily average of around 11,000.  (Reporting By Dan Burns; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/StringerTraders are buzzing about the news. The press conference follows news that American aid worker Alan Gross was released from prison in Cuba as part of a prisoner exchange, and that the US plans to "overhaul" its policy toward Cuba, according to Reuters. And an AP report on Wednesday said that American officials will "start talks to normalize" diplomatic relations with Cuba. In an email following this news, Dave Lutz at JonesTrading said that traders are already buzzing about these developments.  According to Lutz, these developments could be a positive for stocks in the cruise, airline, casino, and hotel industries. Reports have also said that telecom equipment can now be exported, which could be a positive for that sector.  Negative impacts could be felt for tobacco names, with the read-through there relating to the potential for Cuban cigars to now be legally imported to the US.  Lutz added: Many possible reasons for the quick shift ----&gt; Maybe Fidel passed overnight / Geopolitical positioning by US to block Putin in the Caribbean / Collapse of oil ends Venezuela support? Oil revenues vanishing fast. Following these developments, the Herzfeld Caribbean Basin Fund, which traders under the ticker "CUBA" and invests in stocks that primarily trade on Caribbean exchanges, was up more than 17%.       FREE AppDownload
Two months ago, Ben Bernanke, the former Chairman of the Federal Reserve, revealed that he had been shot down by lenders for a mortgage refinancing. The farcical circumstance made big headlines, mostly about the ridiculous tightness of credit markets. So it's no surprise that when several of the largest US mortgage lenders recently announced plans to ease standards for borrowers according to new guidelines from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Bernanke's story was the first thing that came to mind. Bernanke himself admitted that credit conditions "may have gone a little bit too far." But the fundamental roadblock he faced in our modern financial system has more to do with credit evaluations than credit conditions. Today's banks consistently misunderstand — or at best, willfully ignore — an applicant's full history, whether it's for a mortgage refinance, a credit card or a car, as evaluations are based on limited inputs that are an inaccurate survey of someone's actual credit worthiness. While relaxing lending standards may allow hundreds of thousands more people to receive mortgages, it doesn't mean these lending decisions will be any smarter. We need to evolve our standards, not lower them, in order to ensure a stable financial future.    All the bank saw when Bernanke walked in was a FICO score and outdated income metrics, and he's not a rare case. In the modern world of machine learning and big data, the choice to base credit evaluations on such limited information translates to lost business and lost trust. In fact, this outdated system is turning off an entire generation. A recent study found that big banks are among the least-liked brands by Millennials — a wariness that extends to the financial system at large. In the wake of a financial crisis and unprecedented student loan debt, young people are increasingly averse to borrowing and risk. Studies show that 63% of 18-29 year olds don't own a credit card, compared to only 35% of those over 30, and 74% are unwilling to make above-average or substantial risk investments. But these traits of the Millennial generation also contribute to an often overlooked positive: financial responsibility. From reviewing applications for merit-based loans at my company, Earnest, I've found that Millennials have significantly less credit card debt, smarter spending habits and fewer delinquencies than their parents' or older siblings' generations. Unfortunately, without following the conventional path to establish a credit score, recognition of this financial responsibility can be near impossible. In five years, Millennials will comprise nearly 50% of the workforce in America. It's time to engage responsible borrowers in this generation and not only redefine credit worthiness, but create a thriving financial future in our country. Flickr / amira_a'Vintage' doesn't really work for credit scoring. We need smarter ways to evaluate and give "credit" where credit's due. Today, everything from job offers to insurance policies to housing rentals to loans rely on credit scores, when these decisions could be based on a much more accurate collection of data. Contributing to your 401(k), regularly investing in a safety net fund, and spending less than you earn are key indicators of financial responsibility. Your educational career, your past income growth, and your projected earning trajectory are important predictors of stability. Instead of a brief snapshot on payment history like a FICO score, we can use data science and gather a comprehensive understanding of consumer spending to evaluate an individual's long-term financial values. But is it feasible to collect all of this personal data on consumers? Absolutely. Many consumers already provide in-depth access to tech startups that aim to make their financial lives easier — from better budgeting with Mint to easy investing with Acorns to seamless payments with Square or Venmo. At Earnest, I've seen that consumers are more than willing to provide access to their financial, educational and career histories if it helps us understand that their financial responsibility and, therefore, results in a better rate. Consider a friend who decides to go back to school for nursing, about to embark on a promising career but unable to front a big cross-country move. Or a neighbor living off hard-earned savings to stay at home with a new baby. Or a talented engineer who recently moved to the US. In the current system, each would likely be penalized when applying for a loan, a new apartment or a new job, thanks to their current job status and lack of credit history. But after a more comprehensive data analysis, these individuals could pass a financial responsibility check with flying colors. Flickr / BrainWashersCredit needs to catch up with the times. By prohibiting responsible people from investing in their future and failing to reward them for smart finances, the current system is losing profit and loyalty from a large population of prospective life-long customers. The use of data-driven decisions can put the "personal" element back into personal finance, allowing startups and institutions alike to re-engage a generation wary of today's financial institutions. Using big data to determine lower, personalized rates on credit cards and loans will benefit financially responsible people in a way the current system does not, allowing reliable borrowers to pay less and get out of debt faster. And building a customer base of financially aware people will benefit banks — reducing the risks of fraud, as well as default, and saving institutions money in the long run. Investing in the future of stable individuals equally invests in the future of a stable financial industry and national economy. It's time for the financial system to embrace a larger scope of indicators to determine financial responsibility; simply put, the old ways of evaluation cannot keep up with new ways of living and working. This starts with gathering a better understanding of consumers to create financial plans that fit their individual needs. Armed with powerful software and sophisticated data science, the future of the financial industry rests on our ability to bring informed personal finance into the modern era. Louis Beryl is the founder and CEO of Earnest, a merit-based loan provider, and believes we can fix the financial system with elegant software, smarter data, and thoughtful design. Prior to Earnest, Beryl was a partner at the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz. FREE AppDownload
 Sage Kelly, the healthcare investment banker who was embroiled in a messy divorce, has resigned from Jefferies, a source familiar with the matter confirmed to Business Insider.    Kelly took a leave of absence from the firm in late October.  Kelly was Jefferies' global head of healthcare investment banking.  His estranged wife, Christina Di Mauro Kelly, filed an affidavit in October as part of a divorce proceeding and custody battle that contained allegations of drug abuse and extramarital sex. She also accused some Jefferies managing directors and bank clients of using drugs. All of the Jefferies bankers and clients named in the affidavit categorically denied her allegations. In her affidavit, Christina Kelly alleged that her husband had used other illicit substances like ecstasy, molly, mushrooms, and ketamine. She also accused him of having extramarital sex, including an alleged partner swap with a client and his girlfriend.  They eventually reached an "amicable custody agreement." Christina Kelly also apologized for "inaccurate, untrue" things written in media reports based on her affidavit.   Fox Business' Julie VerHage first reported that Kelly had resigned from Jefferies.   FREE AppDownload
Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderNicholas CarlsonBusiness Insider's Chief Correspondent, Nicholas Carlson, is about to publish his first book. It is called, "Marissa Mayer And The Fight To Save Yahoo!" The book includes all sorts of never-before-revealed details and stories about one of the world's most charismatic and inspiring CEOs, as well as the ongoing revitalization of the digital-media powerhouse known as Yahoo! The book will be published on January 6th. You can pre-order it at the links below: And while you're waiting, read 1) Nick's cover story in the New York Times Magazine this week, and 2) Nick's profile of Marissa Mayer, "The Truth About Marissa Mayer: An Unauthorized Biography." Nicholas Carlson Nicholas Carlson FREE AppDownload
 As CEO of the bond insurer Build America Mutual, Séan McCarthy has spent his career employing some of the most competitive people in American business — it comes with the Wall Street territory. In an interview with OneWire CEO Skiddy von Stade, McCarthy explained how he had ended up in executive seats through his career and how he managed the competitive people working under him once he was in them. Early in his career, McCarthy was at E.F. Hutton and Paine Webber working in corporate and public finance. He ultimately went back to E.F. Hutton, where his boss asked him if he would join a new venture, Financial Security Assurance. He became President of the company, and has been in different executive positions since then. This is the concept that has helped him get there: "The first thing, especially on Wall Street, that you have to embrace, is the concept of distinguishing between liking to win and hating to lose," McCarthy said. "Now what I've learned over a long period of time is people who hate to lose are much more effective. Everybody likes to win. But if you hate to lose, you do everything in your power to make sure that experience doesn't happen too often." Of course, you can't stay in the executive seat unless you know how to manage people. McCarthy has a trick for that. "As a manager, the trick is to just make sure that you try to get people into the job that they're naturally good at," he said. "And surprisingly over a long period of time you find that people gravitate towards something that they're not naturally good at because it [becomes] too easy for them. So you'll look at somebody who's very technical and they'll want to be on the sales side … just because what they're naturally good at comes too easily for them." Wall Street is full of people who want to challenge themselves; you want to make sure they're growing but still doing what ismost productive for the company. McCarthy calls this building "all-rounders" — you recognize what people are good at but still build on their weaknesses.  Watch the full OneWire interview above and subscribe to the series to get new interviews as soon as they are posted.   FREE AppDownload
Pace UniversityThe Pace University championship monetary policy team.The Federal Reserve concludes its two-day Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting on Wednesday. The big question everyone is asking  is whether or not the Fed should — or will — drop the phrase "considerable time" from its policy statement. And the members of Pace University's national championship monetary policy team have a simple, one-word answer to this question: "No." "We just don't see a need to change the language," Pace seniors Kelsey Berro, Jordan Jhamb, and Julia Mikhailova told Business Insider in an interview last week.  "Considerable time" is the phrase the Fed has used to describe the period between the end of quantitative easing the first hike in the Fed's benchmark Fed funds rate. Fed Chair Janet Yellen once quantified it as around six months. Back in September, Wall Street economists started predicting that the phrase would be dropped from the Fed's policy statement as the central bank closed in on the end of its quantitative easing program. But the phrase, which the market has taken as implying that interest rate hikes are at least six months away, remained in both the September and October policy statements.  Ahead of Wednesday's statement, which is set for release at 2:00 pm ET and will be accompanied by a press conference from Fed chair Janet Yellen at 2:30 pm ET, Wall Street is again calling for the exclusion of the phrase from the statement.  Wednesday will also see the Fed release its latest Summary of Economic Projections as well as its latest "dot plot," which gives the Fed's outlook on the future course of interest rates.  The Pace team — which beat teams from Princeton and University of Chicago — notes that the phrase "considerable time" might be giving the market unclear signaling. But they warn if the phrase goes away completely the market will be completely directionless. Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderFederal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen.But as the Pace team sees it, "if 'considerable time' is taken out of the statement, then the June 2015 meeting gets targeted," as the first time the Fed would raise rates, which for Pace strips the Fed of the policy flexibility it's been seeking to maintain.  And if the Fed were targeting June 2015 on its own, leaving "considerable time" in the statement would still be appropriate, Pace said.  As part of its championship-winning policy recommendations, Pace suggested the Fed stress data dependency in its forward guidance. Additionally, Pace recommended that the Fed hold a press conference which each policy announcement, as the market currently expects the Fed would only raise interest rates at a meeting that is followed by a press conference from chair Yellen.  Press conference meetings, however, are only held four times a year: in March, June, September, and December.  And as the Pace team said, "You can't be data dependent if you can only start to raise rates four times a year."  According to a November note from JPMorgan's Michael Feroli, the phrase "considerable time" has been "neutered" after the Fed's last statement included language implying that faster progress towards the Fed's labor and inflation goals could bring earlier rate hikes, while slower progress would bring later rate hikes.  LinkedIn / David MericleDavid Mericle In a note to clients ahead of the two-day FOMC meeting which kicks off on Tuesday, Goldman Sachs economists Sven Jari Stehn and David Mericle wrote: "We expect the FOMC to modify its 'considerable time' forward guidance. One possibility would be to state that the committee will be 'patient' in raising the funds rate until it is clear that the economy is on the path to achieving the FOMC’s goals." Stehn and Mericle surmise that the Fed's reformulated guidance could take its lead from Boston Fed President Eric Rosengren's recent formulation: "Based on its current assessment, the Committee expects to be patient in beginning the normalization of the target range for the federal funds rate until it is clear that the economy is on the path to achieving both the 2 percent inflation target and maximum sustainable employment." Maury Harris at UBS also expects that the Fed will drop the phrase "considerable time" as part of a three-part effort by the Fed to prepare the market for a June 2015 interest rate hike. Harris expects that the Fed will provide a "reasonably upbeat assessment of economic conditions with a focus on the positive impact of declines in energy prices," as well as an updated "dot plot" that continues to imply a June 2015 rate hike and, "likely, a more aggressively consistent path in 2016 as well." As of Monday, data from CME Group shows that the market doesn't give the Fed a greater than 50% chance of raising interest rates until the September 2015 meeting. In an interview with CNBC on Monday, Janus Capital's Bill Gross said in response to a "yes or no" question about whether or not the Fed would raise rates in 2015: "Close."  And so while the focus for this month's meeting is on the Fed's exact language, each meeting gets us closer to the Fed's first rate hike in years. And that will be the real event. FREE AppDownload
Mobile advertising startup Adelphic has raised $11 million in Series B funding, the company confirmed today. The latest round was led by Blue Chip Venture Company. That brings Boston-based Adelphic’s total investment to date up to $23 million, with other investors including Google Venture and Matrix Partners. Adelphic has quietly become one of the more interesting pre-IPO adtech companies. Its chief strategy officer and co-founder is Jennifer Lum, the former VP of advertising operations at Quattro Wireless, which was the company that Apple acquired and turned into iAd. She has been named one of Business Insider's "Most Powerful Women To Watch In Mobile Advertising" for three years in a row. The company’s CEO is Michael Collins, the former CEO of WPP’s mobile ad agency Joule.  Adelphic’s major selling point is user identification, no matter which device they use.  The company runs a mobile and cross-device demand side platform with patented user identification technology that allows brands and agencies to target consumers with contextualized ads as they switch from mobile to desktop to tablet. Cross-device and identification is a seriously important factor in the mobile advertising industry. Facebook is the biggest company leading the charge in this area with the launch of its Atlas ad platform, Apple’s iAd is understood to be exploring it using users’ Apple ID as an identifier across different devices and other smaller players like Criteo and Tapad also specialize in offering alternatives to the cookie across mobile.   Adelphic says the money will be used to fuel its international growth in both EMEA and APAC, with the company set to increase its employee base from 39 currently to 65 in 2015. The company has yet to reveal its revenues. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogOf course, debt defaults are likely to occur among oil producers. But I doubt they will trigger a financial crisis comparable to what happened in 2008 and 2009. Most of their junk bonds are in bond funds. There could be a liquidity crisis in those funds, but the pain will be limited to very few investors, in my opinion.  The cost to insure Russia's five-year bonds has surged to the highest levels since 2009, reflecting fears related to the fact that the Russian government gets half of its revenue from oil and gas exports. Moscow has significant foreign exchange reserves to service its debt. So far, the ratings agencies aren't downgrading Russian government debt. Standard &amp; Poor's reaffirmed Russia's credit rating in October, though it warned of a downgrade over the next 18 months if the government's finances deteriorate.  Venezuela, on the other hand, is in dire straits. Oil makes up 96% of the country’s export earnings, and it stands to get squeezed more because its oil production costs are relatively high. Venezuelan credit default swaps cost five times more than they did in June.  The Bank of America Merrill Lynch high-yield corporate bond composite rose to yield 7.13% on Monday, up 197bps from the year’s low of 5.16% on June 23. The spread over 10-year Treasuries rose to 501bps on Monday, up from the year’s low of 253bps on June 23. That’s the widest since November 20, 2012. This spread is highly correlated with the S&amp;P 500 VIX, which rose to 23.6 yesterday, still well below levels during the current bull market’s previous panic attacks.  Yesterday’s FT featured a story titled, “Oil plunge sparks US credit market fears.” It focused on collateralized loan obligations (CLOs). These “are a type of bond that bundles together cash flows from loans made to highly indebted companies and then slices them according to risk. … Oil and gas loans make up 4.5 per cent of the S&amp;P LCD Loan index by amount outstanding-a proxy for exposure that may be embedded in CLOs. Energy loans make up 4.1 per cent of JPMorgan Chase’s loan index.” Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Two Shades of Grey. (1) Frackers: America’s patriots. (2) “Drill, baby, drill!” (3) Hurting our natural-born adversaries. (4) Assessing the odds of a new financial crisis. (5) Some German exports hit by sanctions on Russia. (6) Russia has reserves to service its debt. (7) Venezuela is an accident waiting to happen. (8) Stressed-out high-yield bond funds and CLOs. (9) Fed to the rescue again? (10) Flash PMIs mostly muddling around 50.0. (11) Focus on market-weight-rated S&amp;P 500 housing-related industries. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
A handful of banks may be highly exposed as Russia's currency, the ruble, crashes through the floor. The chart below shows how exposed 12 major developed countries' banks are:Capital Economics Here's how it works: Any loans Russian companies have taken in currencies like the dollar or the euro are now far larger relative to their ruble incomes. Their debts have stayed the same, even though the Russian currency has nearly halved in value this year. That's raising the risk of a default, which would damage their creditors. Austria and Italy's banking systems stand out particularly. Most worryingly for Austria, their Russian assets are not only a big share for banks, they're pretty big relative to the economy too — twice as large as the next-largest country. The individual European banks most at risk of a Russian collapse show why that's the case. Austria's third-largest bank is listed as one of those with the most Russian connections, and shares have tanked. Earlier this year, Berenberg named the five European banks with the highest exposure to Russian debts, listed here in the Telegraph, that it might be good to keep an eye on. Here's how they've been doing since the start of the month: ING Group, The Netherlands.  Down 2.53% Wednesday, nearly 13% since December 1 Investing.com Raiffeisen Bank, Austria Down 2.78% Wednesday, down 31% since the beginning of December. Investing.com Societe Generale, France Down 3% Wednesday, down about 15% since December began. Investing.com Unicredit, Italy Down 2.41% today, down more than 11% since December 1. Investing.com Commerzbank, Germany Down 2.75% Wednesday, down more than 10% since the beginning of December. Investing.com FREE AppDownload
Tomato prices went nuts in November. The price of tomatoes saw a huge 10.4% seasonally adjusted month-over-month increase in October, up from a 4.6% increase in September. This is according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' just-released consumer price inflation report. That's a stark increase from August's decrease of 0.7%. There isn't too much to conclude from this. The prices of these individual items can be quite volatile. Check it out below. BLS Worst of all, this dramatic increase in tomato prices (along with the rise in bacon prices) has led to the ongoing rise in BLT prices.  You can see the chart below, via Michael McDonough's tweet. Michael McDonough/Twitter   FREE AppDownload
Reuters/Eduardo Munoz Headline inflation fell 0.3% in November, more than the 0.1% decline that was expected. "Core" inflation, which excludes the more volatile cost of food and gas, rose by 0.1% in November, in-line with expectations. The big drop in the report was the price of gas, which fell by the most since 2008, or 6.6%, in November, according to the latest release from the BLS.  Overall, energy prices were down 3.8% in November. Headline inflation rose 1.3% year-on-year, just below expectations, while core inflation rose 1.7%, also just below expectations. Compared with the prior year, headline inflation was expected to rise 1.4%, with inflation expected to rise 1.8% when excluding food and energy. The report showed that in November the cost of shelter rose 0.3%, while the cost of medical care, airline fares, and alcoholic beverages also rose.  The indexes for apparel, new and used cars and trucks, recreation, household furnishings and personal care all declined.   FREE AppDownload
Michael Seto/Business InsiderA special Christmas episode of ABC's Shark Tank saw one 13-year-old entrepreneur get the gift of a lifetime: $25,000 from Mark Cuban and Barbara Corcoran.   Teenager Andrea Cao came to the tank seeking $20,000 for 20% of her personal massage company Q-Flex, which makes a curved, plastic tool customers use on themselves to relieve back pain.  "It feels pretty good," Cuban said after testing out the personal acupressure device. While Robert Herjavec called Cao's pitch "a fantastic presentation," he and fellow sharks Lori Greiner and Kevin O'Leary all passed on investing in the business, which had sold just 800 units. When Cuban discovered Cao had sold every Q-Flex by going door to door, however, he was instantly hooked.   "I love that," he said. "A capitalist is born!" QflexKnown for not relying just on sales statistics, Cuban once again decided to trust his gut and invest in Cao alongside Corcoran. "I think you're a great role model," he said. "Barbara and I work together well. I can whip up a website and get it up and running." Cuban and Corcoran offered $25,000 for 25% of the business, provided Cao could make time during school for a sales call. "You have to be available, on call," Corcoran said, to which Cao replied, "Deal." Stay tuned for more recaps every week. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidJonesTrading's Dave Lutz has what traders are chatting about right now. Good Morning, and Happy Fed Day (2pm announce, 2:30 Yellen Presser) - US Futures are higher this morning, decoupling from stress overseas.   Russia had some wild swings overnight, with the Ruble falling from 75 to 62, then chatter the Russian Central Bank was intervening surged it back positive.   This, coupled with EU CPI coming in the lightest in 5years, has Deflation fears accelerating, pushing German 5Y Breakevens lower (-20bp now).   We have the Greek Election today (no winner expected this round), and while their market is up 3%, the rest of Europe is a sea of red.   Eurostoxx off 1% as Banks are under pressure in EU on slowdown and widening PIIGS spreads, while Airlines weigh on the FTSE.   Germany’s DAX is off 70bp in very light trade, with only Telecom in the green.   In Asia, Russia’s MICEX was able to cut 4% losses in half, and the Nikkei was able to eek out a small gain as the Yen weakened.   Shanghai closed up another 1% on dovish hopes, while Hang Seng lost 40bp, weighed by Macau gaming names on the latest China Graft headlines  The US10YY is higher early, bouncing 3bp to 2.09% - That said, there remains a strong bid under Bunds, pressing their 10YY under 59bp.   The DXY is higher, stretching it’s legs above 88, as the Greenback is stronger against both Euro and Yen.   The Oil complex is under pressure, with Brent off 1.2% and WTI 1.6% as we had a Heavy build in last night’s API data ahead of the DOE today at 10:30, Analysts Expect a Drop of 1.9 Million Barrels.  Another factor weighing is the Saudi budget was announced, showing strong reserves and spending on “Mega Projects” – no pullback on Oil drop.    Silver is rebounding from the 5% hit yesterday, and while Gold is 50bp higher, it remains under $1200/oz.   Scheduled Catalysts today include US CPI at 8:30, DOE data for Crude, Gasoline and Distillates at 10:30, the FOMC Rate Decision (With Dots) at 2, and the Yellen presser at 2:30 A few trends I’m watching for early today: ·         Smallcaps underperforming on Reversal of the “Good Harbor” trade yesterday ·         XOP, OIH well outperformed the commodity yesterday ·         Gaps in Gold as chatter intensifies Russia could sell reserves ·         Rails continue to show a bid, despite Oil – Could see a rotation accelerate from Airlines ·         Selling EU to Buy US trade – Will be most evident in Banks (IYF &gt; EUFN) FREE AppDownload
Reuters Although emigration trended downward from 1997 to 2011, there was a sudden spike in people leaving the country around the third term of President Vladimir Putin, according to Rosstat, Russia's federal state statistics service. In 2012, almost 123,000 people left, and in 2013, more than 186,000 got out. Additionally, a UN report showed that 40,000 Russians applied for asylum in 2013 — 76% more than in 2012. The biggest bombshell of all is that since April 2014 — a month after Russia annexed Crimea — 203,659 Russians have left the country.  By comparison, approximately 37,000 people left the country in 2011, and less than 34,000 people left in 2010. Furthermore, the emigration numbers may be even higher. "The official statistics are very low," Mikhail Gorshkov, the director of the Russian Academy of Sciences' Institute of Sociology told Reuters. Elena Holodny/Business Insider "While the total number of Russians who leave for good remains relatively small, the profile of the typical emigrant has changed. When the Soviet Union dissolved, the most common emigrant was a poor, unskilled young man. Today, it is a well-off professional," according to World Policy. "People who have it good are starting to leave," Anton Nosski, a tech entrepreneur, told World Policy. Notable individuals who have left include chess grandmaster Garry Kasparov, economist Sergei Guriyev, journalist Leonid Bershidsky, and the founder of VKontakte (Russia's version of Facebook) Pavel Durov.  For the most part, these people are leaving either for their children or for their professional futures. "Corruption, red tape, and allegedly crooked courts are [also] driving the exodus among entrepreneurs," according to Reuters. "I want my children to grow up in a fairer country, one where the rule of law is more or less observed. I used think it was possible to build a better society in Russia, but I've basically lost all hope now. It's time to leave," one Russian businessman told Vocativ. "Russian venture capital funds want to invest their money only in Russia," start-up founder Artem Kulizhnikov told Bloomberg news, "but we want to build an international business and they won't support us." Additionally, Russia's "creative class" is starting to feel isolated, although some politicians seem unfazed. "Russia won't lose anything if the entire so-called creative class leaves. What's the creative class anyway? For me, a woman who gets up at 5 a.m. to milk a cow is creative because she produces something. Not some guy with a stupid haircut who sits in a cafe all day long writing in his blog," said Vitaly Milonov, a Member of the Legislative Assembly of Saint Petersburg. But the brain drain isn't the whole story. A huge influx of immigrants are entering Russia as well. Elena Holodny/Business Insider This makes sense: If many high-level individuals and intellectuals are leaving Russia, more high-end jobs and opportunities will become available in Russia. According to the UN, Russia saw the second-largest number of international migrants in 2013. The number of people moving into Russia actually tops the number of people moving out (which you can see above.) Many of the immigrants come from countries like Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Ukraine, according to data from Rosstat. Additionally, millennials who are culturally Russian but were born in the US or Europe are considering opportunities in Russia. "There are opportunities for my children in Moscow that aren't found anywhere else," one parent told BI. "I believe that Russia is at a point where they realize they cannot rely on just oil and gas to keep up with the other BRIC countries and Western economies. Russia is looking to diversify its economy," one 20-something told BI. "The opportunities in Russia seem to be more promising than here in the States currently. Before the current sanctions and drastic low oil prices, Russia was a top seven economic power. As a young Russian-American, I've thought about pursuing opportunities abroad that do not exist in the US." The bottom line: Russia is seeing some dramatic demographic changes that could greatly influence its economic and political future.   FREE AppDownload
Reuters Although emigration trended downward from 1997 to 2011, there was a sudden spike in people leaving the country around the third term of President Vladimir Putin, according to Rosstat, Russia's federal state statistics service. In 2012, almost 123,000 people left, and in 2013, more than 186,000 got out. Additionally, a UN report showed that 40,000 Russians applied for asylum in 2013 — 76% more than in 2012. The biggest bombshell of all is that since April 2014 — a month after Russia annexed Crimea — 203,659 Russians have left the country.  By comparison, approximately 37,000 people left the country in 2011, and less than 34,000 people left in 2010. Furthermore, the emigration numbers may be even higher. "The official statistics are very low," Mikhail Gorshkov, the director of the Russian Academy of Sciences' Institute of Sociology told Reuters. Elena Holodny/Business Insider "While the total number of Russians who leave for good remains relatively small, the profile of the typical emigrant has changed. When the Soviet Union dissolved, the most common emigrant was a poor, unskilled young man. Today, it is a well-off professional," according to World Policy. "People who have it good are starting to leave," Anton Nosski, a tech entrepreneur, told World Policy. Notable individuals who have left include chess grandmaster Garry Kasparov, economist Sergei Guriyev, journalist Leonid Bershidsky, and the founder of VKontakte (Russia's version of Facebook) Pavel Durov.  For the most part, these people are leaving either for their children or for their professional futures. "Corruption, red tape, and allegedly crooked courts are [also] driving the exodus among entrepreneurs," according to Reuters. "I want my children to grow up in a fairer country, one where the rule of law is more or less observed. I used think it was possible to build a better society in Russia, but I've basically lost all hope now. It's time to leave," one Russian businessman told Vocativ. "Russian venture capital funds want to invest their money only in Russia," start-up founder Artem Kulizhnikov told Bloomberg news, "but we want to build an international business and they won't support us." Additionally, Russia's "creative class" is starting to feel isolated, although some politicians seem unfazed. "Russia won't lose anything if the entire so-called creative class leaves. What's the creative class anyway? For me, a woman who gets up at 5 a.m. to milk a cow is creative because she produces something. Not some guy with a stupid haircut who sits in a cafe all day long writing in his blog," said Vitaly Milonov, a Member of the Legislative Assembly of Saint Petersburg. But the brain drain isn't the whole story. A huge influx of immigrants are entering Russia as well. Elena Holodny/Business Insider This makes sense: If many high-level individuals and intellectuals are leaving Russia, more high-end jobs and opportunities will become available in Russia. According to the UN, Russia saw the second-largest number of international migrants in 2013. The number of people moving into Russia actually tops the number of people moving out (which you can see above.) Many of the immigrants come from countries like Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Ukraine, according to data from Rosstat. Additionally, millennials who are culturally Russian but were born in the US or Europe are considering opportunities in Russia. "There are opportunities for my children in Moscow that aren't found anywhere else," one parent told BI. "I believe that Russia is at a point where they realize they cannot rely on just oil and gas to keep up with the other BRIC countries and Western economies. Russia is looking to diversify its economy," one 20-something told BI. "The opportunities in Russia seem to be more promising than here in the States currently. Before the current sanctions and drastic low oil prices, Russia was a top seven economic power. As a young Russian-American, I've thought about pursuing opportunities abroad that do not exist in the US." The bottom line: Russia is seeing some dramatic demographic changes that could greatly influence its economic and political future.   FREE AppDownload
General Mills(Reuters) - General Mills Inc, the maker of Cheerios cereal and Betty Crocker cake mixes, reported a 37 percent fall in quarterly profit hurt by weak demand in the United States and slowing growth in Europe and Canada. The company said net income attributable to General Mills fell to $346.1 million, or 56 cents per share, in the second quarter ended Nov. 23 from $549.9 million, or 84 cents per share, a year earlier. Revenue fell 3.4 percent to $4.71 billion.   FREE AppDownload
Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesFedEx just released its Q2 financial results, and while the numbers reflect growth, they missed analysts' forecasts. Q2 earnings jumped 36% to $2.14 per share, but it missed expectations for $2.25. Management noted that the bottom line got a $0.16 boost from share repurchases. Shares are down 2% in premarket trading. Revenue climbed 5% to $11.9 billion, which was in line with expectations. The Express Segment's US domestic package volumes grew by 7%. FedEx's Ground average daily volume climbed 5%. As a global provider of shipping services, FedEx is a decent bellwether of economic activity. "FedEx posted strong results and a higher operating margin in the second quarter, with continued growth in volumes and base yields in each of our transportation segments," CEO Fred Smith said. "The company reaffirms its fiscal 2015 earnings forecast of $8.50 to $9.00 per diluted share," the company said. "The outlook assumes continued moderate economic growth and a modest net benefit from fuel." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ZmeyevPeople gather near a currency exchange office in Moscow, December 17, 2014.Ruble is now being driven by the Russian population piling out of the currency not currency speculators, according to a note from the head of emerging market strategy at Société Générale. Benoi^t Anne writes (emphasis added): The stress surrounding the RUB market appears to have mutated in a major way and is now essentially a domestic retail flow problem. Essentially, the local population—or at least part of it—after having witnessed the recent RUB slide, is not that comfortable holding loads of ruble anymore, and has decided to make the switch to dollars, a phenomenon we observe in global emerging markets (GEM) on a regular basis when the local currency comes under severe pressure. That is a huge shift that will be a major concern for the Russian government's attempts to stabilise the currency. As Business Insider reported last week, food prices in Russia have shot up by 25% over 2014 as Russian's confidence in the country's future starts to evaporate. Our sources in Moscow told us that cash machines in the Russian capital were being routinely emptied by nervous bank customers eager to convert their rubles into other currencies or to buy goods before the price shoots up even further. Since then the situation has become even worse. After the ruble fell a further 10% on Monday many Russians appear to have fallen into a full-blown panic. “The demand is enormous. People are bringing piles, huge piles of cash. It is madness,” said Kamila Asmalova, a manager at a Moscow branch of Sberbank told the Wall Street Journal. A loss of faith in the currency may help explain why the shock 650 basis point rate hike by the central bank on Tuesday morning failed to halt the ruble rout. If people have lost faith in the stability of the currency they are unlikely to be concerned about the level of interest paid on their savings, and much more concerned about switching their savings into other more stable currencies as quickly as possible. Foreign exchange services in Russia are struggling to keep up with demand for dollars and euros as the photo below of a Moscow bureau de change demonstrates. Moscow bureau de change: "We have no $ to sell and no € !" MT @mkomsomolets http://t.co/7EpRUXfbjP pic.twitter.com/wJ2RnO4aUp And, as Anne says, the solving a loss of confidence problem is "not necessarily easily done through another rate hike". Instead the authorities need to explore other tools. He suggests: The latter point may help explain the announcement by Russia's Finance Ministry that it was preparing to sell some $7 billion of reserves to support the currency. On the face of it the move looked very strange as the central bank has access to a large chunk of the country's $406 billion of reserves to spend in currency markets if it sees the need to. In fact, it has already spent over $10 billion so far in December buying up rubles. Instead the government looks to be trying to send a clear message the it will move in lock-step with the central bank and that the latter enjoys its full support. That message, if it reaches the Russian people, could be priceless. If not, they could continue burning through more reserves with precious little result. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucy NicholsonAmerican Apparel CEO Dov Charney (not pictured) was fired.Good morning! Here's what you need to know ahead of the opening bell. Russia Is Throwing The Kitchen Sink At The Ruble. After a surprise rate hike failed to stem the collapse of the Russian currency, the country's finance ministry has taken extraordinary steps. "Russia struggled for a second straight day to reverse a rout in the ruble with emergency measures, narrowing President Vladimir Putin’s options in confronting the country’s deepest financial crisis since 1998," Bloomberg's Ksenia Galouchko, Vladimir Kuznetsov, and Olga Tanas reported. "The ruble erased a rally of as much as 8.4%, leaving it little changed, after the Finance Ministry announced that it bought the currency." Russians Are Scrambling For Dollars As The Ruble Crumbles. With Russia's central bank seemingly unable to stop the enormous decline in its currency, many ordinary Russians are attempting to get as much of their money exchanged out of rubles as possible. Carlsberg Is Trying To Hedge Against Russia's Crisis. The company is the largest producer of beer in Russia, and the fall of the ruble has reduced its share price by about 15% this month. The company said it was "evaluating its efforts on a running basis" when asked by Bloomberg whether it was trying to hedge against the ruble. Japan's Export Growth Is Still Disappointing. Japan's exports grew for a third straight month in November from a year earlier, but much more slowly than expected and despite a sharp fall in the yen as slowing demand in Asia and Europe dampened trade. The 4.9% rise in exports was much weaker than a 7.0% gain analysts expected. Inflation In Europe Is Still Low. Inflation in the eurozone was 0.3% in November, according to the second estimate. Core inflation, which strips out volatile elements like energy and fresh food, was at 0.7% for the month. "Overall, the current inflation picture, and the likely further deterioration this month, raises the likelihood of sovereign QE as early as next month, but it is still far from certain that the ECB will move this early," Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen said. Markets Are Mixed. US futures are rallying, with Dow futures up 91 points and S&amp;P futures up 12 points. Europe is in the red, with Britain's FTSE 100 down 0.7%, France's CAC 40 down 0.4%, and Germany's DAX down 0.6%. Japan's Nikkei closed up 0.38%, but Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed down 0.37%. The Fed's Latest Decisions Are Coming. At 2 p.m. ET, we'll get the latest decisions on monetary policy from the US Federal Reserve. Investors are watching most closely to see whether the phrase suggesting there will be "considerable time" before an interest hike is removed from the central bank's guidance. Greece's Legislators To Vote On New President Wednesday. The Greek parliament needs to vote with a two-thirds majority to approve a new president, which is extremely unlikely to happen. Investors will be keeping an eye on how many MPs the government manages to get support from and whether it's likely to muster the three-fifths support needed later this month. If not, snap nationwide elections loom. SeaWorld Is Releasing Some Mammals. "SeaWorld Entertainment Inc. plans to cut about 300 jobs as the theme-park operator continues to deal with the backlash from animal-rights activists and consumers about its treatment of animals, especially killer whales," The Wall Street Journal's Maria Armental reported. "SeaWorld, which operates its theme parks under its own name and under the Busch Gardens brand, wasn't specific about which positions would be eliminated except to say the cuts would be across its 11 theme parks and at its headquarters." American Apparel Releases A Mammal. American Apparel CEO Dov Charney has been fired. From the company's statement: "Mr. Charney was suspended as president and CEO by the Board on June 18 for alleged misconduct and violations of company policy. Under terms of an agreement signed by Mr. Charney on July 9, a special committee of the Board oversaw an internal investigation conducted by FTI Consulting into the allegations against Mr. Charney. Based on this investigation, the special committee determined that it would not be appropriate for Mr. Charney to be reinstated as CEO or an officer or employee of the Company." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Maxim ShemetovU.S. Ambassador Michael McFaul walks outside as he leaves the Russian Foreign Ministry headquarters in Moscow, May 15, 2013.Michael McFaul, former US ambassador to Moscow, told CNBC that there is "a sense of panic among [Russia's] elites right now" that could lead Russia's President Vladimir Putin to change his government. The Stanford professor suggested that Putin could undertake a surprise reshuffle in an effort to reassure key players in the country that the president is in control of the situation. "I actually get a sense of panic among economic elites right now, and that makes Putin more cautious," he told CNBC in an interview. "I think he may think about changing his government. I think that may be the surprise move you might see in the coming days or weeks." Doing so, however, would mean removing Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev from office — a role he was given after stepping down as president after only one term to allow Putin to return to Russia's top office. Under the Russian constitution the same person may not be elected President of the Russian Federation for more than two terms running. The role of prime minister was widely seen as a reward for Medvedev's decision not to seek another term, as would he would have been entitled to. Firing him at this stage could be particularly galling for a man who was once half of what was called Russia's "tandemocracy" (tandemokratiia in Russian), or joint rule with Putin. Of course, McFaul has some experience of the machinations of the Kremlin after he was himself caught up in efforts to discredit a nascent opposition movement in 2012. After taking office he came under heavy attack from corners of the media and the political establishment for his academic work on Ukraine's Orange Revolution, with his accusers suggesting that the appointment was intimately linked to protests against electoral fraud in the Russian capital that attracted tens of thousands of participants. Following a meeting with opposition figures at his official residence Russia's state-owned TV station Channel One ran a report under the caption "US embassy: Receiving instructions from the new ambassador". In parliament Vladimir Zhirinovsky, a political firebrand and leader of the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia (LDPR), called for all opposition politicians who attended the meeting at the US Embassy to give up their mandates. Even the then president Dmitry Medvedev warned the ambassador that "he needs to realise that he is working in the Russian Federation, not in the United States of America".  FREE AppDownload
Brent crude prices are down again Wednesday morning after ticking up on Tuesday afternoon. At 12 a.m. GMT (7 a.m. ET), Brent is trading at $59.22, down 1.32% from earlier in the day. Investing.com West Texas Intermediate Crude is also losing ground, and at 12 a.m. GMT (7 a.m. ET) it was selling at $55.35 a barrel, down 1.61%. On Tuesday, Crude oil broke below $54 a barrel, a five-year low, before rising slightly back in the later hours of US trading. WTI crude has lost almost half of its value since peaking in July this year above $107 a barrel. Here's a long-term chart: Investing.com Wednesday morning, Avtar Sandu, a senior manager for commodities at Phillip Futures, told Reuters what was happening: "The story is still the same. Europe is weak, China is weak, and the US economy is growing by a bit. It's a supply story. The only thing is that the markets are very oversold and oil is extremely cheap at these levels." FREE AppDownload
PeerIndex, a London-based company that identifies the most authoritative and influential people on social platforms has been acquired by Brighton-based social media monitoring company Brandwatch, the latter company announced in a press release today. Exact terms of the deal were not disclosed, but Sky News places its value at £10 million ($15.7 million). TechCrunch reported the majority of the transaction comprised of shares in Brandwatch, combined with cash. It is hoped this acquisition, along with further deals planned for next year, will bolster Brandwatch to be able to take on the big US marketing software companies like Salesforce. PeerIndex was founded in 2009 by CEO Azeem Azhar and has raised $3.8 million in funding to date, according to CrunchBase. The company has an index of more than 300 million Twitter profiles and works with brands to identify influencers on certain topics and the content that interests them. It has worked with clients including Ford, Diet Coke, and Samsung. Azhar and his team of 10 will join Brandwatch, and he will become a member of its senior management Brandwatch has raised $31.7 million in funding since it was founded seven years ago, having closed a series B round of funding worth $22 million in May this year, according to CrunchBase. It has more than 1,000 customers and makes 50% of its revenues outside the UK. Brandwatch’s CEO Giles Palmer told Sky News he expects to make “one or two more” acquisitions in 2015 as it builds toward an IPO in two year’s time. He added: “This is two UK companies coming together to take on the big US companies. Salesforce has spent $1bn (£636m) to create a suite of analytics software. We've built it from the ground up." In a press release announcing the deal, Brandwatch explained the thinking behind the PeerIndex acquisition: Approaching social media from the perspective of content is fundamental to knowing what is going on. We have built a very large machine that is great at finding, analysing and categorizing that content. But one question Brandwatch struggles to answer is: why?Why did this message spread so quickly? And equally important, if a company wanted to have a good chance at making it happen again how should the content marketing team go about it? Adding the PeerIndex data and technology into the heart of Brandwatch will help to answer these questions. We’ll know that a message spread because a particular person talked about it. And her audience acted as a link to a different – identified – network of people within which it was shared quickly and then five people in one of those networks shared it and it jumped to another group and so on and so forth. FREE AppDownload
After a brutal sell-off Tuesday, Russia stepped in to stabilize the ruble.  And it looks like this worked.  According to a Bloomberg report, the Russian finance ministry stepped in to buy rubles after the currency was crushed on Monday and Tuesday of this week, with one US dollar buying as many as 80 rubles early Tuesday morning. Just a few months ago, one dollar bought less than 40 rubles.  But on Wednesday, the ruble rose more than 8% against the dollar, and near 10:20 am ET, the ruble was trading at around 62 against the dollar. Here's the volatile action in the USD/RUB pair — which buys US dollars and sells Russian rubles — from Wednesday morning.  As this chart goes lower, the ruble gains against the dollar. Bloomberg.com Russia's intervention in the currency market follows reports that in some regions of Russia, banks had completely run out of US dollar as Russians frantically sought to convert their rubles to dollars amid the sharp devaluation in the currency.  And a report from Reuters noted that the currency crisis poses a major risk to the two main pillars underwriting the stability of Russian President Vladimir Putin's popular support: financial stability and prosperity.  After a tumultuous session for the ruble on Monday, the Russian central bank on Tuesday night unexpectedly raised interest rates to 17% from 10.5%.  In a note to clients on Wednesday, analysts at UBS wrote that until the ruble "settles down," further rate hikes cannot be ruled out.  FREE AppDownload
NEW DELHI (Reuters) - Business sentiment among Asia's top companies rebounded in the fourth quarter to the second-highest level in almost three years, a Thomson Reuters/INSEAD survey showed, helped by a stronger U.S. economy and a plunge in oil prices. The Thomson Reuters/INSEAD Asian Business Sentiment Index increased to 72 in the fourth quarter from 66 in the previous three months. The result was only slightly below the 74 reading of the second quarter which was the highest since early 2012. A reading above 50 indicates an overall positive outlook. Indian businesses provided the biggest boost to the index, with companies reporting a maximum score of 100 for the third consecutive quarter as they look to new Prime Minister Narendra Modi to speed up economic recovery. Corporations in China, where worries about a slowdown in economic growth persist, were among the least positive with a reading of 50, coming in below Japan, which is stuck in recession, at 56. U.S. unemployment fell to a six-year low in November, a signal that the world's biggest economy and a key export destination for Asian companies is healthier and its consumers are growing in confidence. "The U.S.'s economic leadership is influencing expectations across the world, and the U.S. is really becoming stronger," said Antonio Fatas, a Singapore-based economics professor at INSEAD. "Asia is a region where there is not massive uncertainty related to political risk. This is a region that grows with the world." The rosier picture in the United States coincided with oil prices falling to five-year lows, boosting Asian economies dependent on imports of crude. Fatas cautioned that uncertainty remained, not least in China where investors and companies are "sitting and waiting for data" to indicate how dramatically growth in Asia's largest economy is slowing. Global economic uncertainty remained the biggest concern for Asian businesses during the quarter, the survey showed, as well as rising costs and other risks such as regulatory change. "I am surprised that the U.S. and oil prices seem to have outweighed concerns about China and Europe. The downside risks to China's growth are significant, especially related to real estate and shadow banking," said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior economist at Credit Agricole. Companies participating in the survey included Japanese drugs maker Daiichi Sankyo Co Ltd, South Korea's Hyundai Heavy Industries Co Ltd and Indian real estate developer DLF Ltd. The poll, by Thomson Reuters in association with INSEAD, a global management and business school, was conducted from Dec. 1-13. Of the 116 companies that responded, 51 percent gave a positive outlook, while 42 percent reported a neutral outlook and 7 percent were negative. Oil prices plunged during the quarter as supplies flooded the market while economic growth and energy demand were limited. Frederic Neumann, co-head of Asian economic research at HSBC, said the fall was a "big relief for many Asian manufacturing exporters" and probably helped outweigh continued worries about the global economy. "There are still lingering risks but the risks are probably manageable. Even though global growth is disappointing, businesses are more optimistic because they see moves toward structural reforms," he said, referring to policy changes in India, Indonesia and China. In Australia — this year's chair of the Group of 20 major economies — companies were more positive. The country scored 85, up from 75 in the last quarter, while sentiment in Taiwan turned positive, jumping to 71 from 33. The Philippines suffered the steepest decline in optimism, with a drop to 67 from 83, while Japanese sentiment remained poor as respondents worried about the domestic economy. Positive sentiment among building firms was highest, doubling from last quarter to a one-year high of 100. This was followed by property developers with a score of 87 versus 63, and retail, which jumped to 84 from 63 to its best level since the survey began in 2009. Shipping and financial companies were the least positive. INSEAD's Fatas said the oil price fall was likely still being digested by individual Asian companies and would filter through to more positive outlooks across sectors in coming months. "My expectation is that the next quarter will be better than this one." (Editing by Christopher Cushing) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Russia's central bank has spent over $10 billion since the start of the month in a failed attempt to halt the ruble's slide. Between Dec. 12-15 alone, the Bank of Russia spent over $4.3 billion of the country's foreign currency reserves. The central bank sold $1.961 billion on Monday as the ruble slid by 10% after spending some $2.383 billion last Friday, official data shows. Despite the massive intervention, the ruble has fallen over 30% against the dollar over the past month.  The chart below shows just how unsuccessful those interventions were (orange line is ruble versus the dollar while green line is Brent crude): BloombergRuble vs the dollar (orange line) and Brent crude (green line). The figure takes the total amount spent on currency interventions this year to over $80 billion. Although the country still has around $406 billion in international reserves, with the ruble down again today against the dollar many will be asking whether all that money was well spent. The interventions come despite the central bank announcing the "abandonment of unlimited foreign exchange interventions" last month and the removal of fixed trading bands for the ruble against foreign currencies (where the central bank set limits for the highest and lowest value of the ruble it was prepared to accept before intervening). The latest bout of currency purchases takes the total amount spent on currency interventions this year to over $80 billion. Although the country still has around $406 billion in international reserves, with the ruble down again today against the dollar many will be asking whether that was all money well spent. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Zohra Bensemra Women mourn their relative Mohammed Ali Khan, 15, a student who was killed during an attack by Taliban gunmen on the Army Public School, at his house in Peshawar December 16, 2014. Good morning! Here's what you need to know for Wednesday.  1. 145 people were killed, mostly schoolchildren, after the Pakistani Taliban attacked a school in Peshawar.  2. Apple suspended online operations in Russia on Tuesday due to the instability of the ruble.  3. Oil slipped below $60 a barrel on Wednesday, remaining around its lowest in five years. 4. The New York City premier of "The Interview" has been cancelled after a hacking group calling themselves the Guardians of Peace threatened to carry out terrorist attacks against movie theatres.  5. Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbot has announced an investigation into the background of Man Haron Monis, the hostage-taker who died along with two captives after taking control of a cafe in Sydney.  6. Google News shut down its service in Spain in protest of a law that would make it pay new publishers for content.  7. Peruvian officials will seek to extradite Greenpeace activists whom they accuse of causing "irreparable damage" to centuries-old carvings in the desert during a publicity stunt meant to bring attention to UN climate talks.  8. Elon Musk's Space X will attempt to land its Falcon 9 rocket on a sea platform following a Friday launch from Florida's Cape Canaveral Air Force Station.  9. The Church of England is expected to name its first female bishop on Wednesday, ending centuries of male leadership one month after a historic change to canon law.  10. Comedian Bill Cosby will not be charged over allegations he sexually assaulted a teenager at the Playboy Mansion in 1974. And finally ... Justin Timberlake and Jessica Biel are reportedly expecting their first child.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA worker fills a car with gasoline at a Brazilian Oil Company Petrobras gas station in Rio de Janeiro SYDNEY (Reuters) - An uneasy calm settled on Asian markets on Wednesday as a brewing financial crisis in Russia and the rout in oil prices sent investors scurrying for the cover of top-rated bonds. Yields on British, German and Japan sovereign debt had all hit record lows while long-dated U.S. yields reached their lowest since late 2012. Asian share markets were mixed with Japan's Nikkei recouping 0.5 percent of its recent hefty losses. MSCI's index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan edged up 0.2 percent from a nine-month trough. The stakes were all the greater as the U.S. Federal Reserve's last policy meeting of the year could well see it drop a commitment to keeping rates low for a "considerable period". That would be taken as a step toward raising interest rates, even as growth in the rest of the world sputters and falling commodity prices add to the danger of disinflation. A new wrinkle was the risk of financial contagion spreading from Russia where an emergency hike in interest rates failed to stop the ruble's descent to new lows. It was quoted around 68.00 to the dollar having been as far as 80.00 at one stage on Tuesday as speculation mounted that Moscow will impose capital controls within the next few days. The rush from risk tended to benefit the safe haven yen, with the dollar back at 116.79 having been atop 118.00 on Tuesday. The urge to close positions caused collateral damage to the dollar generally as investors had been very long of the currency in anticipation of further gains. The euro was up at $1.2510 while the dollar index eased 0.2 percent to 87.935. A year-end dearth of liquidity was leading to wild moves in even the most staid of assets. The oil-exposed Norwegian crown for instance, hit an all time low by one measure after carving out the widest daily trading range since the global financial crisis. "The combination of the rouble crisis and poor liquidity broadly resulted in a period of total dysfunction across global FX and rate markets on Tuesday," reported analysts at Citi. On Wall Street, the Dow had shed early gains to end Tuesday down 0.65 percent, while the S&amp;P 500 lost 0.85 percent and the Nasdaq 1.24 percent. Brent oil leaked another 18 cents to $59.83 a barrel , while U.S. crude was down 53 cents at $55.40. On the face of it, the downward spiral in oil should be good news as it effectively acts as a tax cut for consumers world wide. JPMorgan estimates the boost to spending could add 0.4 percentage points to global growth over 2015. But a halving of fuel costs is also a force for disinflation in a world where the supply of goods already exceeds demand. Data out of the UK showed inflation had ebbed to its slowest in 12 years in November, arguing strongly against the need for early rate rises from the Bank of England. The Fed still seems keen to start raising U.S. rates by mid-2015. However, with inflation still well below its 2 percent target and likely to dip further as fuel prices fall, investors are wagering that any hike will only add to the disinflationary impulse in the economy. A key market measure of inflation expectations for the next five years has been falling fast since August and hit new lows at 2.37 percent on Tuesday. Likewise, yields on 30-year Treasury bonds touched their lowest since late 2012 at 2.67 percent as investors priced out the risk of higher inflation. (Editing by Shri Navaratnam) FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Vasily MaximovThe Russian ruble rebounded slightly as markets opened Wednesday, after the currency lost a fifth of its value in a single day in the worst crisis of President Vladimir Putin's 15 years in powerMOSCOW (AFP) - The Russian ruble rebounded slightly as markets opened Wednesday, after the currency lost a fifth of its value in a single day in the worst crisis of President Vladimir Putin's 15 years in power. At around 7:30 GMT, the ruble was trading at 66.96 to the dollar, down from 67.88 on Tuesday evening, and at 83.35 to the euro from 85.15. The central bank said it had spent almost $2 billion in a bid to prop up the currency on Monday. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMan uses a cash dispenser to receive roubles in central MoscowMOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia's ruble strengthened in early trade after opening sharply weaker, but trade was volatile, with the market nervous after heavy losses in recent days. At 0738 GMT (02:38 a.m. EST), the rouble was around 0.7 percent stronger against the dollar at 68.00  but 0.2 percent weaker against the euro at 84.99 .  (Reporting by Alexander Winning, editing by Elizabeth Piper) FREE AppDownload
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Brent crude dropped below $60 a barrel on Wednesday, hovering near its lowest in five years as a supply glut dragged down prices. Oil prices skidded in recent weeks, with Brent down nearly $20 since the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) decided to keep output steady in late November. Non-OPEC member Russia, one of the world's top producers, has also indicated that it does not plan to cut output despite a glut in the market. Brent for February delivery was down 56 cents at $59.45 a barrel as of 3:49 GMT (10:49 p.m. EST). It touched a session low of $58.50 on Tuesday, the lowest since May 2009, and has plunged 50 percent since June, when it was traded above $115. U.S. crude for January delivery dropped 97 cents to $54.96 a barrel after touching the lowest since May 2009 at $53.60 on Tuesday. "The story is still the same. Europe is weak, China is weak, and the U.S. economy is growing by a bit. It's a supply story," said Avtar Sandu, senior manager for commodities at Phillip Futures in Singapore. "The only thing is that the markets are very oversold and oil is extremely cheap at these levels," he added. Core Gulf OPEC members that had declined to cut production at a Nov. 27 meeting signaled this week they are prepared to wait as long as six months to a year to see the market stabilize. Kuwait's oil minister said on Tuesday that there were 1.8 million barrels a day of excess oil in the market currently and prices could pick up in the second half of 2015. Russia Energy Minister Alexander Novak had said on Tuesday that Moscow would not cut output in 2015, even if pressure on its finances rose with the economy showing signs of a severe stress. The rouble has been hit hard, prompting Russia's central bank to rush in to hike interest rates to halt a collapse in the currency. In the United States, crude inventories rose by 1.9 million barrels last week, compared with analysts' expectations for a decrease of 2.4 million barrels, data from the American Petroleum Institute showed late on Tuesday. (Reporting by Seng Li Peng; Editing by Edmund Klamann) FREE AppDownload
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia failed to halt the collapse of the rouble on Tuesday, leaving President Vladimir Putin facing a full-blown currency crisis that could weaken his iron grip on power. A 6.5 percentage point interest rate rise to 17 percent overnight failed to prevent the currency hitting record lows in a "perfect storm" of low oil prices, looming recession and Western sanctions over the Ukraine crisis. Putin has blamed the ruble's crash on speculators and the West, while a presidential spokesman on Tuesday attributed the market turbulence to "emotions and a speculative mood". The rouble lost 11 percent against the dollar on Tuesday, its steepest one-day fall since the Russian financial crisis in 1998. It has fallen 20 percent since the start of the week and more than 50 percent this year. As Moscow faced up to the brewing crisis, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said sanctions could be lifted swiftly if Putin takes more steps to ease tensions and lives up to commitments under ceasefire accords to end the Ukraine conflict. "These sanctions could be lifted in a matter of weeks or days, depending on the choices that President Putin takes," Kerry told reporters in London. Keeping the pressure on Moscow, President Barack Obama was expected to sign legislation this week authorizing new sanctions on Russia over its activities in Ukraine and providing weapons to the Kiev government, White House spokesman Josh Earnest said. But he has said he does not want to take new steps that are not synchronized with European partners. For the Russian economy, the currency crisis means a deeper recession is more likely next year as high interest rates will crimp growth. For businesses, it means more uncertainty and less access to funding. For the central bank, it means a credibility crisis. For Putin, it increases the risk of losing two of the main pillars on which his support is based - financial stability and prosperity - and brings an unwelcome policy headache at a time when relations with the West are also in crisis over Ukraine. "Putin rode the wave of higher oil prices in the years after he came to power, but there is no question that the economics will start to adversely impact the politics," said Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London. "The pieces are falling into place to start to affect the political sustainability of this regime," he told Reuters. Putin, who rose to power at the end of 1999, has enjoyed popularity ratings above 80 percent since Russia reclaimed the Crimea peninsula from Ukraine in March. He has no obvious rivals, with critics accusing him of smothering dissent, and much of the state's big business is in his allies' hands. There has been little or no sign of panic from a public that gets most of its news from state media that propagate Putin's view that Russia is under attack from speculators and the West. Unlike the scenes of chaos during the country's financial crisis in 1998, Tuesday morning saw no scramble at currency exchange points and no panic buying of food. There have been almost no protests. But opinion pollsters say discontent with the ruble's fall and deepening economic gloom will gradually hit the emerging middle class in the big cities and then spread to his support base in the provinces. "I think he has a store of support that can last 1-1/2 to two years," Lev Gudkov, head of the Levada Center, an independent polling group, said by telephone. "We will see the first signs of discontent in the spring." Putin is aware that his predecessor, Boris Yeltsin, resigned early after a financial crisis and that Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev's grip on power slipped as the economy crumbled. REUTERSAn elderly Russian woman looks at the new 10-rouble bank note at the State savings bank January 5, 1994. Such a time frame means Putin, the government of Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev and the central bank governor, Elvira Nabiullina, need to act fast. But their options are limited. Medvedev met with top central bank and government officials on Tuesday to discuss the situation, according to the government's website. The central bank has now made three significant interest rate rises in two months - 1.5 percentage points in October, 1 percentage point last week and the 6.5 points overnight. But, the impact has been minimal. Russian officials say the advantage of a weaker currency is that exports of oil, metals, grain and natural gas will earn more rubles than before - feeding government revenues. But it makes international debt payments much more expensive in rouble terms and a credit crunch is looming in 2015, when Russian companies and banks are scheduled to repay $120 billion in debts. This will be even harder because access to global capital markets is restricted by sanctions over Ukraine, and year-end foreign debt redemptions are looming for this year as well. Russian officials have said repeatedly the country will not impose capital controls although many analysts say this looks inevitable. Capital flight is expected to be far above $100 billion in 2014 and 2015. But the central bank can ill afford to keep drawing on gold and foreign currency reserves to prop up the rouble. The reserves have already sunk to around $416 billion compared to more than $509 billion at the start of the year. Putin is left relying on a sharp rise in the oil price. It is currently below $60 a barrel, while a price of around $100 is needed for the state budget to balance. At a Moscow currency exchange kiosk, the money changer asked for 85 rubles for a dollar, though the rate given on the door was 80 and the official rate was 60. "I can't keep up, changing the rates advertised. Things change every minute. People come and take whatever anyway. No one wants to be left with rubles now," said a worker, who declined to be identified, at one currency exchange point. (Additional reporting by Elizabeth Piper, Alexander Winning and Lidia Kelly; Editing by Sophie Walker) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBottled juice are arranged at a fruit stall in a traditional market in TaipeiBy Michael Gold TAIPEI (Reuters) - Roadside kiosks have sprung up across semi-tropical Taiwan to satisfy residents' obsession for freshly squeezed juice, and  smoothie maker Jamba Inc  wants in. The California-based maker of health drinks aims to open its first outlet in Taipei as early as this summer, venturing into a highly fragmented market of mom-and-pop juice stores that have thrived for years. Consumers typically spend a dollar each on plastic cups of watermelon juice, with prices doubling for more unusual flavors, such as avocado or cocktails of vegetables. It is not clear how far Jamba Juice, with its focus on nutritious smoothies, will lure away loyal customers from juice stands located in places thronged by pedestrians. "We're still looking into how to alter some recipes for Taiwanese tastes," said Jack Hsu, of Quan Hung Gourmet Company,  Jamba's franchise partner, adding that the brand will inject premium appeal into the market, but has set no sales target yet. "Taiwanese are used to more tropical flavors like papaya, but we estimate about 90 percent of the recipes will be the same as the original." Vendors are unfazed by prospects of Jamba's entry. "We're a different style than they are," said Karen Wu, 37, owner of the Fruit Park juice stand in Taipei's bustling Songshan district, which sells as many as 200 cups of juice on a hot day. "They'll probably go more for the shopping-mall crowd." It is cheaper and easier for vendors such as Wu to set up shop, essentially a stand and a blender, and relying on a steady supply of produce from nearby markets. "Fruit Park is just me and my brother, so we're able to get by," Wu added. Customers hanker for more variety than a few years ago, thanks to a proliferation of Western fast-food chains, which presents a challenge to vendors who buy local ingredients and are vulnerable to seasonal swings in availability. Mangoes, for example, are impossible to find in winter. Berries are almost never grown in Taiwan, Wu said, so cranberries and blueberries have to be imported. But no one, not even Jamba, can displace local flavors, said Joanna Chou, 26, a freelance translator and self-proclaimed juice connoisseur. "There's room for anything American, but it won't ever replace the Taiwanese juice stands with their papaya milk smoothies," Chou said. "It's the taste of childhood memories."  (Editing by Tony Tharakan and Clarence Fernandez) FREE AppDownload
