Qantas just posted its full-year results and while the underlying loss was better than expected there’s a shock A$2.8 billion statutory loss being booked after a horror year. The loss was driven by a massive aircraft fleet writedown. However, the underlying loss of A$646 million is about A$100 million better than analyst forecasts and was achieved on the back of a 3.5% or A$566 million fall in revenue to A$15.352 billion. Profit from Qantas domestic has been shredded by the capacity war with Virgin, with EBIT coming in at A$30 million compared to A$365 million the year before. Here are the key numbers: Some of the major costs that from the $2 billion transformation program announced six months ago include A$428 million for restructuring and redundancies, and non-cash costs linked to the early retirement of fleet at A$394 million. Half of the 5,000 redundancies announced earlier this year have been implemented and by the end of 2015, 4,000 jobs will have gone. Qantas International reported an EBIT loss of A$497 million. Some commentators speculated it was losing $800 million. Jetstar booked an underlying EBIT loss of A$116 million, driven partly by a A$70 million loss from startup costs in Asia. There was a real shock from the domestic arm, which posted an underlying EBIT of A$30 million, down from A$365 million in FY13. The company says it expects underlying profit before tax in the first half of this financial year. “There is no doubt today’s numbers are confronting, but they represent the year that is past,” CEO Alan Joyce said. “We have now come through the worst. With our accelerated Qantas Transformation program we are already emerging as a leaner, more focused and more sustainable Qantas Group. “There is a clear and significant easing of both international and domestic capacity growth, which will stabilise the revenue environment. “We expect a rapid improvement in the Group’s financial performance – and a return to Underlying PBT profit in the first half of FY15, subject to factors outside our control.” Qantas announced it had decided to keep its frequent flyer program, Qantas Loyalty, within the company. There had been speculation that it could be partially floated. Qantas Loyalty recorded record full-year with underlying EBIT of A$286 million, up 10%. And Qantas International is being split off to form its own corporate entity, a move made easier by the recent legislation, the Qantas Sale Act. “This will have no impact on the day-to-day operations, network or staffing,” Joyce says. Already $400 million of costs have been removed from Qantas International over the past two years and there’s more to come. Joyce says earnings recovery will continue to be driven by cost cutting and the easing back of capacity oversupply. Results by Division: Business Insider Australia Follow Business Insider Australia on Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersFile photo of logo of Swiss pharmaceutical company RocheRoche Holding AG's planned $8 billion purchase of InterMune Inc is centered around hopes for blockbuster sales of its lung drug, but the smaller company's development pipeline may end up giving the Swiss drugmaker a far bigger bang for its buck. Industry analysts have forecast annual sales of about $2 billion for the pulmonary fibrosis treatment, pirfenidone, once it gains U.S. approval, giving Roche a valuable addition to its respiratory franchise. But the company is expected next year to begin clinical trials of ten-fold more potent next-generation drugs that could also treat similar damage to the liver and kidneys as well as lungs. Success there could be a game-changer, given the unmet medical need to treat liver and kidney scarring that can be caused by factors such as obesity, diabetes and alcohol and drug abuse. "Liver fibrosis is a huge, multibillion-dollar market that's far bigger than the lung fibrosis market," said Katherine Xu, an analyst with William Blair &amp; Co. "It involves millions of patients in the United States, versus 100,000." Pirfenidone, a pill with annual sales of about $150 million in Europe and Canada, treats a progressive scarring condition of the lungs called idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis that typically kills patients within a few years. Roche announced its proposed $8.3 billion cash purchase of InterMune on Sunday. The two companies have barely mentioned the liver potential of the newer formulations as they focus on unlocking the value of pirfenidone by winning U.S. approval of the drug for lung fibrosis. The Food and Drug Administration awarded the medicine its "breakthrough" designation - a signal the agency sees it as a potentially important new therapy. The FDA approval is expected this year following large trials that showed it prolonged patient lives. A rival drug from privately held Boehringer Ingelheim is also expected to gain U.S. approval this year. While the focus has been on the potential of pirfenidone to treat lung damage, Dr Talmadge King, chairman of the Department of Medicine at the University of California, San Francisco, said fibrosis is believed to occur in a similar way throughout the body, including the heart. "If you can get the drug to the site and slow or prevent the process from occurring ... it has the potential to have a positive effect in a number of organ systems, so I would assume that that's where it's going to head in time," said King, a lung specialist who led the large late-stage trial of pirfenidone upon which InterMune based its U.S. marketing application. InterMune's research chief, Scott Seiwert, said animal studies suggest that the newer formulations of pirfenidone have "a much milder side-effect profile." InterMune has said trials of its potent next-generation pirfenidone analogues could involve patients with lung, liver or kidney fibrosis. Seiwert declined to predict what the Roche strategy will be. Many analysts have yet to delve into the InterMune pipeline's potential of treating liver and kidney fibrosis. "It's not something we've included in our valuation" of InterMune, said Morningstar analyst Karen Andersen, given the many failures of other drugs that have attempted to treat liver fibrosis, and InterMune's focus on preparing for the U.S. launch of pirfenidone. She noted that huge sales of new drugs for hepatitis C, especially Gilead Sciences Inc's Sovaldi, "have drawn a lot more attention to liver-related diseases." Gilead and Biogen Idec Inc are developing injectable drugs against pulmonary fibrosis, with Gilead also testing its drug against liver fibrosis. But they are a few years away from seeking approval, and Andersen predicted InterMune will be the entrenched leader. (Reporting by Ransdell Pierson and Bill Berkrot in New York; editing by Matthew Lewis) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonNEW YORK (Reuters) - A federal judge on Wednesday ordered PricewaterhouseCoopers to face a $1 billion lawsuit claiming that its bad accounting advice was a substantial cause of the October 2011 bankruptcy of MF Global Holdings Ltd, a brokerage run by former New Jersey Governor Jon Corzine. U.S. District Judge Victor Marrero in Manhattan said PwC's [PWC.UL] advice on "repurchase-to-maturity" transactions through which Corzine bought $6.3 billion of European sovereign debt affected how MF Global implemented its strategy and in turn contributed to its alleged losses. "This line of causation gives rise to a plausible claim that PwC proximately caused harm to MF Global," Marrero wrote. MF Global's bankruptcy plan administrator sued PwC on March 28, accusing it of professional malpractice for having provided "flatly erroneous" accounting advice to the company. Corzine is not a defendant. Marrero on Wednesday noted that factors such as how MF Global employees implemented Corzine's strategy might also have been major causes of the New York-based company's losses. But he said a jury, not a judge, should sort out who was liable. The judge did dismiss breach of contract and unjust enrichment claims against PwC. Caroline Nolan, a PwC spokeswoman, said, "We respectfully disagree" with the decision to let the case go forward. She also said PwC's audit of MF Global complied with professional standards, and that MF Global's treatment of the repurchase-to-maturity transactions was consistent with generally accepted accounting principles. Daniel Fetterman, a partner at Kasowitz, Benson, Torres &amp; Friedman representing the administrator, said: "We are pleased with Judge Marrero's well-reasoned decision, and look forward to presenting our case to a jury." Before its rapid demise, MF Global had struggled with worries about the sovereign debt, credit rating downgrades, margin calls, and news that money from customer accounts was used to cover liquidity shortfalls. Brokerage and commodity customers have since recovered nearly all their money. Marrero on July 9 rejected PwC's argument that the MF Global administrator "stands in the shoes" of the company under the "in pari delicto" legal doctrine and cannot recover because Corzine and other officials were also at fault. Corzine is also a former Goldman Sachs co-chairman. He faces other lawsuits over MF Global from investors, customers and U.S. regulators, which Marrero also oversees. The case is MF Global Holdings Ltd as Plan Administrator v. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No. 14-02197.   (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Editing by Cynthia Osterman and Tom Brown) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPeople walk at the headquarters of Alibaba in HangzhouBy Paul Carsten BEIJING (Reuters) - Masayoshi Son's nose for an investment has turned a $20 million start-up punt on Alibaba into a stake worth maybe $50 billion or more as the Chinese e-commerce giant co-founded and led by Jack Ma heads to what could be the biggest U.S. tech IPO of all time. Son, CEO of Japanese telecoms firm SoftBank Corp, also put money into a young Yahoo Inc, co-founded by Jerry Yang, in 1995, and Yahoo's subsequent investment in Alibaba saw Ma, Son and Yang build Alibaba Group Holding Ltd [IPO-BABA.N] into one of world's biggest internet companies as China's e-commerce market took off. "It was the look in his eye, it was an 'animal smell'," said Son of his decision to back Ma when they first met in 2000. "It was the same when we invested in Yahoo ... when they were still only 5-6 people. I invested based on my sense of smell," he quipped in a group media interview in May. Under pressure from investors, Yang quit Yahoo in early 2012 and gave up his seat on Alibaba's board. He is now a founding partner of AME Cloud Ventures, a San Francisco venture fund. But next month, the three poster boys for Asian technology entrepreneurship, bound by a shared ambition and a taste for sushi and golf, are set to be reunited on Alibaba's board following the firm's long-awaited New York IPO. For potential IPO investors, the reunion - Yang will be an independent director, while Son will be a director and Ma the executive chairman - is likely to further tighten Ma's control over the company as Son and Yang tend to follow his direction, former Alibaba, SoftBank and Yahoo insiders said. SoftBank has a 34 percent stake in Alibaba, and Yahoo owns 23 percent. Son has said SoftBank doesn't plan to sell down its Alibaba stake in the IPO, while Yahoo may sell up to about 16.5 percent of Alibaba. Alibaba, SoftBank and a spokesman for Yang declined to make Ma, Son and Yang available for interview for this article.   "MR. TEN TIMES" The son of a pachinko parlor operator, Son has risen to the top of Forbes' Japan rich-list, forging SoftBank into a tech titan worth $84 billion, making it Japan's second-most valuable listed company behind Toyota Motor Corp. SoftBank increased its stake in Yahoo in 1996, buying into the U.S. firm's IPO to become its primary shareholder. The stake has since been whittled down to almost nothing, but the two remain Yahoo Japan Corp's biggest investors, each holding more than a third of the Japanese firm. In 2000, Son met Ma, an elfin and outspoken former English teacher from China's eastern city of Hangzhou. The two, who often joke about being both short and smart, according to a person close to Son, saw each other as kindred spirits. Their shared drive helped Alibaba grow from just 18 people working out of an apartment to a company with more than 22,000 employees and global ambitions. David Wei, a former CEO of Alibaba.com and co-founder of Vision Knight Capital, recalled how he nicknamed Son "Mr. Ten Times". "Every time I explained any business plan or model, Masa's first reaction was to say, 'David, can this be ten times bigger?'" said Wei. "In the cases I managed to answer, he would ask again, 'What about ten times more?'"  "CRAZY" MEN When Ma first heard that Son was in China sniffing out potential investments, he emailed him and snagged some brief 'face time'. After just five minutes of listening to Ma riffing on his vision from a scrap of paper, Son extended the meeting and ended up investing 2 billion yen (about $20 million at the time) in Ma's company. "Ma is a 'never-say-die' kind of person, but really there was only one person who understood him, and look how much money it's earned Masayoshi Son," said Shou Yuan, a former Alibaba employee acquainted with Ma and Son. "Son has a lot of self-confidence, he's even conceited, but his appearance is always one of modesty. He's crazy, but Ma's also crazy. It's very common for crazy people to like each other." When Alibaba launched its Taobao consumer-to-consumer marketplace in 2003, Son donated his wristwatch to be sold on the new site and, as the pair met more frequently, Ma developed a love for Japanese food. "Jack always loved the best Japanese food ... and the best Japanese food in Japan can always be generated by Masa," said Wei, the former Alibaba.com chief. Yang, who like Son has a Japanese wife, shares the taste for good Japanese cuisine, and is a frequent diner at a small sushi bar in Los Altos, California, a popular hangout for Silicon Valley heavyweights including Google's Sergey Brin.  A PHILOSOPHICAL PAIRING Ma first met Yang in the late 1990s, when he was working for the government and acted as Yang's official guide to the Great Wall. By 2005, their friendship had developed and the idea of Yahoo investing in Alibaba came up. Yang contacted Ma at the prompting of senior Yahoo executives who were trying to figure out how best to get a foothold in the China market, said a former Yahoo executive familiar with the Alibaba transaction. "Jerry was reluctant at first because it was very difficult to do business with Chinese entrepreneurs," he said. "(Yang and Ma) spent a lot of time together, they had to get to know each other, build a relationship ... Almost all were quiet, deep discussions, philosophical, full of Chinese proverbs – particularly from Jack." Ma kept Son in the loop in the months running up to Yahoo's investment, and even took up golf so he could bond with Yang. "Jack committed a lot of effort to learning golf, I think because Jerry invited him, and he couldn't play," Wei said. The final decision - with Yahoo buying a 40 percent stake in Alibaba for more than $1 billion - was made at a Pebble Beach golfing retreat exclusively for Chinese professionals. "Jack really liked Jerry's personality," said a person whose firm invested in Alibaba. "Jerry really solidified that deal." Son, who can also show a domineering streak, was reluctant to reduce the size of his valuable Alibaba 'insider' stake by selling to Yahoo, but Ma eventually won him over. "The only place where there was challenge (to Ma) was about taking the initial investment from Yahoo. Son's biggest point was that he didn't want to sell anything to Yahoo," said another person whose firm invested in Alibaba. "As part of that deal insiders had to sell 40 percent of their stake, and Masa fought that tooth and nail." With Yahoo on the board and its money and China operations in Alibaba's hands, the Ma, Son and Yang triumvirate envisioned an alliance between their three companies that could one day knock Google out of China, said people close to them. On the board, the three always acted in harmony in meetings with Alibaba executives, said former executive Wei. But their management styles were very different. "When Masa talks, nobody else talks," Wei said, but Yang's style was more American, more inclusive. "When other Yahoo representatives were there he'd always talk last. He'd encourage others to share their ideas, thoughts, challenges."  EXISTENTIAL THREAT However, while Yang's investment in Alibaba was lauded as one of his best decisions at Yahoo, the stake was big enough to rankle Beijing, which feared the U.S. firm held too much sway over Alibaba, people familiar with the matter said. "Yahoo essentially became a liability – their investment in Alibaba posed an existential threat to the company," said a person involved in the partnership at the time. Yahoo China's search engine was subject to local censorship in line with the government's control of the Chinese internet, and Yahoo's reputation back home was dented when the China business handed over a local dissident's e-mails to Beijing, resulting in his imprisonment. Ma and Yang, however, remained close even after Ma split Alipay, an online payment subsidiary, from Alibaba in 2011 without the board's approval, said people who know the two men. Yang was reluctant to challenge Ma over the move, sitting on his hands rather than addressing the issue, the people said. More recently, Yang has been instrumental in helping Alibaba get a foothold in Silicon Valley as the Chinese group increases its overseas investments. He introduced Alibaba to Tango, a mobile messaging app-maker in which he was already invested. Alibaba later paid $215 million for a minority stake. Son, too, has supported Ma - who sits on SoftBank's board - particularly when Alibaba last year traded blows with the Hong Kong Stock Exchange over a controversial proposed listing structure. "Son's involvement and advice regarding Alibaba's business have been huge," said a SoftBank executive who didn't want to be named because of the personal nature of his comments. Having his two key allies back on Alibaba's board will further cement Ma's grip on the company even as the IPO opens Alibaba up for outside investors. "(Ma) doesn't have much patience for people who get in the way of the ideals he's pursuing," said the person involved in the Yahoo-Alibaba partnership. (1 US dollar = 102.4400 Japanese yen)  (Additional reporting by Norihiko Shirouzu in BEIJING, Yoshiyasu Shida in TOKYO and Alexei Oreskovic and Gerry Shih in SAN FRANCISCO; Editing by Ian Geoghegan) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThis is the Pharaoh's Chicken.Finance is a strange industry. There's nothing else like it. I can't think of another industry in which there is so much ignorance around costs. Nearly all financial fees are deducted from assets automatically, rather than clients receiving and paying an invoice. This makes them out of sight, out of mind. Ask someone how much their cell phone bill is, or how much a gallon of gas costs, and they can tell you down to the penny. But ask them how much they pay in advisory fees, and they may have no clue whatsoever. The irony is that if you are moderately wealthy, advisory fees might be your single largest annual expense -- and you're probably oblivious to them. You diligently include an $8.99 Netflix subscription in your monthly household budget, but have no idea you're paying 50 times that much to your 401(k) adviser. No other industries work like this. I can't think of another industry in which people capable of doing so much harm don't need credentials. Doctors must attend medical school. Lawyers must pass the bar. Hairstylists and manicurists need licenses. Becoming a London taxi driver requires passing a test that can take years of practice. But managing money requires little more than the desire to manage money. If I want to be a firefighter, I need extensive training. If I want to manage the firefighters' retirement fund, I need a nice suit and a sales pitch. Selling, rather than managing, financial products does require a license. But it is embarrassingly simple to obtain, and anyone willing to study for a few weeks can pass the test. "You should meet some of the cavemen I know who've managed to pass it," financial adviser Josh Brown once wrote. No other industry has the potential to do as much harm to society while demanding so little proven expertise. (Politics may be an exception.) I can't think of another industry in which results matter so little. Investor Marc Faber was finally called out by a CNBC host last month for lacking credibility after years of failed predictions. Faber's response was incredible. "I started work in 1970," he said. "Over my career, somewhere, somehow I must've made some right calls. Otherwise I wouldn't be in business." What those calls were, he didn't say. The truth is that finance is filled with people who remain in business despite awful track records. There were 894 mutual funds in 2012 that had been in business in 1998. Of those, only 275 beat their benchmarks. That means more than 600 funds have underperformed what could be achieved in a low-cost index fund, but still remained in business for a decade and a half. The worst mutual fund to own over the last 10 years -- one that has underperformed all of its peers and trailed its benchmark by 150% -- still manages more than $1 billion. Few industries in which results are measured objectively could get away with this. Competition would clean out the bad. When you mix financial illiteracy with innumeracy and emotion, poor performance is easily ignored. I can't think of another industry that is so poorly taught in school. Making students memorize the periodic table but teaching them almost nothing about basic finance is bad enough. But even at the college level, how finance and investing is taught is disconnected from how it actually works. Finance is taught overwhelmingly as a math-based field, in which students learn how to calculate beta by hand and dissect a balance sheet in their sleep. In the real world, finance is overwhelmingly a psychology-based field, where the best investors are those who control their emotions. This is rarely taught and never emphasized. And it's why some of the world's best investors have no formal finance training. Other fields, such as medicine and engineering, have done a much better job preparing students for the real world. I can't think of an industry that is so important to everyone yet so few care about. I get why people don't like calculus, or chemistry, or geography. They can do fine in life without mastering those subjects. Finance is different. Everyone's well-being depends on understanding it, no matter how boring you think it is. Everyone has a moral obligation to themselves and their family to have a basic understanding of how saving, investing, debt, and interest work. When people say, "I don't like finance," they're really saying, "I don't like security, stability, comfort, or taking care of my family. And my kids probably don't need college." There are few other subjects -- health might be the exception -- in which people have an obligation to understand something, yet so many willingly choose not to. There's really nothing else like it. Good luck to us all. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Garry JonesFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Economy Is In A State Of Reflation (The Financialist) Global GDP remains sluggish and benchmark interest rates remain close to zero around the world. Credit Suisse Asset Management Systematic Allocation Strategies founding partner Jonathan Wilmot "has a name for this kind of lopsided recovery: Reflation, which he defines as a period during which nominal and real GDP growth accelerates, but short- and long-term interest rates remain lower than is typical during an economic expansion." "While many are calling for a spike in rates any day now, Wilmot says that the economic state of reflation tends not to be short-lived. Even if rates jump in the short term, they will quite likely remain below their historical averages for longer than many investors expect... If the bond market remains relatively subdued in response to improving economic data, corporate profit growth could continue to be strong and equities could continue their outperformance relative to fixed income for several years or more." These Are The Assets You Should Avoid In The Face Of Rising Rates (BlackRockBlog) The consensus coming out of the Federal Reserve's recently released minutes along with the Jackson Hole Symposium suggests that interest rates are likely to be on the rise. Russ Koesterich CFA, chief investment strategist for BlackRock believes "the Fed is likely to begin raising rates in the first half of 2015, and the first rate hike could come as early as March." According to Koesterich, you should avoid treasury bonds with two to five-year maturities as well as commodities like gold. "While longer-term interest rates have remained stable, the prospect for an early Fed tightening is exerting downward pressure on the prices of shorter-maturity Treasury bonds— particularly those with two- to five-year maturities — and pushing yields higher." In addition, "the prospect for tighter monetary conditions is driving the dollar higher and putting downward pressure on many commodities." As a result, these two asset classes are likely to become more volatile than stocks.  Koesterich believes that, "although not cheap, stocks have the tailwinds of still-low rates and improving economic conditions at their back." Thus, they may prove to be a more resilient investment.  Bonds Will Likely Disappoint In the Second Half Of This Year (Columbia Management) So far in 2014, bonds have been performing very well due to underwhelming growth and fall rates. In fact, according to Columbia Management's Global Asset Allocation Team,"longer duration U.S. bonds [are] performing even better than equities." This is in spite of "negative sentiment on bonds [that] had been building in concert with expectations of improved growth and higher rates."  However, the team, still "expects bonds to deliver negative or relatively low returns unless growth disappoints in the second half." This is because, although "U.S. rates may appear low in absolute terms, [when] compared with the rest of the developed world, they are actually higher in a relative sense than at any previous point in this cycle." The Market Expects The US Economy To Expand For Another 5 Years (Deutsche Bank) Since we are now in the sixth year of economic recovery and in the midst of a bull market, as we over due for another recession? No so says Deutsche Bank Security's chief economist Torsten Slok. "Recessions don’t happen because of a clock ticking. Recessions happen because of imbalances in the economy or too tight monetary policy... In other words, with the fed funds rate well below neutral for many more years this expansion will likely also continue for many more years."  "One way to quantify how long time this expansion will continue is to look at the length of expansions and the level of the fed funds rate when expansions ended, i.e. just before recession began," said Slok. "On this measure the market still expects this expansion to continue for another five years or so." FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsOn Aug. 31, 2012, a giant prominence on the sun erupted, sending out particles and a shock wave that traveled near Earth.On 1 September 1859, the sun emitted a large solar flare releasing approximately 6 × 1025 joules of energy (i.e., a massive amount). Telegraph systems all over the world — which were connected by copper wires — failed, in some cases giving telegraph operators electric shocks; in other cases, cascades of sparks spontaneously erupted from telegraph lines. Amazingly, some telegraph equipment that wasn’t plugged in continued to receive messages. In the days that followed the solar storm, which came to be known as the Carrington Event, auroras were seen around the world — including as far south as the Caribbean and Ecuador. Fireballs were spotted in the sky. Equipment connected to this “Victorian internet” caught fire. What might happen to today’s internet if the sun were to emit another solar flare? What does this mean for risk management? On 23 July 2012, there was a similar coronal mass ejection (CME) released by the sun, only this time the CME narrowly missed Earth. Had the CME occurred just seven days earlier, it would have directly hit planet Earth. According the the US Geological Survey, such an event has a 6%–7% chance of happening in the next 10 years. NASA scientist Daniel Baker calculates that there is a 12% chance that the earth will encounter another Carrington Event within the next 10 years. CMEs are not our only worry. A similar phenomenon would happen if a nuclear device hundreds of miles above the earth were detonated, causing the release of an electromagnetic pulse (EMP). In government and military circles, this is old hat and has been addressed since the days of the Cold War. However, with the proliferation of nuclear technology, the risk of EMPs is growing. Although this phenomenon appears to be well understood and planned for in military circles, it is largely ignored in the private sector. Should such an event happen today, much (if not all) of our electric grid and communications infrastructure would fail. According to a recently declassified study by the US EMP Commission, an EMP event could cause a large-scale interruption of the power grid and communications systems, leading to the death of up to 90% of the population within 12 months. Much of our critical infrastructure — water pumping stations, telephone wires, communication satellites, etc. — requires electricity or electronic components. In turn, our computer technology, smartphones, banks, ATMs, and a host of other services would be power challenged. Such an event could affect virtually every aspect of modern life. Consequently, military systems often operate within some sort of protective casing. Likewise, automobiles and consumer electronics are largely shielded from EMPs on the basis of existing design. However, they too are subject to power constraints. Much of our private sector infrastructure, as well as communication satellites and the electric grid, is at risk. In fact, 70%–100% of the electric grid could be out for a period of years or even decades. A 2008 study by Metatech found that the time required to obtain a replacement for any one of the 370 or so largest transformers in the United States was three years. However long the electric grid is down, it appears that it would be long enough to cause some very big problems. What Does This Say about Risk Management? This phenomenon has caught the attention of not only astronomers and physicists but also one of the best fund managers of the past three decades: Paul Singer of Elliott Management. In a recent letter to shareholders, Singer highlighted the Carrington Event and suggested that the prospect of another Carrington Event is hugely important because almost no one is prepared for such an inevitability. A CME or EMP would potentially have a profound impact on critical systems and infrastructure, leading to a severe economic shock. This prospect highlights the difference between forward-looking risk management and backward-looking attribution data or volatility analysis. The frequency of such an event falls outside the historical datasets of virtually all investors. Moreover, the present infrastructure was not in place when the Carrington Event hit Earth. So, the situation today is very different. Too often, investors mistake attribution or volatility analysis for risk management. Risk management is really more about risk identification and plans. And, to borrow some terms from the insurance industry, assessing risk properly involves estimating both the probability and the severity of each event. Regarding probability, the sun naturally and routinely emits solar flares, ranging from several times a day, during active periods, to once a week. The flares also vary in magnitude and discharge in virtually every direction. However, the combination of Earth’s continuous orbit around the sun and natural solar activity means that a large solar flare hitting Earth is inevitable. The combined probability of EMP and CME events is even greater. So, this is clearly a nontrivial risk. It is only a question of when it occurs. Solar Flare Severity Just how severe would the consequences be? What might happen to the economy? How would financial markets react? What could the shock mean for highly levered institutions, such as banks, hedge funds, and major bond issuers? Would there be a permanent destruction of overall wealth? The first-order effects might include a massive and semipermanent disruption of power and the destruction of communication satellites and infrastructure. In turn, supply chains of all types would be shut down. Health care would be challenged. Hospitals typically have backup generators on site, but how many of them are prepared for this? Even if they have generators, could they get the fuel and electricity they would need to get the gasoline? How long could a handful of power generators keep the system afloat? Moreover, much of the stored medicine would quickly go bad without proper refrigeration. The spread of disease alone would be rampant. If, as the EMP Commission suggests, there would be large-scale loss of life, what might happen to our financial system? How rampant would inflation become as the central banks attempted to first nationalize and then monetize bad debts? What might happen to just-in-time inventories? What about software as a service? Would Salesforce.com survive? Would Coca-Cola? Storing some portion of your wealth in the form of hard assets is perhaps the only prudent hedge against such an event. Presuming that such an event happened and presuming that the outcome was as bad as expected by experts in this field, then fiat currency would experience profound volatility and inflation as central banks scrambled to support the market with liquidity. Moreover, latent debt obligations that soured would create great deleveraging in the system, thereby destabilizing financial institutions and currency values. Such an event also highlights the importance of keeping some portion of financial assets in cash reserves to take advantage of the bargain-of-a-lifetime purchases for those businesses that furnish such necessities as water, clothing, communications, and medicine. Responding to such a crisis would require serious leadership. Organizing and leading a country, or even the world, back to recovery would tax human and financial capital in the extreme. This is a prospect that should catalyze every living soul to action, at least in part because the payoff tree is so attractive. The United States, for instance, can spend a small sum of money ($2 billion) to neutralize the problem. If we don’t prepare and it does happen, we would pay a cost so enormous that it is, perhaps, too great to imagine. However, if $2 billion is spent in preparation but it does not happen, then the costs are about $6.41 per capita. Maybe we could each forgo a couple of our skinny double-shot mocha lattes and save the world. It’s very rare that you come across such a profound problem that is so poorly publicized. There is, of course, time to deal with it . . . until there isn’t. Will your portfolio be prepared? Will you? FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock.comSorry, Hamptonites: You'll be stuck sipping on champagne this weekend.Time to hit the panic button: There's apparently a shortage of rosé wine in the Hamptons, which is bad news for anyone headed out east this weekend for a final summer hurrah. According to The New York Post, the rosé supply at several hot Hamptons restaurants and East End wineries has already run dry. Restaurants including Red Stix in Water Mill and Surf Lodge and Navy Beach in Montauk have reportedly run out of certain popular labels, and a representative from Wölffer Estate in Sagaponack told the Post that the vineyard had already sold out of two of its more popular rosé wines. The general manager at Lieb Cellars on the North Fork told Business Insider that they had temporarily run out of rosé in their East Hampton tasting room, but planned to restock before the the weekend. Its 2013 Bridge Lane Rosé is still available in its two other tasting rooms and online. And Channing Daughters, a winery in Bridgehampton, was nearly sold out of all seven rosé varieties it had made this year. A representative for the winery told us they do have a few magnums of their Rosato do Merlot available, hopefully enough to last through the weekend. At least one restaurant promises to be well-stocked. Pierre Weber, owner of Pierre's in Bridgehampton, assured us that they had plenty of magnums of Nationale 7 Rosé and Whispering Angel on hand for a "big and very festive weekend." He did warn, however, that the swank seafood spot would probably run out of some top-selling labels post-Labor Day. And the CEO of Bedell Cellars on the North Fork in Cutchogue said the winery's tasting room was amply stocked with Taste Rosé, and that he had "dispatched our sales team to the Hamptons today to help stem the shortage" — phew! It's not the first time the Hamptons have found themselves high and dry before the close of summer. The Post reported on a similar panic back in 2012. Rosé wines have become increasingly popular as a summer quaff over the past few years. Vogue declared it "the drink of summer" in May, and the co-founders of Instagram feed @yeswayrose explained to the magazine: "We think rosé got a bad rap for a while because of the misconception that it was the same as the sweet white zinfandel your grandmother used to drink, but wine lovers seem to have become more knowledgeable and are accepting rosé for the sophisticated and versatile wine that it is." FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Kim Kyung-HoonZhang Guanhui, impersonating Michael Jackson, dances in front of his house located in a village for migrant workers during an interview with Reuters in Beijing.Stocks didn't do much, but they managed to squeak out a fresh all-time high. The bond markets definitely made some notable moves. First, the scoreboard: And now, the top stories on Monday: 1. Today was one of those not-so-exciting days. There wasn't much volatility, and there were no major economic reports released to move markets in a major way. It's worth noting that the S&amp;P 500 climbed a whopping 0.10 point to close at a new all-time high. 2. Here's NYSE Floor Governor Rich Barry with the trader chatter: "This morning, we overheard someone ask the question, "What could possibly derail the market's rally?" Other than some really bad and unexpected geopolitical event, we could only come up with two other potential causes: 1) A rapid rise in rates (above-expectation economic numbers, a change in Fed outlook, etc.); and 2) Significant profit margin deterioration. We are at record high profit margins, but higher commodity prices or labor costs (commodities or labor) would have the impact of compressing earnings... If you can think of any other, let us know ... Moving on..." 2. Interest rates around the world continued to make their way lower. According to Bloomberg, the yield on the German 10-year bund fell to a record low of 0.909%. Spain's 10-year yield fell to 2.083%.  "Rates on similar-maturity Austrian, Belgian, Dutch, Finnish, Irish and Italian debt also fell to all-time lows," reported Bloomberg's David Goodman and Lukanyo Mnyanda. 3. Earlier Wednesday, we learned that Germany's Gfk consumer confidence index fell to 8.6 from 8.9 a month ago, and France's INSEE business confidence index fell to 91 from 93. Both were worse than economists' already pessimistic expectations. All of this follows a series of disappointing economic reports from the region, which have economists and bond traders increasingly convinced that the European Central Bank will make moves to ease monetary policy further. "We stand ready to adjust our policy stance further," ECB President Mario Draghi said on Friday at Jackson Hole. 4. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond fell to as low as 3.11%, the lowest level since May 2013. Don't Miss: 17 Facts About Warren Buffett And His Wealth That Will Blow Your Mind »   FREE AppDownload
ISIS is now the wealthiest terrorist organization on the planet, according to Foreign Policy. And the Al Qaeda offshoot has the ambition and perhaps even the organization needed to put its piles of oil and smuggling-related profits to work, as its several-hundred page-long annual report from this past March demonstrates. For example, ISIS brings in nearly $12 million a month in revenues from extortion and other shady practices in the Iraqi city of Mosul alone in addition to $1 million to $3 million a day selling oil illegally.  Some experts believe that the group's power is virtually unprecedented, at least among jihadist organizations. According to Janine Davidson and Emerson Brookings of the Council on Foreign Relations, ISIS sits atop "a volume of resources and territory unmatched in the history of extremist organizations." The group controls approximately 60% of Syria's oil fields and several oil producing assets in Iraq. Mike Nudelman/Business InsiderLuay Al-Khatteeb, founder of the Iraq Energy Institute and visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution, estimates ISIS's total revenue from oil production at approximately $2 million a day.  "Put simply, ISIS is in a position to smuggle over 30,000 barrels of crude oil a day to neighboring territories and countries at a price of between $25 to $60 per barrel depending on the number of middle-men involved," Khatteeb wrote for Brookings. ISIS allegedly sells much of its oil production to intermediaries in Syria, who then transport it to refineries in Turkey, Iran, and Kurdistan, Foreign Policy reported.  Robin Mills, a director at Manaar Energy and author of The Myth Of The Oil Crisis, explained that individuals and nations involved in the sale of oil on the black market would be open to U.S. and EU sanctions as well as Iraqi legal action, if the state were ever to re-establish control over areas that ISIS now rules.  "The practical impact of this may not be much given the small volumes and the difficulty of tracking buyers and sellers," Mills told Business Insider by email.  Mohanned Faisal/ReutersA woman carries a bundle of newly harvested wheat stalks in Albu Efan village southwest of Falluja. Oil isn't the only resource that ISIS has leveraged to its advantage. In a recent interview with Der Spiegel, Brookings Doha Center fellow Charles Lister explains how ISIS uses its control of food and water supplies to further its goals: Money is key here. It is well-known that the IS is almost entirely self-financed. Its money comes from the control and illicit sale of oil and gas, agricultural products like wheat, the control of water and electricity and from imposing taxes within areas it controls. It is literally earning millions of dollars each week, and a great deal of this money is pumped into social services. ISIS's advance throughout northern Iraq has put vast quantities of prime farmland under the control of the militant organization. Large portions of five of Iraq's most fertile provinces are currently under ISIS control.  These provinces are collectively responsible for producing 40% of the country's wheat crop. The militants have also raided between 40,000 and 50,000 tons of grain from government silos in the north of the country.  Al Arabiya reported that ISIS has transported at least 700 tons of grain from western Iraq into Syria for milling and refining. ISIS then proceeded to sell the grain to the Iraqi government through third-parties in order to raise further funds.  ISIS has expanded this effort recently by making flour using the grain it stole from government mills throughout Mosul.  #ISIS Began producing flour from government mills in #Mosul,and libel it under their name. pic.twitter.com/JgCnqglAbS A source at Iraq's Agricultural Ministry told Reuters that ISIS has placed close to 30% of Iraq's entire farm production at risk. This scarcity and food insecurity has driven up prices and increased the windfall that ISIS receives from its wheat trade.  TwitterA file photo of an ISIS militant in front of the Mosul Dam. The group no longer has control of the dam.Control of water resoucres and hydroelectric power stations provide further funding for ISIS.  The control of massive pieces of infrastructure, such as the Tabqa Dam outside of ISIS's de facto capital of Raqqah, Syria, along with the group's short-lived seizure of the Mosul Dam in Iraq, further demonstrates ISIS's capabilities and ambitions. Ariel I. Ahram, an assistant professor at Virginia Tech's School of Public and International Affairs, notes that the Tabqa Dam provides a steady stream of revenue for ISIS. The dam generates electricity for Aleppo and the surrounding region. ISIS fighters made sure that the dam's staff was left relatively unmolested, in order to ensure that the dam remained operational.  REUTERS/StringerAn ISIS fighter holds the black flag of the organization in the streets of Mosul.ISIS collects taxes on a variety of commercial items, such as trucks and cellphone towers, according to Ahram. Raqqa's Credit Bank has transformed into a functioning tax authority, with shop owners paying $20 every two months to ISIS in exchange for utilities and security. ISIS functions a lot like a criminal syndicate. "The group is like the Mafia. It really doesn’t discriminate in how it gets its money," Colin Clarke, an associate political scientist at Rand Corporation, told CBC News. "Anything that's a revenue-generating activity, this group is engaged in." ISIS has branched out into for-profit crime, engaging in extortion, carjacking, and kidnapping. Kidnappings have become an especially lucrative source of funding for the organization as the group targets foreigners, an attempts to ransom them. ISIS demanded a $123 million ransom for journalist James Foley before executing him. The militants have set a $6.6 million ransom for the release of an American aid worker they had kidnapped in Syria. As ISIS militants continue to rule sections in Syria and Iraq, these history-rich regions have spurred a black market for ancient artifacts, which ISIS has reportedly taken advantage of. One senior intelligence official told The Guardian that ISIS (back when it was known as the Islamic State of Iraq) had used looted antiquities as a revenue source when its members began moving into eastern Syria in late 2012. In all, estimates place ISIS' total revenue at somewhere between $1 million and $4 million daily. Some of that money goes towards paying fighters and building their "caliphate" to resemble something like an actual state. But the group has a massive and ever-growing war chest to match its weapons stocks, territorial domain, and propaganda.  It's little wonder that some commentators believe the group could become more dangerous than Al Qaeda itself. FREE AppDownload
After suffering two horrific air tragedies this year, Malaysia Airlines is having trouble filling its flights. Photos on Twitter, Instagram, and other social media sites are showing nearly empty flights, waiting areas, and check-in lines for the embattled airline. Leanne Marotta, who flew Malaysia from Melbourne, Australia, to Kuala Lumpur on Aug. 14, posted the above photo. She says approximately 60 people were aboard the flight.  According to Howard University professor Oliver McGee, the airline is losing $1.6 million per day on its operations and burning through its cash reserves at nearly $2.16 million per day. Malaysia Airlines has tried to fix the problem — in Australia, at least — by nearly doubling the commission it gives to travel agents, to 11% from 6%. It is also offering extremely discounted fares for some flights. A round-trip flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing is selling for $238, according to Mashable, while comparable flights on other airlines are going for more than $500. That doesn't apply to all flights, however. Our own fare checks have found Malaysia Airlines flights from New York to Kuala Lumpur to be equally or more expensive than most other air carriers. In light of the current troubles, it appears that the airline will soon be taken private, paving the way for a complete overhaul. While the dual disasters have wrecked the brand, Malaysia Airlines has been struggling for years as budget airlines in Asia and the Middle East have upped the competition and squeezed profit margins. Though it is not definitive what shape the overhaul may take, the Sydney Morning Herald is reporting that the airline could cut 3,000 to 4,000 jobs, replace its CEO, and cut numerous routes. Between its cost-cutting efforts and a possible rebranding as a "premium airline," instead of a full-service airline, Malaysia is trying everything to avoid going under. Here are a couple more photos: We have reached out to the airline for additional information on customer traffic and will update when we hear back. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Alexander Zemlianichenko/Pool Bloomberg's Michael Riley and Jordan Robertson report the FBI is probing whether Russia may be tied to hacking and theft of data at JP Morgan and another U.S. bank in retaliation for sanctions against its incursions in Ukraine.  The banks reported the alleged hacks earlier this month, which they said resulted in large chunks of lost data. The hacks exploited a previously unknown vulnerability and were sophisticated enough that a government link is suspected.  The NSA has also joined the probe, Bloomberg says. Click here to read the full story on Bloomberg.com » FREE AppDownload
Sergei Karpukhin/ReutersAn armed pro-Russian separatist stands in front of damaged buildings following what locals say was shelling by Ukrainian forces in Donetsk.Ukraine and Western officials on Wednesday warned that Russian forces are opening up another, major front in the war, according to The New York Times. “This is what happened: they crossed the border, took up positions, and started shooting," Sgt. Aleksei Panko said after telling The Times that about 60 armored vehicles crossed the border near the town of Novoazovsk. “This is now a war with Russia." State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said Wednesday that Russia’s “incursions” in Ukraine "indicate a Russian-directed counter-offensive is likely underway" in Luhansk and Donetsk, which she said was of "deep concern" to the U.S. She accused Russia of "sending its young men into Ukraine, but not telling them or their parents where they are going or what they are doing."  "These are not steps you take when you are operating in a transparent manner," Psaki said. "We are also concerned about the Russian government’s unwillingness to tell the truth even as its soldiers are found 30 miles inside Ukraine.” REUTERS/Maks LevinAn Ukrainian serviceman shoots during fighting with pro-Russian separatists in the eastern Ukrainian town of Ilovaysk, Aug. 26, 2014.U.S. officials added that there is proof Russia has provided advanced air defenses not known to be in the Ukrainian arsenal — and thus could not be "looted" by separatists — and routinely flies drones over head to gather intelligence for the separatists. Geoffrey Pyatt, the U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, wrote on Twitter Tuesday that Russia's recent moves in Ukraine "may indicate that a Russian counteroffensive is underway" in southeastern Ukraine, where fighting between the Ukrainian army and pro-Russian separatists has raged for months. The Times reports that the counteroffensive "pushed the Ukrainian army off a 75 mile-long highway from Donetsk south to the Azov Sea." A key new front is on the road linking Russia to the Ukrainian port of Mariupol and onto Crimea, Associated Press reports. The excursion raises the fear that the separatists, with the help of Russian forces, are trying to create a land link between Russia and Russian-occupied Crimea. REUTERS "The Russian military’s use of artillery from locations within Ukraine is of special concern to Western military officials, who say Russian artillery has already been used to shell Ukrainian forces near Luhansk," Andrew Kramer and Michael Gordon of The Time report. "And along with the antiaircraft systems operated by separatists or Russian forces inside Ukraine, the artillery has the potential to alter the balance of power in the struggle for control of eastern Ukraine." An administration official told the Times that they believe "that self-propelled artillery is operated by Russians rather than separatists since no separatist training on this artillery has occurred to date." Interpreter Magazine has translated a report from an online Russian publication that claims, with photos, that the Ukrainian army attacked a Russian military convoy between the rebel stronghold of Donetsk and the Russian border. It surely sounds like war (via The Interpreter):  Last night, 26 August 2014, Ukrainian artillery destroyed a convoy of Russian paratroopers who advanced on BMDs. The Russian Federation soldiers were moving toward Ilovaisk with the purpose of destroying the position of the Ukrainian army. As soon as the column was noted, strikes were delivered. Photographs of the destroyed vehicles were given by soldiers to Dorozhny Kontrol journalists who are on the scene of events. As can be seen from the photos, the paratroopers were dressed in the RF military uniform and had Vintorez rifles with them, which are not in the arsenals of Ukraine. Most of the paratroopers were destroyed, but some were taken captive. Interpter Mag notes that the photos show a "blue beret of the paratroopers, the label from a Kevlar vest manufactured in the Russian city of Kazan, a Ukrainian soldier holding up a VSS Vintorez (a rifle only used by Russian Spetsnaz), and the dead bodies of soldiers." Twice in the past three days, Ukraine has accused Russian soldiers of crossing the border and fighting alongside pro-Russian rebels in southeastern Ukraine. Ukraine's state security service said Monday it detained 10 Russian paratroopers who crossed into Ukrainian territory. REUTERS/Valentyn OgirenkoA group of Russian servicemen, who are detained by Ukrainian authorities, attend a news conference in Kiev, Aug. 27, 2014.On Tuesday, dozens of heavily armed strangers with Russian accents and military gear without insignias appeared in an eastern Ukrainian village and set up a roadblock. "The people at the new checkpoint, they were polite military men wearing green. Definitely not Ukrainian. They're definitely not from around here," one man told Reuters. The "green men" are a reminder of the Russian special forces that were used to annex the Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea. About a month after Russia annexed the strategic peninsula, Russian President Vladimir Putin acknowledged he had sent in Russian forces to protect Russian-speaking citizens in Crimea.  "Of course we had our servicemen behind the self-defense units of Crimea," Putin said during an annual televised call-in with the nation in April. "We had to make sure what is happening now in eastern Ukraine didn't happen there."  Ukraine militaryThe officials told The Times that Russia has provided support for separatists in the region of Luhansk, where government forces recently had success in routing pro-Russian rebels. And they are also aiding a separatist push in the south toward the town of Mariupol, a major port on the Azov Sea. According to the report, Western officials believe the Russian military has fired artillery from within Ukraine. They said it has already been fired to shell Ukrainian forces in Luhansk. “Russia is clearly trying to put its finger on the scale to tip things back in favor of its proxies,” a senior American official told The Times. “Artillery barrages and other Russian military actions have taken their toll on the Ukrainian military.” The Times notes that Putin, who is in Belarus for trades with Ukraine and European leaders, may be "calculating that Moscow could intervene in eastern Ukraine with conventional Russian forces without risking further Western economic sanctions."   FREE AppDownload
Shutterstock.com Please note: Wearing a blazer and jeans is different from wearing a sports jacket and jeans. It’s important to understand that the two styles of jacket aren’t the same and should be paired with denim differently. Features a BLAZER has that a SPORTS JACKET doesn’t: Features a SPORTS JACKET has that a BLAZER doesn’t: Put in even more basic terms, a blazer is a simpler and dressier garment than a sports jacket. It’s not as “busy” to look at. That makes a blazer and blue jeans a very minimalist style. It’s easy to build off of, gives you the flattering shape of a jacket without the stuffiness of a suit, and can dress up or down depending on how you accessorize. The trick lies in wearing the right blazer with the right jeans. Not all navy blazers are created equal. Some are meant to serve as a bare level of formality down from suits and ties (especially the double-breasted variety). These aren’t going to work with blue jeans. You should be looking for elements of a casual style: Real Men Real Style Anything very crisply squared-off and military-looking is for business meetings and yachts. Look for something with a natural, un-padded shape. Single-breasted, two-button construction Wearing jeans means wearing your jacket open at least some of the time. Double-breasted is right out (and too formal to pair with jeans anyway), and three-button styles tend to flap and billow when left unbuttoned. They’re also more likely to be mistaken for an out-of-place suit jacket. Close fit As above, you want to avoid flapping fabric when you wear the jacket open. A close fit in the chest is particularly important, but it’s worth keeping the jacket close around the hips as well. Modest taper The narrowest part of the jacket shouldn’t come in too sharply. You’re not going for a wicked, Italian-style hourglass here. A modest little bit of narrowing above the hips is all you need. Simple fabric You’re pairing the blazer with denim. A superfine wool with a lustrous sheen is going to be out of place, and so is a big, hairy tweed jacket. A simple, durable worsted is fine, as is a flannel if you prefer a more textured surface. Avoid twill weaves if possible A twill weave is easy to recognize by its narrow diagonal ribbing. That’s the same texture as denim jeans, and you don’t want two garments in a close but not-quite-matching texture, ever. Make sure the jacket is either a smooth-faced weave or something distinct from twill like hopsack, flannel, birdseye or nailhead. Buttons You may also want to consider avoiding the traditional metallic buttons — or you may like the contrast in your outfit. It depends on the look you’re going for. Metal buttons are more conservative and a bit preppy; plastic or mother-of-pearl buttons that match the jacket color or complement it more subtly are a more modern and urbane look. Jeans and sports jackets lend themselves to natural contrasts. Jeans and blazers, on the other hand, both traditionally come in a deep blue shade. That makes finding a pair of jeans that stand out from your blazer more of an exercise in careful shopping than the sports jacket/jeans pairing. Real Men Real Style And within the realm of these “dressy” jeans you have two basic color options: Darker than the blazer Jeans in a really deep midnight-blue can work with a blazer that’s on the lighter end of navy (or in a different color altogether), especially if the jeans have some orange contrast stitching in them. More unusual dark colors like gray or chocolate brown work for the jeans as well, although plain black is usually an awkward pairing for navy blue. Lighter than the blazer Lighter shades of blue, grays, and more fashion-forward colors like white or red denim give a good contrast. It’s one of the rare outfits where trousers lighter than the jacket is common and is a great choice when looking to dress the outfit down. In either case your goal with the color is to avoid any pairing that’s close but not an actual match. A perfect match (or so close that the eye can’t tell the difference) isn’t great, since it just makes you look like you’re wearing a suit with texture problems. Contrast between the blazer and the jeans is key. This is a deliberately dressed-down look. It pairs well with anything from a lightly-patterned dress shirt and leather shoes to a fitted T-shirt and canvas sneakers. For a preppy look, throw on a red-striped necktie and choose a blazer with brass buttons. For something more contemporary wear a dark turtleneck or T-shirt and a blazer with matching-colored buttons. It all just comes down to the image you want. The only things to steer clear of are any items that belong solidly to either conservative business wear or grungy street wear:  T-shirts with graphic designs, athletic shoes (go at least as dressy as a colored canvas sneaker), and so on. A blazer/jeans outfit belongs to the comfortable middle ground, not to either extreme. In summary, it can take a little hunting to find the right blazer and the right pair of jeans.  But once you find them you have an outfit that holds up in almost any social situation. Happy hunting!  This article originally appeared at Real Men Real Style.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Sotheby's International RealtyA gorgeous private island owned by Seattle-based telecommunications billionaire Craig McCaw is on the market for a jaw-dropping $75 million.  With such luxurious amenities as a private harbor, spa, and Jack Nicklaus-designed golf course, it's an amazing private retreat fit for a billionaire. Though the island has a history of manufacturing dating back to the early 1900s, McCaw's J.I. Properties first purchased the island for $19 million in 1994. FREE AppDownload
If you create a lot of charts in Excel, you should definitely be creating and using your own chart templates. It helps keep the look of your charts consistent and will save you a ton of time.  Produced by Sara Silverstein.  Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Government borrowing rates continue to tumble around the world. "Global bond yields have taken over the entire financial chatter this morning," Brean Capital's Peter Tchir said earlier today. According to Bloomberg, the yield on the German 10-year bund fell to a record low of 0.909%. Spain's 10-year yield fell to 2.083%. "Rates on similar-maturity Austrian, Belgian, Dutch, Finnish, Irish and Italian debt also fell to all-time lows," reported Bloomberg's David Goodman and Lukanyo Mnyanda. "Not only are yields still making new lows day in and day out, but now some spreads to Bunds are also making new lows," said Societe Generale's Vincent Chaigneau. "The rally over the past few weeks was easy to call, given that the catch-up on Bund yields was well deserved after several silly scares on peripherals (euro elections, BES etc.). But now we are in new territory, as spreads return to lows last seen in 2009-2010 in some cases. Our view though remains for the buy momentum to continue." When bond yields fall, bond prices are going up. "We stand ready to adjust our policy stance further," said Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank (ECB). Draghi made this statement on Friday at the Kansas City Fed's Economic Policy Symposium in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. His speech came after the eurozone economies reported a string of of disappoint reports suggesting that growth had stalled and prices were falling. Based on recent moves in interest rates, it appears bond traders are betting more monetary stimulus is coming. "Draghi, who has often been able to get away with just words probably needs to act this time, as the move in the past week has been extreme and seems like it will require real action," Tchir said. Earlier Wednesday, we learned that Germany's Gfk consumer confidence index fell to 8.6 from 8.9 a month ago, and France's INSEE business confidence index fell to 91 from 93. Both were worse than economists' already pessimistic expectations. "More misery from leading indicators in France," said Pantheon Macroeconomics' Claus Vistesen. "Even on the back of two quarters of stagnation in France, we don’t see much evidence of a pick up in the current quarter. Based on values for July and August, the manufacturing survey is now down a depressing 2.5% q/q in the third quarter, consistent with another disappointing GDP print. " What's interesting is that U.S. Treasury yields, while low at 2.36%, continue to be much higher than yields in other parts of the developed world. In other words, those European bonds actually make U.S. bonds look cheap, meaning that yields have room to go lower. Earlier this month, DoubleLine Funds' Jeffrey Gundlach told Business Insider that we could see U.S. Treasury yields rise if European yields were to rally. However, he reminded us that the European economy continues to be in much worse shape. If anything, Europe is on the brink of deflation, which means rates could actually go lower. Yardeni Research FREE AppDownload
Melia Robinson/Business InsiderA tailor measures a customer at Martin Greenfield in Brooklyn.Here are 12 things you need to know before buying a bespoke suit. #1 Fabric Comes First There are a thousand ways to sew a suit, but the garment is ultimately only as good as its raw ingredients. Fabric selection is the most important decision you will make when designing your new bespoke suit. Not only does it determine how your suit will look and feel, but also how it will perform and last over time. Avoid anything with a synthetic blend. To start, look for a 100% worsted wool from a trusted mill in a “super 110s-120s” thread count for the best combination of luxury and durability. #2 Trust Nobody Because this is a business where manufacturing begins after the sale is complete, and most clients aren’t well versed in the nuances of tailoring, the ugly truth is that custom suit iss a very shady industry. I’ve seen everything from counterfeit branded fabrics to “Made in USA” tags being sewn into jackets in Southeast Asia. The most common deception in the business is the location of manufacturing – i.e. shops that say their garments are “Made On Site” when indeed they are not. Here’s some simple math: A well made hand-tailored suit takes an average of 40 hours to complete. The average master tailor working in America doesn’t pick up his shears for less than $30-40 an hour…let’s call it an average of $35/hour. That’s $1,600 in labor alone. Decent cloth from a respected mill, purchased at wholesale, runs roughly $50-$100 per yard…let’s call it an average of $75/yard. It takes about 3 yards of cloth to make a suit (2.5 for solids, 3 for pinstripes, 3.5-4 for check patterns). That comes out to an average of $225 for the cloth. Add roughly $25 for the buttons, trims, lining, etc. That’s $250 in cost of tangible inputs, making a rough total of $1,850 for overall cost of production. Therefore, an American made suit (with a typical 65% profit markup) is going to retail for at least $3,050. Translate this to Euros in Italy and pounds in England. If a shop located in an area with similar cost of labor is offering an suit “made on site” at a price notably lower than this, they are likely pulling the wool over your eyes (pun intended) by using counterfeit cloth or overseas production where the hourly cost of skilled labour is significantly cheaper. #3 HOW it’s made over WHERE it’s made The quality and attention to detail of overseas manufacturing can vary greatly from one workshop to the next, but on the whole there have been enormous strides made in the past decade or so. “Made in China” doesn’t mean it’s crap, as long as the person in charge of the manufacturing process is careful,  diligently, and honest. I have an article coming up about the questions to ask to determine the quality level of tailoring… Stay tuned.Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderA fitting at Michael Andrews Bespoke in New York City.#4 Understand the shop’s “House Cut” Every bespoke shop has their own opinion on how a suit should be cut to best flatter a man’s body. For example, traditional British shops, like the esteemed tailors on Savile Row, tend to cut with larger allowances (the difference between a client’s body measurements and the measurements of the finished garment) for a roomier fit with a smoother “drape”. English tailors also prefer heavier cloth, a lower gorge line (the seam where the collar meets the lapel) and more overall structure to the jacket (stiffer chest canvas, thicker shoulder pads, etc). By contrast, Italian tailors tend to prefer lighter cloth, smaller allowances (cut closer to the body), a higher gorge and a more “flexible” construction (softer shoulders, less padding, etc). The difference in cutting style can vary greatly from one tailor to the next, even in the same city. For example, tailors in midtown Manhattan tend to make a more traditional garment with British accents geared toward an older client base, while downtown shops generally cut a more Italian-influenced, slightly “edgier” garment for a younger crowd. Understanding the style and strategy of the shop is important in order to achieve the fit you are seeking. Ask if you can try-on a sample garment in your closest size, this will give you an idea of how the tailor thinks about a suit. #5 Get to a stable body shape before ordering If you plan on going through any major body transformations, wait until you reach a stable weight that you are happy with before investing in custom clothing. And make sure it’s a weight you can maintain! As an added bonus, an expensive custom suit will probably be your best motivation to stay in shape. #6 Get the fit right, the first time A good shop will keep a paper (or digital) pattern on file for you, and tweak that pattern every time they make you a new garment or alter one of your old ones. If you have the option of paying more for a “higher level” that includes additional fittings, do it for your first suit. Once you have your pattern locked down, you shouldn’t have to do it again and your future orders will be a breeze.Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderA tailor at Michael Andrews Bespoke.#7 Understand that you’re (probably) not an expert Most shops have employees whose full-time job is to make their clients look their best. Listen to their advice and converse with them about your styling decisions rather than assuming you know better. #8 Avoid trends like the plague You want your new investment to last 5-10 years (depending on how hard you wear your clothing), so keep the proportions classic and avoid anything “of the moment”. I feel bad for guys who ordered cropped jackets with razor thin lapels years ago and are now afraid to wear them outside the house. The same will happen to the guys ordering super oversized lapels today. The trouser hemline is a slightly different issue as this can be lengthened or shortened in a matter of minutes. #9 Don’t get caught up in thread counts Some guys think the higher the thread count (or “super” number), the better the cloth. This is not necessarily true. This number – which represents the number of fibers spun into a unit measure of cloth – indicates only the “fineness” of the fibers. It can mean that a cloth will have a great “hand feel” and sheen, but what’s more important is its inverse relationship with durability. Most of my suits are in the Super 110-130 range, which I consider the perfect balance between luxury and durability. Super 180s and higher become very delicate. They should be reserved for guys who have 20+ suits in their rotation who are looking for something that they bust out once a month to make a statement or for a special event. You should invest in the most durable fabric that feels good in your hand. Truth is, a “super 110s” from a quality mill can feel softer than a “super 180s” from a second rate fabric house anyway. Daniel Goodman / Business InsiderSuits are ironed at Michael Andrews Bespoke.#10 Get the basics first, then build from there Think of your first visit to a bespoke shop as the first step in building your new wardrobe. Start with versatile basics and slowly build out to seasonal fabrics with more personality. You can wear a solid blue or grey suit to the office three times a week and nobody will notice, but your co-workers will call you out if they keep seeing those purple pinstripes. Also, don’t factor-in the suits you already have in your closet unless you love them and they fit very well. 90% of guys stop wearing their off-the-rack suits after going custom. If you already have a strong base and are looking for something specific, don’t be afraid to bring a picture reference to show your salesperson. #11 Have realistic expectations Unless you look like George Clooney, a new suit won’t make you look like George Clooney. Also, don’t be a wrinkle chaser. The suit is designed to look pristine on a still, standing body. As you start moving all bets are off and the suit will crease and wrinkle. It’s fabric, not magic. If you want a very slim look, there are trade-offs when it comes to comfort. You will feel the suit and lose a little range of motion. If you are not accustomed to slim tailoring, there may be a short adjustment period here. Keep in mind the only way to make it “roomier” is to make it bigger, thus losing some shape. In my case, I actually like to feel my jackets against my body. The feeling of being “locked in”. #12 Take care of your investments Ask your tailor for proper care instructions. Generally speaking, dry clean your suits as infrequently as possible (only when their physically dirty from spills or sweat). Dry cleaning is a chemical wash that slowly erodes fabric – essentially scraping away the surface layer. Otherwise, if the garment simply needs a “refresher”, have it steamed or pressed (which is much cheaper than dry cleaning and effectively cleans it using heat and steam anyway). FREE AppDownload
Danny Moloshok/ReutersRichard Branson, founder and chairman of the Virgin Group.They say the early bird catches the worm, and nowhere is this old adage more true than in business. Waking up early allows executives like AOL's Tim Armstrong and Pepsi's Indra Nooyi to get a head start on the day, knocking out tasks before the rest of the world is out of bed. The extra time also gives people the chance to work out and do some of their most valuable creative thinking. Whether they use the time to catch up on email or take their kids to school, these executives all make the most of their mornings. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesBurger King Corp. CEO Bernardo Hees, center, watches as his company is listed on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange Wednesday, June 20, 2012.WASHINGTON — Burger King’s buyout of Canadian coffee-and-doughnut chain Tim Hortons is drawing heightened attention to the trend of companies using a merger to change their corporate citizenship. In this case, Burger King will follow a host of other firms recently in moving its domicile outside the United States. It’s called a “tax inversion” because a company is changing its legal home to the nation where a smaller acquired firm is based – and where tax policies are more favorable. But is this rush to the exit door really a good idea for US companies? The question is a hot one because, for one thing, the US stands to lose substantial tax revenue if more and more companies move overseas – not to mention lost prestige for the economy that has long been the world’s symbolic capital of corporate dynamism. Some business gurus say it makes good financial sense for companies to move their legal address outside the US, until Congress reforms the corporate tax code to make it less onerous. But, even as President Obama weighs executive action to stem the trend, some evidence suggests that inversion isn’t automatically a winning strategy. First, America’s official top tax rate of 35 percent shouldn’t be confused with the effective tax rate that corporations actually pay. Depending on a firm’s profitability and various tax breaks built into the US code, the real tax rate is often considerably lower. ReutersBurger King, for example, plans to become a “Canadian” company with the Tim Hortons deal. But the hamburger chain is saying it doesn’t expect “meaningful” tax savings. Instead, it emphasizes that the merger makes sense mainly because of the strategic opportunity for global expansion and greater to become more of a player in breakfast-food sales.for global expansion and greater breakfast-food sales. Public relations spin? Maybe a bit, but AFP quotes Burger King executive chairman Alex Behring saying Tuesday that the firm’s effective tax rate "is currently in the mid- to high twenties, which is pretty much in line with the current effective rate in Canada." Some other data points suggest CEOs might want to take at least a doughnut break before seeking an inversion partner. According to a recent Reuters analysis, companies that have done inversions over the past three decades haven’t shown any edge in stock-market performance. Of 52 transactions Reuters found, 19 of the companies subsequently outperformed the Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index, but an equal number underperformed. Of the rest, 10 were bought by rivals, three went out of business, and one inverted its own inversion by incorporating in the US again. Even if an inversion looks successful on paper, moreover, there may be another important caveat. Although business experts generally point to corporations’ fiduciary duty to shareholders as a prime motivator of inversions, some analysts question whether shareholders come out ahead. “An inversion, in effect, is the sale of a U.S. firm to a foreign company. Stockholders in the U.S. firm are deemed to have sold their shares in the U.S. firm in exchange for shares in the new foreign-based entity,” explains an online commentary by Roberton Williams of the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center in Washington. “They get no cash, just a stake in the new company,” he says, but they can end up owing substantial capital-gains taxes if they had made their original purchase of stock long ago. So, for at least some shareholders, it could take quite awhile before any financial gains from the inversion outweigh the taxes they owe as a result of the transaction. Still, many corporate executives may calculate that, under the current US tax code, the grass is greener for the firm and its shareholders in the long run under an overseas address. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsSAE at Dartmouth.Excerpted from "Confessions of An Ivy League Frat Boy" by Andrew Lohse. Copyright © 2014 by Andrew Lohse and reprinted by permission of Thomas Dunne Books.  Andrew Lohse pledged Sigma Alpha Epsilon at Dartmouth College and later went public with allegations of hazing within the fraternity. The following passage is his account of a night early on during his time as a pledge. Later on in the novel, Lohse writes of date rape, drugs, and being forced to swim through a swimming pool filled with human waste. “There are three things you have to remember,” he said. I nodded, unsure if I was supposed to speak. The other brothers stared me down. I didn’t want to look up and recognize them, because I didn’t want to remember later who was there or that this strange thing was happening. No one spoke except Goodrich. “Number one. Always trust the brotherhood.”  “Always trust the brotherhood,” I repeated. “Good. Take a shot.” I reached for the first glass. My hand shook. Cheap gin. It was warm. My throat burned—my lips puckered and I almost dropped the shot glass trying to set it back down on the table. Innumerable eyes trained on me, wreaking a havoc of anxiety on me from my peripheral vision. Confessions Of An Ivy League Frat Boy“Number two. Always trust your pledge brothers.” I repeated Goodrich’s injunction and drank the second shot, this time gagging more than I did on the first. I couldn’t tell if it was salt water, spit, urine, or some mix of all three. By this time I was already drunk and tired and my stomach was beginning to send urgent messages to my brain. Sadly, these messages went missing between depressed nerve endings somewhere in my spinal cord, and the warning diffused, beaten into submission by my desire not to disappoint the bros. Onward, my willpower demanded. Always trust the brotherhood. You heard the dude. “Number three. What happens in the house stays in the house.” “What happens in the house stays in the house,” I muttered, reaching for the third shot. Before I could touch it, Goodrich grabbed my wrist and I accidentally stared into his eyes, then quickly averted my glance. He released his grip. For some reason I looked down, expecting to see a mark, but there was no mark. Then it was time for the twist. “Now, whales--t, what were the three things I just told you to remember?” The three things that were, f---, like, impossible to recall in order, even though I’d learned them only seconds before. Goodrich stared me down over the flickering candle. He had eyes like a mad Puritan minister. The brothers on the risers leaned toward me in unison, staring. They were expecting something, I realized. I had to say something. How was I supposed to remember? Who can even remember these things? “Always trust—the house—” I stammered. “No!” Just like everyone else before me, I’d f---- it up. The instructions were so easy, but I’d f---ed them up. I felt devastated. Davis opened the door, frowning, and led me back through the dim hallway to the Libes, forced a copy of The Phoenix back into my hands. “Sit back down on the floor and study, whales---,” he said. “You clearly have progress to make.”  FREE AppDownload
AP2013 Suzuki Kizashi SedanDETROIT (Reuters) - Spiders drawn to gasoline vapors and weaving webs that block a hose to vent those vapors have caused Suzuki Motor of America to recall about 19,000 Kizashi mid-size sedans from model years 2010 to 2013, U.S. regulators said on Wednesday. Air flow blocked in the cars' evaporative emissions system can cause negative pressure in the fuel tank, which can lead to cracks which could cause leaks that increase risk of a fire, said the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. This is a similar problem to one experienced by some Mazda6 owners. Mazda Motor Corp &lt;7261.T&gt; has recalled the Mazda6 twice since 2011 because of spiders building webs in ventilation hoses. No crashes or injuries have been reported in relation to this issue, Suzuki told NHTSA. Suzuki &lt;7269.T&gt; last year stopped selling cars in the U.S. market after nearly three decades, so NHTSA and Suzuki advise Kizashi owners to take their sedans to authorized “service providers.” Letters the company will send to car owners and filed with NHTSA do not identify where these service providers are, but owners can call a customer service line at 800-934-0934 to find out. The remedy to be applied is a filter on a ventilation line to keep the spiders out. The Kizashi was one of the company’s best-sellers in the United States before Suzuki in late 2012 said it would stop selling vehicles in the U.S. market after its standing inventory ran out. U.S. Kizashi sales reached about 7,000 in 2011 and fell each year after that.   (Reporting by Bernie Woodall; Editing by James Dalgleish) FREE AppDownload
Shares of Herbalife surged after a Carl Icahn Tweet dissing an "Ice Bucket Challenge" request from Jefferies' CEO.  To Rich Handler, will get back to you shortly on #ALSChallenge, but right now too busy working on BIG deal with another investment banker Icahn's Tweet is supposed to be a joke. It's well known that he's a big Jefferies client and does a lot of business with the firm.  Icahn owns a massive stake in Herbalife, the company that his long-time rival Bill Ackman is infamously short.  Check it out:  Yahoo Finance  FREE AppDownload
Youtube.comJefferies CEO Rich Handler has an amazing ALS Ice Bucket Challenge video in which he fills his Jacuzzi in his Tribeca penthouse with several bags of ice before dunking himself in it. The ALS Ice Bucket Challenge is a social-media movement where people are dared to dump ice water on their heads or donate money to an ALS organization. Politicians, celebrities, and Wall Streeters have all taken part in the movement. Handler challenged long-time Jefferies' client Carl Icahn to do it next. Icahn teased him on Twitter saying that he's "too busy" working on a "BIG deal" with another investment bank. Handler also challenged Landry's CEO Tilman Fertitta, Bank of New York Mellon's CEO Gerald Hassel and rapper Pitbull.  Watch below:  FREE AppDownload
Billionaire activist investor Carl Icahn just turned down Jefferies CEO Rich Handler's "Ice Bucket Challenge" because he's "too busy."    To Rich Handler, will get back to you shortly on #ALSChallenge, but right now too busy working on BIG deal with another investment banker Here's Handler's Ice Bucket Challenge. He jumped into the ice water.   FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesWarren Buffett.By providing $3 billion in financing to aid Burger King's acquisition of the coffee and donut chain Tim Hortons, Warren Buffett has complicated the Democratic argument against the practice known as tax inversion. Buffett has become the public face of this inversion deal, just one of what has become an increasingly common practice in which an American corporation buys or merges with a foreign corporation and relocates its tax base out of the U.S. Buffett has been one of Democrats' main wealthy allies on issues of taxes and so-called tax "fairness." In 2011, President Barack Obama even dubbed one of his tax plans the "Buffett Rule," which would enact a minimum 30% tax rate on individual incomes above $1 million. But in the Burger King deal — part of a larger issue of "tax fairness" with inversions — Buffett weakens their case. Democrats "were dealt a psychological setback yesterday as Warren Buffett essentially said 'do as I say, not as I do.' The patron saint of tax fairness is part of this deal, which clearly weakens the Democrats' case," said Greg Valliere, the chief political strategist at Potomac Research Group. Democrats in the Senate are moving to potentially hold a vote on a bill to stop the flow of inversions before the midterm elections, and the Treasury Department is considering acting on its own to stem the practice, which Obama has called unpatriotic.  For Democrats, the larger plan was to use the division between them and Republicans — who want to solve the inversion issue as part of overall tax reform — as a campaign issue. But now, the messaging becomes more difficult. "Berkshire Hathaway's reported role in financing part of the proposed 'inversion' deal between Burger King and Canadian donut and coffee chain Tim Hortons further complicates the political messaging and tactics of the White House on inversions and their midterm campaign theme of economic patriotism," said Chris Krueger, an analyst at Guggenheim Securities.  "The fact that the Administration's poster child for tax fairness is now financing a proposed deal that the Administration has previously attacked for lacking patriotism and for loophole exploitation only reinforces how contrived and politically disjointed this issue has become for the White House." Krueger surmised there was less than a 10% chance of any meaningful inversion-related legislation passing into law by the end of the year, and he expects any Treasury action to be largely symbolic. He said that with the squeeze from Buffett, Democrats and the administration were on "very shaky" political ground with the issue. FREE AppDownload
MobileyeMobileye interprets a video stream to warn drivers of impending dangers.Wall Street has collectively decided that a software firm called Mobileye now stands at the vanguard of firms investors should look to to invest in the self-driving car revolution.   Mobileye was the largest-ever IPO by an Israeli firm, raising $890 million at a valuation of over $7.5 billion, according to the Times Of Israel. Shares are up 12% since its August 1, 2014 debut, and climbed 8% Tuesday. Barclays' Brian Johnson called it "the only 'pure play' " on what he says is a secular shift in the automotive industry toward more digitally reinforced driving safety standards.   "Just as PCs and smartphones transformed computing, software will change the way we drive, and MBLY will likely be at the forefront of that change," Johnson said in a note this week. "In our view, MBLY stock offers considerable upside potential given the company’s strong competitive position in the advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) and semi-autonomous markets, which should drive a 45% revenue [compound annual growth rate] through 2020 (largely from ADAS) and a 14% CAGR from 2020-2025 (as semi-autonomous kicks in at scale)." But Mobileye's technology does not yet render the driver obsolete. Quite the opposite, it turns out. Mobileye-based devices are mounted on a driver's dashboard. The software ‘interprets’ a video feed in real-time to detect anything in the car's path, then calculates a driver's distance from it, from pedestrians at a stoplight... Mobileye To other vehicles on the highway.Mobileye It then sends out warning beeps, as well as visual signals, that there's trouble ahead. As a result, unlike fully autonomous vehicles, it's still up to the driver to hit the brakes. Here's a demonstration involving a woman checking her cellphone.   Mobileye A truck has stopped ahead, which she hasn't noticed, so Mobileye steps in:  Here's the full clip in all its melodrama. The beeps start at 1:38.  As Morgan Stanley's Ravi Shanker notes, one reason the market is so bullish on assisted driving is the potential for the technology to become virtually mandated in developed markets. "Starting in 2014, Euro NCAP (New Car Assessment Program) already requires that a new vehicle must have active safety installed to qualify for the fifth star of a 5-star crash safety ratings system," he wrote in a note this week. "The requirements within the ratings system progressively increase and by 2017, the vehicle needs to have automatic braking for pedestrians for the fifth star and basic active safety for the fourth star (which used to qualify for the fifth star in 2014)."  By 2017, if a car does not have ADAS, it will get a 3 star crash safety rating at best. "We believe a car with less than 4 stars will be virtually unsellable by 2017, making the Euro NCAP safety ratings a virtual mandate for ADAS in the car," Shanker says. Similar standards will soon be instituted in the U.S.  "While this is not quite as robust as a Euro NCAP style system tied to star ratings, we believe the IIHS will soon follow the Euro NCAP precedent," he writes. "It is this virtual mandate by Euro NCAP, IIHS and similar bodies in Japan, China, Korea and other markets that leads investors to believe virtually cars on sale by the end of the decade will be equipped with ADAS systems." MobileyeMobileye was recently featured in an episode of Bret Michaels' "Rock My RV."Last year Mobileye sold 1.4 million chips and was available on more than 100 models of cars, as well as many truck units. By 2016 they expect to be on 237 models from 20 original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). For what it's worth, Mobileye was recently featured in an episode of Bret Michaels' "Rock My RV" show on the Travel Channel.  "Almost every major OEM is a current or prospective customer of MBLY with the exception of Toyota, VW and Mercedes Benz," Shanker says, although Toyota and VW are actively evaluating whether to deploy the software. Tesla recently confirmed it "has a business relationship with them." Google's self-driving car technology, which uses light detection and ranging (LIDAR) and GPS, is not related to Mobileye's. Barclays' Johnson argues this makes them Mobileye's biggest competitor, and not a competitor at all. "Part of MBLY's advantage is their ability to put  multiple (indeed virtually all) ADAS features on a single-chip based vision system, which significantly reduces cost and packaging complexity to the OEM," he writes."However, this may be true for ADAS [,] but for autonomous driving, multiple levels of redundancy will be absolutely necessary which will require radar and LIDAR based systems in addition to the vision system. Thus radar and LIDAR are not necessarily competitors to vision systems butare  rather complementary approaches." Shanker emphasizes that assisted driving is not autonomous driving, and while Mobileye says it intends to keep updating its technology, there is a chance drivers may not feel the need for an ADAS system. "...No one really needs ADAS," Shanker writes. "A car that can keep you in your lane, warn you of vehicles in your blind spot or brake itself in the event of an impending collision may be very cool, but a good driver will never have to use any of these features because he/she will not put himself/herself in that position. It may be hard to get consumers to pay up $500-1500 while also admitting that they are bad drivers." Nevertheless, government mandates will still drive demand from OEMs, he says.  Barclays' Johnson rates the stock "overweight" with a price target of $49. Shanker likewise has an "overweight" rating, with a price target of $46.  Shares were up 4.5% Wednesday.  FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Carlo AllegriWall Street investor-relations professional Michael Lucarelli was arrested at his home early Tuesday morning on insider-trading allegations. Lucarelli, the director of market intelligence at investor relations firm Lippert Heilshorn &amp; Associates, was charged with 13 counts of insider trading, U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in a statement. He's accused of buying and selling stocks from company press releases prepared for his firm's clients. The alleged scheme netted him at least $538,215.32 in ill-gotten gains, according to Bharara.  Lucarelli was photographed Tuesday afternoon wearing a gray tank top, wrinkled khaki pants, and brown leather flip-flops. He probably didn't have much time to get dressed when he was arrested by the FBI.  Convicted insider trader James Fleishman wrote in his book "Inside Story" that the FBI also made his arrest early in the morning at his home. He wrote that they gave him a few minutes to put in his contact lenses, grab his diabetes medication, and get dressed before they took him to the federal courthouse.  After Lucarelli posted bail yesterday, he ran from the media upon leaving the federal court building in lower Manhattan. He lost his flip-flops and continued to run barefoot down the sidewalk, photos from Reuters show. Reuters/ Carlo Allegri FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gary CameronGM CEO Mary Barra.NEW YORK (Reuters) - A program to compensate victims of crashes linked to a faulty ignition switch in General Motors vehicles has received claims for 107 deaths as of Tuesday, according to a spokeswoman for the lawyer overseeing the program. Amy Weiss, a spokeswoman for Kenneth Feinberg, told Reuters that the 107 deaths were among 309 claims that have been submitted so far. The program began accepting claims on Aug. 1 and will remain open until Dec. 31. Before a claim is deemed eligible, it will be evaluated by Feinberg and his staff to determine whether the ignition switch was in fact responsible for causing a serious physical injury or death. If so, Feinberg will determine how much compensation to award. The number of death claims submitted already far exceeds the 13 deaths that GM has officially attributed to the switch, which prompted the recall of 2.6 million vehicles earlier this year. Jere Beasley, a lawyer representing multiple people who have submitted claims, said the pace for filing claims seemed slightly slower than initially expected, in part because lawyers may be waiting to see how much compensation will be offered for certain claims before bringing new ones. In addition, waiting also allows time to gather evidence to determine whether certain accidents could be eligible before submitting claims. Determinations on eligibility for claims will be made within 90 to 180 days after they are submitted, Feinberg said in June when he announced the program. Feinberg previously said he expected the highest volume of claims within the first few months of the program, as well as its last. Robert Hilliard, a lawyer representing hundreds of people who are either suing GM in court or filing claims with the program, said he anticipated the number of claims would grow steadily. GM has set aside $400 million to cover compensation through the program, although the amount of total payouts is not capped. Under the program's protocol, eligible claims for deaths linked to the switch will likely be awarded at least $1 million, which could increase, depending on factors like whether the deceased had children or other dependents. People submitting claims will not waive their right to sue GM unless and until they accept an offer from the program. Feinberg will make all determinations on eligibility and compensation, GM has said. A spokesman for GM, Jim Cain, said the company is allowing the process to continue at arm’s length. Feinberg has overseen compensation programs for victims of other high-profile catastrophes, including the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks and the BP oil spill in 2010.   (Reporting by Jessica Dye in New York and Julia Edwards in Washington, D.C.; Editing by Alexia Garamfalvi and Dan Grebler) FREE AppDownload
AFPGunmaker Smith &amp; Wesson was down more than 11% in early trading after the company slashed its full-year sales expectations for the second time in two months.  On Tuesday, the company said full-year sales were now expected to be $530 million to $540 million, well short of current estimates for about $593 million, and also sharply lower than the $585 million to $600 million expectations the company laid out in June.  The company also said that for its fiscal first quarter that ended July 31, Smith &amp; Wesson reported revenue of $131.9 million, lower than the $133.4 expected by analysts, and down $39.2 million from last year. The company said lower sales of long guns, including modern sporting rifles, drove 87% of this first-quarter decline.  Gross profit in its first quarter was $49.1 million, down from $72.8 million in the prior year period, and the company earned $0.26 per share, slightly better than the $0.25 expected by Wall Street. Smith &amp; Wesson said, however, that handgun sales showed "continued consumer demand for the company's small concealed carry polymer pistols and revolvers." "We believe that the current environment reflects high inventories industry-wide resulting from channel replenishment that occurred following an earlier surge in consumer buying," Smith &amp; Wesson CEO James Debney said in a statement. "That environment, combined with typical seasonality that slows consumer buying activity during the summer, is causing us to lower our financial outlook for fiscal 2015." Debney added: "We expect the industry will continue to deliver growth over the long term." FREE AppDownload
© AFP/File Daniel RolandThe Euro logo is displayed in front of the European Central Bank, ECB in Frankfurt am Main, western Germany, on August 7, 2014Paris (AFP) - The cost of borrowing for eurozone countries fell to record low levels on Wednesday, despite gloom over the economic outlook and crisis over economic policy in France. The bond interest rates are falling following comments made by the head of the European Central Bank assuring that deflation will be kept at bay. The interest rate or yield indicated by traded German 10-year bonds, the benchmark for the eurozone, fell to a record low level of 0.915 percent from 0.939 percent late on Tuesday. The rate for French 10-year debt fell to a record low of 1.249 percent from 1.275 percent, against a background of the formation of a new government in France following the shock dismissal on Monday of economy minister Arnaud Montebourg, who had criticised economic policy. Records were also broken for Italian and Spanish 10-year debt. The Italian yield fell to 2.372 percent from 2.413 percent, and the Spanish rate to 2.097 percent from 2.172 percent. A belief that the European Central Bank is moving towards injecting money massively into the eurozone economy to ward off deflation has pushed funds into bonds before market interest rates fall further. As the price of the bonds rises, the fixed interest they carry at issue falls as a percentage of the new, higher price. This process has been at work since remarks by ECB head Mario Draghi on Friday. At a symposium in the United States, Draghi stressed that the ECB was vigilant about the possible threat of deflation and would ensure price stability, its supreme duty under its statutes. This was widely interpreted as meaning that the bank is moving towards adopting quantitative easing, a policy of buying securities and thereby providing the holders of these instruments with ready cash. The intention would be for the money to flow into the economy via loans, and so boost growth, and would also push down the euro, with the overall effect of increasing inflation. Bond strategist Cyril Regnat at Natixis bank in Paris said that "with his words, Mario Draghi has a grip on the markets and will continue to keep this hold until the European macroeconomy turns up." However, German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, in a newspaper interview on Wednesday, said he felt the markets had "over-interpreted" Draghi's words. Recent indicators show that recovery in the eurozone is flagging badly. An upturn, when it comes, will tend to draw funds out of bonds into other investments such as stocks, causing bond prices to ease and yields therefore to firm. Investors broadly welcomed the surprise appointment of former banker Emmanuel Macron as the new French economy minister to replace Montebourg, but said that the reshuffle was having little effect on the cost of borrowing for France.   FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogRising consumer confidence in the US is confirming my bullish outlook for the economy and stocks. Yesterday’s release of the August Consumer Confidence Index (CCI) was especially upbeat. It is based on a survey conducted monthly by the Conference Board. I think it is more sensitive to labor market conditions than the survey conducted by the University of Michigan to derive their Consumer Sentiment Index (CSI). Here are some of the key highlights that impressed me the most: (1) The CCI jumped 2.1 points to 92.4 in August. That’s the highest reading since October 2007. The gain was led by the CCI’s present situation component. Also leading the way higher was the CCI for consumers who are 55 years old or older. They tend to have more income and wealth, and to spend more when they are optimistic. (2) The Conference Board reported that the “jobs plentiful” response rate jumped from 15.6% during July to 18.2% during August, the highest since March 2008. The CCI is highly correlated with the quits rate. The latter rose in June to the highest reading since July 2008. August’s CCI suggests that it continued to rise during July and August. As Fed Chair Janet Yellen has noted, when workers perceive that jobs are plentiful, they are more likely to seek another job and quit their current one. (3) I average the CCI and CSI to derive our Consumer Optimism Index (COI). It was little changed at 85.8 in August from July’s 86.1, which was the best level since October 2007. The present situation index jumped to 97.1, the highest since January 2008. The expectations component remains in its flattish and choppy range of the past couple of years. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: 2015 By 2015? (1) Bullseye! (2) Bull running ahead of schedule. (3) 2015 math: E = $140, P/E = 16.5, P = 2310. (4) No recession in 2015, so no bear market. (5) Positive thoughts on revenues, margins, and buybacks. (6) The longer the expected economic expansion, the higher the P/E. (7) Won’t Fed tightening be frightening in 2015? (8) Monetary normalization coming in baby steps. (9) The fifth-longest bull market of the 44 since 1928. (10) Consumer confidence rising because jobs are more plentiful. (11) Focus on overweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Industrials. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Paulo Whitaker Traders work on the main floor of the BM&F Bovespa stock exchange.JonesTrading's Dave Lutz has a quick roundup of what traders are talking about right now. Good Morning!   US Futures are slightly green this AM – led by Tech, Energy and Miners.   EU Markets are mixed, with Germany giving back 10bp despite the “progress” made in the Ukraine (Micex up 60bp).   Volumes are a bit better, with the DAX trading 25% heavier than 5day averages – The drop in Yields has pressed EM Stocks to 3Y highs, and Asia saw mixed overnight action.  The Nikkei added small, but seemed mostly defensive buying – China bounced back from yesterday’s IPO driven smackdown, but one of our overnight traders noted HK was under pressure as MS cut it’s forecast for Macau #s – Taiwan surged 1% in heavy trading, and Aussie popped as Miners staged a solid rally down under.    Seems Traders are shifting from USDJPY to AUDJPY, typically set up for a move in the “China” trade, should be good for Aussie Equities and the Miners. The US 10YY is testing week lows - hopes for more central bank stimulus has Bunds at record Lows as Germany’s monthly GfK survey showed another drop in Consumer Confidence and France pushes hard against Austerity.  The Euro bounced off 1Y lows this AM as traders wonder if fresh ECB QE is “built into” the FX.    We are seeing a slight bounce in commodities - WTI near week highs into DOE at 10:30 as API data showed a big draw overnight, but key will be Cushing Inventories today.   Natty gas is adding 1% as the spot contract expire today, and Gold remains above the 200dma.    Scheduled Catalysts today include Metropolitan Area Employment at 10, DOE data for Crude at 10:30, A small POMO at 11, a 2Y floater auction at 11:30, French “jobseeker” data at 12, and the US 5Y auction at 1.  FREE AppDownload
The Crepes of WrathEuropean markets are basically flat early Wednesday.  Here's the scorecard: France's CAC 40 is down 0.1%. Germany's DAX is down 0.1%.  Spain's IBEX is up 0.2% Italy's FTSE MIB is flat. Britain's FTSE 100 is flat. Asian markets closed flat, with Nikkei's 225 closing up just 0.09%. U.S. futures are up a hair, with Dow futures up 9 points and S&amp;P futures up 0.1 point. This follows Tuesday's record close in the U.S. markets in which the S&amp;P 500 closed above 2,000 for the first time ever. No major economic reports were scheduled for release Wednesday. FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe walls and towers of the Kremlin are reflected in a window of a closed McDonald's restaurant, one of four temporarily closed by the state food safety watchdog, in MoscowMOSCOW (Reuters) - McDonald's  said on Wednesday it would appeal a Moscow courts' rulings ordering the temporary closure of three restaurants in the Russian capital due to sanitary violations. "We do not agree with the courts' decisions and will appeal them according to established procedures," a spokeswoman for McDonald's in Russia said.  (Reporting by Maria Kiselyova; Editing by Thomas Grove) FREE AppDownload
Smith &amp; Wesson just reduced its outlook for gun sales, largely because of falling demand for long guns like rifles and shotguns. However, management says demand for smaller handguns like pistols and revolvers remains robust. To ensure that the wrong people didn't get their hands on guns, the FBI started the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (or simply, NICS) in 1998 to "determine whether a prospective buyer is eligible to buy firearms or explosives." More than 100 million checks have been completed in the past decade, which has led to more than 700,000 people getting denied from purchasing a gun, according to the FBI website. Using NICS data from the FBI, Business Insider decided to see which states saw the highest number of gun background checks per 100 people. The stats are 2014 through July. BI note: This data does not measure the number of guns that were purchased in a state and does not necessarily reflect the number of guns actually owned in a given state. Here's a map of the data: Business Insider, FBI You'll notice that states in the Northeast, Southwest, and along the West Coast have registered significantly less background checks than states in the Southeast. The lowest number of background checks overall was in Washington, D.C., which has 0.04 checks per 100 capita. You can see that Kentucky stands out as a major outlier. While all other states are between 0 and 10 checks per 100 people, there have been over 40.2 checks per 100 people in Kentucky according to the NICS data. You might be inclined to think that Kentucky has an irregularly large number of gun enthusiasts, but there's actually a simple explanation. Kentucky's numbers are distorted because gun owners with state-issued concealed weapons permits have monthly background checks. The five states with the fewest background checks per capita were ... The five states with the most background checks per capita (excluding Kentucky) were... FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannShares in Tiffany &amp; Co. were up more than 2.5% Wednesday morning pre-market after the company reported profits had surged 16% in Q2 thanks to sales growth abroad. The luxury jeweler also raised its 2014 earnings guidance $4.20 and $4.30 a share, up from its previous forecast of $4.15 to $4.25 a share. "These healthy second-quarter results reflected solid sales growth in our stores, particularly in the Americas and Asia-Pacific regions," outgoing CEO Michael Kowalski said in a statement. "In addition, an improved gross margin was an important contributor to the earnings growth." Sales in Japan slumped 13%, but this was likely due to the country's sales tax hike.  Same-store sales climbed 3%. Earnings came in at $124.1 million, or $0.96 a share, versus forecasts for $0.85 a share. Tiffany's shares are up 9% year-to-date and 15% since May.  FREE AppDownload
Professional boxer Floyd "Money" Mayweather sent out a tweet on Tuesday night showing him and Warren Buffett squaring off in a prefight hype photo. Another tweet announced "Warren Buffett the 66.9 Billion dollar man joins The Money Team," referring to his company and brand. Mayweather has earned almost $400 million in the ring since turning pro in 1996, according to Forbes, including $105 million in the past year for two fights that lasted a total of 72 minutes. The 37-year-old Mayweather's record stands at 46-0, and he is a world champion in five divisions. Buffett recently provided $3 billion to finance Burger King's deal to take over the Canadian coffee-and-doughnut chain Tim Hortons. The 83-year-old's return on that cash will be 9%. The photos of Mayweather and Buffett are glorious.    The caption from the Instagram below reads: "It was such pleasure meeting @WarrenBufett when he came by @floydmayweather BOXING CLUB to show love &amp; support to the champ."     FREE AppDownload
Gleb Garanich/ReutersGermany's Chancellor Angela Merkel (L) looks at Ukraine's Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk during their meeting in Kiev August 23, 2014. Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk said on Wednesday that Kiev knew of plans by Russia to halt gas flows this winter to Europe, in comments which are likely to escalate the standoff between Moscow and the West. Russia halted gas supplies to Ukraine in June over a gas pricing dispute, but it has continued supplies to Europe, its largest market. "The situation in (Ukraine's) energy sector is difficult. We know of Russia's plans to block (gas) transit even to European Union countries this winter," he told a government meeting. Yatseniuk did not say how he knew about the Russian plans. Last year, half of Russian gas exports to the EU were shipped via Ukraine. Russian gas exporter Gazprom declined immediate comment and the Energy Ministry was not immediately available to comment. Thomson ReutersUkrainian Prime Minister Arseny Yatseniuk delivers a speech in KievRussian gas supplies via Ukraine to Europe were disrupted in the winters of 2006 and 2009 because of pricing disagreements between Russia and Ukraine. The latest gas pricing dispute is closely intertwined with a bigger standoff between Moscow and Kiev. Ukraine's Moscow-leaning president Viktor Yanukovich fled his country following weeks of street clashes by people angry that he had rejected an association agreement with the European Union. Moscow subsequently annexed Ukraine's Crimea peninsula in March, while pro-Moscow separatists have staged an insurgency in the east of the country. The area where the fighting is concentrated, known as the Donbass, is a major source of coal forUkraine. Yatseniuk said the government has been trying to diversify coal supplies as "Russia and their mercenaries are bombing and destroying mines". Russia has denied any involvement in the conflict.   (Reporting by Natalia Zinets; writing by Vladimir Soldatkin; editing by Louise Heavens) FREE AppDownload
WealthTrackDavid RosenbergTalk about a flip in perspective.  David Rosenberg, who had been bearish for years, has turned into one of the biggest bulls on Wall Street.  The Gluskin Sheff analyst now says his recession forecasting model could be pointing to another four years of economic expansion (via a recent note of his): Pragmatic Capitalism Pragmatic Capitalism That’s pretty interesting.  We know that the probability of a tail risk event increases dramatically inside of a recession.  So if DR is right then that means the macro trend could be higher for several more years to come… FREE AppDownload
Win McNamee/ReutersFormer Enron CEO Jeffrey Skilling testifies before a Senate Commerce subcommittee as Sherron Watkins, Vice-President of Enron, looks on February 26, 2002A lot of water has passed under the bridges of the global financial markets since the collapse of Enron in December 2001. In the minds of many traders and investors Enron may not register much today, but it was a financial scandal of immense proportions at the time. Indeed Fortune magazine had once called Enron one of the world’s “most admired companies” and regularly named it “America’s most innovative company”. So its collapse was a big deal with important lessons. Indeed if they had been learned, then arguably the global financial crisis might – just might – never have happened. These lessons include the use of leverage, of structuring, of special purpose entities, of mark-to-market valuations and of cash – or crucially a lack thereof. But first a little history. Enron was a US energy trading firm based in Houston, Texas which grew to dominate the US electricity industry. But it was more than that, trading in many different futures markets and industries. It built power plants and dominated power supply and power grids. It played in broadband, pulp and paper, oil and gas, weather derivatives and more. In the world of investing up to 2000 where the Nasdaq bubble saw stocks with the idea of a business plan gain multi-billion dollar market capitalisations, Enron looked like a new-millennium version of a 19th century Utility business. They had done the impossible. They had reinvented the wheel. Unfortunately as investors found out in 2001 the whole Enron company was a ponzi scheme set up to hide the truth that the company was haemorrhaging cash and its “earnings were a mirage”. So what do we learn from Enron? Companies create value through selling goods and services at a margin over their cost of production and other associated costs. This surplus earned generates a positive cashflow which is obvious in the companies’ balance sheets. It is either stored at the bank as an asset, reinvested into the business or repatriated to investors via dividends. But companies can also build value through asset appreciation. Think Australian property prices recently. Most home owners are wealthier than they were 6 or 12 months ago. But without borrowing against it there is no cash – it’s just an asset on your books. Now imagine if accounting rules let a company set the value of its assets based on “mark to market” rules and then book that as a profit. There is no cash generated but the company can announce a “profit”. In this case the courts tell us we can think Enron. So the first lesson of Enron is, like Jerry Maguire said, “show me the money”. The second lesson stems from Enron’s use of special purpose entities (SPEs). These vehicles – not unlike the special purpose vehicles that drove CDOs and CDO-squared structures that precipitated the GFC – enable assets and risks to be shifted off balance sheet to obscure or enhance the impact on the parent entity. That’s not to say all SPEs are evil, not by a long shot. But investors need to ensure that they they both understand the consolidated reports and also break the consolidated report down into cash in the parent entity as well. Equally the third lesson is to understand the use of accounting rules by the company. It was Enron’s booking of mark-to-market – or as many coined it in the dark days of GFC, mark-to-make-believe – that was the heart and soul of the company’s obfuscation which deceived investors and ultimately lead to CEO Jeffrey Skilling receiving 24 years in jail. But besides the big issue of Enron being to follow the cash trail, the lesson missed by most investors at the time, was that all the information was hidden in plain sight. So while accounting standards in Australia are different to the US, and US accounting standards have been changed since Enron and the collapse of its Accounting firm Arthur Andersen, investors need to interrogate the financial data. The notes to financial statements are there for a reason – read them, especially the parts about related party transactions. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Aly SongMongolia's Dulguun Bolormaa (top) and Venezuela's Adrianny Castillo during their women's freestyle 46 kg qualification match at the 2014 Nanjing Youth Olympic Games in Nanjing, Jiangsu province, on Tuesday.1)  Christine Lagarde Under Investigation. The IMF Director is now considered a suspect for having facilitated a judgment overly favorable to the former owner of Adidas, who in the 1990s sued Credit-Lyonnais, then partially owned by the state, for mishandling the sale of the footwear giant. Lagarde says she will not resign.  2)  Gun Rally Over? Shares in Smith &amp; Wesson were collapsing Wednesday morning after the gunmaker slashed its full-year sales expectations for the second time in two months. Sturm Ruger shares were down 5% Wednesday morning in sympathy. "We believe that the current environment reflects high inventories industry-wide resulting from channel replenishment that occurred following an earlier surge in consumer buying," Smith &amp; Wesson CEO James Debney said in a statement. "That environment, combined with typical seasonality that slows consumer buying activity during the summer, is causing us to lower our financial outlook for fiscal 2015." 3)  Time Warner Cable Outages. Time Warner Cable customers across the U.S. are reporting outages. The incident follows a similar incident that occurred Tuesday morning in which Virgin Media customers in the U.K. were unable to access the internet due to a network issue.    4)  Autonomous Driving Firm Still Rallying. Israeli firm Mobileye shares were up another 2.5% Wednesday, after rallying more than 8% Tuesday as major sell-side analysts initiated favorable coverage of the stock. Barclays' Brian Johnson called it the only pure play name in the autonomous driving industry.  5)  Snapchat $10 Billion. The Wall Street Journal's Evelyn Rusli and Doug MacMillan report Kleiner Perkins has invested in the ephemeral photo-sharing app at a valuation of $10 billion. "Snapchat, which has talked to several potential investors in recent months, is in the process of raising a large investment round that would make it one of the world's most valuable private tech startups despite virtually no revenue," they wrote. "Kleiner, one of Silicon Valley's best-known venture-capital firms, committed to invest up to $20 million in May, one of the knowledgeable people said." 6)  Danish National Fund In Rate Hike Hedge. Bloomberg's Peter Levring writes that Denmark's ATP national pension fund is repositioning itself to protect gains from imminent interest rate increases. "For ATP, the goal is not to be part of the crowd of investors heading for the door when markets exit securities that rely on low rates to stay profitable," he writes. "'We’ll continue to protect against interest rate increases and if that happens, the effect will be substantial,' Chief Executive Officer Carsten Stendevadsaid in a phone interview. 'There could naturally be some costs associated with that before it comes through.'" 7)  Anti-ISIS Alliance Forming. The New York Times' Helene Cooper and Mark Landler report President Barack Obama is putting together an international coalition to fight the Islamist militant group that could include Australia, Britain, Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, and the United Arab Emirates. "The officials, who asked not to be named discussing sensitive internal deliberations, said they expected that Britain and Australia would be willing to join the United States in an air campaign. The officials said they also wanted help from Turkey, which has military bases that could be used to support an effort in Syria." 8)  No Major Data. Mortgage applications increased 2.8% week-over-week but remain anemic. "The refinance index reached its highest level in more than two months," said Michael Fratantoni, chief economist for the MBA per CNBC. "Purchase volume continues to be weak despite the small increase and was 11 percent below this time last year." 9)  Earnings. Tiffany shares were up more than 1% Wednesday morning pre-market after the company reported profits that beat expectations by $1.11 and lifted its outlook. Shares in Chinese solar firm Yingli were down 7% after reported earnings $0.14 short of forecasts and revenue that missed by $38.5 million and was flat year-on-year. Express and Michaels also report Wednesday. 10)  Markets. Stocks across the world, along with U.S. futures, were mostly flat. Japan's Nikkei was up 0.1%, as was London's FTSE. Dow futures were up 15 points.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Charles PlatiauIMF head Christine Lagarde during a news conference at the G20 meeting at the ministry in Paris on Oct. 15, 2011. International Monetary Fund chief Christine Lagarde has been placed under formal investigation by French magistrates for negligence in a political fraud affair dating from 2008 when she was finance minister, her lawyer said on Wednesday. Lawyer Yves Repiquet told Reuters that Lagarde, who this week was questioned by magistrates in Paris for a fourth time under her existing status as a witness in the long-running saga, said the step was unfounded. "We are appealing it," Repiquet said by telephone, adding that Lagarde, who was due to return to IMF headquarters in Washington later on Wednesday, had no plans to resign. In French law, magistrates place someone under formal investigation when they believe there are indications of wrongdoing, but that does not always lead to a trial. The inquiry relates to allegations tycoon Bernard Tapie, a supporter of conservative ex-president Nicolas Sarkozy, was improperly awarded 403 million euros in an arbitration to settle a dispute with now defunct, state-owned bank Credit Lyonnais. The inquiry has already embroiled several of Sarkozy's cabinet members and France Telecom CEO Stephane Richard, who was an aide to Lagarde when she was Sarkozy's finance minister. In previous rounds of questioning, Lagarde accused Richard of having used her pre-printed signature to sign off on a document facilitating the payment, local media has said. However Richard has stated that Lagarde was fully briefed on the matter. Investigators are trying to determine whether Tapie's political connections played a role in the government's decision to resort to arbitration that won him a huge payout. The offense of negligence by a person charged with public responsibility in France carries a maximum penalty of one year's imprisonment and a 15,000-euro fine. Lagarde has been managing director of the IMF since July 2011. The IMF last year said that the global lender's board had discussed possible consequences of the Tapie case and determined that she would be able to lead. (Reporting by Chine Labbe; Writing Mark John; editing by Andrew Callus) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersKoichi Hamada, an economic adviser to Japan's Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, speaks during an interview in TokyoTOKYO (Reuters) - Japan could soften the impact of a planned sales tax increase by raising it in stages rather than IN a single hike, an outside adviser to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said on Wednesday. Koichi Hamada, professor emeritus of economics at Yale University, also told Reuters that Abe should focus on structural reforms and slash corporate taxes deeper than currently planned to boost the economy and attract investment. Abe raised the sales tax in April to 8 percent from 5 percent to curb Japan's runaway government debt. The increase hit consumption, sending the economy into its worst fall in the second quarter since the 2011 earthquake and tsunami. The premier is to decide around the end of the year whether to proceed with another planned hike, to 10 percent, in October 2015. "As we have seen, the shock from the consumption tax hike could be large," Hamada said in an interview. "So, ideally, we could raise it in a staged manner, such as 1 percentage point in October 2015 and another point after that." Abe's government plans to cut the corporate tax rate - among the highest in the world at more than 35 percent - to less than 30 percent over several years. Details of the exact scale and timing of the cuts have not been decided. "A drastic corporate tax cut would attract investment to Japan from abroad as well as domestically," Hamada said. "This would help to revitalize the Japanese economy, which will help expand the tax base."  (Reporting by Kaori Kaneko, Sumito Ito and Leika Kihara; Editing by William Mallard and Edmund Klamann) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA City of Detroit Water and Sewerage man-hole cover is seen along Jefferson Avenue in the Delray neighborhood of Detroit(Reuters) - Detroit completed the pricing on Tuesday of $1.8 billion of water and sewer refinancing bonds related to a tender offer aimed at dealing with a big chunk of the bankrupt city's debt. A day after receiving approval from a federal judge overseeing its historic bankruptcy case, Detroit offered the bonds in the U.S. municipal market. Underwriters led by Citigroup priced $937 million of sewage disposal system senior lien bonds with a top yield of 5.10 percent for term bonds subject to the alternative minimum tax and due in 2044. Yields on insured senior lien bonds topped out at 4.42 percent in 2033, while yields on insured second lien bonds had a top yield of 4.87 percent in 2036. In a $855 million water supply system bond issue, yields topped out at 4.52 percent for insured senior lien bonds due in 2037. Uninsured senior lien bonds were priced to yield 4.73 percent in 2034, and yields on insured second lien bonds reached 4.87 percent in 2036. The majority of bonds in both issues carry 5 percent coupons. Nicolette Bateson, chief financial officer of Detroit's water and sewerage department, said officials were "still churning through the process" and would not have any immediate comment on the transactions. Detroit, which filed the biggest-ever U.S. municipal bankruptcy last year, launched a tender offer on Aug. 7 with the hope of getting enough of the debt back and replacing it with lower-cost bonds through a refinancing. Nearly $1.5 billion of the $5.2 billion of outstanding water and sewer bonds were returned for repurchase by a deadline last Thursday. If the deals close as expected on Sept. 4, bonds that were not tendered will be paid under current terms. In the absence of the tender, call protection would have been eliminated or interest rates would have been reduced on "impaired" outstanding water and sewer bonds under Detroit's debt adjustment plan. Those bonds make up about $2.2 billion of the $5.2 billion of existing debt. The refinancings, which raised money to repurchase the tendered bonds and fund projects, were expected to cut annual debt service costs and result in savings projected at about $241 million over 26 years. Detroit's treatment of bonds in the bankruptcy, including defaults on certain general obligation bonds and on $1.4 billion of pension debt, roiled the muni market and pushed the city's bond ratings deep into junk territory. Ratings for the refunding bonds were raised with some still in the junk category and some investment grade. Most of the bonds priced on Tuesday were insured by Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp or National Public Finance Guarantee Corp, lifting ratings well into investment grade. The pricing of the bonds came just a week before a key hearing is to start on Detroit's plan to adjust $18 billion of debt. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes will determine if the plan is fair and feasible.   (Reporting by Karen Pierog; editing by Andrew Hay) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersPhoto illustration of Euro notes at a bank in SeoulSYDNEY (Reuters) - The euro was close to cracking on Wednesday as feverish speculation of further policy stimulus in the euro zone drove bond yields to all time lows and gave a fillip to stocks globally. The groundbreaking call by European Central Bank President Mario Draghi for more action on both the monetary and fiscal fronts has markets wagering that fresh steps could come as soon as next week when the central bank's governing council meets. "The comments have raised expectations that the ECB could announce even more monetary policy stimulus over coming months," said Peter Dragicevich, a senior currency and rates strategist at Commonwealth Bank of Australia. "The next program could include broad-based asset purchases." He added that euro zone inflation data due on Friday was likely to show a new low for this cycle of just 0.3 percent and add to the sense of urgency on policy. "This will continue to depress swap rates across the curve and keep the euro heavy." The single currency broke down to a new 11-month trough of $1.3154 on Wednesday, taking it nearer to the Sept. 6 low of $1.3104 which also doubles as major chart support. The euro's weakness helped lift the U.S. dollar index through its September peak to reach its highest in 13 months at 82.698. The greenback could only manage a minor gain on the yen to 104.09, short of Monday's 7-month peak at 104.49. The prospect of further liquidity injections in Europe was taken as long-term positive for emerging markets and MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan edged up 0.1 percent. Japan's Nikkei gained 0.3 percent, while the Topix added 0.4 percent to challenge stiff resistance around previous peaks in the 1,290/1,300 zone. On Wall Street the S&amp;P 500 closed above the 2,000 mark for the first time, adding 0.11 percent. The Dow ended Tuesday up 0.17 percent, while the Nasdaq gained 0.29 percent.   EURO YIELDS NOSEDIVE Investors were cheered by solid data with the Conference Board measure of consumer confidence rising to its highest level since October 2007. [TOP/CEN] Durable goods orders jumped a massive 22.6 percent thanks entirely to bumper demand for Boeing aircraft, while upward revisions to past data suggested business investment was stronger than first thought. In Europe, the broad FTSEurofirst 300 index had closed up 0.75 percent. Yields on 10-year German debt fell a basis point to a record closing low of 0.943 percent, while negative yields on two-year paper meant investors were paying for the pleasure of lending to Berlin. The rally on the periphery has been even larger with 10-year yields down 8 basis points on Spanish bonds and 5 basis points on Italian paper. Spain already pays less than the United States to borrow and Italy is about to be granted that privilege. Markets also kept a wary eye on developments in Ukraine after Russian President Vladimir Putin met Ukraine's Petro Poroshenko for two hours of one-on-one talks after six hours of wider negotiations with European Union officials. Poroshenko said a "roadmap" would be prepared to agree to a ceasefire as soon as possible in east Ukraine, while Putin emphasized it was up to Kiev to work out conditions with separatist rebels. [TOP/NOW4] In commodity markets, gold was back down at $1,280.60 an ounce after failing to sustain a bounce to $1,290.80. Oil prices were steadier for the moment after their long decline. Brent crude inched up 7 cents to $102.57 a barrel, while U.S. crude dipped 3 cents to $93.83 a barrel. FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's BlogCan the US continue to grow if the Eurozone’s recovery continues to stall? It is doing a good job of doing just that so far. I think it may continue to do so. The question is, why are the two economies decoupling? The short answer is that the social welfare state remains too big in the Eurozone. There are too many government regulations and regulators, and not enough startups and entrepreneurs. Labor markets remain too rigid. Too much credit is provided by bankers, who aren’t lending, while capital markets remain relatively limited sources of capital. The region depends too much on Russian gas, and isn’t doing enough to find domestic sources of energy. It may also be more exposed to terrorism perpetrated by homegrown Islamic jihadists. The latest evidence of decoupling between the US and the Eurozone’s economies is Germany’s IFO business confidence index. It dropped to 106.3 during August, down from a recent cyclical peak of 111.2 during April, and the lowest since July 2013. The expectations component, which is highly correlated with Germany’s M-PMI, fell from 107.2 to a 15-month low of 101.7 over this period. Flash estimates show the German M-PMI fell to 52.0 this month, while the US M-PMI rose to 58.0. Credit remains amply available in the US capital markets and from US banks. The same cannot be said of the Eurozone’s capital markets and banks. Over the past 12 months through May, nonfinancial bond issuance totaled $750.5 billion. Short-term business credit rose to a record-high $2.0 trillion in mid-August. In the Eurozone, bank credit is down 2.2% over the past 12 months through June. Dr. Ed's BlogToday's Morning Briefing: Recoupling &amp; Decoupling. (1) The bears keep seeing market tops as the bull charges ahead. (2) Market leaders leading again. (3) SmallCaps still lagging. (4) Retailers recharging. (5) Financials keeping pace with bull run. (6) Dow Theory is bullish. (7) IT and Health Care are hot this year. (8) 2014 by 2014 is just around the corner. (9) Oil made in USA is very bullish for US stocks. (10) The bull is maturing, not aging. (11) Why is Eurozone decoupling from US? (12) Draghi ready to do more whatever-it-takes. (13) US and German yields falling toward Japanese yields. (14) Focus on now underweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Energy. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Rick Wilking  Warren Buffett has been incredibly successful, and he's extremely wealthy. Warren Buffett's wealth jumped by around $12.7 billion in 2013 alone. But how much is $12.7 billion anyway? And how good an investor is Warren Buffett really? We've put together some facts that really put him in perspective. FREE AppDownload
