More pain for Bitcoin. You know the drill: There's a crackdown in China and there's the IRS and everything else. It's now down below $430. Bitcoinwisdom   FREE AppDownload
America's gap between the rich and the rest might be worse than we ever knew. Economists Emmanuel Saez, of the University of California–Berkeley, and Gabriel Zucman, of the London School of Economics, are out with a new set of findings on American wealth inequality, and their numbers are startling. Wealth, for reference, is the value of what you own—assets like housing, stocks, and bonds, minus your debts. And while it certainly comes up from time to time, it has tended to play second fiddle to income in conversations about America’s widening class divide. In part, that’s because it’s a trickier conversation subject. Wealth has always been far more concentrated than income in the United States. Plus, research suggested that the top 1 percent of households had actually lost some of its share since the 1980s. That might not really have been the case. Forget the 1 percent. The winners of this race, according to Zucman and Saez, have been the 0.1 percent. Since the 1960s, the richest one-thousandth of U.S. households, with a minimum net worth today above $20 million, have more than doubled their share of U.S. wealth, from around 10 percent to more than 20 percent. Take a moment to process that. One-thousandth of the country owns one-fifth of the wealth. By comparison, the entire top 1 percent of households takes in about 22 percent of U.S. income, counting capital gains. While the super-rich have risen, the merely affluent have barely budged. As shown on this next graph from Saez and Zucman, the share of wealth belonging to the top 1 to 0.5 percent of households has remained about level. The 0.5 to 0.1 percent have tacked roughly an extra percentage point onto their piece of the pie. The relative gains have been eaten up by the elite—the 0.1 percent and even the 0.01 percent. This new batch of research is similar in spirit to Saez’s pioneering work quantifying income inequality, which he has published with French economist Thomas Piketty. (It's probably no accident that this research is coming out around the same time that Piketty, Saez's longtime collaborator, has published Capital in the Twenty-First Century, his highly touted book about capital accumulation—aka wealth.) Both projects substitute tax data analysis for older approaches that relied on government surveys, which tend to undercount the very rich. In this case, Saez and Zucman use taxes on investment income to reverse-engineer their wealth estimates. The results are still very preliminary and could change with further study.   But they are basically in keeping with what has already been shown about income inequality. Occupy Wall Street trained Americans to frame the economic gap in terms of the 99 percent and 1 percent. But writers and economists have been pointing out for years that the biggest winners in today’s globalized, finance-heavy economy have been an even smaller band of super-rich. Tim Noah dubbed them “the stinking rich.”Chrystia Freeland went with “plutocrats.” No matter what you choose to name them, the largest economic gains have accrued to Americans at the very, very tiniest tip of the earnings pyramid. Here’s one dramatic illustration I’ve drawn from the World Top Incomes Database. The top 0.5 percent, with minimum household income of $551,000, have roughly tripled their share of the nation’s paycheck since 1978, to about 18 percent. The bottom half of the 1 percent, the work-a-day rich, have upped theirs only to around 4 percent. Turning income into wealth takes saving and investment. And over the years, wealth compounds. That’s why wealth inequality is always more severe than the income gap: The well-to-do can save relatively more to start, and then their advantage builds on itself. It may also explain why the super-rich are sprinting ahead while the ordinary affluent are more or less standing in place. The economy has treated small-business owners, corporate lawyers, and doctors well. But in order to keep up their lifestyles, they may need to spend relatively more of their income than, say, a Fortune 500 CEO or hedge funder. And so an exceptionally tiny circle of Americans is not only commanding a greater and greater share of pay, but—if Saez and Zucman are right—they are successfully consolidating their fortunes far faster than 99.9 percent of the country. At the risk of sounding a little melodramatic, this is how an aristocracy gets built.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersChiefs cook meal at restaurant inside shopping mall in wealthy district in BeijingBEIJING (Reuters) - Activity in China's services industry rose to a four-month high in March, a private survey showed on Thursday, even as persistent weakness in manufacturing has reinforced fears of a sharper-than-expected economic slowdown. The Markit/HSBC Services Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) increased to 51.9 in March from February's 51.0, buoyed by strong employment, a second successive rise taking it further above the 50 level that separates expansion from contraction. Earlier, the official services PMI showed a slight dip in the sector's growth in March, to 54.5 from February's 55.0, but activity remained well in expansion territory. "The HSBC China Services PMI suggests a modest improvement of business activities in March, with employment expanding at a faster pace," HSBC chief China economist Hongbin Qu said in a statement accompanying the release. "However, combined with the weaker manufacturing PMI reading, the underlying strength of the economy is softening, which should ultimately weigh on the labour market." The pick-up in services contrasts with a run of weakening economic indicators this year. On Tuesday, two surveys showed manufacturing struggled in March, with activity at smaller, private firms contracting for the third month in a row. On Wednesday, China's cabinet said it would accelerate construction of rail projects and cut taxes for small firms, in what appear to be the first steps it has taken this year to steady the economy. Premier Li Keqiang had said last week the necessary policies were in place and the government would push ahead with infrastructure investment. Economists at top government think-tanks believe some of this spending is already underway. The Markit/HSBC PMI found that service-sector firms remained very optimistic in March, generally expecting business activity to be higher than current levels in one year. Services made up 46.1 percent of gross domestic product in 2013, having overtaken manufacturing as China's biggest employer in 2011. It has weathered the global slowdown much better than the factory sector. (Reporting By Adam Rose; Editing by John Mair) FREE AppDownload
halfdaytoday via YouTubeGood morning, and welcome to Thursday. Here’s what you need to know: Bonus item: This has been doing the rounds – “The Wolf of Buzzfeed”, a parody of Jonah Peretti as Jordan Belfort. It’s smart, funny, and well-produced. Enjoy: Have a cracking day. I’m on Twitter: @colgo This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
AP PhotoBlythe MastersBy Anna Louie Sussman NEW YORK (Reuters) - Blythe Masters, one of Wall Street's most powerful women, is leaving JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. &lt;JPM.N&gt; after a 27-year career that began with an internship in London and concludes with the sale of the multibillion-dollar commodities business she built. Masters, who turned 45 in March, will leave the bank in a few months after assisting with the sale of its physical energy and metals business to Swiss merchant Mercuria. She will take time off and "consider future opportunities," according to a memo bank executives sent to employees on Wednesday. A Cambridge graduate and avid equestrian, Masters was part of a team that pioneered structured finance instruments in the early 1990s. After a decade in trading and corporate roles, she took over the fledging commodities business in 2007. She embarked on a series of acquisitions built Wall Street's biggest commodities desk with revenue exceeding $2 billion in 2012. Her career hit a few road bumps in recent years. Some criticized her role in developing credit products that fueled the U.S. housing bubble that burst in the financial crisis of 2008. Last year, she got caught up in a regulatory inquiry that ultimately cost the bank more than $400 million. Her exit comes at a time when commodities earnings have been shrinking across the financial sector. Colleagues called her smart and competitive, respected by senior executives and valued by CEO Jamie Dimon. But she could be a divisive figure, demanding and combative at times, according to interviews with people who have worked for her. One colleague called Masters "brilliant" and "inventive", but said a corporate management role was not an ideal fit for her. Many expect her to enter a less-regulated area such as private equity or hedge fund management. "A number of the large private equity houses are on the prowl to add commodity trading to their suite of investor products," said George Stein, managing director of New York-based recruiting firm Commodity Talent LLC. "A professional like Blythe Masters who built the largest Wall Street commodity trading house by revenue is going to find serious interest among the biggest players." Her ex-boss Michael Cavanagh, formerly co-head of JPMorgan's corporate and investment bank, left at the end of March to become co-president and co-chief operating officer at private equity firm Carlyle Group. &lt;CG.O&gt; DERIVATIVES PIONEER Masters started at JPMorgan as an intern in London, then entered Cambridge University to study economics. She joined the commodities desk in 1991 after graduating, and later moved to the derivatives desk, where she was considered a wunderkind. In 2006, after several years as chief financial officer of the investment bank, Masters became interim head of the commodities desk. The bank had been a sizeable player in commodities in the 1990s, with a global oil trading division led at the time by Masters' then-husband, Danny Masters. But it had not delved as deeply into the sector as investment banks Goldman Sachs &lt;GS.N&gt; and Morgan Stanley &lt;MS.N&gt;, and had scaled back after facing regulatory scrutiny in metals markets. That changed in March 2008, when the acquisition of Bear Stearns gave the bank a large physical power and gas business. "The idea that commodities as an asset class is finished is just fundamentally flawed," Masters said in a 2008 interview with Reuters. With Masters at the helm, JPMorgan bought parts of UBS's &lt;UBSN.VX&gt; commodity business after the Swiss bank decided to get out of the sector. The 2010 purchase of physically focused RBS Sempra was the jewel in JPMorgan's commodities crown. By August 2010, Masters was telling employees that Goldman and Morgan Stanley should be "scared" of JPMorgan's newly-expanded commodity operation, Bloomberg reported at the time. SECTOR TURNS More recently, regulatory problems began to pile up. In 2013, the bank paid $410 million to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to settle allegations of power market manipulation in California. While Masters was not cited for wrongdoing, her name appeared in the regulator's order a number of times. A confidential 70-page regulatory document cited her supposed "knowledge and approval of schemes" carried out by a group of energy traders in Houston, and claimed that Masters had "falsely" denied under oath her awareness of the problems, the New York Times reported in May 2013. The bank neither admitted nor denied any violations in the case. In July 2013, the bank's ownership of its Henry Bath metals warehousing unit came under scrutiny at a Senate Banking Committee hearing. Regulators have been turning a sharper eye on all of Wall Street's involvement in the raw materials supply chain, with the Federal Reserve questioning whether commercial banks like JPMorgan should be allowed to trade physical commodities. Commodities trading, once a blockbuster business, has been shrinking. Total commodity trading revenues on Wall Street have fallen by about two-thirds in the last five years, with the top 10 banks notching just $4.5 billion last year, according to a report by Coalition, a UK financial analytics firm. That is down from more than $14 billion at its peak in 2008, when bumper returns at sector stalwarts Goldman and Morgan Stanley encouraged other banks to expand into energy and metals trading. (Additional reporting by David Henry and Jeanine Prezioso in New York, David Sheppard in London; Editing by James Dalgleish and David Gregorio) FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. SHILLING: Here Are My 9 Investment Picks For A Risk On Environment (A Gary Shilling's Insight)  Gary Shilling thinks we're still in a 'risk on' investment climate. With that in mind he lists nine investments he thinks are attractive. Here they are verbatim: 1. Treasury bonds; 2. Selected income-producing securities; 3. Small luxuries; 4. Consumer staples and foods; 5. The dollar against the Canadian dollar; 6. Selected healthcare providers and medical office buildings; 7. Low P/E stocks; 9. Productivity enhancers; 9. North American energy producers. Meanwhile, Shilling thinks certain commodities, especially copper, are unattractive. Shilling has also removed his short on the Australian dollar and emerging market stocks and bonds. Shilling insists that "serious problems remain" in emerging market nations he identifies as goats, namely countries like Turkey, India, South Africa, Indonesia, Argentina and Brazil, that have current account deficits, weak currencies, high inflation and other characteristics binding them together. "But investors at present seem convinced that the crises are over." How Advisers Can Prevent Clients From Making Poor Investment Choices (The Wall Street Journal) A look at any 20-year period shows that the average actively managed fund grows about 9% annually, writes Leo Abel, founder of Abel Advisors, in a new Wall Street Journal column. But investor returns in those funds can be as little as 4%. This is because clients often end up panicking or chasing trends, or it can also be because of over and under-diversification he writes. When clients make such decisions, Abel thinks its important for advisors to say three words "Don't do that." "Our job as advisers isn't to time and outperform markets for our clients. Instead we should help clients realize what we can do. We can clarify their financial goals, align their resources toward the realization of those goals, and create portfolios that give them a high probability of success. We can also encourage positive behaviors like patience, discipline, and faith in the future." Three Things Investors Need To Consider In A Rising Rate Environment (BlackRock Blog) In her latest press conference, Federal Reserve Board Chair Janet Yellen, provided guidance that short-term rates would be held low for about six months after it ends its monthly asset purchases. Expecting interest rates to rise, investors have poured into "floating rate debt and short duration funds in the past year and a half, writes Matthew Tucker at BlackRock. He thinks bond investors should remember three things when thinking about rising interest rates.  1. "Beware the middle of the yield curve" – "We are practicing caution within the short to middle part of the Treasury curve and are underweight Treasury bonds with three- to seven-year maturities." 2. "The tails of the curve may provide more value" — Bonds with very short maturity are less likely to be impacted by Fed policy and those with longer maturity have done well so far this year. 3. "Consider tax-exempt munis and emerging market debt" – "We are currently overweight munis due to strong credit fundamentals, and are neutral to emerging market (EM) bonds overall." Watch $52.1 Billion Leave PIMCO's Flagship Fund (Morningstar) Recently, news about PIMCO has centered around Mohamed El-Erian's exit and the work culture at the bond fund giant. But new data from Morningstar shows that PIMCO's Total Return Fund, the flagship fund managed by Gross, has fallen behind 85% of its competitors. The fund saw $3.1 billion of net outflows in March, and cumulative outflows since May 2013 are $52.1 billion. Morningstar U.S. Retirement Assets Reach Record High (FA Mag) Retirement assets climbed to a record high of $16.64 trillion at the end of 2013, according to a study by Spectrem Group. A breakdown showed that private sector retirement assets totaled $7.85 trillion, IRA plans totaled $6.20 trillion, public sector retirement assets totaled $3.97 trillion, and 403(b) plans totaled $985.4 billion. 403(b) plans refer to retirement plans for employees of public schools and non-profits.  George H. Walper Jr, president of Spectrem Group, said this is a good sign for the future retirement security of U.S. workers, reports FA Mag. FREE AppDownload
The Department of Energy is revamping the long dormant green car loan program that helped build Tesla Motors and Fisker Automotive, it announced today. The Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing (ATVM) loan program was funded in the autumn of 2008 to distribute $25 billion in direct loans to help automakers improve the fuel efficiency of their cars. The DOE approved five loans worth $8.4 billion between April 2010 and March 2011 for Fisker Automotive, Ford, Tesla Motors, Nissan, and The Vehicle Production Group, LLC. According to the DOE, borrowers estimate the funds were used to create 35,000 direct jobs in eight states. But the implosion and eventual bankruptcy of Fisker in 2013 — after it spent about $168 million in federal money — led House Republicans to criticize the loan as "corrupt" and "mismanaged." While the DOE never stopped accepting applications, no company has had an ATVM loan approved since 2011. In a blog post, the DOE says it has improved the program by revising the application process, updating how it responds to applicants, and clarifying eligibility for automotive component technologies like advanced engines and powertrains. In a letter to the Motor &amp; Equipment Manufacturers Association, Peter W. Davidson, executive director of the DOE's Loan Programs Office, wrote, "We believe the ATVM Loan Program can play an important financing role with automotive suppliers ... With these changes in place, the ATVM Loan Program remains open to suppliers." FREE AppDownload
Wall Street's research departments include both equity strategists and equity analysts. Strategists publish targets for stock markets as a whole from their big-picture analysis (i.e., top-down analysis). Analysts publish price targets on individual stocks based on their analyses of the companies they cover (i.e. bottom up analysis). Unfortunately, strategists' expectations rarely line up with the aggregation of analysts' expectations (you can derive analysts' implied target for the S&amp;P 500 by combining their price targets for the respective companies they cover). Strategists and analysts, however, do agree that the market is heading up from here. From FactSet's John Butters: Industry analysts in aggregate predict the S&amp;P 500 will see an 8.2% increase in price over the next twelve months. This percentage is based on the difference between the bottom-up target price and the closing price for the index at the end of March. Aggregating the mean target price estimates (based on company-level estimates submitted by industry analysts) for all 500 companies in the index, the bottom- up target price for the S&amp;P 500 is 2026.40, which is 8.2% above the closing price of 1872.34. Market strategists predict the S&amp;P 500 will see a 5.3% increase in price over the next twelve months. This percentage is based on the difference between the top down mean target price and the closing price for the index at the end of March. Taking the average of the five index-level target price estimates submitted to FactSet by market strategists, the top-down mean target price for the S&amp;P 500 is 1972.00, which is 5.3% above the closing price of 1872.34. "Who will be correct?" asks Butters. "It is interesting to note that one year ago, both the industry analysts and market strategists underestimated the closing value of the market for the end of the Q1 2014 quarter. At the end of Q1 2013, the bottom-up target price (based on company-level estimates submitted by industry analysts) was 1677.20, while the top down mean target price (based on index-level estimates submitted by market strategists) was 1579.89. Compared to the closing price of the S&amp;P 500 at the end of Q1 2014 of 1872.34, the industry analysts underestimated the price of the index by 10.4% one year ago, while the market strategists underestimated the price of the index by 15.6% one year ago." We should note that Butters' report was published on Tuesday, and the S&amp;P 500 closed at a record high of 1,890 today. So directionally, the analysts and strategists are already on the right track. FactSet FREE AppDownload
Screenshot from NetflixThe fate of Tesla's Gigafactory, which the company hopes will begin pumping out lithium ion batteries to power its cars, remains uncertain after Panasonic confirmed it had was not collaborating on the project, despite reports to the contrary. Obviously, a scuttled Gigafactory would be bad news for the electric auto maker. How bad? The Wall Street Journal's Mike Ramsey can tell us: Tesla's growth in 2013 was held back by a lack of batteries. Supplier Panasonic Corp is hoping to remedy that with a supply of two billion cells. But those may not be enough once Tesla introduces its higher-volume Gen III vehicle.  Tesla, with sales of just over 22,400 cars last year, is already the largest buyer of lithium-ion battery cells in the world. With plans to sell 500,000 vehicles, its own demand would be greater than the demand for every laptop, mobile phone and tablet sold in the world. Presumably Tesla has some kind of backup plan. But the uncertainty must surely be wearing on them.  Read Ramsey's full story at WSJ.com » FREE AppDownload
Some jobs are disproportionately concentrated in certain states. Fashion designers flock to New York, Texas has an outsize share of petroleum engineers, and Floridians are much more likely to be motorboat operators than are other Americans. We made a map that shows the most over-represented job in each state, using the Bureau of Labor Statistics' recently released May 2013 "Occupational Employment Statistics." Each state has far more of these jobs per capita than the nation as a whole.  We'll discuss the methodology later. First check out the map: Business Insider/Andy Kiersz, data from Bureau of Labor Statistics These are not the most common jobs in these states — that map would be very boring, since the most common job in 42 states is "retail salesperson," the most common job in the country. Instead, this map shows jobs that are disproportionately concentrated in each state. For example, in New York, there are about 7,180 fashion designers, out of a total of 8,635,400 employed people. So fashion designers account for about 8.3 out of every 10,000 jobs in New York. In the U.S. as a whole, there are about 17,370 fashion designers out of a total of 132,588,810 employed people. So about 1.3 of every 10,000 jobs in America are in fashion design. The Bureau of Labor Statistics calls the ratio of these two rates the location quotient for a job in a particular area. The location quotient of fashion designers in New York is 8.3 divided by 1.3, which equals about 6.4. That is, there are about 6.4 times as many fashion designers per 10,000 total employed people in New York as in the U.S. as a whole. The map shows the job in each state with the highest location quotient, among jobs with at least 1,000 people employed. These jobs exist in each state at much higher rates than in the country as a whole. 
Google ImagesLouis XVI makes one last plea.Wall Street is revolting against ADP's national employment report, the report whose data is supposed to be able to predict the first read of the BLS' monthly payrolls survey. The charge was led by Pantheon Macro's Ian Shepherdson who said the accuracy of ADP payrolls, the means for measuring which was revised in October 2012, in predicting the BLS' payroll survey had not improved. Instead, it seems to be correlating with lagging BLS data, he said. Shepherdson surmised this was because ADP was placing undue emphasis on the BLS' revised payroll from recent months. But in an interview with BI, Sophia Koropeckyj, a managing director at Moody's, which collaborates with ADP on the report, said that was not true.  The three main ingredients that figure into ADP's survey, she said, were ADP figures, BLS data, and a business cycle indicator from the Philadelphia Fed. And the ADP's survey receives the most weight. "It is not dominated by the lagged, previous months' data," she told BI by phone. ThomsonReuters economist Jeoff Hall told BI that while the October 2012 changes had improved the survey's accuracy somewhat, the absolute numbers remain disappointingly off. Here was the chart he came up with: Jeoff Hall  Koropeckyj acknowledged that severe weather had knocked the recent accuracy of the report off. Prior to this period, she said, the survey was off by an average of just 30,000 payrolls every month. Hall also pointed out that the correlation on ADP's payroll measures for specific job sectors were even worse than the headline figure. Koropeckyj disputed Hall's assertion, saying that only the correlation in professional business services had deteriorated.  However, she declined to provide data. Today's ADP came in at 191,000; Bloomberg consensus expectations for BLS' figure for the same period is 200,000. We'll see how this all shakes out Friday. FREE AppDownload
This week, we're testing out the 2015 Escalade, the new generation of the luxury SUV and the latest in the onslaught of new and revamped vehicles Cadillac has produced in the past two years. While the new ride looks good on paper, we're not convinced it will succeed — no matter how it drives — in a market that now shuns boxy SUVs for sleek crossovers. Cadillac had a terrific 2013 and is counting on fresh product to keep the momentum going. The first offering of 2014 is the all-new Escalade. Introduced in 1999, the big luxury SUV stepped up as the brand's star player through the early 2000s, while its sedan lineup languished. But in recent years, stricter fuel economy standards and changing tastes have pushed aside huge SUVs. Now it's all about the crossover. The luxury business "has become a crossover business," Kelley Blue Book executive editorial director and market analyst Jack Nerad told Business Insider. Cadillac's big luxury competitors don't make cars like the Escalade. They build crossovers like the Audi Q5,  BMW X5, and Lexus RX. So we were surprised Cadillac chose to remake the Escalade before the SRX, the midsize crossover it last refreshed in 2010. Going against the current could be key to success for Cadillac, Nerad said, adding that the Escalade is "distinctly different from most of the vehicles in the segment." It doesn't have much in the way of direct competitors, so it can dominate interest from buyers who do want that kind of car. The Escalade won't be "super big volume," Nerad said, noting that because GM already makes the Chevy Suburban and GMC Yukon, it doesn't have to build a vehicle platform from scratch, saving money.  In an interview at the Detroit Auto Show in January, Cadillac U.S. VP of Sales and Service Bill Peffer said the Escalade is valuable because it brings in significantly younger and more affluent buyers than the rest of its lineup. The market "overall is very lucrative," he said. "We've done a spectacular job in that segment now for the last eight years with the current iteration, and we see a lot of opportunity to regain leadership with the new car." We'll wait until we've driven the new-generation Escalade to pass judgement on the car itself. But if Nerad and Cadillac are right, the return of the monster luxury SUV could be yet another coup for Cadillac on the long road back to prominence in the hotly contested luxury market. And we fully expect to see Cadillac do battle in the crossover segment with a refreshed SRX crossover before the end of 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThe North Frisian Wadden SeaThis 5-year-old bull market still has legs. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Amanda Macias/Business InsiderToo often when a bartender is asked which bourbons his or her bar carries, the list invariably includes Jack Daniel’s sour-mash Tennessee whiskey. But as most residents of the Volunteer State know, Tennessee whiskey is an entirely different libation from bourbon, even though they share many traits. Bourbon must be made in the United States, but contrary to popular belief, it can be made anywhere in the country. It is by a unique combination of history and geography that 95 percent of all bourbon is now made in Kentucky—the Civil War, the realignment of state boundaries, and the proximity of waterways are among the reasons. Tennessee whiskey, on the contrary, can only be made in Tennessee, which has been the case for well over a century. But there is another equally important characteristic of Tennessee whiskey: While both bourbon and Tennessee whiskey, by law, must be made from at least 51 percent corn and aged in new charred white-oak barrels, making Tennessee whiskey involves an additional step. To create Tennessee whiskey, after distillation and before aging in barrels, the distillate is trickled through a steep layer (in the case of Jack Daniel’s, a 10-foot column) of carefully prepared and selected charcoal made by burning sugar-maple wood. This process is called “mellowing” and sometimes, as in the case of Jack Daniel’s, it can take four to six days for the whiskey to trickle all the way down through the charcoal.  The charcoal filtration method is officially known as the Lincoln County Process, named after Lincoln County, Tenn., where the Jack Daniel’s distillery first used it. (Ironically, in 1871 the county’s boundaries were changed, which put Jack Daniel’s distillery in Moore County, an area in which, even today, alcohol cannot be served). This charcoal mellowing is what gives Tennessee whiskey its distinctive rich, sweet taste. There is also another, less obvious but still important factor in Tennessee whiskey—the pure water used in the distillation process.  Jack Daniel’s is famous for its iron-free, naturally filtered limestone water (you can even buy bottles of it at the distillery), which is sourced from a limestone cave where it bubbles out at 400 to 500 gallons a minute at a constant 56 degrees Fahrenheit. George Dickel, on the other hand, is still made with the same Cascade Spring water that the company’s founder, George Dickel, used in 1870 when he built his distillery in Cascade Hollow. Although Prohibition shut down the George Dickel distillery in 1910 (Tennessee embraced the prohibitionist’s creed in 1909—10 years before the rest of the country), when the distillery was rebuilt in 1958 it was relocated on the banks of Cascade Creek, a half mile from Dickel’s original site, so that the same Cascade Spring water could be used. To be sure, Jack Daniel’s and George Dickel are the only two major distillers of Tennessee whiskey (although George Dickel always spelled the name of his whiskey without an “e,” in the Scottish style, as he felt his distillation was equal to the finest scotch). The only other Tennessee whiskey of note is the lesser-known Benjamin Prichard’s Tennessee Whiskey. Although Prichard’s is currently the only distillery located in Lincoln County, it does not use the Lincoln County Process of charcoal filtering. While some may hold that this, then, makes it not a true Tennessee whiskey, the legislature of Tennessee begs to differ. On May 13, 2013, Governor Bill Haslam signed House Bill 1084 stipulating that maple-charcoal filtering was to be used for all spirits labeling themselves “Tennessee Whiskey”—with an exception for Benjamin Prichard’s. Nonetheless, Prichard’s, using a recipe similar to an old family one from the 1820s, still resorts to aging its whiskey in barrels with 3 mm of char. Thus, when it comes to Tennessee whiskey, no matter the distillery, there can be no mistaking that mellow, honeyed undertaste that gives it such distinct character. FREE AppDownload
    Internet security is paramount today. Your information (and sometimes even your identity) is only as safe as your password is strong. So here's a great way to come up with a password that is both secure and easy to remember. Produced by Daniel Goodman FREE AppDownload
The ADP's monthly National Employment Report is published two days before the official BLS nonfarm payrolls report. To many, the ADP report has been considered the best preview of private payroll stats from the BLS report. “We’re going to be very accurate,” said Moody's Analytics' Mark Zandi at the time ADP rolled out its revised methodology months ago. "We’re going to nail this number," That doesn't seem to have happened, and economists are now protesting.  Pantheon MacroIn a note Wednesday morning, Pantheon Macroeconomics' Ian Shepherdson explained the problem: ADP reports its figure not just from its own payrolls data, but also incorporates lagging data from the BLS itself.  And it appears they've now placed far too much emphasis on that lagging data, since they now show a strong correlation with the BLS' number from the prior month.  "This glaring flaw in the construction of the ADP report means we can no longer take the number seriously as an advance guide to the official data," he wrote. He added that ADP "will not reveal its raw data, presumably because they do not correlate well with the official numbers." ADP did not immediately respond to requests for comment. UPDATE: Moody's, the company that puts together the payrolls report with ADP, has responded, denying Shepherdson's assertion » Bank of Tokyo-Mitsbushi's Chris Rupkey had an equally strident take on the issue today. In a note titled "ADP jobs data this morning...and the number is...anyone out there?" he wrote: A lot of swings and misses for ADP when it comes to forecasting the monthly payroll jobs report.  They thought jobs slowed further to 130K in October and instead jobs went sky-high to 212K.  Actual jobs cooled to 87K in December after two months of big 200K gains yet they told us the number would be the biggest yet, up 238K.  Wrong.  Another swing, another miss.  Why do we continue to take a look at this?"   Thomson Reuters managing economist Jeoff Hall tweeted the following chart showing that the average absolute miss between ADP and BLS has declined 33% since the change. But the absolute numbers remain far off, he said.  Jeoff Hall "For an indicator that's supposed to nail the number, I think they've been horrible at it," Hall told BI. "When you get into the details, it’s even scarier," he added. The revisions have come at the expense of accuracy in predicting industry-specific payrolls. Hall sent over the following table showing correlations have fallen off a cliff: Jeoff Hall Finally, Hall noted just half the primary dealers from Reuters' economist poll now put out ADP previews. And three of those that do are simply restating their guess for BLS, he said. However, not everyone agrees that we should just scrap the ADP report.  Mac Robertson, an independent portfolio manager and macro strategist, believes the ADP benefits from its immense direct access to corporate payroll data.   "I actually think ADP does a great job, and I with there were a lot more private sector economic reporting like this," he told BI. He added that the focus on payrolls at all, especially in an expanding economy, is misplaced, and ends up being a lagging indicator.  "There's so much creative destruction, substitutions, and reclaiming that's going on," he said. "There's just massive cross-currents in employment." UPDATE: Moody's, the company that puts together the payrolls report with ADP, has responded, denying Shepherdson's assertion » FREE AppDownload
This position has been filled. See all available jobs at Business Insider here &gt;&gt;   We're looking for inside sales reps to sell advertising on Business Insider to clients in a variety of industries. This is a great position for someone with a year or two of sales experience, looking to take his or her career as a sales representative to the next level. YouTube screencap The position is national with no travel. Success will be highly dependent upon the candidate’s willingness to prospect, cold-call, and articulate the BI value proposition. In addition to prospecting and finding new clients, the person in this role will connect with ATDs and DSPs for greater coverage with specific clients. Training will be at the core of the job. The position is full-time and based in our New York office. Career advancement is expected in 12-18 months to a outside sales position, based on the candidate’s success. The candidate will have a college degree and experience within the digital space. Programmatic experience is a bonus. The ideal candidate for this job will be familiar with our content, our audience, and the constantly changing digital sales landscape. Qualifications: • Excellent written and oral communication skills  • Great attitude and interest in learning new skills• Attention to detail• Basic knowledge of digital media buying terminology • Knowledge of digital media, online video, programmatic• Ability to thrive in an innovative environment • Drive, determination, consistency, and passion • Mastery of MS Office Suite, Salesforce a plus FREE AppDownload
BIIThe credit card industry processes a massive volume of transactions — about $4 trillion last year in the U.S., according to BI Intelligence estimates. With so much money in play, it's no wonder that a host of startups are trying to carve out a niche for themselves and offer services to merchants and consumers that will rewrite the value they get from every credit card payment. But it won't be easy to truly disrupt the credit card processing industry.  These startups are entering an extremely complex and entrenched space.  In a recent report from BI Intelligence, we look at the complicated series of interactions among different legacy players that powers each credit card payment, outlining the six essential links in the credit credit payment chain. We explain what each of these players do, and how much value they add, and explain why two parts of this chain — the hardware providers and merchant service providers (MSPs) — are particularly vulnerable to disruption. Access The Full Report And Data By Signing Up For A Free Trial Today &gt;&gt; Here are some of our key findings: In full, the report:  FREE AppDownload
I love it. I love the free version of the app, which allows you to view your spreadsheets and show them off. I also love the subscription version, which I tried out with the 30-day free trial. The subscription allows you to do most of the things you would normally want to do in Excel. Unfortunately, without keyboard shortcuts, everything takes a lot longer to do. As an avid Excel user, it would be great to be able to make small edits to a spreadsheet on my couch with my iPad. But I would not start a workbook from scratch using the app, unless it was a very simple project. If Microsoft offered a one-time download fee of $40 (or maybe even more), I would gladly pay it. But I won’t use it enough to make the $100 annual subscription worthwhile. Produced by Sara Silverstein. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
Dan Dennison/Getty ImagesShares of Urban Outfitters climbed more than 3% in Wednesday mid-day trading after a regulatory filing revealed its outlook for current quarter retail sales. In documents filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), URBN said that “during the first quarter of fiscal 2015, comparable Retail segment net sales are low single-digit negative.” Many analysts have been expecting a challenging first quarter for URBN. During the fourth fiscal quarter, comparable store sales at its Anthropologie and Free People stores climbed 10% and 20%, respectively. However, sales at Urban Outfitters-branded stores fell 9%, just-style notes. URBN stock closed at $36.35 per share on Tuesday. Over the past year, URBN stock has dropped about 8%. FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVBill Gross, PIMCOMost conversations about bonds or the bond markets will eventually include some mention of bond fund behemoth PIMCO and its veteran manager bond king Bill Gross. In recent months, however, drama in the executive suite highlighted by the sudden departure of CEO Mohamed El-Erian has attracted the wrong kind of attention to the Newport Beach-based money manager. However, the top concern for investors is obviously performance. And PIMCO has been lagging. According to new Morningstar data, PIMCO's Total Return Fund, the flagship fund managed by Gross, lagged 85% of its competitors in March. And clients are losing patience. During the month, the fund saw $3.1 billion worth of net ouflows. "The cumulative net outflow over 11 months since outflows began in May is $52.1 billion," noted Morningstar’s Michael Rawson regarding the fund. "Assets at the fund peaked at around $293 billion and are now at $232 billion." Rawson provided this chart showing the monthly flows. Any bar going down represents a net ouflow. Morningstar And it's not just the Total Return Fund. Firm-wide, PIMCO funds saw around $7 billion worth of outflows. (These are just U.S. domiciled mutual funds and ETFs, so it does not include offshore funds or separate accounts.) Check it out: Morningstar Outflows are not an industry-wide phenomenon. Competitor DoubleLine Funds, led by other bond king Jeff Gundlach, saw $441.2 million in net inflows in March with the flagship Total Return Fund pulling in $263.8 million. Every good fund manager hits a rough patch, and it may be too early to count Gross out. But in the in the game of thrones among bond kings, Gross should keep an eye on rising stars like Gundlach. FREE AppDownload
Though it may not feel like it quite yet, it's officially spring — that means it's time to talk about men's spring fashions. The majority of men's New York Fashion Week collections were preppy and athletic, with lots of printed pants, jackets, and suits. Check out the top seven trends to watch out for this season. Getty Images (Left: Malan Breton; Center: Billy Reid; Right: Ovaida &amp; Sons) How To Wear Them: Sparingly. Double-breasted blazers are hard to pull off, and if the cut is too baggy, they can look like a bad '80s vintage find. "It should be tailored short in the body and fitted well around the waist, so I would only recommend it for those well-versed about style and fit," The Buying Director at online menswear retailer MR PORTER Toby Bateman previously advised us. Getty Images (Left: David Hart; Center: Todd Snyder; Right: Mark McNairy) How To Wear Them: Expect to see lots of different printed jackets this year, from plaid to floral. Even camo will make a resurgence. Pair a patterned jacket with solid-colored shorts or pants. If you're style savvy, throw a contrasting print in the mix with a button-down shirt. Getty Images (Left: Michael Bastien; Center: Ernest Alexander; Right: David Hart) How To Wear Them: Printed pants have been really popular in women's fashion for the last few years, and now they're inching into the men's market. Use the same rules as printed jackets and keep things minimal. Also make sure your pants are well-tailored so they don't end up looking like you wore PJs to the office. Getty Images (Left: Son Jung Wan; Center: Billy Reid; Right: Diesel Black Gold) How To Wear Them: All-white suit combos were popular at a wide range of Mercedes Benz Fashion Week shows, including the edgy Diesel Black Gold, the eccentric Billy Reid, and the preppy Black Sheep by Brooks Brothers collections. The trick with wearing all white is to make sure textures contrast to keep it from becoming tacky: a white cotton shirt looks good with a linen suit, a white t-shirt balances out a silk jacket, etc. Getty Images (Left: Nautica; Center: DKNY; Right: Michael Bastien) How To Wear Them: Choose a pair of pants that fit you well, put on some awesome sneakers or boat shoes, and just go for it. Of course, this style works better with casual pants like chinos and jeans than with suit attire, so keep that in mind. Getty Images (Left: GENERAL IDEA; Center: David Hart; Right: Nautica) How To Wear Them: Whether horizontal, vertical or diagonal, color-blocked patterns are a casual and preppy look for this spring. Treat these like your new classic black t-shirt and wear them with all your favorite pants and shorts. Getty Images (Clockwise from top: Tim Coppens; J. Crew; Shades of Grey by Micah Cohen; Ovaida &amp; Sons; AllSaints; Calvin Klein) How To Wear Them: By far the biggest trend from New York Fashion Week was men's bomber jackets. Whether they're leather, color-blocked, wool, or athletic, these jackets go with everything. When you go shopping for one, make sure the sleeves don't hang past your upper wrist, and that the coat has a slim silhouette to keep it from looking too much like a bulky Letterman jacket. FREE AppDownload
REUTERSAn aerial view of the artificial islands at the Kashagan offshore oil field in the Caspian sea in western Kazakhstan. MILAN (Reuters) - Western oil majors struggling to restart production at one of the world's biggest offshore oilfields in Kazakhstan have found that whole kilometers of pipeline are defective, two people recently returned from the $50 billion project say. Replacing the damaged section altogether may be a better bet than trying to repair it. Oil company investigators have yet to announce conclusions about what went wrong at Kashagan in October, when onshore pipes carrying corrosive gases sprang leaks and brought offshore production in the Caspian Sea to a halt a month after start-up. Yet early accounts of findings collected from engineering, banking and industry sources, some of whom have just returned from the site, reveal that the scope of technical faults may delay oil flows longer than expected. The project has presented huge engineering challenges throughout the 13 years since work began. Much of it is built on artificial islands to avoid damage from pack ice in a shallow sea that freezes for five months a year. The oil is 4,200 meters (4,590 yards) below the seabed at very high pressure, and the associated gas reaching the surface is mixed with some of the highest concentrations of toxic, metal-eating hydrogen sulphide (H2S) ever encountered. It has now emerged that sulphur-laden sour gas burped out from the oil field during production last year may have weakened long stretches of processing pipelines, two sources said. "The problem goes on for kilometer after kilometer, it's a systemic problem," an industry source briefed by Kashagan engineers told Reuters. That defective stretch of pipeline runs mainly through hard-to-reach swampy terrain, making intervention costly and difficult. A banker briefed by management of one of the companies involved in engineering work said he was told the best course of action could instead be to lay a new line alongside the old one. "It is cheaper to build a new parallel line than to pull up and repair the old one," the banker said. A Kashagan consortium spokesman declined to comment beyond saying that no decision has yet been taken on the pipeline rehabilitation plan. At the same time it delayed the release of its final results into the pipeline investigation to the second-quarter. COMPRESSORS Problems with an inspection robot designed to help detect what is wrong were not helping, another source, who makes frequent trips to Kashagan, said, and compressors designed to keep the oil flowing were causing extra headaches. Two compressors are known among the thousands of workers on Kashagan as "the widow maker" and "the rotating bomb", nicknames, a consortium spokesman pointed out, which refer not to unsafe working conditions but to the complexity of the kit. Output remains stuck at zero despite initial projections of 180,000 barrels per day in the early phase of production build-up on a field that aims to produce 1.66 million barrels a day at peak - as much as OPEC member Angola. According to Reuters calculations, by mid-year, lost revenue is likely to amount to between $4 billion and $12 billion. A second engineer associated with the project said the consortium's decision to keep the pipelines outside in harsh conditions may have stripped away their corrosion-resistant coating, rendering them more vulnerable to leaks. "The storage was the problem, the pipes were left in the desert for too many months and this altered the coating of the pipes," the source, a specialist in inner-tube coatings on Kashagan said. The consortium over-estimated the acidity of the sour gas when they built and treated the pipelines, the source added, "so it can't have been a problem of estimating the content of acid". Another source with one of the Kashagan stakeholders also said that the span of pipeline under scrutiny is kilometers long, with coatings at the heart of the problem. The consortium said only that toxic gas lay behind the problem. "Sulphur stress cracking was identified as the root cause of the pipeline issues," the spokesman said. "This process occurs if steel of high hardness is exposed to high concentrations of H2S (hydrogen sulphide) under high pressure in the presence of water," the spokesman said. "This mechanism is not at all related to normal corrosion (formation of rust) but solely to the hardness of the steel". Last month, infuriated Kazakh officials slapped a $737 million ecological damage fine on the consortium, which includes Eni, Exxon Mobil, Royal Dutch Shell, Total, and Kazakh state-run KazMunaiGas. The penalty is the strongest signal to date from Kazakhstan that it is running out of patience, while the consortium's decision to fight the fine could raise tensions with a government grown more assertive with foreign investors. The consortium, which was meant to start its first output 10 years ago, has already seen KazMunaiGas taking a large stake in the project last decade following previous delays that angered the government. A repeat of that scenario together with the state's possible refusal to pay a chunk of development costs are the main threats to the group just as the restart date remains deeply uncertain. "The project stopped production as a result of pipeline issues with the hydrocarbons coming onshore," Shell's chief financial officer Simon Henry said last month. "All the partners have contributed their technical expertise to look at how this challenge of running the pipelines can be addressed. There is no decision yet about how best to do this or when production can be restarted," he added. "DRAGGING ON" Kazakh officials have said they have no plans to nationalize the project so far and say they hope it could restart in the second half of 2014 and produce 22 million barrels of crude by the end of the year. Up to now, Kashagan has missed out on around $2.7 billion in oil revenue, a fact likely to cast a shadow over state decision-making. The contractual terms stipulate the government may refuse to reimburse the costs, potentially the entire $50 billion bill, if the consortium misses the final deadline. That was set by the state as October 2013. The Kashagan spokesman said that output had in fact briefly reached commercial levels, as written in the contract, of 75,000 bpd before its shutdown, but not for long enough to count. A nine-month delay from September 2013 to July 2014 will cost the consortium at least $12 billion of lost oil revenues based on full scale output of 450,000 barrels per day. Even if minimal output levels of 150,000 bpd are taken into account, lost revenues would still be a hefty $4 billion, according to Reuters calculations. "It's dragging on. Everyone's losing money, big money, and so they all want to get on with it. But there are technical problems," said a source just back from Kashagan. For its part, the central Asian state urgently needs production revenues to hit its fiscal targets for 2014, based on projected cash inflows from Kashagan at up to three percent of gross domestic product. Past oil project delays have been seized upon by the government as a chance to levy hefty fines and boost its share of future production revenues. Unfortunately for everyone involved, the best way of defusing rising stakeholder tensions hangs on oil company contractors getting to grips with the sweep and complexity of the project's engineering challenges. But smooth operation at the current juncture looks largely out of reach. Efforts to contain equipment breakdowns offshore has given rise to black humor among the ranks of engineers. An engineer with one of the western oil companies involved in Kashagan who recently returned from the site said technical breakdowns on production-critical equipment keep workers juggling priorities. Particularly singled out for complaint are the platform's two main compressors, designed to keep oil flowing by maintaining reservoir pressure and stripping out the gas component of oil production. "They're a mess...we call one 'the widow maker' and the other 'the rotating bomb'," said the engineer. "That's how we tell them apart when assigning work orders," he said. Furthermore an inspection robot, called a PIG, sent to scan the inside of Kashagan's pipelines for data and clues is sending back patchy data. "The problem is the PIG has a 60 percent reliability rate." the first source just back from Kashagan said. "It's not like an X-ray. It's like a blurred X-ray." (Additional reporting by Dmitry Solovyov in Almaty and Dmitry Zhdannikov in London; editing by Philippa Fletcher) FREE AppDownload
Goldman Sachs Global Investment ResearchGoldman Sachs analysts track a proprietary index used as a proxy for global growth called the "Global Leading Indicator," or GLI. After a few months of deceleration, the GLI was unchanged in March. "This ends six months of slowing and locates the global industrial cycle on the cusp of the 'Expansion' phase," says a team of Goldman analysts led by George Cole in a note to the firm's clients. The GLI is made up of 10 components, half of which improved last month, while the other half deteriorated. "On the positive side, the Consumer confidence aggregate rebounded after last month’s decline," say the analysts. "Korean exports improved and U.S. Initial Jobless Claims also trended lower. The Belgian and Netherlands Manufacturing Survey and the Baltic Dry Index showed some strength as well. On the negative side, the S&amp;P GSCI Industrial Metals Index® continued to drop sharply, while the AUD &amp; CAD TWI aggregate was only marginally lower. The Global PMI and the Global New Orders less Inventories (NOIN) aggregates were also softer (primarily on account of still soft EM activity) and the Japan Inventory/Sales ratio, while still at strong levels, deteriorated slightly." Goldman expects the GLI to continue its move into the "Expansion" phase, which it describes as "generally the most supportive for risky assets," in the coming months. "We have been expecting a turn back into ‘Expansion’ as the chilling effect of adverse weather in the first quarter fades," say the analysts. "The March Advanced GLI had already highlighted a reacceleration in activity growth in a smaller set of the components, which has now begun to show up in a broader, more global set of indicators." FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersBritish-born financier Nat Rothschild leaves after a Bumi shareholder meeting in LondonLONDON (Reuters) - When Nat Rothschild, the co-founder of troubled miner ARMS, insulted his former investment partner on Twitter last week, he showed the power of social media for business leaders seeking publicity - but also the perils of saying the wrong thing. "Whilst your dad is an evil genius," the scion of the Rothschild banking dynasty tweeted to Aga Bakrie, "the word on the street is that you are extremely DUMB." The tweet made the front pages of media around the world as journalists, used to the measured language of corporate press releases, seized on a seemingly unguarded remark showing that even powerful businessmen can descend to playground taunts. For Rothschild, the publicity was a welcome opportunity to revive interest in his long-running campaign against Indonesia's influential Bakrie family, whom he blames for a plunge in the value of ARMS' predecessor company. Within 24 hours, his number of followers on Twitter had jumped to 1,700 from 200. But not all business leaders have been so fortunate with their apparently off-the-cuff remarks on social media. Last year Michael O'Leary, boss of budget airline Ryanair, was denounced by one Twitter user as a "sexist pig" after he tweeted: "Nice pic. Phwoaaarr!" to a woman, whose image was shown during a live question and answer session. The former chief executive of Britain's Co-operative Group, meanwhile, laid open the divisions within the company in March when he accused one or more board members via Facebook of being "determined to undermine me personally" after his pay package was leaked to the press. He resigned a few days later. Even Twitter boss Dick Costolo has got into hot water on the social media site, comparing academic Vivek Wadwha to over-the-top U.S. comedian Carrot Top, after the professor was quoted as saying Twitter's board lacked diversity. Little surprise then that research last year by CEO.com and Domo found 68 percent of Fortune 500 chief executives were not on any social network. Company bosses on Twitter are on the increase, up more than half from 2012 to 2013, but the number remains small with just 28 out of top 500 CEOs on the site. For many chief executives, the risks are just too high. "Unless you're happy for something to appear on the front page of a newspaper or on a newswire you shouldn't really tweet it," said Mary Whenman, managing director of corporate, financial and public affairs at PR agency Weber Shandwick. ACTIVIST INVESTORS While a dangerous platform for plain-speaking chief executives, social media has been used more effectively by activist investors looking to drum up support for a campaign. Billionaire investor Carl Icahn, for example, used Twitter for months to urge Apple to buy back more shares, before the technology group eventually proposed in February a $14 billion stock repurchase program. Nat Rothschild himself, while insisting his outburst against Aga Bakrie was "instinctive", concedes he joined Twitter a few weeks ago for "strategic reasons." "I'm interested in Indonesia and my investments, one of which has a serious litigation component to it, and in that respect I want to make sure people continue to focus on the situation," he told Reuters. Although announcing market moving news over Twitter has been allowed in the United States since last year, it is off limits in Britain, where it must first go through a regulated channel. But Twitter allows businesses to jump into a moving news story and respond to events immediately. "You can see how slow it is to use traditional emails and press release distribution systems," said Rory Godson, founder of communications agency Powerscourt, who suggested to Rothschild he should join Twitter. "It is definitely not suitable for everyone ... but for Nat in this case it enables him to respond very quickly and it also enables him to build global support." KNOW WHEN TO STOP Some business leaders do make it work. Rupert Murdoch and Richard Branson are both seen within the communications industry as masters of moving minds with 140 characters or less, although they are protected by virtually unassailable positions within their own companies. Murdoch has around 500,000 followers on Twitter, and Branson four million. Jeff Joerres, chief executive of staffing group Manpower who has over 7,000 Twitter followers, told Reuters the social network was an important way of giving big business a human face, though it was essential to know the boundaries. "You've got to put a bit of personality and imagination into it, but not go overboard," he said. "It's my personal account, but at the same time it is not - I'm speaking as the company." One executive to have won plaudits for his use of Twitter is Paul Pester, boss of Britain's TSB Bank, who jumped on to the social network in January to respond to complaints after thousands of cash machines failed. His personal tone in apologizing and offering advice helped to manage the crisis. For Whenman at Weber Shandwick, social media now has to be seen as part of being a CEO. "In the same way a chief executive of any FTSE 100 company needs to do media interviews, needs to go into analyst briefings, they also now need to have a social media profile. It's a normal part of business life," she said. Manpower's Joerres said Twitter, like drinking, was just a matter of knowing your limits. "People only need to worry about it if they do something stupid," he said. "I go to bars and don't worry about it. You only go to bars and worry about it if you think you are going to do something stupid when you are drinking." (Additional reporting by Ben Hirschler; Editing by Mark Potter) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yorgos KarahalisGreece's Prime Minister Antonis SamarasBy Renee Maltezou and Deepa Babington ATHENS (Reuters) - Greece has put the worst of a debt crisis behind it and is considering issuing new debt within three months, Prime Minister Antonis Samaras told Reuters on Wednesday. Greece has enjoyed a sharp revival of fortunes since its debt burden nearly sent it crashing out of the euro zone two years ago. Its economy is set to emerge from a six-year recession this year while bond market yields imply its borrowing costs have dropped to four-year lows. "Greece is back," Samaras told Reuters at the prime minister's Maximos mansion office in Athens. "Two years ago, we were the epicenter of financial instability in the area, and we were an unstable country in a relatively stable region. Now the situation is totally different: Greece has stabilized, both politically and economically and there is growing instability around Greece." He was speaking on Wednesday, a day after Athens secured 8.3 billion euros ($11.5 billion) in fresh aid from euro zone finance ministers, paving the way for the country to meet debt obligations in May and boosting expectations of a return to bond markets to end its four-year exclusion. "The timing of any such offering is subject to market conditions and we have not ruled out the possibility of coming to market as early as during the first half of 2014," he said. Officials have previously told Reuters that Athens is eyeing a sale of between 1.5 billion-2 billion euros of five-year bonds in a test issue as it tries to get back on its feet after two bailouts worth 240 billion euros from the European Union and International Monetary Fund. Samaras, who took power in 2012 at the height of the debt crisis, saw early signs that the economy is recovering along with market sentiment, citing new business start-ups that are creating jobs for youth. "We've hit rock bottom and now this is the curve going up," he said. "We are at the very beginning of the curve going up." Athens expects gross domestic product to post modest growth of 0.6 percent this year after a brutal recession that left the economy a quarter smaller. "The most important words now are stability and growth," Samaras said. "I must not lose my direction, straight all the way, I'm not going to zig zag." Record unemployment and cash problems facing companies and households remained significant issues, but Greece has now turned a page on the crisis, he said. "The image and the perception of Greece internationally has changed also. This is a new psychology and this is a new sentiment taking place in Greece and this is why I'm saying Greece is back," Samaras said. (Writing by Deepa Babington; Editing by Ruth Pitchford) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Christian VeronAnti-government protesters and students in tents block an avenue in front of the United Nations office in Caracas, Venezuela, on April 1, 2014.Economic slowdown in China, elevated geo-political tensions between Russia and Ukraine, and the Fed's tapering of its stimulative asset-purchase program represent some of the biggest events in markets. But there are many more stories we need to be watching.  In its 52-page "Global Economic Outlook and Strategy" report, Citi's Willem Buiter and his team give us a sense of where the world's major economies are headed.  The economists expect the global economy to expand by 3.1% this year and by 3.4% in 2015. Citi's Michael Saunders says his team continues to cut its emerging-market growth forecasts, although "this month’s revision largely reflects a large cut to our Russia GDP forecast, reflecting heightened uncertainty and the CBR’s recent rate hike." In China, Saunders expects policymakers to react to slower growth with "renewed credit easing." Among developed economies, Citi expects higher growth from the euro area, U.K., and Sweden, but cuts Japan's growth forecast. In the U.S., Citi expects the recent winter weakness to be reversed and thinks rate hikes won't come until mid-2015. We highlight a few of the viewpoints for each of the world's most important economies, including GDP forecasts through 2018.   FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
    Cuff links can be a tricky men's accessory to incorporate into your look because there are so many options. We visited Bergdorf Goodman's Men's Store to chat with Town &amp; Country Magazine's style director Stellene Volandes. She gave us some tips to help navigate this often overlooked style element. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidDavid EinhornMichael Lewis is getting tons of attention for his new book, "Flash Boys," which questions the murky world of high-frequency trading. Lewis concludes that the stock market is rigged, and that, he argues, hurts both amateur and professional investors. Appearing on Bloomberg TV this morning, Lewis and anchors Stephanie Ruhle and Erik Schatzker lasso in famed hedge-fund manager David Einhorn. Here's the exchange (emphasis added): LEWIS: Let me give you an analogy and I think is a very close analogy to the way the stock market is structured. It's a casino analogy. So I have a casino and I want to start a poker game in the casino, so I get three card sharks and I tell them, go sit there and start the game. Make it look like a good game's going on. There are no 4s, 9s, there are no queens in the deck. Only you will know that. And we will pay some tour group operators to bring like a bunch of dumb tourists in to pay with you. They won't know.  You'll — RUHLE:  Hold on, a bunch of dumb tourists? So is David Einhorn is a dumb tourist? LEWIS: Yes. RUHLE: Come on now. LEWIS: In this analogy. Hold on. In this analogy, every investor — David Einhorn did not know; he did not understand. He understood that whenever he tried to do something in the market, the market moved like someone knew what he was up to. In the same way that big pension fund managers and mutual fund managers saw when they tried to execute big orders, oh my god, it's like someone knows I want to buy before I buy. But he didn't know why. He didn't know — he didn't understand that high-frequency traders were putting machines in exchanges to be closer to the exchange so that they could get price information in two milliseconds before him. And so on and so forth. Let me — can I finish my analogy?  SCHATZKER: Absolutely.  LEWIS: So of course the tourists get fleeced all the time in the poker games, because they don't know the deck is rigged. The poker players pay the casino a cut of what they make. The casinos, operators, pay the tour group — the tour group company money to bring in the tourists. So in this case, casino's the exchange, the poker players are the high-frequency traders, and the tour group operators are the banks and the brokers that handle the stock market orders. And I think the analogy is pretty close. So is that rigged? Is that a rigged game? I think it is a rigged game.  It's worth noting that Einhorn is one of the most accomplished poker players Wall Street has ever seen. So he'd probably take issue with anyone who characterizes him as a dumb card player or duped fund manager. Watch the interview at Bloomberg.com.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Peter NewcombPresident and CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis James Bullard.St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said today in an interview on Bloomberg Radio that he expects the Federal Open Market Committee will need to begin hiking rates in the first quarter of 2015. Bullard believes the unemployment rate will fall to around 6% by the end of this year. He also told Bloomberg Radio that asset price bubbles may become a "big concern," but also said the Fed has better systems for flagging bubbles than it did before the housing crisis. The St. Louis Fed president is not a voter on the FOMC this year or in 2015, but will become a voting member again in 2016 — at which point he says the federal funds rate will be at 4% or 4.25%. That likely puts him at the top of the "dot plot" contained in the FOMC's Summary of Economic Projections that everyone has been talking about since the SEP was updated at the last FOMC meeting in late March. Federal ReserveThe "dot plot." FREE AppDownload
The recent trend in home sales has shown a significant uptick based on price point, writes Bank of America Merrill Lynch economist Michelle Meyer.  As of February, sales of homes priced over $1 million were up 14.4% year-over-year, while sales of homes under $100,000 were down 18% on the year. She points to a few key reasons for this divergence between lower and higher priced homes: First, the share of distressed sales in overall sales was down to 16% in February, from 25% a year ago. These properties usually go at under $100,000. "There are still 1.4 million properties in foreclosure inventory and another 1.2 million that are seriously delinquent, but the flow of these homes into the market is slow." BAML Second, in terms of higher-priced existing homes, Meyers writes that "lenders have been eager to originate jumbo loans. Indeed, the spread between jumbo and conforming loans has narrowed to a historically low 9bp." A conforming loan is one in which the size of the loan is equal to or under an amount set by Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae and is well under $1 million (The limit for a one-unit property is currently $417,000). Bottom line: credit is easing for jumbo borrowers. BAML Third, "higher-income borrowers have also become wealthier over the past year," writes Meyer. Household financial assets climbed about 13% after a stellar run in the U.S. stock market last year. And since 60% of financial wealth is held by the top 10%, this has worked out well for higher-income households in the market for expensive properties. And this trend can be seen through homebuilders. The size of new homes under construction are bigger, which means they're more expensive properties. "Builders have been targeting move-up buyers in this cycle rather than first-time buyers," she writes. BAML FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Evan VucciRuth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen BreyerThe Supreme Court's decision Wednesday to do away with two-year caps on the total amount of money individuals can give to candidates or political parties will let rich people channel millions of dollars to a single candidate, liberal justice Stephen Breyer warned in a foreboding dissent. Taken with the court's previous decision in Citizens United, which lets corporations give unlimited money to political campaigns, "today's decision eviscerates our Nation's campaign finance laws, leaving a remnant incapable of dealing with the grave problems of democratic legitimacy that those laws were intended to solve," Breyer wrote. The long-anticipated decision in McCutcheon v. Federal Election Commission technically does not change the limits on the amount of money people can give to single politicians; it just gets rid of a $123,000 overall cap that on contributions to candidates and political committees during a two-year election cycle. But the dissent by Breyer, which liberal justices Elena Kagan, Sonia Sotomayor, and Ruth Bader Ginsburg signed onto, argues that McCutcheon still allows for sneaky ways to let rich people give millions to a single politician. "It creates a loophole that will allow a single individual to contribute millions of dollars to a political party or a candidate's campaign," Breyer writes in his dissent. He added, "The methods for using today's opinion to evade the law's individual contribution limits are complex, but they are well known, or will become well known, to party fundraisers." Under McCutcheon, donors will be able to give up to $3.6 million to a single party fundraising committee, which can then channel that money to a single candidate, Breyer warns. The possibility that one person could effectively give millions to one candidate opens the door for significant corruption, he wrote. "The justification for aggregate contribution restrictions is strongly rooted in the need to assure political integrity and ultimately in the First Amendment itself," Breyer wrote. "The threat to that integrity posed by the risk of special access and influence remains real." FREE AppDownload

Aly Song/ReutersAn employee works at a production line at an electric vehicle factory.Mention price cartels and many people will think of big, overt ones like the one OPEC runs for oil and the now-extinct one for diamonds.  But at least as damaging are the many secret cartels in such unglamorous areas as ball-bearings and cargo rates, which go on unnoticed for years, quietly bumping up the end cost to consumers of all manner of goods and services. Collusion among producers to rig prices and carve up markets is thriving, with the cartels growing ever more intricate and global in scope. Competition authorities have uncovered several whopping conspiracies in recent years, including one in which more than 20 airlines worldwide had fixed prices on perhaps $20 billion of freight shipments. They were fined a total of $3 billion; and so far the compensation claims from ripped-off customers comfortably exceed $1 billion. One academic study found that the typical cartel raised the price of the goods or services in question by 20%. Another suggested that cartels were robbing poor countries' consumers of tens of billions of dollars a year: if so, negating all the aid that rich countries' governments send them. Investigators are still unraveling a huge global network of cartels among suppliers of a wide range of car parts. Makers of seat belts, radiators and foam seat-stuffing have had hefty fines slapped on them. Earlier this month the European Commission fined five makers of automotive bearings a total of EUR953m ($1.32 billion). This week its investigators raided a bunch of makers of car exhausts. Also in recent days, Brazilian prosecutors have charged executives from a dozen foreign train-makers accused of rigging bids for rail and subway contracts in the country's main cities. Price-fixing has infected high finance, too. Some of banking's biggest names stand accused of fiddling interest-rate and foreign-exchange benchmarks. The good news is that enforcement has got tougher, smarter and more co-ordinated. Gone are the days when price-fixers got a slap on the wrist. Firms can expect swingeing fines, and bosses can go to jail. Since many cartels now operate across borders, so do investigators: American and Japanese trustbusters joined forces to flush out the car-parts cartels. And incentives for whistleblowers have also increased: around 50 countries now offer immunity or reduced penalties for snitches. That is all for the better, but the penalties for price-fixing remain too mild. The best study of the issue so far concluded that, given the still-low risk of detection, collusion pays. Yet beyond a certain point--which the fines now imposed by American and European regulators have probably reached--fines inflict so much damage on guilty companies that they undermine competition instead of enhancing it. The answer is stiffer prison sentences, particularly for senior executives. American courts, only too ready to lock up other types of miscreants for a long time, have rarely jailed egregious price-fixers for anything like the maximum of ten years that the law allows. Other countries have even more scope to increase sentences. More can be done to aid detection, too. Statistical tests to "screen" markets for unusual pricing patterns helped uncover the interest-rate and foreign-exchange scandals. Potential conspirators may think twice if they suspect their market is being screened. European and Latin American trustbusters are making good use of the technique; their American counterparts should do so, too. Deploying such cutting-edge technology is costly; and increased funding is a big ask at a time of public-sector parsimony. But cartel authorities in Europe and America generally bring in far more than they cost to run, so extra money pushed in their direction is likely to be well spent. Another way to discourage the formation of cartels is to factor the increased risk of collusion into scrutiny of proposed mergers. Price-fixing is likelier, and easier to sustain, with fewer players. This could never be the primary determinant in competition decisions, but it should be in the mix. Blocking a few more mergers--whose benefits anyway tend to be over-egged--might both save companies from themselves and spare their customers the costs of collusion. Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Andrew BurtonMarkets crash all the time. You should, at minimum, expect stocks to fall at least 10% once a year, 20% once every few years, 30% or more once or twice a decade, and 50% or more once or twice during your lifetime. Those who don't understand this will eventually learn it the hard way. Someone emailed me last week asking why this is: I guess my question is, why does it have to be this way? Why is something so sophisticated constantly falling apart and never improving? Why can't stocks just go up around 8% every year? It's a reasonable question. And there's a good answer. Economist Hyman Minsky spent his career studying why economies boom and bust. One of his counterintuitive theories is the idea that stability is destabilizing.  Whether it's stocks not crashing or the economy going a long time without a recession, stability makes people feel safe. And when people feel safe, they take more risk, like going into debt or buying more stocks. It pretty much has to be this way. If there was no volatility, and we knew stocks went up 8% every year, the only rational response would be to pay more for them, until they were expensive enough to return less than 8%. It would be crazy for this not to happen, because no rational person would hold cash in the bank if they were guaranteed a higher return in stocks. If we had a 100% guarantee that stocks would return 8% a year, people would bid prices up until they returned the same amount as FDIC-insured savings accounts, which is about 0%. But there are no guarantees — only the perception of guarantees. Bad stuff happens, and when stocks are priced for perfection, a mere sniff of bad news will send them plunging. As Nassim Taleb wrote in his book Antifragile, there are 14 types of unfortunate events that are forever and always present: These 14 things will always occur, basically everywhere. When they occur, stocks that were erroneously priced for "guaranteed" returns quickly crash. So, here's the weird paradox: If stocks never crashed — or if they gain the perception that they don't crash —prices would rise to the point where a new crash was guaranteed. This sounds crazy, but it's exactly what Minsky meant when he theorized that stability is destabilizing. Since a lack of crashes plants the seeds of a new crash, markets will always crash, without exception.  What's important is realizing that stock market crashes aren't a bug. They don't indicate that anything is broken, or that someone screwed up. They are, in fact, an absolutely necessity to generating high long-term returns. Without crashes, you will never receive returns higher than other assets that don't crash, like cash in the bank. "Volatility scares enough people out of the market to generate superior returns for those who stay in," Wharton professor Jeremy Siegel said a few years ago. Or as Charlie Munger put it: You can argue that if you're not willing to react with equanimity to a market price decline of 50% two or three times a century, you're not fit to be a common shareholder, and you deserve the mediocre result you're going to get compared to the people who do have the temperament to be more philosophical about these market fluctuations. Rather than wondering if we're going to have another crash, spend your time planning how you'll react to a crash when it inevitably comes. Mentally prepare yourself, have some cash, and never rely on short-term market gains to finance your lifestyle. Because, just wait. A new crash will happen.  FREE AppDownload
The Census said factory orders climbed 1.6% in February, beating expectations for an increase of 1.2%. Excluding transportation, the figure climbed 0.7%. But January was revised down to -1% from -0.7%, and inventories climbed, 0.7% the most since 2011. Here's what hte data's looked like recently: FRED FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia Commonscoronal mass ejectionAny number of things can go wrong in the world that could ultimately effect what happens in the financial markets. Art Cashin, the veteran NYSE trader at UBS Financial Services, warns about a risk that's literally out of this world. From this morning's Cashin's Comments: Of Solar Flares And Such – Government sources report that a brief radio blackout occurred on March 29th probably as a result of a solar flare and the resulting coronal mass ejections (CME). The same sources caution about some, hopefully minor, disruptions today, as a result of multiple recent flares and CMEs.  They hope any disruptions should be minor since none of the CMEs appeared to be aimed directly at the Earth.  They hope for glancing blow rather than a direct hit.  And you thought all you had to worry about was Putin. A magnetic storm that knocks out our communications infrastructure would at the very least be extremely disruptive. FREE AppDownload
Wine has enjoyed a renaissance in the U.S. in the last twenty years. Wine consumption varies from state to state, but across America, wine drinking has become more popular over the last two decades. Vinepair, a blog dedicated to discussing and popularizing wine, made an animated map beautifully illustrating wine's increasing popularity since 1994. Here's a larger version of the key: Vinepair Vinepair Vinepair points out in their article showcasing the map that the growth in per capita wine consumption is a widespread phenomenon: For more, check out Vinepair's discussion of the map. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg Businessweek's Sam Grobart has a great little presentation this morning comparing one of the plot points of 'Superman 3' to high-frequency trading, which is in the news thanks to Michael Lewis' blockbuster new book about how the practice may be distorting markets. The comparison isn't perfect, but it works pretty well. In 'Superman 3,' Richard Pryor works as a computer programmer. He realizes that everyone's paychecks are being round down to the nearest cent. So he begins diverting away those fractions of cents into his own account. This is called "salami slicing." Money is made similarly in high-frequency trading: a computer uses trading information to zoom in and capture fractions of cents in fractions of a second.  "Salami slicing" is also features in the plot of "Office Space" as well as "Hackers." Check it out Grobart's piece below:  FREE AppDownload
So once again, a relief rally is driving stock prices higher. We saw that yesterday in response to the solid M-PMI and auto sales for March: (1) M-PMI. The M-PMI climbed to 53.7, up from 53.2 in February. The gain was led by production (55.9) and new orders (55.1). The spring in the March manufacturing survey was confirmed by a similar rebound in the average of the six regional surveys that I track. (2) Auto sales. Sales delayed by the bad winter weather coupled with increased incentives fueled a jump in March vehicle sales to 16.4 million units (saar), up from 15.3 million units in February. As a result, Q1’s average rate of 15.7 million units was just about equal to that of the last two quarters of 2013. Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Do Earnings Matter? (1) Q1 earnings expectations slashed. (2) Expected growth for S&amp;P 500 earnings just 0.9% y/y. (3) So why are stocks back at record highs? (4) The end of the never-ending winter. (5) Double-digit earnings growth expected to make a comeback soon. (6) Forward earnings matter, and they are at record highs. (7) A relief rally celebrating better weather. (8) Regional and national M-PMIs rebounded in March. (9) So did car sales, but Q1 average was no higher than H2-2013 average. (10) Q1 Performance Derby. (11) Health Care P/E rebounded after HillaryCare, and doing so again despite ObamaCare. (12) Focus on market-weight-rated S&amp;P 500 Health Care. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson(Reuters) - Goldman Sachs Group Inc is in the process of selling its "designated market-maker" unit, people familiar with the matter told the Financial Times on Tuesday. The U.S.-based investment bank is in talks with Dutch firm IMC Financial Markets to sell the trading business, according to a Wall Street Journal report. NYSE and Goldman Sachs declined to comment on the story. IMC Financial Markets could not be reached outside of normal business hours. Formerly known as "specialists," designated market-makers operate both manually and electronically to facilitate price discovery during market openings, closings and during periods of substantial trading imbalances or instability for thousands of NYSE-listed stocks. A person close to the matter told the FT that Goldman will retain a brokerage role and continue to provide liquidity electronically for NYSE stocks. Goldman acquired the designated market-maker unit as part of its $6.5 billion purchase in 2000 of Spear, Leeds &amp; Kellogg, which ranked as the largest U.S. stock and options clearing firm by volume at that time. Other Spear, Leeds assets have helped Goldman build lucrative electronic stock trading platforms. (Reporting by Aashika Jain in Bangalore; Editing by Tom Brown, Bernard Orr) FREE AppDownload
Craps can seem intimidating but it really isn’t that hard to play. In fact, you only need to understand a few bets to get great odds and play like a pro. The most important bet to understand is the “pass line” bet. This bet is made by putting your chips on the pass line before the “come out roll”. If the shooter rolls a 7 or 11, this bet pays even money. If the shooter “craps out” by rolling a 2, 3 or 12 you lose. But if the shooter rolls any other number, that number becomes the “box point” and you win your bet if that same number is rolled again before the shooter “sevens out”. The house edge on a pass line bet is only 1.41%. The “don’t pass” bet is the opposite bet and has an even smaller house edge. But stay away from this bet unless you want to make enemies at the table. Unless of course you are playing online. Once the point has been established you can “take odds”. This is an additional bet that the box point will be rolled before a 7. This is the single best bet on the casino floor because it pays true odds – meaning the house has no edge. Because of this casinos will limit how much you can wager here. Many casinos allow what is called 3-4-5x odds. Which means you can bet three times as much as your pass line bet on a 4 or 10, four times your pass line bet on a 5 or 9 and five times on a 6 or 8. If you play craps by always making a pass line bet and maxing out the odds, the house edge is only 0.374%. There is no place on the table for this bet. You make this bet by placing your chips behind your pass line bet after the point is established. Once you have mastered this strategy you can extend it to include “come” bets. This is exactly like a pass line bet except that you can make this bet before any roll other than the come out roll. And the next roll becomes the come out roll for your come bet. To make a come bet you will place your chips on the come line before the roll. You can take odds on the come bet just as you can on the pass line bet and the math is exactly the same. After the point is established, toss your chips to the dealer and say “odds on the 6” or whatever the point is. The dealer will move your chips to the point.   You can ignore the rest of the table. These bets are fun but the house has a higher edge. Produced by Sara Silverstein and Sam Rega. Follow BI Video: On Facebook
ADPADP's March National Employment Report is out. The payroll-processing firm estimates 191,000 workers were hired to private-sector jobs in March, below Wall Street's 195,000 consensus forecast. However, February's number was revised up to 178,000 from 139,000. Below is a summary of the data from the release: Goods-producing employment rose by 28,000 jobs in March, slightly faster than an upwardly revised pace of 25,000 in February. Most of the gains came from the construction industry which added 20,000 jobs over the month; compared to an average of 16,000 during the prior three months. Manufacturers added 5,000 jobs in March, the same as February. Service-providing employment rose by 164,000 jobs in March, up from the upwardly revised 153,000 in February. The ADP National Employment Report indicates that professional/business services contributed the most to growth in service-providing industries, adding 53,000 jobs, slightly more than the 49,000 in February. Expansion in trade/transportation/utilities grew by 36,000, about equal to the 37,000 jobs added in February. The 5,000 new jobs in financial activities mark the strongest pace of growth in the industry since November 2013. "The 191,000 U.S. private sector jobs added in March is slightly above the twelve-month average,” said Carlos Rodriguez, president and chief executive officer of ADP. “Hopefully, this could be a sign there is more growth to come." Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody’s Analytics, said, "The job market is coming out from its deep winter slumber. Job gains are consistent with the pace prior to the brutal winter. The gains are broad based across industries and business size classes. Even better numbers are likely in coming months as the weather warms." Payroll growth for businesses with 49 or fewer employees slowed slightly in March, adding 72,000 jobs, down from 76,000 in February and an average of 83,000 during the past 12 months. In contrast, job growth accelerated over the month for both medium and large firms and was at its strongest since last November. Employment among medium-sized companies with 50-499 employees rose by 52,000 and employment at large companies – those with 500 or more employees – increased by 67,000. Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Jae C. HongBetween virtual tours of space (both inner and outer) and simulations that let the notoriously male-centric gaming press see itself with female bodies, virtual reality has again captured the attention of tech trainspotters. It sometimes seems there’s no ceiling to their enthusiasm. Having tested a recent prototype of the Oculus Rift VR headset, Gizmodo‘s Eric Limer gushed over “[t]he squeal-demanding, face-melting, mind-bending, soul-rending miraculousness of the experience.” Finally overcome, he gave up on coherent description: “It’s just…. oh my God, you guys.” Palmer Luckey, one of the designers at Oculus VR, insists that, “This technology is going to revolutionize the way we live, learn, work, and play.” He’s talking about the perfection of a idea that’s been bubbling in the modern consciousness since Jaron Lanier coined the term “virtual reality” in the early 1980s—headsets that fill the wearer’s visual and auditory field with scenes of computer generated worlds. Every time the Oculus team surmounts another technical hurdle (like the nausea-inducing lag that’s long plagued VR), they invite another journalist in to show off their progress. After Oculus puts all the technical hurdles behind them, the headsets that have been the focus of so much attention over the course of the last year will cease to become the biggest obstacle to VR. The bigger question now is manage the expectations of consumers — because the one truth that’s gone largely unacknowledged as the technology has emerged is that it isn’t what many of us would recognize as virtual reality. Part of the problem lies in the name. The images most of us conjure up when we hear the words “virtual reality” were drawn against the backdrop of science fiction from the 1980s and ‘90s. By calling Oculus Rift a “virtual reality headset,” Oculus VR has implicitly linked its product back to the Holodeck, The Lawnmower Man, and William Gibson’s descriptions of near-bodily travels through cyberspace. Sensory immersion was one element of those cyberpunk visions, and that’s where today’s headsets have staked their claim. Still missing from the equation, though, is the sort of full-body interaction that’s long figured in fictional representations of VR. A recent upgrade to Oculus Rift introduced what the development team is calling “positional tracking,” meaning that the headset changes the onscreen perspective when you lean your torso. No doubt that’s a major technological achievement, but it isn’t exactly the sort of breakthrough that’s likely to bridge the gap between the reality of VR and our expectations for it. In fact, most VR demos released so far have been remarkably light on interaction. To help promote the upcoming season of Game of Thrones, HBO recently paraded around a “virtual reality experience” called “Ascend the Wall.” It involved standing passively in a protective cage while the Oculus Rift moved you through a scene from the show’s Northern border. “Generally, we tend to think of the VR as being as a tool for the future of 3D gaming,” wrote Mario Aguilar, who reviewed “Ascend the Wall” for Gizmodo. “In this case, it’s a little more of a guided tour type experience in which you can look around at what’s going on, but not necessarily control a whole lot of it.” Likewise, demos for Glyph—a VR headset that projects images directly onto the retina, rather than on screens inset into the goggles—have tended to highlight immersion over interactivity. When Rachel Metz tested Glyph for Technology Review, three of the four demonstrations were passive; two were just blockbuster movies streamed directly into Metz’s eyes. She only reports having played one game, a unnamed racer, which she controlled using a smartphone. That matters because the success of VR has been staked largely on its potential as a gaming system. Arguably, consciousness-raising VR experiences are more likely to achieve the sort of widespread cultural change Luckey predicts for VR. With the low-price point Oculus VR is striving to hit, though, the company is going to need to attract hundreds of thousands of customers to recoup the more than $75 million investors have poured into Oculus Rift development. It’s unlikely they’ll sell that many units on the promise of gender-swapping demos like Girl Mirror Look, or an educational piece like the VR weather balloon ride into space being built by England’s Surrey Space Center. Proving the commercial viability of the medium thus means courting gamers. For that, they’ll need a catalogue of games you can’t (or, at least, wouldn’t want to) play anywhere else. At the moment, that promise is based almost entirely on a single title: EVE Valkyrie, an outer space shooter that is at least partly controlled by movements of the players’ heads. Beyond that, you could look long and hard without finding an example of a VR game that wouldn’t be just as playable on a television. That’s highlighted by a handful of VR remakes of older console games, including the original Legend of Zelda, Pokemon Gold/Silver and Flappy Bird. The technology will have a hard time shaking its reputation as a novelty item if the majority of its games merely revamp existing games as first-person experiences. By most reports, what systems like Oculus Rift achieve is a higher degree of immersion. By flooding your visual and auditory senses, they confuse the spatial awareness that you’re sitting in a mundane room looking at video game worlds through a screen. That’s a selling point in itself, but developers like Luckey may not be doing their technology any favors by hyping it as a game-changer. If current projects are any guide to the future, you’ll still be controlling the action with a touchscreen or gamepad in most cases. With games like Titanfall pushing at the outer boundary of what’s possible when moving onscreen avatars though traditional games, VR platforms will need to make some major strides to avoid looking restrictive by comparison. I’m not holding my breath that we’ll be able to ditch those tethers any time soon. The problem with the full-body interactions of fictional VR systems is that they’d be enormously complicated and costly to implement in real life. Most people aren’t going to have the resources to devote a full room to VR, as in Star Trek: The Next Generation, or even for the sort of gyroscopic full-body harness that let characters tumble through the virtual worlds in The Lawnmower Man, and we’re still a ways off from the neural shunts that piped cyberspace directly into the brains of Gibson characters like Johnny Mnemonic. When the player is visually and auditorily cut off from the outside world, how do you keep them from tripping over the furniture or stepping on the family cat? The most affordable and practical answer is that you keep them anchored to the couch, tapping away at an interface they can hold in their lap. Even the goggle-and-gloves set-up of early 80s prototypes is a model we’ve mostly abandoned, thereby saving countless living room lamps and vases from blindly outstretched arms. In a market where even Kinect, Microsoft’s motion-tracking peripheral for the XBox, demands too much space for some consumers, retaining the control schemes of older platforms ends up being a practical concession, but also one that limits the amount of reality you can make virtual. Players who go in expecting the Holodeck may well be disappointed to find that they’ve essentially paid to strap their televisions directly to their faces. Few things could be more disastrous for the emerging technology than the possibility that consumers will come to perceive it as a gimmick. As with efforts to sell consumers on the idea of 3D television displays, the advantages of the format must consistently outweigh the costs—not just those of buying yet another device, but also those of making yourself effectively blind and deaf to your physical surroundings. There are a few things developers and marketers can do now to ward off that potential. They should start by distancing themselves from the term “virtual reality.” With Oculus Rift having gone so far as to include the initials in the company name, that won’t be easy, but the expectations conjured up by VR could be fatal to the technology’s commercial promise. The second imperative should be to invest in developing games—and not just games, but entire genres—that can’t be played as well without an immersive headset. The history of Nintendo consoles has shown that it’s not enough to experiment with hardware. If developers don’t take advantage of that hardware, then the road ahead will be a rocky one. EVE Valkyrie is a good start, but it’s difficult to say for sure how much mileage developers can get from that one conceit. Finally, it’s time to focus on a clear explanation of what gamers can expect from these rigs once they hit the shelves. Elaborating on possibilities that might not come to market for years likely won’t make the case to consumers underwhelmed by the slate of games that are available now. For players who just dropped half a grand on a next gen console or higher resolution television, a key question will be, “what can I do with a headset that I couldn’t do with my XBox or PlayStation?” Otherwise, they run the risk of becoming the next 3DO or Power Glove, video gaming devices that initially attracted a great deal of attention, but bounced off of the market with a resounding thud. It’s a strange state of affairs when a device that aims to make us more empathetic and better educated must first prove its appeal to demographic that makes best-sellers of Mario Kart and Grand Theft Auto. Yet if VR advocates hope to see the technology usher in the revolutions they expect of it, they need first of all to demonstrate that it’s the next credible step in the evolution of a medium littered with failed consoles and peripherals. Enthusiasm will only get us so far. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonTraders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.Stifel Nicholaus' Dave Lutz has a quick roundup of what traders are chatting about right now: Good Morning!  Equity Euphoria continues, as the FTSE All-World equity index overtakes 2007 peaks - Dovish hopes in China, Japan and US – a Rush into Sov debt as PIIGS Yields collapse – and cooling off of Ukraine tension all macro backdrops for the rally.  US Futures are adding 20bp early, mirroring gains seen over in Germany where volume remains light into the ECB tomorrow.   A familiar pattern has emerged of late, however, where global equities fall under pressure into the EU close, only to rebound sharply in the afternoon.   EM markets are strong, with India at Record Highs and the EEM working on a 10 day winning streak.   Japan added 1% as the $/Yen is the highest in almost 3 months, and China 50bp – but optimism buoyed the Aussie miners another 1% overnight.    Globally, Industrials continue their upswing, and globally Banks continue to have tailwinds. With Economic data strengthening in the USA, we have continued pressure in the Treasury complex, despite Yellen’s dovish overtures on Monday.   The 10YY is up another 2bp, and trying to get upside of the 100dma in early trade – we have not closed above 2.8% since January 23rd.    The DXY is mixed, caught between a weakening Yen, and the € seeing a cover bid as PIIGS yields collapse.   In Commodities, Copper is adding 1%, and holding near highs as a massive quake hits in Chile’s exporting region – while Silver and Gold are both seeing buying as precious metals near 2M lows.   The Energy complex remains under pressure, with WTI losing 50bp into the DOE inventory data later today – and Natty Gas is off 1% as warm weather hits the USA, and a very crowded trade unwinds.    Scheduled catalysts ahead of us today include the prelude to the NFP number – we get ADP employment data at 8:15.   At 9:45 we get ISM for NY, at 10 Factory Orders, at 10:30 the DOE data for Crude hits, 11 finds one of the largest POMO operations of the week, and we have 2 Fed Heads speaking – Lockhart at 12:30 (looks for Hike in 2H 2015) and Bullard at 4pm (He’s last said looking for a hike in Q12015) FREE AppDownload
APPeople on the Mexican side of the international border worship while Cardinal Sean O'Malley leads mass, Tuesday, April 1, 2014, in Nogales, Ariz.Good morning! Here's what you need to know. ADP's Private Payrolls Report. We get our first look at March jobs data today as ADP releases its employment report at 8:15 a.m. in advance of Friday's non-farm payrolls survey. Expectations are for a 195,000 increase in private payrolls from 139,000 in February. Economists are generally expecting the numbers in Friday's official report to be impressive. "While the median estimate stands at 200K -- up from 150K just one month ago -- BTIG thinks job growth could be on the order of 225K while many with whom we’re meeting have been speaking of a much stronger snapback," BTIG's Dan Greenhaus wrote in a note. "If you believe, as we do, that weather was instrumental in weighing on the economy more generally, then this number should provide evidence for just such a belief. Conversations with clients suggest we’re not alone in the “possibly stronger” camp. On that front, [today's] ADP report should be closely watched." New China Bitcoin rules. The FT reports China is preparing a fresh crackdown on Bitcoin. "The People’s Bank of China is considering whether to order the country’s banks to close Bitcoin trading accounts, according to people familiar with the matter. If that order goes through, it would eliminate the last major remaining channel by which people in China can buy the virtual currency." Virtu delays IPO. Michael Lewis' book on high-frequency trading continues to ripple through the market: "Virtu Financial, a high-frequency trading company, has delayed a planned US initial public offering after its bankers advised it to hold fire as this week’s publication of Flash Boys thrust the business of lightning fast trading into the spotlight," the FT wrote. Markets. Stocks are up around the world, led by the Nikkei at 1%. Gold and silver were higher. Bitcoin prices climbed 8% to $490.   Factory orders. The Census releases factory orders data for February at 10 a.m. Expectations are for a gain of more than 1% after a decline of 0.7% in January. Fed speeches. Atlanta Fed President Dennis Lockhart presents in Miami at 12:30 p.m. St. Louis Fed President Jim Bullard speaks in St. Louis at 5 p.m. Greek borrowing. Greece's borrowing costs have fallen to a 2010 low of 6.4%. "Yesterday Matina Stevis at WSJ reported that Greece is getting set to return to the market with its first long-term debt issue since the bailout," BI's Joe Weisenthal writes. "Obviously the pain has been wrenching, and much of it unnecessary. More than anything, what saved Greece is what saved all of Europe: The implicit commitment by Mario Draghi (made in the summer of 2012) to backstop Eurozone governments."  More easing in Japan? Corporate managers are skeptical the Bank of Japan can hit its 2% inflation target, meaning more easing could be in the offing. "The finding that corporate managers do not believe a 2% inflation target can be achieved in coming years should be a strong reason for additional easing," said Masamichi Adachi, economist at JPMorgan in Tokyo according to the FT. Charles Keating dead. The protagonist of the '80s and '90s savings-and-loans crisis passed away aged 90. "The S. &amp; L. debacle of the 1980s and 90s, when a thousand institutions collapsed in an implosion of reckless investments, may be a distant echo in a nation stricken by economic turmoil," the New York Times' Robert McFadden writes. "But to millions old enough to have been dragged through the mess, Mr. Keating is remembered, perhaps unjustly, as the pre-eminent villain of an era when depositors, many of them older Americans and naïve investors, lost life savings they had squirreled away in hometown thrifts they thought were safe." #MH370 disappearance now criminal. Malaysian authorities officially classified the disappearance of flight #MH370 as criminal, but said they may never solve the mystery. "At the end of the investigations, we may not even know the real cause. We may not even know the reason for this incident," the country's police chief said. FREE AppDownload
Spotify/The GuardianStreaming music service Spotify is rolling out a redesign across its web, desktop and mobile apps, with a darker theme and new feature for users to build collections of their favourite music. The revamp comes ahead of the anticipated debut of rival services from Apple and YouTube, possibly as soon as this summer. Meanwhile, one of the most prominent critics of Spotify, musician David Byrne, has returned to the theme in an article questioning streaming's sustainability for artists. Spotify says it spent six months working on the redesign, which is rolling out to its users from today. The new theme is heavy on black backgrounds, in an attempt to place more focus on album and artist artwork. "It's like when you go to the cinema, and they dim the lights, and the movie steps forward and takes over the room," Spotify's director of product Michelle Kadir told The Guardian. "When you log on to Spotify now, everything else is secondary except the music, which is popping." The new collections feature is called Your Music, and enables people to save songs and albums to a personal collection, providing an alternative to playlists – the traditional way that Spotify users have saved music for quick access. The Your Music section on Spotify can be browsed by songs, albums, artists or local files – the latter relating to music stored on the device being used. Individual songs in Spotify now have '+' symbols next to them for adding them to the collection, while albums have a prominent 'Save' button. "The modern user wants to personalize all the different products that they are using. We want to help them quickly find what they want," said Kadir. "Even in an access model, they want to keep track of everything they like." Your Music has been a long time coming: it was first trailed by Spotify in a press event in December 2012. It can be seen as an attempt to make the company's catalogue of more than 20m tracks less intimidating for mainstream music fans by mirroring the idea of a personal music collection, which they'll be familiar with from CDs and MP3s. Spotify's redesign also includes a tweak to its Browse feature, which suggests music for people to listen to in the form of playlists and popular albums. It will now spotlight themed playlists according to the time of day and week – for example, at the time of writing (8am on a Wednesday) it recommends a series of "Midweek Mornings" playlists. Both features represent Spotify catching up to competitors, to some extent. The collection metaphor has been a standard feature for rival Rdio for some time, while US streaming music service Songza debuted the idea of contextual playlists in 2012 with its "Music Concierge" feature – and it has since been adopted by a number of services. Spotify's redesign comes early in an important year for the company, as it plans more global expansion – Russia, Brazil and Japan are all high on its priorities judging by the company's recruitment activities in recent months – and faces up to the prospect of two of the biggest companies in the digital music world moving into direct competition with their own subscription streaming services. The New York Post claimed this week that YouTube will launch its long-awaited subscription music service this summer, charging people $5 a month for an ad-supported version, or $10 a month without the ads. It suggests that the service will initially launch through a "Music Pass" Android app. Meanwhile, Apple is thought to be accelerating its plans to launch a fully on-demand streaming music service under its iTunes brand, following the US debut last year of iTunes Radio, which streams personalized stations but doesn't allow users to pick and choose the songs and albums that they listen to. Music industry site Billboard claimed earlier this month that Apple had opened "exploratory talks" with music labels about launching such a service, in a response to sales of music downloads tipping into a decline after years of growth. This week's New York Post story returns to that rumor, quoting one source as claiming that Apple "have technology in place and can flip the switch at any time". The company's WWDC conference in June would be the logical time to unveil a streaming iTunes, alongside the next version of Apple's iOS software. Spotify's official stats claim the company has 24m active users and 6m paying subscribers. Those figures were last updated in March 2013, but industry sources tell The Guardian the company is nearing 10m paying subscribers now. Its biggest rival is Deezer, which claims 5m paying subscribers and 12m active users. According to industry body the IFPI, 28m people paid for streaming music subscriptions in 2013, generating $1.1bn of revenues for the music industry. Spotify says it paid out more than $500m to music rights-holders that year, taking it to more than $1bn since its launch in 2008. In 2014, Spotify isn't just facing competition from the big beasts of the technology world. It also continues to be the lightning rod for criticism from prominent musicians about whether the transition from music ownership to music access is a harmful one for artists. David Byrne, who made waves with his claim that "the internet will suck all creative content out of the world" in October 2013, has returned to the theme this week in an article posted on his website titled How will the wolf survive: can musicians make a living in the streaming era? In the piece, Byrne explores what will happen to musicians "when streaming becomes the new download", responding to several arguments in favour of streaming's impact on artists with questions and criticism, while setting out four suggestions for making services like Spotify more artist-friendly. They include labels giving artists a 50% share of income from streams of their music – something that is starting to happen – ensuring they have the right to approve whether or not their music is made available on streaming services; providing transparent accounting and sharing of data with artists from streaming services; and a suggestion that free on-demand streaming should be abolished: "Everything would transition to be a subscription-only service". For its part, Spotify has been tackling some of these issues, creating a website for artists in December 2013 that published more details of how its payouts were calculated, while also launching analytics for artists to better understand how their music was being streamed. • Spotify v Musicians: 10 things to read to understand the debate This article originally appeared on guardian.co.uk  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersThe Lehman Brothers headquarters in New YorkLONDON (Reuters) - Five years after Lehman Brothers' seismic bust and just two years after euro member Greece defaulted, the concept of being too big or too strategic to fail is alive and well. Although unwritten government guarantees of big banks have been at the heart of taxpayer outrage over being left on the hook for the missteps of giant corporations, few politicians or voters are keen to embrace another 'Lehman moment' or the global economic implosion that ensued. Tighter regulation on capital buffers and risk-taking, the insistence that banks have 'living wills' for any future workout procedure, creditor 'bail-in' bonds and even the ring-fencing of certain operations within banks have all been preferred routes to limit the exposure of both society and shareholders. Yet, as an International Monetary Fund study detailed this week, there's still a running assumption that governments would again rescue the biggest banks in the event of another panic. The IMF found that at least through 2012 the euro zone's biggest banks still benefited from an implicit taxpayer subsidy of $90 billion to $300 billion. Subsidies for UK and Japanese banks may have been as high as $110 billion and they ranged from $20 billion to $70 billion in the United States. So the risk, you might assume, is still loaded on the government's tab. Yet government borrowing costs across the western world and beyond have rarely, if ever, been lower. GREEK RETURNS Even far out on the risk spectrum, Greece - whose 2010 bailout and 2012 debt default has traumatized the euro zone for four years - looks set for the quickest and arguably most dramatic return in history of a sovereign bond defaulter to capital markets. A new public debt sale is expected by many later this year. While new debt issued by euro zone governments will from now on contain some form of workout prescription, or so-called Collective Action Clauses, the assumption of broad international support remains intact. Prospective bond buyers reckon the chances of Greek government, IMF or euro zone officials contemplating another private sector default by Athens in the foreseeable future are slim - for domestic political as well as bloc-wide stability reasons. There may well be further rescheduling or restructuring of official sector loans to Greece, but this would likely be seen as preferable to another protracted private creditor workout with little material relief to the long-term Athens debt load. And that's why some are saying Greece - a single B credit at best - could well borrow for five years at less than 6 percent. Fully funded for the next 12 months, Greece does not want another EU/IMF bailout either. "I have taken note of the optimism or let's say the ambition of the Greek government not to have another programme," euro group chair Jeroen Dijsselbloem said on Tuesday. And yet again - emboldened by the European Central Bank's landmark commitment to do 'whatever it takes' to keep the euro zone intact - Germany and the highly indebted euro zone sovereigns are enjoying multi-year lows in borrowing costs. So if political, systematic or strategic significance renders borrowers "too important to fail", as the IMF study described it, then how far does the calculation extend? Ukraine is a classic case in point. Despite horrendous public finances, a contracting economy, dwindling currency reserves and the annexation of part of its territory by a neighboring superpower, few now see Ukraine defaulting. Its bonds trade above 90 cents in the dollar - now more than 10 percent up from the nadir of the Crimea crisis. Perhaps the original deduction by Ukraine's biggest bondholders, such as Templeton Franklin's Michael Hasenstab - was that its strategic importance played out in sequential financial rescues, as first Russia and then the IMF swapped promises to keep the country from defaulting with giant bailout programmes. Hasenstab, now famous for making similarly strategic and contrarian bond bets on both Irish and Hungarian government paper, has seen his funds suffer redemptions of late but what looks like another 'too big to fail' bet could well come good. "I wouldn't say exactly that (Ukraine was) too important to fail, but it's a very important geopolitical situation and that means backstops will appear from unexpected places," said Exotix economist Gabriel Sterne. Moral hazard or not then, governments will still likely stand by key banks and countries considered critical to financial, economic or political stability. And - thanks largely to the power of central bank printing presses - the guarantors appear to pay little or no additional price for that support. For investors channeling ever larger amounts of savings to fixed income as prospective retirees "de-risk", the temptation of these well-chosen yield plays seems clear. So high yields may signal 'buyer beware', but only up to a point. And yet the more money that floods to relatively risky bond markets, the bigger the fear of just one miscalculation. "I don't think you can ever eliminate the possibility of another Lehman moment - all you can do is try to reduce the chances," said Chris Probyn, Chief Economist at State Street Global Advisors. (Editing by Hugh Lawson) FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersA "Price Reduced" sign is displayed on a home for sale in northern Virginia suburb of ViennaNEW YORK (Reuters) - Applications for U.S. home mortgages fell last week on lower refinancing demand, an industry group said on Wednesday. The Mortgage Bankers Association said its seasonally adjusted index of mortgage application activity, which includes both refinancing and home purchase demand, declined 1.2 percent in the week ended March 28. The MBA's seasonally adjusted index of refinancing applications fell 2.9 percent, while the gauge of loan requests for home purchases, a leading indicator of home sales, rose 0.9 percent. Fixed 30-year mortgage rates averaged 4.56 percent in the week, unchanged from the week before. The survey covers over 75 percent of U.S. retail residential mortgage applications, according to MBA. (Reporting by Caroline Valetkevitch; Editing by Leslie Adler) FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsThis should cause more stomachaches about Bitcoin bulls who think China is going to be big: The FT is now reporting that the People's Bank of China might be preparing harsh Bitcoin regulations. Several months ago, Bitcoin bulls were pointing to China as the future of the currency. But it never made much sense for the Chinese government to tolerate it. One of the primary advantages of Bitcoin is that it's good for getting around capital controls and other monetary regulations. Capital controls are one of the main tools with which China manages its economy, so naturally the government would take a hostile stance. The regulations reportedly being considered — and this has been reported elsewhere in other media already — is that banks would be banned from letting Bitcoin companies holding accounts, basically totally shutting them off from the financial system. The FT report says that Chinese Bitcoiners believe they can still operate in this environment, and that the real threat would be an outright ban on Bitcoin, essentially a ruling that it is simply illegal. Bitcoin has been hit hard in recent weeks, partly due to the China stuff, as well as the recent IRS ruling on taxes, which might place an onerous burden on Bitcoin users. FREE AppDownload
The Manhattan real estate market is hot. This infographic from Miller Samuel shows just how hot it is: Miller Samuel FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
This fact doesn't get enough attention. Greece's 10-year borrowing costs continue to fall and if you look at a 5-year chart we're getting closer to where we started. Graeme Wearden just tweeted this, as a reminder. Bloomberg With the steep drop in Greek borrowing costs, the country is getting ready to make its triumphant return to financial markets. Yesterday Matina Stevis at WSJ reported that Greece is getting set to return to the market with its first long-term debt issue since the bailout. Obviously the pain has been wrenching, and much of it unnecessary. More than anything, what saved Greece is what saved all of Europe: The implicit commitment by Mario Draghi (made in the summer of 2012) to backstop Eurozone governments.  FREE AppDownload
Thomson ReutersMexican billionaire Carlos Slim attends a presentation of a digital platform inside Soumaya museum in Mexico CityMEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Carlos Slim's phone and Internet giant, America Movil, has challenged a ruling by Mexico's new telecommunications regulator that says the company dominates its market. America Movil said Tuesday in statement filed with the Mexican stock exchange that it has filed an injunction against the regulator's ruling. Slim's America Movil, which has about 80 percent of Mexico's fixed-line business and some 70 percent of the mobile sector, was ruled dominant in its market by the Federal Telecommunications Institute (IFT). Mexico is trying to open up its phone and TV industries to more competition following last year's passage of landmark telecommunications reform that targets the vast market shares enjoyed by Slim and the country's No.1 broadcaster, Televisa. (Reporting by David Alire Garcia; Editing by Matt Driskill) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
The Non-Farm Payrolls report — AKA The Jobs Report – comes out on Friday, and people are starting to get excited. The Wall Street "consensus" estimate is in the 200K range, but optimism is building that the number could come in significantly higher. Here's Dan Greenhaus of BTIG (@danBTIG) relaying his talk with clients: While the median estimate stands at 200K -- up from 150K just one month ago -- BTIG thinks job growth could be on the order of 225K while many with whom we’re meeting have been speaking of a much stronger snapback. If you believe, as we do, that weather was instrumental in weighing on the economy more generally, then this number should provide evidence for just such a belief. Conversations with clients suggest we’re not alone in the “possibly stronger” camp. On that front, [today's] ADP report should be closely watched. The data lately hasn't been spectacular, but there's been clear improvement in March numbers vs. the January and February numbers, which makes the Spring Snapback argument much stronger. Just as the weather artificially depressed February and January numbers, March numbers may be artificially boosted. Yesterday's strong car sales for March offers a shape of what we could be talking about. Weak January and February, and then lights-out sales in March thanks to pent up demand. Calculated Risk   FREE AppDownload
Morgan Stanley takes stock of various regional surveys and notes that as the winter months fade, companies are saying they're going to spend more on Capex (capital expenditures) which is a bullish sign for the economy. Morgan Stanley They note that the recovery isn't absolute. It's a bounce, but there's still a ways to go to get back to the highs seen late last year. Still it's a step in the right direction. Whether this materializes into a sustainable boost for the US economy remains an open question. Last week at FT Alphaville, Cardiff Garcia had a great post, running through the various arguments that we are bound to see a lift in Capex in the second half of the year. FREE AppDownload
Andrew Turner via flickr Creative CommonsGood morning! Markets are higher, helped in part by global follow-through from yesterday's strong US economic data. The Nikkei continues to be a solid performer, tacking on another 1% last night. Shanghai rallied 0.5% and Hong Kong was marginally higher as well. In Europe, Germany's DAX is up 0.25%. US futures are just a hair higher. Jobs Week really begins in earnest today as the ADP report, a preview to Friday's Non-Farm Payrolls comes out at 8:15 AM ET. Confidence about this week's Jobs Numbers is starting to rise, as the weather thaws. Yesterday's strong car sales are getting people excited that things really came back strong in March. FREE AppDownload
