CEO Tim Cook tells Daisuke Wakabayashi of Wall Street Journal that over the past two weeks, Apple has purchased $14 billion, or roughly 3%, of its own shares.  Cook says he was "surprised" by the drop in Apple's stock after its earnings, and he wanted to be "aggressive" and "opportunistic" with the buybacks. Cook said this buyback "means that we are really confident on what we are doing and what we plan to do." In general, big share buybacks like this send a signal that a company believes it's underpriced.  Anonymous Apple analyst Sammy The Walrus IV pointed out on Twitter that this is the equivalent of Apple buying, "four Nests and a Motorola." Wakabayashi asked Cook if this was a sign Apple would shy away from making big acquisitions. Cook's response is fascinating: "We have no problem spending ten figures for the right company, for the right fit that's in the best interest of Apple in the long-term. None. Zero." This should provide a jolt for Apple tomorrow.  It should also get an interesting reaction from Carl Icahn, who has been hounding Apple to be more aggressive with its mountain of cash. As of last quarter, Apple had $159 billion in cash.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mohamed Al HwaitySaudi youths demonstrate a stunt known as "sidewall skiing" (driving on two wheels) in the northern city of Hail, in Saudi Arabia March 30, 2013. Performing stunts such as sidewall skiing and drifts is a popular hobby amongst Saudi youths.  MONEY can buy many things: luxury, influence, security--and even time. How frustrating, then, to be vastly rich but never quite to get what you want. Such is the dilemma faced by the world's richest family, the Al Sauds of Saudi Arabia. Their kingdom has sold the rest of the world around $1 trillion-worth of oil in the past three years alone, accumulating a hoard of sovereign assets nearly as big as its GDP of $745 billion. Immense new investments in infrastructure, industry, health care and education are spreading that wealth by the shovelful. A new underground-railway system for the capital, Riyadh, is to be dug, not one line at a time but all at once, with six full lines due to open by 2018. And this is just one rail project among many. The kingdom is to spend around $30 billion on mass transit for the cities of Jeddah and Mecca, as well as $12 billion on a high-speed link running 450km (280 miles) from Mecca to Medina, in addition to billions more on a national freight network. Yet rather than the ebullience you might expect, the mood among Saudi Arabia's 30m residents (a third of whom are foreign workers and their dependants) is one of nagging unease. Even as shiny new buildings, universities, "financial centres" and entire cities sprout, the machinery of government has remained as creakily top-down and tangled in red tape as ever. And even as Saudis grow ever more sophisticated and worldly--about 160,000 of them are studying abroad on government scholarships, and those left behind are among the world's heaviest internet addicts--social, political and religious strictures remain stifling. "The government keeps people quiet with money, and in the rare cases where that doesn't work, with threats," says a diplomat in Riyadh. "But this is not a happy place." For one thing, ordinary Saudis have no say in where the money is spent. All too often what they see, following the much-trumpeted princely opening of each new project, is vast empty buildings and unused facilities. What they hear is tales of which privileged courtier or business mogul has pocketed how much. Despite sharp polarisation between arch-religious conservative Saudis and more progressive types, there is general agreement on two points. One is that this is no time to rock the boat: the violence and unrest provoked elsewhere by the Arab spring have largely spooked Saudis into sullen silence. The other is that the kingdom's leadership is adrift. King Abdullah, now at least 90, is seen as beholden to a small circle of advisers and sons, with rival courts surrounding the 83-year-old crown prince, Salman, and other contenders for the succession. Amid the intrigue and jockeying, what stands out is a lack of imagination or vision. "At their age, they can't face a curve ball, or a googly, if you prefer the cricket terminology," says a Jeddah businessman. Saudi Arabia's neighbours and allies, too, are increasingly wary. Their concern is not just about internal strains. In recent years Saudi foreign policy has grown both more assertive and more erratic. It has achieved some modest successes. Long fearful of the Muslim Brotherhood, whose many quiet supporters in the kingdom represent one of the few potential threats to their own control, the Al Sauds strongly backed their removal from government in Egypt. Forceful Saudi intervention in neighbouring Bahrain also bolstered a friendly Sunni ruling family against what the Saudis perceived as a dangerous, Iranian-influenced Shia uprising. Saudi officials see themselves as having bested such rivals for regional influence as Iran and Qatar in those rounds. Yet Bahrain and Egypt remain both unstable and dependent on continuing Saudi largesse. Meanwhile, Saudi efforts to influence other regional contests, for instance in Iraq, Syria and Lebanon, have gone much less smoothly. The kingdom has been unable to match the determination, diplomatic skill or even financial investment that Iran has wielded to bolster its proxies in those fights. Worse yet, many of the clients it has favoured have turned out to be unreliable at best, or murderously fanatical at worst. "They have too narrow a bandwidth," judges a foreign diplomat. "It's barely enough to run their own country, let alone an ambitious regional agenda." It is not merely against their foes that the Saudis have stumbled of late. An initiative by the kingdom to push the Gulf Co-operation Council, a six-country club of rich Arab monarchies, towards political union was quickly torpedoed by Oman in December, much to the quiet relief of other members. More bruisingly, the Saudis also felt rejected by their oldest and strongest ally, America, when Barack Obama's administration failed to seize what they viewed as a golden opportunity to clobber Bashar Assad, Syria's ruler, after he used chemical weapons against rebel suburbs of Damascus in August. In apparent anger, the kingdom took the unprecedented step of declining a seat in the UN Security Council. "We used to be known for riyalpolitik," quips the businessman from Jeddah. "But now what we do is piquepolitik." Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Todd Korol Jeremy Grantham, whose GMO LLC investment firm manages $117 billion in assets, says the Great American Shale Boom is a dangerous waste of time and money. Grantham, who started his career as an economist at Shell, recently contemplated attending an anti-Keystone Pipeline demonstration in front of the White House.  In his new letter to clients, Grantham explains why any country, from the U.S. to China, still going down the path of developing fossil fuels is walking into a trap.  First, he argues we are overstating the benefits of switching to natural gas: “Fracking gas,” like all natural gas, is basically methane. Methane unfortunately is an even more potent greenhouse gas than CO2: at an interval of 100 years it is now estimated to be 32 times as bad, and at 20 years to be 72 times worse! If it leaks from well head to stove by more than 3%, it gives back its critical advantage and becomes no better than coal in its climate effect. Emissions, for whatever reasons, have not been carefully monitored. It would be nice, though, to know how fast we are roasting our planet. A series of tests in the next three years or so, privately funded, will measure leakages. In old cities with Victorian era gas lines, leakage will be terrible – probably 2% or 3% on their own. At some “cowboy” wells, emissions will be much higher than that.   Next, he discusses the links between fracking and earthquakes: Exhibit 1 [below]  is my favorite example of circumstantial evidence (presented initially in Science). You can see that in the Midwest earthquakes measuring over 3.0 on the Richter Scale occurred with the almost remarkable regularity of 17 a day on average. Decade after decade this pattern continued – producing a remarkably straight line – until 2002, when the line climbed steadily above trend, coincident with the drilling of fracking wells in the region. From 2002 until now the average has risen by over three times to 54 a day and peaked in 2011 at 171! There is no prize for pointing out that few, if any, individual incidents can be attributed to a particular well with certainty, but to me at least the connection is clear and statistically certain.. GMOGrantham then discusses why he believes fossil fuel drilling is a waste of time: Renewables growth, he says, is lapping the growth in all other forms of energy, and that it's pointless for the other guys to try to compete. Even in the expected event that there are no important breakthroughs in the cost of nuclear power, the potential for alternative energy sources, mainly solar and wind power, to completely replace coal and gas for utility generation globally is, I think, certain. The question is only whether it takes 30 years or 70 years. That we will replace oil for land transportation with electricity or fuel cells derived indirectly from electricity is also certain, and there, perhaps, the timing question is whether this will take 20 or 40 years. To my eyes, the progress in these areas is accelerating rapidly and will surprise almost everybody, I hope including me.   And here's the waste-of-money part: First, Grantham believes technologies costing billions to exploit things like tar sands, as well as those that would create "clean coal," will be rendered "stranded assets" by renewables. Meanwhile, he adds, we have deluded ourselves into thinking abundant shale oil equates to cheap shale oil: The real oil problem is its cost – that it costs $75 to $85 a barrel from search to delivery to find a decent amount of traditional oil when as recently as 15 years ago it cost $25. And fracking is not cheap. The fact that increased fracking has been great for creating new jobs should give you some idea: it is both labor- and capital-intensive compared to traditional oil. Also, we drill the best sites in the best fields first, so do not expect the costs to fall per barrel (although the costs per well drilled certainly will fall with experience, the output per well will also fall). No, fracking, like extracting tar sands, yields a relatively costly type of oil that you resort to only when the easy, cheap stuff is finished. Fracking wells also run off fast. We still get 10% of global oil from a single traditional field discovered in 1945 that is still chugging along. Fracking wells are basically done for in three years. They are definitely not your grandfather’s oil wells!  Grantham goes on to admit that he was wrong about peak oil. But we also must remember he was right about the Internet bubble, and the housing bubble.  So we should probably pay attention. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Lucas JacksonFA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. The Fallacy Of Buying Individual Bonds Over Bond Funds (Morningstar)  Many investors think they will be protected in the event of interest-rate rises if they buy individual bonds (and hold them to maturity) over bond funds. But Sam Lee, a strategist and editor of Morningstar ETFInvestor, thinks this is "absolutely false": "If you buy an individual bond and interest rates rise, the market price of that bond will fall. And just because you ignore the market price doesn't change that fact. When you invest in a bond when interest rates are low, you basically have locked in a stream of payments at that low interest rate. When interest rates rise, you can now actually get same stream of payments for a lower price. So, basically you've lost the opportunity to invest in higher-yielding assets. "And another way to think about this is with mutual funds. It's actually kind of fishy when you think about it that [people think] if you hold the bond in your personal account and you completely ignore its price, that somehow you're protected from interest-rate risk but that if you put it into a bond fund, suddenly interest-rate risk is all over the place and you are suddenly no longer safe. But that's also another fallacy because nothing changes about the future cash flows of a bond when you stick it in a mutual fund." Advisors That Want To Add Value Should Develop An Expertise (The Wall Street Journal)  The most important things an adviser can do are: develop a niche, understand their own limits and learn to delegate, writes Dave Polstra of Atlanta-based Brightworth in a new Wall Street Journal column: "One of the greatest challenges in my early work with executives was navigating the complexities of their benefit plans. These people had executive stock options, non-qualified options, appreciated securities inside of their 401(k)--all kinds of deferred compensation issues that are unique to executives. Those can be hard for anyone to get their head around. But in time, I built my base of knowledge and developed an expertise that was specific to these employees and their company. "...We're well-versed in the different payout options of their supplemental pensions, for example. We know about the stock options that vest only after an executive reaches a certain age. Those are significant details that most other advisers wouldn't be aware of and it's the kind of comprehensive knowledge that sets us apart as professionals." It Looks Like The US Markets Are Returning To Normal (Guggenheim Partners) Historically, rising equity prices have been associated with falling bond prices. But in the last few years they have been moving together "as both markets were inflated by floods of liquidity from accommodative U.S. monetary policy, which distorted the traditional relationship," writes Guggenheim Partners' Scott Minerd. Since the Fed first mentioned tapering its asset purchase program, however, "markets began returning to more normal correlations, driven not by expectations of continued quantitative easing, but by the economic outlook." Guggenheim Partners Some Wonder If The Sec Has Taken On More Than It Can Handle (Investment News)  The SEC has recently announced a bunch of reforms, but many are asking if the regulators can keep up, writes Mark Schoeff at Investment News. The SEC had been looking for a $353 million increase from fiscal 2013, but ended up with just a $29 million increase. While some think the SEC has been communicative, others like Brian Hamburger, president of MarketCounsel, think "there's been a huge gap between what the SEC says is important and where they choose to devote their resources." Here's A Look At Each Year's Big Stock Market Sell-Off Since 1980 (JP Morgan Funds)  After hitting an all-time high of 1,850 on January 15, the S&amp;P 500 hit a low of 1,737 this week. We've seen a 6.1% intra-year decline. JP Morgan Funds' David Kelly has a chart on the average larges annual intra-year declines since 1980. He finds that despite average intra-year drops of 14.4% annual returns in those years have been positive 26 out of 34 times.  JP Morgan Funds   FREE AppDownload
ReutersJeff Weiner, CEO of LinkedIn  LinkedIn announced its Q4 earnings. The stock is tanking in after-hours trading, and has been down as much as 10% due to weaker-than-expected outlook for Q1 of 2014.  Here's what the company delivered: LinkedIn now has 277 million members. The revenue is up 47% compared to $303.6 million in for the same quarter in 2012. LinkedIn also announced that it has signed an agreement to buy a company called Bright, which helps connect job seekers with employers. The transaction is valued at approximately $120 million.  Here's a chart of LinkedIn's revenues: LinkedIn  Business Insider Intelligence made this chart of LinkedIn's revenue sources: Business Insider Intelligence   Here's a look at LinkedIn's member and unique visitor growth: Business Insider Intelligence  Here's a chart of LinkedIn's engagement: LinkedIn FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nicholas RobertsJeremy Grantham, Co-founder and Chief Investment Strategist of GMO, speaks during an Oxford-style debate on financial innovation hosted by "The Economist" magazine at Pace University in New York October 16, 2009.GMO's Jeremy Grantham just put out his latest quarterly newsletter to GMO clients. And in it he has some high praise for Tesla.  In a section titled "Fossil Fuels: Is Tesla a Tease or a Triumph?" he writes that he recently took a drive in a Tesla and it was his "#1 car experience ever." From Grantham: "I recently took a drive in a GMO colleague’s Tesla from New York to Boston. Now, I am about as far from a car freak as you will easily find. I just turned in a 12-year-old Volvo that unfortunately had been sideswiped, for otherwise it was good for years more. But I have to say that my recent Tesla journey was my #1 car experience ever. "Three years ago I test drove a Tesla in Boston and it was a tinny, rattly, super-expensive toy. Its battery alone cost $50,000! Last month, its chief engineers suggested its cost today is $22,000. In three years they and other experts are confident that the battery will be less than $15,000 and probably its weight will have fallen also. The Tesla feels like the $75,000 vehicle it is and not simply adjusting for the fact that it is electric, but on its own merit. "Many of you will know that this vehicle has a range of 150 to 270 miles depending on battery size and that it received two prestigious car of the year awards along with being given the highest crash ratings of any vehicle ever! Consumer Reports gave it the co-equal highest ratings in the magazine’s 77 years! Even more importantly for me, there was this series of what I can only describe as my first iPad moment: “Wow, that’s cool!” And cool it was as the extreme acceleration pushed me back into the passenger seat for the first time in my life, aided, it must be said, by an exuberant new owner at the wheel. We had enough charge to reach Boston easily, but out of curiosity and in need of a coffee break, we stopped to charge the battery at the one and only charging station halfway home. Twenty-five minutes later, we were back on the road, fully charged up. And for free! (Full disclosure: I regrettably have owned no shares in Tesla." Elon Musk should be pleased with that. FREE AppDownload
SG Cross Asset ResearchSociété Générale economist Brian Jones predicts only 280,000 workers were added to nonfarm payrolls in January, well above the 180,000 consensus estimate. Jones doesn't stop at a prediction for how many payrolls were created in January, though. He also predicts exactly how markets will move immediately following the release. "The SG forecast is substantially above consensus and hence a positive intraday impact for risky assets is expected if our estimate materialises," says Jones. "We expect [the S&amp;P 500] to move up by 0.6% and the [10-year] USD swap rate by 5 basis points up in the first half-an-hour after the release." Jones says there is a statistical relationship between the deviation of the actual nonfarm payroll print from the consensus forecast and the market's reaction. "The relationship between asset changes around the release and the spread NFP versus consensus is measured by a regression (OLS)," says Jones. FREE AppDownload
eldh / Flickr, CCTwitter shares are down more than 24% today following the release of the social media network's first quarterly earnings statement since its initial public offering. Shares closed at $50.03. Shares had traded above $66 the day before. Although the company reported earnings of $0.02 per share — above analysts' consensus estimate of a loss of $0.02 per share — and revenues came in at $242.7 million (also above expectations), investors are honing in on weak user growth. Monthly active users were 241 million, up only 9 million from the previous quarter. In the U.S., Twitter grew its user base by only 1 million. Not only is the number of users growing at a slower pace, but the engagement of that user base is slacking off as well. On the call, analysts raised questions over the number of users that try Twitter and decide they do not like it. CEO Dick Costolo said the company was experimenting with new methods of improving the user experience and making it easier for new users to sign up. Today's drop sees shares trading at the lowest level since Dec. 12. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/ Lucas JacksonU.S. Attorney Preet Bharara has a perfect track record in insider trading convictions since the government's massive crackdown began in the fall of 2009.  Today, Bharara, also known as "The Sheriff Of Wall Street", convicted former SAC Capital portfolio manager Mathew Martoma in what the DOJ says is the "most lucrative" insider trading scheme of all time.  So far, he's 79-0 for convictions.  Of those convicted, 58 have been sentenced, while others are waiting.  What's more is there's still a handful of cases still pending. Here's a rundown of all the folks he's convicted to date:  U.S. Attorney NY's office U.S. Attorney NY's office U.S. Attorney NY's office     FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesIt was nice to see a healthy amount of green in the stock markets today. First, the scoreboard: And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial. FREE AppDownload
Courtesy of Laura NewlandLaura NewlandOn a cold January afternoon during my junior year at Duke University, I sat across from the most intimidating and influential judge I had ever faced — a Goldman Sachs banker and final-round interviewer for the preeminent bank’s summer internship program.  “So, Laura,” the banker, Aidan, said with a cheeky grin. He leaned back in his chair and, as he stared out the window, asked, "Why finance?”  This simple, straightforward question sounds easy. And for the college students doggedly pursuing this career path, it should be. Yet, explaining why I wanted to be a banker seemed far more daunting than facing any of the other highly probable scenarios that make Wall Street interviews infamous: convoluted brainteasers, unpredictable financial trivia, and bullying at the hands of your interviewer. As a 20-year-old who had never taken a finance course, I found it difficult to explain why I found banking interesting without mentioning money, status, or the fact that I simply did not know what else to do with my life. It would be not only shameful but disastrous to admit that after watching so many peers cash in their diplomas, I felt entitled to a piece of the action.  I submitted my application to Goldman just months after Duke’s class of 2008 set a powerful precedent: more graduates took jobs on Wall Street than anywhere else. And little has changed since the financial crisis — among the class of 2012, finance was the most popular industry for graduates of Harvard, Columbia, Duke, Georgetown, and even the University of Pennsylvania’s engineering school. At Princeton, the number of graduates heading into finance was nearly three times higher than the number entering medical school. My college experience was not supposed to unfold this way. When the coveted fat envelope landed in the mailbox of my family’s Alabama home, I had never heard of Goldman Sachs. A bank was that one-story building across from a gas station where my mom deposited checks and I took more lollipops than I was supposed to. Like many wide-eyed 18-year-olds with dreams of changing the world, I entered college with unbridled ambition, only to confront a harsh economic reality: undergraduate loans, the daunting cost of graduate degrees, and high unemployment. It is a common narrative among a generation that has come of age in a society that tells its youth that we can do or be anything but never mentions the suffocating price tag attached to our dreams. I was, unknowingly, a prime target for the Wall Street recruiting machine. The loans I acquired to help pay for college, and my parents’ frequent reminders of their own financial sacrifice, loomed large. And my dogged competitiveness, amplified on a campus of overachievers, predisposed me to the fight for the most coveted, selective opportunity on campus.  The college admissions guidebooks and campus tours — with all their talk of eccentric academic interests, liberal arts philosophies, and geographic and ethnic diversity — had neglected to mention that Wall Street’s most powerful banks would invade campus during my junior year, dangling prestigious summer internships. Or that the consulting industry, which exerts similar influence on campus, would do the same. I never planned to get sucked into the rat race. The odds, however, predicted that I would. The chase for these jobs is not just a defining characteristic of student life but an annual tradition, a rite of passage, and for many the climax of a college career. That I had never expressed an interest in finance should have been strike one against my Wall Street dreams. The banks, however, would manage to convince me that my financial ignorance was irrelevant. The more recruiting events I attended, the more I heard the same reassuring line from Duke-graduates-turned-bankers: “When I arrived at Duke, I didn’t even know what an investment bank was. I didn’t even know the difference between a stock and a bond! And now, look at me — I work at (insert name here)!” My strong aversion to the banking lifestyle was strike two. I had watched too many Wall Street-bound peers put their lives on hold and make significant sacrifices: friends, family, hobbies, and the careers they had expected to pursue. The idea of following in their workaholic footsteps was bleak, yet even this warning flag carried a caveat. The supersized egos, bonuses, and salaries make the drudgery seem thrilling. On a campus of overachievers, the 100-hour workweek has become an exhilarating challenge — the survival of the fittest. If other students can handle it, I reasoned, why can’t I? And then there was strike three: I launched my internship search in January 2009 while Wall Street was self-destructing and bringing the country down with it. There it is. Three strikes. Three reasons to abandon my short-lived investment banking fantasy. I should have bumped Wall Street off my list of potential employers, but I did not.  I looked my interviewer in the eye, sat up a little straighter, and cleared my throat. Then, with effortless delivery, I calmly and coolly tried to convince him why the hell I was doing this. I spoke of craving a challenge, thriving under pressure, and having a passion for numbers. I mentioned nothing of peer pressure, that I found finance utterly boring, or that I was intoxicated by the thought of earning a six-figure income before turning 23.  Although Aidan would know I was lying, this was irrelevant. I had told him exactly what he wanted to hear, what he needed to hear. I proved I could feed the very lines that bankers repeat again and again to convince others, and themselves, that they did not, in fact, sell out.  When I completed my performance, Aidan’s sly grin turned into a genuine smile. “Wonderful,” he told me. “This is just wonderful to hear.” That I was so good at answering Why finance? was the very danger of this question. I had rehearsed and delivered my response so many times, and in such a persuasive fashion, that I had begun to believe it myself. Because Wall Street granted permission to tell a lie, I did not have to face the truth.  Newland, ultimately turned off by the culture of Wall Street, did not end up joining Goldman Sachs or any other financial institution. She graduated in 2010 with a BS in economics and took a full-time position as a management consultant in Chicago.  An excerpt from "Chasing Zeroes: The Rise of Student Debt, the Fall of the College Ideal, and One Overachiever’s Misguided Pursuit of Success." Copyright © 2013 by Laura Newland.  FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Arnd WiegmannNEW YORK (Reuters) - For Robert McCann, who took control of UBS AG's loss-ridden U.S. brokerage business four years ago, 2013 proved to be a very good year. UBS Wealth Management Americas made $1 billion in annual pretax operating profit, hitting the "ambitious" target McCann outlined in early 2010, Switzerland's largest bank said in a statement accompanying its earnings report on Tuesday. The U.S. brokerage unit, formerly known as PaineWebber, also broke another barrier, ending the year with client assets of $1.02 trillion, up 16 percent from 12 months earlier. Consultants were disconcerted by some other numbers in the earnings report, however. Net new money collected by the business's 7,100 brokers fell by 44 percent in the fourth quarter of 2013 to $4.9 billion from a year earlier, while fee-based managed account assets grew about 7 percent in the quarter, well below growth rates at larger rivals Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley. "McCann has done a phenomenal job of increasing profitability, but there are some caveats," said Alois Pirker, head of the wealth management practice at consulting firmer Aite Group. "The net new money leaves a sour taste, and they've got to attack the fee area to keep up with competitors." Major brokerage firms have been incentivizing their brokers to put clients into fee-based accounts that produce revenue regardless of whether clients actively buy or sell investment products. Fee-based revenue that UBS calls "recurring income" grew 3 percent at the broker for the year while more traditional commissions rose 10 percent, the bank said. Pirker said the fee-based growth was disappointing while the firm's jump in assets came primarily from clients of newly hired brokers that McCann has been recruiting for several years with expensive pay packages. The recruiting has slowed somewhat, with recruitment "loans" that are forgiven if brokers stay for a fixed time period falling to $3.06 billion at yearend from $3.24 billion one year earlier. McCann, he added, has attacked expenses by, among other things, cutting thousands of low-producing brokers. At the end of 2013, costs fell to 85.9 percent of the U.S. brokerage's income from 90 percent in 2011, but were up from the third quarter on higher compensation. A spokesman for UBS Wealth Management Americas did not immediately respond to comment on the slowdown in new asset growth or the forgivable loans. SELLING THE BANK In the fourth quarter of 2013, the American wealth unit's pretax profit hit a record $254 million, up 17 percent from the third quarter and 64 percent from a year earlier. Excluding one-time charges, including those related to its parent company's restructuring, UBS Wealth Americas' profit rose 22 percent from the third quarter to $283 million. The spokesman did not comment on whether McCann and other executives he has recruited from his long career at Merrill are compensated on profit before the subtraction of costs allocated from the Swiss parent. Like other large brokerage firms owned by banks, McCann has been trying to guide his advisers to sell more bank products such as lines of credit, mortgages, insurance and trust services. The U.S. brokerage ended 2013 with $39.1 billion of client loans, up from $34.1 billion a year earlier. The loans were focused on credit lines to wealthy clients secured by stocks and bonds and residential property. UBS Wealth Americas brokerage force grew by 78 during the year to 7,137 advisers in about 320 branches. The average revenue they collected rose 14 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier to $1.04 million, which the bank said is higher than any of its peers. Average broker productivity at Merrill Lynch, which has just under 14,000 advisers, was $1.03 million at the end of last year. McCann's guidance of Wealth Management Americas appears to have scored points with UBS's group chief executive Sergio Ermotti, a former colleague from Merrill Lynch. "WMA's results are further proof that our strategy is working," Ermotti said on a conference call with analysts, adding that ultimate success will come from "strengthening our focus on banking and lending and cross-business collaboration." Looking forward, UBS executives said in a statement that global market conditions remain captive to "unresolved issues in Europe, continuing U.S. fiscal and monetary policy issues (and) emerging markets fragility," but also said that its global wealth businesses "will continue to attract new money, reflecting new and existing clients' steadfast trust in the firm." Profit at UBS's broader wealth management division grew 18 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, but margins were flat amid higher bonuses and other expenses. Some analysts said they were disappointed by the margin and so-so results in collecting new client assets. Switzerland's largest bank said its net profit swung to $1.02 billion in the fourth quarter, reversing a year-earlier loss, on a large gain from deferring taxes and stronger stock trading revenue. (Corrects net new money decline to 44 percent, not 55 percent, in fourth paragraph of story originally published on Feb. 4) (Reporting by Jed Horowitz, editing by Rosalind Russell) FREE AppDownload
In the wake of the financial crisis and great recession, the U.S. unemployment rate has tumbled precipitously from 10.0% to 6.7% in just four years. "Only three other times in the past six decades has the unemployment rate fallen this far this fast: in the early 1950s, when growth averaged 6.7% per annum; in the late 1970s when GDP growth averaged 4.8%, and in the mid-1980s when growth averaged 5.2%," said Gluskin Sheff's David Rosenberg to the U.S. Senate Budget Committee. "Today we accomplished this feat with only 2.4% growth which is disturbing because it means that it is not taking much in the way of incremental economic activity to drain valuable resources out of the labor market." Much of the decline in the unemployment rate has been due to the drop in the labor force participation rate (LFPR). And the drop in the LFPR has been due to a combination of aging demographics and an expanding group of discouraged workers walking away from the job market. "One theory that deserves examination is that we may have an abundance of separate benefits programs that provide for the disenfranchised in a very piecemeal and inefficient manner that are also perhaps abused or overly relied upon by some, which may lead to a distortion of work incentives," noted Rosenberg. He's talking about disability, food stamps, welfare, etc. While these programs are largely being used by those in need, we can't ignore the fact that many are taking advantage fraudulently. Whether these programs are being used legitimately or fraudulently, it's nevertheless stunning to see how much these programs have ballooned. Gluskin Sheff FREE AppDownload
Reuters/ Brendan McDermidMartoma pictured with his wife, RosemaryA jury in Manhattan federal court has found former SAC portfolio manager Mathew Martoma guilty of insider trading. Martoma was found guilty on all three counts (two securities fraud, one conspiracy). He faces up to 45 years in prison for all of those counts combined. Today's verdict also gives U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara a track record of 79-0 for insider trading convictions. "As the jury unanimously found, Mathew Martoma cultivated and purchased the confidence of doctors with secret knowledge of an experimental Alzheimer's drug, and used it to engage in illegal insider trading. Martoma bought the answer sheet before the exam — more than once — netting a quarter billion dollars in profits and losses avoided for SAC, as well as a $9 million bonus for him. In the short run, cheating may have been profitable for Martoma, but in the end, it made him a convicted felon, and likely will result in the forfeiture of his illegal windfall and the loss of his liberty. Mathew Martoma becomes the 79th person convicted of insider trading after trial or by guilty plea in this District in the last four years," Bharara said in a statement. In the meantime, the judge said Martoma can remain free on bail before his sentencing. In November 2012, Martoma — who worked at SAC subsidiary CR Intrinsic Investors — was charged in what the DOJ says is "the most lucrative" insider trading scheme in history. Prosecutors said that Martoma used negative confidential drug trial info in pharmaceutical companies Elan Corporation and Wyeth between summer 2006 and mid-July 2008. The fund was then able to exit those positions and short those stocks avoiding losses of $276 million.  SAC Capital, Stamford, Conn.-based hedge fund run by Steve Cohen, was criminally indicted last summer on insider trading charges. Federal prosecutors charged the fund "with criminal responsibility for insider trading offenses committed by numerous employees and made possible by institutional practices that encouraged the widespread solicitation and use of illegal inside information." In November, SAC pleaded guilty to criminal insider trading charges and agreed to pay a $1.8 billion fine.  The fund is currently in the process of finalizing its new corporate structure and picking a new name. SAC Capital will no longer manage outside capital and will operate as a family office fund. FREE AppDownload
Apple has decided to estrange itself to the Bitcoin community — the company has denied a number of apps entry to its App Store for having Bitcoin functionality. Some say it's due to the unclear regulatory issues surrounding the currency. Regardless, the takeaway is clear — no Bitcoin apps for non-jailbroken iOS users in the foreseeable future. Or at least until this guy clears his crowdfunding goal. Kyle Drake is asking the Internet for $55,000 in this Indiegogo campaign to build Coinpunk, an HTML 5 Web app that runs in Safari, Chrome, Firefox, and others to handle all your Bitcoin transactions. By making it platform-agnostic and Web-based, entities like Apple won't be able to block it. Drake seems to already have a barebones version working. Check out his pitch video below to see him use Coin Punk to buy a Subway sandwich with Bitcoin. In exchange for your monetary support, Drake is offering stickers, posters, and other perks. But where will that $55,000 go? They explain on their page: We will use the funds to help developers working on Coinpunk pay living expenses, pay server and development bills, improve coinpunk.com, fund improvements to watch-only address support, and conduct security audits. All of the funds will be stored in a cold wallet Bitcoin address, and we will document where Bitcoins are sent and why (and you will be able to confirm it via blockchain inspection).  Coinpunk HTML5 QR code transaction at Subway in Allentown from Kyle Drake on Vimeo. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Michaela RehleA polar bear cub rolls around on a grassy knoll.According to a survey of clients conducted by David Ader, head of government bond strategy at CRT Capital, traders are even more bearish than usual headed into the release of Friday's jobs report. Ader asked clients two questions, paraphrased below: "The results were definitively more bearish when compared to the norms," says Ader of this month's answers. 20% of respondents said they would buy if Treasuries went higher, "a tad more than the 17% six-month norm." However, 47% of respondents said they would sell in that event, well above the 39% average. Meanwhile, 33% said they would do nothing versus 44% on average.On the other hand, if Treasuries trade lower following the release, 24% of respondents said they would sell, above the 16% norm, while only 30% said they would buy, below the 41% average. And 46% said they would do nothing in that event — slightly above the 42% average. Compare these results with an interesting observation from Andrew Wilkinson, chief market analyst at Interactive Brokers: "According to current option market pricing, traders are also assigning greater risks that the current rebound [in the stock market] will be sustained into the weekend rather than expecting further selling. Using SPY options series expiring following the release of the employment report, the IB Probability Lab displays stronger likelihood that the underlying SPDR S&amp;P 500 ETF Trust will close higher than it is currently priced." In other words, according to these two anecdotes, market participants expect Friday's jobs release to be supportive for stocks and less so for bonds. FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesDemand for money-related jobs is picking up quickly, according to a new survey from CareerBuilder and the related Moneyjobs.com, which reports that 35 percent of employers in the financial services sector will be adding positions in 2014. In fact, Kevin Knapp, chief financial officer for Career Builder, says the financial services sector is enjoying a growth rate above that of other occupations. That’s good news for job seekers, especially given that CareerBuilder also found that one in five people working in the financial services field plan to switch jobs this year. The growth, Knapp says, is a direct result of the stock market improvement and monthly job creation, which has improved since the height of the Great Recession. Knapp says another factor is at play, too. Financial professionals help companies stay on top of their own finances, which is a top priority in the wake of the recession. “We sense that both American households and businesses are more conscientious than ever about their bottom lines, and are consequently looking to skilled professionals to achieve their respective financial goals. The list of the fastest-growing occupations in this sector, including personal financial advisors and financial analysts, reflects that demand,” he says. Knapp recommends that those looking for jobs in the financial services sector “proactively reach out to companies they would most like to work for,” in addition to keeping track of online job listings. “Today’s best-run companies recruit year-round in anticipation of future needs and set up talent networks in which interested candidates can submit their résumés for consideration for upcoming opportunities. This tactic is overlooked by many job seekers but is becoming an increasingly important way companies connect with motivated talent,” he notes. Even mid-career professionals can take advantage of these opportunities, he adds. “Many employees in non-financial roles are exposed to finance-related tasks during their day-to-day work and develop basic financial skills,” Knapp says. Supplementing with additional training or certifications can help them turn that experience into a new job. CareerBuilder and Moneyjobs.com report that these seven financial services jobs will grow particularly fast in the coming year: 1. Credit analysts, who earn a median hourly rate of almost $30, added almost 5,000 jobs over the last three years and will continue to enjoy above-average job growth in 2014. 2. Financial analysts, who bring home a median hourly rate of $36.82, experienced 7 percent job growth over the last three years. 3. Actuaries, who analyze financial risk, earn a median rate of $45 an hour and experienced a job growth rate of 6 percent between 2010 and 2013. 4. Personal finance advisors earn a median hourly rate of just over $32 and experienced 6 percent job growth over the last three years. 5. Credit counselors earn almost $19 an hour, and the number of positions grew by 5 percent between 2010 and 2013. 6. Financial examiners, which make sure companies and other entities obey the requirements and laws related to financial management, earn a median hourly rate of $36.44. The field grew by 5 percent between 2010 and 2013. 7. Accountants and auditors, who work on maintaining proper financial records, bring home $30 an hour. The field grew by 5 percent over the last three years. For more on the best business jobs, visit the U.S. News Best Business jobs list, which includes market research analyst, accountant and financial advisor.  FREE AppDownload
Mamta Badkar/Business InsiderThe eastern U.S.  has been miserable this winter. Relentless snowstorms have left roads and sidewalks cold and slushy. The iPhone's weather app thankfully lets you tack on a place that's much colder, presumably so you can always remind yourself that someone has it worse than you. Saskatchewan used to hold that spot on mine. But not anymore. I would frequently message my friends and remind them that we had it better than Saskatchewan. One of them, however, suggested Oymyakon, Russia instead. But I thought if I looked hard enough, I might find some place worse.  Enter: Verkhoyansk, Sakha Republic, Russia. Verkhoyansk and Oymyakon have been battling it out for title of the coldest inhabited place in the world. Cold tourism might have something to do with it. But Verkhoyansk is arguably more miserable. Here's why: Screenshot via BBCOn the day I first added  Verkhoyansk to my weather app, it said it felt like -72F. Today, it's -51F, but with wind chill feels like -69F. The sun rose 10:55 a.m today and it will set at 5:43 p.m. The average temperature is -49.7F in January. In July, it gets to 61.7F. It turns out Verkhoyansk, with a population of about 1,400, is part of an area dubbed 'Stalin’s Death Ring'. This is where Stalin sent his political exiles and before that the Czars too. Here are some terrifying excerpts from Michael Specter's 1994 piece in The New York Times: And this from Walter Mayr in Der Spiegel:   "The reality in modern-day Verkhoyansk means retirees spending a third of their pensions on firewood, despite already receiving a subsidy for about the same amount from the local government. Drinking water from the Jana River is delivered by tractor in the form of blocks of ice -- in return for cash payment. Local inhabitants are more than likely to sew their own indispensable "Untys," or boots made of reindeer fur, which can cost up to €500 in a retail shop. Old thermal clothing, free during Soviet days, is worn as long as possible. "With January temperatures corresponding to the average annual temperature on Mars, no one can stay outside for more than 15 minutes. The only way to prevent death from exposure is to wear the pelts and skins of animals that live above the Arctic Circle -- and to keep moving. Wood fires in roadside huts and car engines kept running throughout the day provide respite to anyone forced to spend time outdoors." A monument called "the pole of cold," greets people entering Verkhoyansk: Wikimedia Commons If all that wasn't terrible enough, the town was attacked by a "super pack of 400 wolves" in 2012, Roland Oliphant of The Telegraph reported, "forcing locals to mount patrols on snow mobiles until the government could send in extra help." The agriculture ministry claimed that the wolves killed 313 horses and over 16,000 reindeer in 2012. YouTube user Andre Grisell posted this video of Verkohyansk in December, 2006:  "What happens physically at and below -40 C is that the air can no longer retain any humidity, and any water vapor will instantly sublime and fall down as ice dust. This is the reason for the fog, which is inevitable below -40 wherever there's human activity. This fog consists of ice. This phenomenon will gradually suck out liquid from your body through your lungs, thus making you constantly thirsty and cause coughing. Bronchitis and pneumonia are common among natives and especially children."  Verkhoyansk, you've got me convinced. FREE AppDownload
APApple has removed another Bitcoin application from the App Store.  Blockchain, a Bitcoin wallet, says that Apple evicted it "due to an unresolved issue." The founder of Blockchain told Wired, "I think that Apple is positioning itself to take on mobile payments in a way they haven’t described to the public and they’re being anti-competitive." This doesn't make much sense, really. If Apple was anti-mobile payments it would ban PayPal, Square, and all the apps of banking companies.  So, what is the real reason Apple is banning Bitcoin wallets? It's because Bitcoin remains a murky proposition from a legal perspective.  In December Apple removed apps that were using Bitcoin for transactions. At the time, Bitcoin startup Gliph wrote a long post about Apple and Bitcoin. In that post, it highlighted rule 22.1 from the App Store's guidelines: "Apps must comply with all legal requirements in any location where they are made available to users. It is the developer’s obligation to understand and conform to all local laws." If you've followed the coverage of Apple and Bitcoin, this is the explanation that pops up over and over again.  Bitcoin isn't illegal in the U.S. It's not regulated though, either. It's in this weird in-between state. It's an unregulated currency. In other countries, Bitcoin is in a similar position. In China, for instance, financial firms aren't allowed to use it, and the biggest e-commerce company in China has banned it.   So, basically, it looks like Apple is waiting for legal clarity with Bitcoin before it starts approving apps that do Bitcoin transactions.  This is a bit of a problem for Bitcoin, which is trying to go mainstream. Despite Android's popularity, the iPhone is still the best platform for e-commerce.  Without iOS, Bitcoin is missing out on some of the most valuable mobile users.  FREE AppDownload
Markets are in the green early in the U.S. trading session. The Dow is up 155 points. The S&amp;P is up 17 points. The Nasdaq's up 43 points. In an encouraging sign for the U.S. labor market, initial weekly unemployment claims fell to 331,000 from 351,000 a week ago. While we can't completely rule out the possible distortive affects of weather, this week's number was nevertheless lower than the 335,000 expected by economists. "According to MNI, the Labor Department reported no special factors but noted that data for Kansas were estimated. as an ice storm forced state offices to close," said Barclays' Cooper Howes. Weather is likely to mess with upcoming data as well. "After last week's unexpected spike, this is something of a relief, though the latest bout of severe weather could easily push claims back up again for a time," said Ian Shepherdson of Pantheon Macroeconomics. "Still, claims have now been at or around the 330K mark in four of the past five weeks, so that seems to be as good an idea of the underlying trend as any. This means claims are no lower now than at the end of last summer, before all the Q4 distortions. But the pace of hiring seems to have improved despite static layoffs, so the trend in payroll growth has nudged higher. We are hopeful that claims will trend  lower over the course of H1, generating a further improvement in the job growth numbers." Markets across Europe are also up. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 1.5%. France's CAC 40 is up 1.7%. Germany's DAX is up 1.5%. Spain's IBEX is up 1.9%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 2.2%. The euro spiked as ECB president Mario Draghi made clear he would be announcing no change to monetary policy. There had been some speculation that the ECB could possibly lower rates or announce some new form of easy monetary policy in light of anemic economic and disappointingly low inflation data. FREE AppDownload
Scott Eells/Bloomberg via Getty ImagesGreen Mountain Coffee Roasters' stock surge likely has a big victim: David Einhorn's Greenlight Capital. Einhorn told attendees of his annual investor event on Jan. 21 at the American Museum of Natural History in Manhattan that Greenlight still had a short position in the coffee company. Green Mountain, long a favorite for hedge funds to bet against, got a major boost Wednesday when Coca-Cola announced that it would purchase a 10 percent minority stake in the company as part of a $1.25 billion deal. Share were trading around $80 late Wednesday. But the stock opened up more than 30 percent on Thursday at $108. (Read more: Coca-Cola to buy 10% of Green Mountain in $1.25 billion deal) Einhorn's presentation to investors at the January event--over cocktails and hors d'oeuvres--didn't include the size of the Green Mountain position, according to an investor in attendance. But the billionaire investor made it clear that his firm continued to believe its thesis on the company being overvalued. Green Mountain was one of Greenlight's largest losers in 2013, according to the person. Greenlight produced strong returns in 2013 regardless. The flagship fund gained 19.1 percent net of fees for the year, according to a Jan. 21 letter to investors. Top long winners in the fourth quarter included Apple,General Motors, Marvell Technology Group and Micron Technology. Losing shorts include positions in the Japanese Yen, Chipotle Mexican Grill and U.S. Steel,according to the letter. The letter makes no mention of Green Mountain. But an Oct.15 investor note said the Greenlight had added to its short position in the stock. In 2011, Einhorn famously criticized the company with a 110-slide presentation at the Value Investing Congress in New York City. (Read more: Greenlight adds to coffee short, likes new iPhone) A spokesman for Greenlight, Jonathan Gasthalter, declined to comment. -- By CNBC's Lawrence Delevingne. Follow him on Twitter @lawrencedelevingne FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ronen ZvulunBank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer speaks during an interview with Reuters in Jerusalem, September 4, 2007. Bloomberg's Josh Zumbrun reports Federal Reserve vice chair nominee and outgoing Israel Central Bank chief Stanley Fischer attained a net worth of up to $56 million in recent years, including up to $1 million from charging rents on property in New York City. "His largest single holding is residential real estate in New York City, valued between $5 million and $25 million," Zumbrun writes. "Fischer earned between $100,000 and $1 million in rent on the property, according to the disclosures." From 2002 to 2005, Fischer served as vice chairman of Citigroup, during which time he earned between $14.6 million and $56.3 million, "a sum that would make him one of the wealthiest Fed officials."  He will have to divest most of his stock holdings before he is confirmed. Fischer's nomination is expected to go before a Senate committee the last week of February. Click here to read Zumbrun's full story on Bloomberg » FREE AppDownload
FORTUNEThe new issue of FORTUNEFor the first time in history, exports of U.S. bourbon and Tennessee whiskey crossed the $1 billion mark in 2013. Thirteen years ago, there were 24 craft distilleries in America. Today there are over 430, and most either make or will make whiskey. Find new bottles with whiskey apps. Stay fresh with whiskey shaving cream. The question has to be asked: Have we reached peak whiskey? Are we at the top of the bourbon bubble? In the new issue of Fortune, New York Times editor and whiskey author Clay Risen chronicles whiskey's decades-long rise from solitary confinement to international fame. And Risen asks that critical question. "The whiskey industry has been in bubbles before, when spikes in demand drove up production, only to have sudden changes in consumer preferences pull the floor out from under it," Risen writes. Like in the 1950s, when Kentucky bourbon had its "golden age" as whiskey-soda became the national post-war drink. As they always do, American tastes changed. By the 1960s and 70s, people wanted vodka and tequila over the brown stuff, Risen writes. For distilleries, the problem with timing Americans' taste for whiskey is that it requires exactly that — timing. Unlike vodka, whiskey is aged, sometimes upwards of 20 years. Business models are based on current demand (that's why consumers can't get their hands on the mega popular Pappy Van Winkle, which is operating on a business plan from the 1980s).  Now distillers are on a building spree, Risen writes. "For the first time since 1977, distillers are sitting on nearly 5 million barrels, significantly more than one barrel for every man, woman, and child in the state of Kentucky." A similar boom happened with craft beer in the 1990s. And that should give some bourbon-lovers pause. From Fortune: If a bust comes, it will hit the craft sector hardest. Like any new industry being flooded by startups, only a relatively small number have the right combination of quality, talent, and management acumen to make it. Many people compare the present craft boom to craft beer in the late 1990s. “It got to where everyone and their brother was making beer,” says [Whiskey Advocate editor John] Hansell. Then, when the recession of the early 2000s hit, hundreds of those newbie breweries couldn’t stay afloat. “There will be a similar shakeout in distilling,” he says. Then again, the shakeout in brewing cleared the field for stronger craft producers, like Sierra Nevada and Dogfish Head, to expand rapidly in the subsequent decade. Will there be a bourbon bust? "Whereas the previous whiskey boom was mostly domestic, the global nature of the current expansion makes it unlikely that a correction will affect every market at the same time," Risen concludes. But if it does, only the strong liquids will survive — and maybe that's a good thing.   FREE AppDownload
So far, 2014 has been a volatile year for the stock market. The S&amp;P 500 has gone from its all-time high of 1,850 on January 15 to a low of 1,737 on Wednesday. This is a brutal 6.1% intra-year decline. For the year, the S&amp;P 500 is no down 5.2%. However, these big intra-year drops are very typical of the markets. Check out this chart from JP Morgan Funds' David Kelly. According to Kelly's research, the average largest annual intra-year drop since 1980 is a whopping 14.4%. This makes this year's sell-off look minuscule. More importantly, annual returns during these years have been positive 26 out of 34 times. Yes, the recent volatility hurts. But it's no reason to freak out. JP Morgan Funds
Thanks to @Laspeyres for pointing this out: mentions of the phrase "emerging markets" have exploded in the media over the past few weeks. In fact, as the chart shows, we haven't seen this much coverage of emerging markets since the 1997-1998 crisis. The data were retrieved using the Historical News Trends Graph function on the Bloomberg terminal. Business Insider/Matthew Boesler (data from Bloomberg) FREE AppDownload
ReutersPrince Alwaleed bin Talal does not and has absolutely never owned a diamond-encrusted Mercedes Benz, says a statement from his investment firm, Kingdom Holdings. Pictures associating Alwaleed with a Mercedes-Benz SL 600 adorned with 300,000 Swarovski crystals hit the internet back in 2010. From then on, his ownership of the car became kind of an urban legend. Stories said he would charge people $1,000 just to touch it. The rumor even caught on with some Middle Eastern media sources. Well Alwaleed had it with that, and now the prince would like to clarify that the car is and was not ever his. "The Private office of Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal would like to state officially that HRH Prince Alwaleed does not, and never has, owned or had any association with a 'diamond-encrusted Mercedes-Benz'" says the Kingdom Holdings release. "We would like to put this popular myth to rest. Any entity with questions about the Mercedes pictured in these erroneous reports should contact Garson/D.A.D, which appears to have manufactured and displayed a crystal-encrusted Mercedes-Benz SL 600, adorned with 300,000 Swarovski crystals, at various auto shows in the U.S. several years ago." Alwaleed has come under fire in the past from Forbes magazine for overstating his wealth. If you believe that, then it's hard to believe he would deny owning a car that reportedly costs between $1 and $4 million. Check out the car below: AP PhotoVisitors look at a Mercedes-Benz SL-600 covered by Swarovski's 300,000 gold shadow crystal pieces, designed by Japanese automotive accessories company D.A.D at Makuhari Messe in Chiba, east of Tokyo, Japan, Friday, Jan. 15, 2010. (AP Photo/Itsuo Inouye) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Eric Miller The U.S. has had a particularly harsh winter. January was the coldest in the U.S. since 1988, according to Bank of America's David Woo. The extreme weather has wreaked havoc across economic data, and economists have a had a particularly challenging time separating non-recurring distortions from the longer-term underlying economic conditions. Earlier today, we learned initial jobless claims fell to 331,000, lower than estimates. "According to MNI, the Labor Department reported no special factors but noted that data for Kansas were estimated. as an ice storm forced state offices to close," said Barclays' Cooper Howes. The latest ADP employment report showed fewer than expected workers were hired by private-sector firms. "Cold and stormy winter weather continued to weigh on the job numbers," Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody's said. The weather has also dampened home sales and home construction. "The housing data over the next few months will likely be difficult to interpret due to the harsh winter weather," Michelle Meyer said in a note to clients. "We expect the data to look quite weak, but believe it will prove temporary and look for a bounce back in the spring."  ISM and others have blamed cold weather for the poor manufacturing data. "We can say ignore today’s decline, it is due to inclement weather, but we really have to wait to see if the number bounces back after the weather warms back up in the next few months," Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi's Chris Rupkey said. U.S. auto sales also tumbled in January and yet again, cold weather was held accountable for slower retail sales. From the Journal of Commerce, cited by Dennis Gartman: "It’s affecting us all,” Jeff Heller, vice president of intermodal and automotive marketing at Norfolk Southern, said in reference to the frigid weather of early January at the SMC3 JumpStart 2014 conference in Atlanta Jan. 21. “We have more failures on the locomotive side, and when we get the trains running, traffic backs up at our terminals.” That was a full week before a three-inch snowstorm caused massive gridlock in Atlanta Jan. 28." BAML's Woo points out that there has been a 48% correlation between Q1 US GDP growth and average Q1 temperature over the past decade. One reason why Q1 GDP growth appears more sensitive to the temperature than Q4 GDP growth is that retail sales are more sensitive to the temperature in January and February, than in December. This most likely is because Christmas shoppers are less deterred by the weather than discount shoppers, he writes. BofA Merrill Lynch Of course, this will also make the FOMC's job harder when it comes to monetary policy changes. "Despite the recent turn in US data, we would urge caution against over-reaction," writes Woo. "One of the key lessons we have learned over the past three years is that extreme weather can play a big hand in driving data volatility at this time of the year (e.g., US in Q1 2012 and Europe in Q1 2013) and its effects, while often optically large, are almost always transitory." FREE AppDownload
Kawaii Kiri / Flickr, CC Much attention has been given to the competition between India and China for far-flung African resources. But perhaps the most tempting energy sources for each lie closer to home, in the Caspian region and Russia. It is here that much of the recent rivalry has been staged. Several recent Indian failures, in which firms from the subcontinent lost out to Chinese companies in deals in Russia and Central Asia, underline the extent of the mismatch between them. In recent years Chinese national oil and gas firms have made deep inroads in Russia and the Caspian, signing long-term oil and gas supply agreements. Exports via the Kazakhstan-China oil pipeline are rising (they were up by 14% in 2013); the Chinese spur of the East Siberia-Pacific Ocean (ESPO) pipeline makes China a 1m-barrel market for Russian crude oil; and China has overtaken Russia as the main customer for Turkmenistan's natural gas. China's success in locking in access to these resources owes to geopolitics coupled with simple accidents of geography, its infrastructure advantages, as well as superior financial clout and the large and growing scope of its energy needs. Shared borders with Russia and Central Asia, and stable relationships with these states, underpin China's lead over India (although India also enjoys strong ties with Russia). This is embodied in the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation, a Beijing-headquartered, security-focused group bringing together Central Asian countries, Russia and China in a single forum, at which India is a mere observer (like Pakistan, it wants to become a full member). Compare this with the situation facing India as it seeks access to Russian and Caspian oil and gas. Blocking the path of potential pipelines reaching India from Central Asia or Russia is Pakistan and, beyond that, Afghanistan. Thus, India's rivalry with Pakistan, and instability in Afghanistan, erect high barriers to a Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India (TAPI) gas pipeline, the long-discussed route designed to bring Caspian hydrocarbons to India. But foreign oil majors are unlikely to invest in the project given the current political and security climate across the region; Turkmenistan's unwillingness to allow overseas companies to book onshore reserves further deters them. For the same reasons, a recent proposal to lay an oil pipeline from Russia to India running parallel to the TAPI pipeline is equally likely to founder. In explaining why China holds the upper hand in its energy rivalry with India, superior Chinese commercial firepower is at least as important as politics. With weightier coffers than their Indian counterparts, and benefitting from better co-ordinated government support, Chinese oil companies can offer bigger and better terms. These include extra inducements, such as loans and access to the Chinese market. China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC) and Turkmenistan's national oil company, Turkmengas, aim to boost Chinese imports of Turkmenistan's natural gas to 65m cu metres/year by 2020. This target was tied to financing for the development of gas resources in Turkmenistan, and followed at least US$8bn in Chinese loans linked to long-term gas supplies in recent years. Similar agreements with Russia have featured "pre-payment" clauses and other financial boons. For example, in March 2013 the China Development Bank (CDB), a giant state policy bank, agreed to lend US$2bn to Rosneft, Russia's state oil firm. China has brought its financial armoury to bear twice in the past year to trump India in bids for two mega-projects. In September CNPC saw off Indian competition to buy an 8% stake, worth US$5bn, in Kazakhstan's massive but troubled Kashagan oilfield. (A few months earlier, India's flagship national oil company, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation, or ONGC, had tried to buy the share directly from ConocoPhillips of the US; instead, Kazakhstan's Ministry of Oil and Gas intervened to acquire the interest itself, before selling it to CNPC.) The existence of the Kazakhstan-China oil pipeline, facilitating exports, partly explains why Turkmenistan chose CNPC over ONGC. But the decisive factor was surely CNPC's ability to secure the Chinese government's financial backing, to the tune of US$3bn, for the project's second-phase development. A similar rout occurred in June when CNPC trumped ONGC's bid for a 20% stake in the US$20bn Yamal liquefied natural gas (LNG) project in the Arctic, where it will partner with Russia's Novatek and Total of France. Novatek later signed a 15-year LNG supply agreement with CNPC for at least 3m tonnes/year after Yamal comes online in 2017. Once again, Chinese capital, rather than geopolitical muscle or technical expertise, appears to have made the difference: choosing CNPC opens the way to soliciting credit from CDB and several Chinese commercial lenders. The Indian state, on the other hand, has been unable or unwilling to offer such preferential terms. In fact, its oil and gas corporations, including ONGC, struggle to raise capital themselves. During the past five years they have reportedly spent just US$13.6bn on buying up overseas assets, compared with Chinese outlays of US$107bn, according to data published in October 2013 by Bloomberg. Finally, foreign suppliers' decision to sell to China and not India amounts to a bet on the outlook for Chinese energy demand. The Economist Intelligence Unit estimates that China consumed more than two-and-a-half times as much oil and gas in 2013 as India did. Unsurprisingly, Chinese hydrocarbon imports are far greater than India's. The Economist Moreover, China's oil and gas market is set to become even more alluring compared with that of India. Our industry forecasts suggest that Chinese consumption of oil and gas will expand by nearly 90% in 2011-20, whereas India's will rise by a little less than 50%. This is yet another reason why energy companies and officials in Russia and the Caspian will continue to view China as a more favourable customer than India. If Indian oil companies have any call for optimism, it stems from CNPC's recent political difficulties. A corruption scandal has hit the upper echelons of the company, which has also been criticised for paying too much for overseas assets that bring little direct benefit to China. (Much of the output from foreign properties owned by Chinese national oil companies is sold into the global market, rather than being shipped back to China, and makes up a relatively minor proportion of the country's total imports.) The Chinese government will continue to underwrite overseas asset purchases in the name of shoring up China's energy security. But state support for loans-for-oil packages seems likely to falter somewhat, giving other oil majors the chance to pick up more international assets. If Indian firms reap the rewards, it will not be because of advances in their own competitiveness, but rather thanks to a partial Chinese retreat. Click here to subscribe to The Economist FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
Brean CapitalRecent turmoil in emerging markets has caused several central banks — including the Reserve Bank of India, the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey, and the South Africa Reserve Bank — to implement emergency rate hikes as their currencies tumbled. The results of a new Banamex survey released yesterday showed that economists believe the Bank of Mexico's next move will be a 25 basis-points rate hike as well. Russ Certo, head of rates at Brean Capital, passes along an interesting statistic: if you include Mexico, central banks in economies accounting for roughly 10% of global GDP are now hiking rates. "Ironically, all these moves are designed to counter the consequence and capital flow results of previous central bank policy," says Certo. "Remarkable, that all of these banks are tightening because of weak economic growth — not robust growth. World of opposites versus years ago, when tightening and easing was to stem the tide and ebb and flow of tanker-like shifts in economic activity. Now, they are to reduce or minimize the effects of imbalances related to previous central bank trends." The moves have sparked a lot of chatter about the start of a global rate hike cycle, especially given monetary policy developments in larger economies — like the U.S., China, and the U.K. — which point to tightening on the horizon. FREE AppDownload
TomoNews USSodaStream shares were up as much as 10% in pre-market trading to $39.48. In the first few minutes of trading they pared some of those gains going to $37.59. And are up about 5.6%. The stock was down as much as 13% after hours on Wednesday, after Coca-Cola announced that it is taking a 10% stake in Green Mountain Coffee Roasters.  Here's the line in the press release that had investors freaking out: "With The Coca-Cola Company as a global strategic partner in our multi-brand at-home Keurig Cold beverage system, we believe there is significant opportunity to premiumize and accelerate growth in the cold beverage category by empowering consumers with an innovative, convenient way to freshly prepare their favorite cold beverages at the push of a button,” said Brian P. Kelley CEO of GMCR. Following the news, Keybanc downgraded SodaStream to 'hold', from 'buy', reports Andrew Meola at TheStreet.com. There is some chatter that the rally in share price today could be driven by short-covering. Here's a look at what the stock is doing: Google Finance FREE AppDownload
In December, we told you about Distiller, a web-based whiskey discovery portal for the dabbler and connoisseur alike. Well, it's officially an app now available for iOS. Distiller helps you navigate the ongoing whiskey renaissance by prompting you with questions — How much are you willing to spend? Are you a beginner or an expert? — and then making bottle recommendations. "If you don't have the expert level of knowledge," founder Mikael Mossberg told Business Insider back in December, "How do you choose?" Distiller makes the choice for you. It employs a cast of whiskey Iron Chefs — everything from bar owners to bourbon bloggers — to give tasting notes. It pumps your answers through an algorithm that organizes whiskey based on price point, availability, and flavor profile. Then you can keep track of the bottles you like. Check out how it works. Distiller First you have to answer a series of questions. Distiller Distiller Distiller Distiller Distiller Distiller  And then it gives you a rec. Distiller You can check out more details and find other similar brands. Distiller Distiller Distiller There you have it. We think it's pretty cool. You can download Distiller at the App Store here.  FREE AppDownload
Dr. Ed's Blog The plunge in valuation multiples since January 15 is reminiscent of similar downdrafts during previous corrections of the current bull market. There are many valuation models, but most strategists agree that P/Es are significantly influenced by the prospects for interest rates and earnings growth. I focus on the Aaa-rated corporate bond yield (compiled daily by Moody’s) and analysts’ consensus expectations for S&amp;P 500 earnings growth over the next five years (compiled by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S). I find that the trends in the spread between these two important variables are similar to the trends in the forward P/E of the S&amp;P 500. The bond yield has been edging lower this year, while growth expectations remain relatively high around 11%-12%. Given recent developments among emerging economies and some weaker-than-expected indicators for the US and Europe, investors seem to be reassessing the prospects for earnings growth and reducing the valuation multiple they are willing to pay for earnings in a slower-growing world. I think investors may be overreacting to some of the weak indicators, particularly January’s M-PMIs for China and the US. Interestingly, J.P. Morgan’s Global PMIs remained near recent cyclical highs during January for the composite (53.9), manufacturing (53.0), and services (53.8). Dr. Ed's Blog Today's Morning Briefing: Something Wicked This Way Comes? (1) Another anxiety attack. (2) Will tapering trigger an EM-led contagion? (3) From East Asia EMs to US subprime mortgages to EZ-PIIGS. (4) Message from a friend in UK. (5) Less irrational exuberance in P/Es. (6) Are investors turning too pessimistic on revenues growth? (7) Is it different this time for profit margins? (8) Risk to margins may be weak pricing rather than rising costs. (9) Focus on overweight-rated S&amp;P 500 Financials. (More for subscribers.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Ralph OrlowskiMario Draghi.As expected, the ECB elected to leave its benchmark refinancing rate unchanged at 0.25% in February. The deposit facility and marginal lending facility rates were also left unchanged at 0% and 0.75%, respectively. Many are concerned about disinflation in the eurozone — the latest data released last week revealed an unexpected drop in year-on-year inflation to 0.7% — but cutting rates to combat it probably isn't worthwhile. "It is hard to make an argument for the decidedly marginal improvement that a 0.1-0.15 percentage point change would make," says Lorcan Roche Kelly, a strategist at Agenda Research. "It also would do very little to improve the one short-term problem the ECB is more likely to be worried about — liquidity." In his monthly press conference and Q&amp;A with reporters following the release of the decision, ECB president Mario Draghi said the ECB was ready to take further measures if needed — indicating no new changes to policy today — and the euro took off. Draghi was asked specifically about whether the ECB could cease to sterilize the bond purchases it makes under its SMP program. Draghi said it is one instrument they could use to ease liquidity conditions, but it was not discussed at this month's governing council meeting. When pressed about the inflation outlook, Draghi said low inflation over a prolonged period was a risk that could not be ignored, but he attributed the disinflation trend to low food and energy prices, and said he does not see deflation, citing stable inflation expectations. These comments gave the euro an additional lift. Draghi also said most of the discussion at the governing council meeting was focused on the need for additional information before implementing further policy measures. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsRussian billionaire Oleg Deripaska is financing a dog shelter's effort to stop the culling of strays as the Olympics begin, says the NYT. Thousands of stray dogs live in Sochi, and government authorities say they are wild and dangerous. That is why, according to animal rights activists, authorities have ramped up efforts to exterminate them ahead of Friday's opening ceremony. From the NYT: “We were told, ‘Either you take all the dogs from the Olympic Village or we will shoot them,’ ” said Olga Melnikova, who is coordinating the rescue effort on behalf of a charity called Volnoe Deloe (roughly, Good Will), which is financed by Oleg V. Deripaska, one of Russia’s billionaire oligarchs. Deripaska has already used his resources to finance the Olympics to the tune of $1.38 billion, according to Forbes. He is the CEO of Basic Element, an investment holding company with investments in everything from metals (especially aluminum) to airports. The Sochi airport, in fact, is one of his main contributions to the Olympic project. Forbes estimates that Deripaska's net worth at $8.5 billion. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
ECB president Mario Draghi is holding his monthly press conference, and the euro is up more than 100 pips against the dollar since it started. Right now, EURUSD is trading around 1.3590. It was as low as 1.3483 prior to the beginning of the press conference, and rose as high as 1.3600. The ECB elected to leave rates unchanged today, as was widely expected by market economists. In his opening remarks, Draghi said the ECB is ready to take further action to ease if needed — the implication that no new policy changes were being announced today. There was some discussion in the press and among market participants before the meeting that the Bank could take a number of measures to ease liquidity conditions, but it looks like it will pass on doing so for now. Moreover, Draghi shrugged off the latest inflation data, which revealed an unexpected decline in December. Draghi said low inflation over a prolonged period was a risk that could not be ignored, but he attributed the disinflation trend to low food and energy prices, and said he does not see deflation, citing stable inflation expectations. These comments gave the euro an additional lift. The chart below shows the euro-dollar exchange rate. Click here for updates from the presser » Thinkorswim FREE AppDownload
Jessica Rinaldi/Getty ImagesAOL CEO Tim Armstrong.AOL's earnings for Q4 2013 are out.  Revenue is up 13% year over year. Here's the score. It's a beat on revenue, but tiny miss on earnings per share: Revenue: $679 million (analysts expected about $655 million) EPS: $0.43 (analysts expected $0.46) AOL says this was the strongest revenue growth for the company in a decade. The stock is up about 5.6% pre-market. The company now has $207 million in cash on hand. It had $466 million a year ago. AOL had 120 million monthly unique visitors to its websites on average for the quarter. The company has 2.5 million Internet subscribers, down from 2.79 million (10%) a year ago. Another interesting breakout: AOL took a $5.8 million charge related to laying off staff members from the local news service Patch. This will be AOL's last Patch-related charge now that the division has been sold to Hale Global. Here's the revenues chart: AOL FREE AppDownload
TBIWeekly jobless claims figures are out. Initial claims fell to 331,000 in the week ended February 1 from an upward-revised 351,000 the week before, below consensus expectations for a smaller drop to 335,000. Continuing claims rose to 2.964 million in the week ended January 25 from a downward-revised 2.949 million in the previous week. Claims figures have been distorted over the past several weeks due to seasonal factors. "Following several months of volatility induced by computer problems in California, the federal government shutdown, and the holiday season, this week's print was likely a 'clean read'," says Guy Berger, a U.S. economist at RBS. FREE AppDownload
Canadian PacificU.S. trade deficit widened in December to $38.7 billion. Economists were expecting $36.0 billion. November's print was revised to $34.6 billion from $34.3 billion. "Container data suggests imports increased over the month and exports pulled back following two months of strong growth," said Wells Fargo's John Silvia. From the U.S. Census Bureau: In December, the goods deficit increased $4.6 billion from November to $58.8 billion, and the services surplus increased $0.4 billion from November to $20.1 billion. Exports of goods decreased $4.3 billion to $132.8 billion, and imports of goods increased $0.3 billion to $191.6 billion. Exports of services increased $0.8 billion to $58.5 billion, and imports of services increased $0.3 billion to $38.4 billion. Here's the full release » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Yuya ShinoA pedestrian holding his mobile phone is reflected on an electronic board showing the graph of the recent fluctuations of Japan's Nikkei average outside a brokerage in Tokyo February 5, 2014. Good morning. Here's what you need to know. — The ECB elected to leave its benchmark refinancing rate unchanged at 0.25% today. The euro is trading lower against the dollar in the wake of the announcement. The press conference with ECB president Mario Draghi at 8:30 AM ET will likely center on the Bank's options for further liquidity provisioning in the eurozone should the outlook deteriorate further. — Shares of GM are taking a hit in pre-market trading following the release of quarterly earnings results that missed on the top and bottom lines. The company said the earnings miss was largely because of restructuring costs, but also because of higher taxes. — The Bank of England elected today to leave its benchmark policy interest rate unchanged at 0.5% and maintained the target for its asset purchase program at £375 billion. The pound is strengthening a bit against the dollar and the euro in the wake of the announcement. — S&amp;P 500 futures are higher and U.S. Treasury note futures are lower after a day in the red for both yesterday. Gold is also gaining, while the dollar is up slightly against the euro and down slightly against the yen. European equity indices are rallying after a mixed session in Asia — the Japanese Nikkei 225 closed down 0.2% while the Hong Kong Hang Seng advanced 0.7%. — Sony is selling its personal computers business and spinning off its TV business into a separate unit, and will cut 5,000 jobs worldwide this year. The company plans to make 100 billion yen per year of cost cuts under its new restructuring plan. — Twitter shares are down more than 20% in pre-market trading following the release of its first quarterly earnings statement since its initial public offering. Although the company reported earnings of $0.02 per share — above analysts' consensus estimate of a loss of $0.02 per share — and revenues came in at $242.7 million (also above expectations), investors honed in on weak user growth. Monthly active users were 241 million, up only 9 million from the previous quarter. — Shares of Green Mountain Coffee Roasters are up over 40% in pre-market trading following the announcement that Coca-Cola will take a $1.25 billion, 10% stake in the company. The two will work on a cold beverage for the Keurig device. Shares of competitor SodaStream, meanwhile, are down more than 8% in pre-market trading. — German factory orders unexpectedly dropped 0.5% from the previous month in December after rising 2.4% on November. Economists were looking for a 0.2% gain. On a work-day adjusted year-over-year basis, orders were up 6.0%, down from 7.2% in November and below expectations of a 6.3% advance. — Weekly initial claims figures are due out at 8:30 AM ET. Economists predict initial claims fell to 335,000 in the week ended February 1 from 348,000 the week before. Continuing claims are expected to have risen slightly top 2.998 million in the week ended January 25 from 2.991 million in the previous week. Follow the release LIVE » — Monthly U.S. trade data are also released at 8:30. Economists predict the trade deficit widened to $36.0 billion in December from $34.3 billion in November. Another economic data release of interest out at 8:30 — though not market-moving — is fourth quarter nonfarm productivity and unit labor costs. Economists predict nonfarm productivity growth slowed to 2.8% in Q4 from 3.0% in Q3. Unit labor costs are expected to have fallen 0.7% in Q4 after falling 1.4% in Q3. Follow all of the data LIVE on Business Insider » FREE AppDownload
Chesapeake Energy says its capital expenditure for the year would fall about 20%.   FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Mike CasseseGM CEO Mary Barra.Shares of General Motors are sinking in pre-market trading following the release of quarterly earnings results that missed consensus Wall Street estimates on both the top and bottom lines. Right now, shares are down more than 5%. The company reported earnings per share of $0.67 in the quarter ended December 31, below consensus expectations of $0.87. Revenues totaled $40.5 billion, below the $40.9 billion estimate. The company said the earnings miss was largely because of restructuring costs, but also because of higher taxes. Click here for the full release » FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/David GrayA Qantas Airlines Boeing 737 plane sits next to a Virgin Australia Boeing 737 plane at the Port Hedland airport in the Pilbara region of western Australia December 3, 2013. Virgin Australia has been hammered on the market this week, falling in value by up to 16% yesterday amid analyst downgrades and some unusual trading patterns which prompted questions from regulators. It can’t explain the trading (the stock was up some 7% today) but the company said this morning it expected to post a loss in line with analysts’ forecasts of $49 million for the first half of the year. The capacity wars in Australian skies between Qantas and Virgin is proving bruising for both companies. Deutsche Bank also reduced its forecast today for Virgin for the half from a $27.5m profit to a loss of $46.2m, projecting a loss of $207.4m for the year. Combined with anticipated losses for Qantas, DB is now anticipating a combined loss of $818 million for FY14 for the two major airlines. In a note today analyst Cameron McDonald wrote: We always thought it was a $1b market – just not a -$1b market! Today’s downgrade sees our forecast for the two major airlines total a FY14 pre tax loss of -$818m. This is a far cry from our estimate of circa $1bn of available profit to be made from the domestic market during times when supply and demand are balanced (market profit to be shared among the individual airlines). At this stage we struggle to see how the airlines will reverse these losses in FY15 and currently forecast them to make a combined pre tax loss of -$282m before reaching profitability in FY16. The aviation sector especially prone to external shocks like oil price changes and currency fluctuations. The challenges facing the sector make for an interesting backdrop for Qantas management’s return to Canberra lobbying next week. This article originally appeared at Business Insider Australia.  Copyright 2014. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsNashville, TNYears after the recession took the life out of the U.S. economy, American cities are finally back on the growth track. In fact, 351 metro areas will see job gains this year, according to a new report published by the Conference of Mayors and produced by IHS Global Insight. "The North American energy boom will continue to create jobs, investment, and a competitive advantage in manufacturing," according to the report. A handful of cities are ahead of the pack. We pulled the cities from the report that saw GMP ("gross metro product") grow by 4% or more in 2013. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Bobby YipNEW DELHI (Reuters) - India has launched an investigation after a media report alleged that Chinese telecoms company Huawei had hacked into state-run telecoms carrier Bharat Sanchar Nigam, a senior government official said. "An incident about the alleged hacking of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd (BSNL) network by M/S Huawei ... has come to notice," Killi Kruparani, junior minister for communications and information technology, said in a written reply to a question from a member of parliament. "The government has constituted an inter-ministerial committee to investigate the matter," the minister said on Wednesday, without giving details. A senior government official said the decision to investigate came after a media report said Huawei had hacked a BSNL mobile base station controller. The official declined to be identified due to the sensitivity of the issue. BSNL declined to comment beyond the minister's statement. A spokesman for the communications and information technology ministry said he did not have details of the allegation. A spokesman for Huawei India denied any hacking. "Huawei India denies such alleged hacking and continues to work closely with customers and governments in India to address any network security issue that may arise in technical and business operations," the spokesman, Suresh Vaidyanathan, said in a statement. Vaidyanathan said Huawei, founded by a former officer of China's People's Liberation Army, fully complied with network security norms and regulations. The Indian government has launched investigations in the past based on media reports. Neighbors India and China fought a war more than 50 years ago and have a disagreement over their border. This is not the first time Huawei is facing scrutiny in India. In 2010, India blocked for several months domestic carriers' imports of Chinese telecoms equipment over suspicions that it might have spying technology embedded to intercept sensitive conversations and government communications. The unofficial ban was lifted after the Chinese makers, who had said their equipment was safe, agreed to new equipment rules with tougher checks. The United States has also flagged Chinese telecoms equipment as a potential security risk. In 2012, a U.S. panel urged American companies to stop doing business with Huawei and ZTE warning that China could use firms' equipment to spy on certain communications and threaten vital systems through computerized links. (Reporting by Devidutta Tripathy) FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Akhtar SoomroA computer screen is reflected in the glass window of a booth where a broker monitors the market at the Karachi Stock Exchange November 7, 2012. ISLAMABAD (Reuters) - Pakistan's Karachi Stock Exchange is investigating whether staff profited from years of unauthorized access to real time trading data in a market that has rocketed more than 450 percent since 2009. The potential breach came to light after two whistleblowers accused senior staff of accessing sensitive trading data through a secure network and accessing emails without authority, according to confidential documents seen by Reuters. Some board members expressed concern the access could have allowed the staff to benefit because they knew of individual buy and sell orders, the documents show. Any suggestion that staff may have illegally profited from having access to real-time market data stands to deal a blow to the KSE, where about a third of shares freely available to investors are held by foreigners. In the first public acknowledgment of the potential breach, KSE Managing Director Nadeem Naqvi told Reuters an investigation was underway into whether any individuals profited. "My primary focus from day one has been data security," he said. "The integrity of the exchange depends on this." With a market capitalization of $54 billion, the KSE is Asia's third-smallest stock exchange in U.S. dollars among those monitored daily by Thomson Reuters. Only Vietnam and Sri Lanka are smaller. Last year, the Karachi 100 stock index rose 38 percent in U.S. dollar terms, making it the 10th best performing stock market in the world. The index soared to a record of more than 27,200 points in January from less than 5,000 points in early 2009. Pakistani consultancy Sidat Hyder Morshed Associates, which was asked to investigate by the KSE, said in a report in December that senior IT staff were able to read staff emails and monitor trades conducted through secure systems in real time. It said "some IT staff" had this access, without giving a precise number. These members of staff could monitor individual unique identification numbers that track trading activity. The report also noted that former manager director, Adnan Afridi, had access to such trading data. He said this was because market surveillance teams reported to him. "There was no impropriety," he told Reuters. "A feed was available to my computer so I could see if there was anything we needed to take action on." Afridi noted that since reforms enacted last year, the managing director of the KSE is no longer responsible for market surveillance. Reuters has seen the consultancy's report and KSE minutes of board meetings where the issue was discussed. The documents are confidential. The consultancy did not investigate whether the staff had manipulated the market. Instead, it was asked to identify the whistleblowers and authenticate their claims. Naqvi said he was now investigating whether the staff had profited from the data. His team is expected to issue a report on its findings to the KSE board in two weeks, he said. The consultancy will also issue another report before March with recommendations for security upgrades of KSE systems, he said. The KSE did not retain deleted emails and did not log who was accessing emails or trading data, the consultancy's report said, making it hard to find evidence of manipulation. The report found that staff had apparently been tipped off to the investigation and may have deleted files. Sidat Hyder Morshed Associates declined to comment. Minutes of KSE board meetings show that members were concerned by the potential breach. "Persons privy to such information might be involved in front-running," said Mohammad Sohail, the minutes of a December 12 meeting show. Front-running is when insiders with privileged knowledge make a trade based on the information ahead of time or simultaneously. It is illegal in Pakistan. Another board member, Kamal Afsar, expressed concern that the security breach could have contributed to a 2008 stock market crash, which wiped two thirds off the value of the stock market. "Live market data was visible to selected persons which could have led to market manipulation," he said in a December 9 meeting, according to the minutes. "If the investigation is broadened, it may provide more disclosures." Afsar and Sohail did not respond to several requests for comment. The minutes show that many staff had their access to secure systems revoked, outside consultants were brought in to strengthen the security of the KSE systems and the whistleblowers were thanked, not disciplined. "I do not believe in letting bygones be bygones," said Naqvi. "If people exploited the system, we will find them." But the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan (SECP) is hobbled by a slow legal system in pursuing harsh penalties for offenders. If the accused contest their fines, cases can drag on for years, it says. However, critics say the SECP has other powers, including barring fraudsters from trading, which it rarely uses. (Reporting by Katharine Houreld: Editing by Neil Fullick) FREE AppDownload
Volvo Trucks / YouTubeSwedish truck maker Volvo said Thursday it is cutting 2,400 jobs in addition to 2,000 cuts the company, a leader in the global truck sector, announced in October. Sales fell by 9.0 percent from the 2012 level to 272.6 billion kronor (30.9 billion euros, $41.7 billion) last year, the group said. The truck market is closely linked to economic activity. Net profit fell by two thirds to 3.80 billion kronor (430 million euros). The job cuts affecting management, administrative staff and consultants are part of a restructuring launched in September to boost profitability. All of the cuts are due to take effect this year. At the end of last year, the company had 95,500 people on its payroll and employed nearly 15,000 consultants. Copyright (2014) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Societe GeneraleAmid the turmoil in the emerging markets, Societe Generale strategist Albert Edwards is as bearish as ever. "Our warnings throughout last year that an unravelling of emerging markets (EM) was the final tweet of the canary in the coal mine have still not been taken on board," he wrote in a new 6-page note to clients. "The ongoing EM debacle will be less contained than sub-prime ultimately proved to be. The simple fact is that US and global profits growth has now reached a tipping point and the unfolding EM crisis will push global profits and thereafter the global economy back into deep recession." Profits and profit expectations are ultimate what drive stock prices. And the worry is that fragile and weak profit growth is about to make a big turn for the worse. "One thing [SocGen's Andrew Lapthorne] has been highlighting for some months is just how incredibly anaemic profits growth has been in both the developed and emerging markets, the latter being particularly poor having contracted for the past two years," wrote Edwards. The widely followed measure of profit growth are adjusted or pro-forma, which often has the affect of boosting earnings. However, even these numbers don't look good. Check out this chart: Societe Generale, Albert Edwards Edwards pointed to this quote from Lapthorne: Of course even these MSCI figures have been flattered by a reduction in the share count plus lower interest rates and tax charges. If we look at overall growth in earnings before interest and tax, or indeed gross cash flow, we find that neither has really moved for the last couple of years. It would appear then, that at an aggregate level, most profit growth is the result of astute financial engineering rather than improving cash flow – yet another sign of a tired, long in the tooth, profit cycle.<U+0094> No one will dispute the fact that earnings per share growth has benefitted from low share counts, interest rates and tax rates. The bullish take on this is that interest and tax rates will stay low for a long time. Furthermore, cash rich companies will continue to buyback shares. However, a decline in overseas profits would be trouble for U.S. stocks as these companies generate around half of their revenue abroad. "The dire profits situation will only get worse as EM implodes and waves of deflation flow from Asia to overwhelm the fragile situation in the US and Europe," wrote Edwards. Meanwhile, all of this comes as the Federal Reserve tapers its stimulative quantitative easing program, which many agree is putting increasing amounts of pressure on the EMs. IMDB / New Line Cinema"Freddy's Revenge"It's worth noting that Edwards has been bearish during this entire multi-year stock market rally. But we can't help but admire his stick-to-it-tiveness. "And even if the Fed resumes massive QE at some point as the world melts down, and markets desperately attempt their return to the dream trance, they will instead find themselves locked into a Freddie Kruger-like nightmare in which phase 3 of this secular bear market takes equity valuations down to levels not seen for a generation," closed Edwards. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Nati HarnikWarren BuffettIn 2008 Warren Buffett made a bet against hedge fund Protégé Partners. The bet was fairly simple. Protégé Partners could pick a group of hedge funds to perform against a simple S&amp;P 500 index fund over the course of 10 years. Buffett bet $1 million that they couldn’t outperform the simple index. So, how’s that bet looking today?  Not so good given the huge run in the S&amp;P 500 in the last few years.  According to Fortune the hedge funds have returned just 12.5% while the S&amp;P 500 is up 43.8%.  But it hasn’t always been that lop-sided.  In fact, it looked pretty bad for Buffett in those first few years (I am just guessing that they’re using the HFRI since the HFRI just happens to also be up 12.5% since 2008): Pragmatic Capitalism This has the potential to look very bad for the hedge fund industry when all is said and done.   And the weirdest part is that they didn’t even agree to risk adjust the returns, which is the whole point of the hedge funds in the first place! So, in essence, they made a bet that they would generate stable returns and that the stock market roller coaster ride would just so happen to be on its way down when the 10 year bet happened to be ending.  They don’t even seem to have considered the fact that the S&amp;P 500 was bound to be SUBSTANTIALLY more volatile than the HFRI. And not surprisingly, it’s been almost twice as volatile thus far.  So that 43% looks good, but it doesn’t at all reflect the level of risk that’s being taken.  And since the bet involves the nominal return at the end of 10 years, no one will care about this when and if the hedge funds lose.  Which kind of defeats the whole point of the bet to begin with and will completely mislead the general public when the media inevitably runs with a story about how much better the index fund is than the hedge funds…. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/KyodoMarkets around the world are in the green. In what has been a very volatile year, this can be described as a rare sight. Britain's FTSE 100 is up 0.6%. France's CAC 40 is up 90%. Germany's DAX is up 1.0%. Spain's IBEX is up 1.1% Italy's FTSE MIB is up 1.1%. Later this morning, the European Central Bank will publish its latest monetary policy update. Most economists expect no change, however a few warn we could see an interest rate cut. This would come amid very anemic economic data highlighted by very low inflation. In Asia, Hong Kong's Hang Seng closed up 0.7% and Australia's S&amp;P/ASX is up 1.2%. Japan's Nikkei, however, closed down 0.1%. Electronics giant Sony announced a massive round of restrustructuring. Management expects to lose $1.1 billion for the year as it cuts 5,000 jobs. U.S. stock market futures are pointing to a higher open. Dow futures are up 82 points, S&amp;P 500 futures are up 10.7 points, and Nasdaq futures are up 22.7 points. FREE AppDownload
FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Brendan McDermidNEW YORK/LONDON (Reuters) - The plunge in emerging markets is taking a bite out of the performance of funds managed by some of the biggest names on Wall Street, including BlackRock, Brevan Howard and T. Rowe Price. Some mutual funds are already down 10 percent so far this year, thanks to declining stocks and currencies. And that drop has intensified selling pressure as investors rush to pull more money out. "It has been a disappointing beginning of the year," said Will Landers, a BlackRock equity portfolio manager with close to $4 billion in assets under management. The BlackRock Latin America Fund is off 10 percent this year. Generally, hedge funds appear to be weathering the sell-off better. Many managers reduced their exposure to emerging markets late last year because of shaky economic prospects, and the current volatility creates more opportunities for those who use short strategies. Emerging markets had been the darlings of the financial world between 2009 and early 2013, driven by a belief that countries such as China and Brazil would lead global growth in the next few years, while developed world economies would remain nearly stagnant. But emerging markets investors have turned nervous for many reasons, from the U.S. Federal Reserve's pullback in its bond buying program to upcoming elections in India, Brazil, Turkey, Indonesia and elsewhere. The street battles between protesters and the authorities in Ukraine, turmoil over elections in Thailand, and bomb blasts in Egypt are not helping either. So jittery are investors that a shock 425-basis-point hike in interest rates by Turkey's central bank last week did not even buy the currency a 24-hour reprieve before selling started again. Illustrative of this is the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets fund, which is down 9.7 percent in 2014 through Wednesday. The ETF - the second-most actively traded in the United States - ended last year down 5.8 percent and rose 17 percent in 2012. Fund investors worldwide pulled $6.4 billion from emerging market stock funds in the week ended January 29, their biggest outflows since August 2011, according to data from a Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Research report. And investors and analysts say that the debt markets can be just as treacherous. "I'd advise only those investors with much higher risk tolerances to invest in emerging market debt as they become much more volatile," David Sekera, corporate bond strategist with Morningstar, said on a webcast. Brazil, Latin America's largest economy, has dragged down many funds this year, including T. Rowe Price's Latin America Fund, which has declined about 11 percent. The Dreyfus Brazil equity fund and the Fidelity Latin America fund are also both down about 11 percent. Investors are still not swayed, however, to trim their exposure in Brazil. "Even after the 13-14-15 percent declines, I am sticking with my big bets. I am thinking long-term," said Jose Costa Buck, who oversees the T. Rowe fund, adding that he plans to hold many of his stocks for "at least three years." BlackRock's Landers shares the same sentiment and sees opportunity in the selling pressure. He said in an email to Reuters: "For a long-term investor, this offers an opportunity to buy some cheap stocks," citing Vale, down about 6 percent so far in 2014; Itau, down about 0.4 percent; and Ambev, down about 9.5 percent. Brazil is also grappling with other concerns, from outdated infrastructure to a stubbornly high inflation rate, and a reputation for state intervention that has spooked many investors. Landers cautioned that significant improvements in the Brazilian economy probably will not happen until after the October presidential election. Scott Mather, head of global portfolio management at Pimco, also signaled he sees the declines as an opportunity. He tweeted on Wednesday: "Indiscriminate selling in EM bonds &amp; panic buying of developed world is subsiding. Time for value investors to consider stepping in." Dreyfus and Fidelity declined to comment. Latin America is not the only weak spot: Funds focused on Russia, China, emerging Europe, and some other emerging market areas, are also down 9 percent or more so far this year. Some hedge funds have not been immune to the plunge. Brevan Howard's Emerging Markets Strategies Master Fund, one of the world's largest EM funds, was down 1.6 percent by January 24, data seen by Reuters shows. This follows losses of 15 percent racked up last year. Computer-driven funds that bet on price trends their models seek to predict - commonly known as commodity trading advisors - sank after volatility upended those models. Aspect Capital's main fund fell 5.64 percent in January alone, following a drop of 4.4 percent last year and 10.7 percent in 2012, data seen by Reuters shows. Winton Capital - a $25-billion plus fund that ranks as one of the largest in Europe - had lost a little more than 2 percent in its Futures Fund through January 29, performance figures show. It rose 9.4 pct in 2013 but fell 3.56 pct in 2012, according to data seen by Reuters. Still, some funds have gained, outperforming benchmarks. Among those are the Ashmore Emerging Markets Frontier Equity Fund, up about 2.5 percent, the HSBC Frontier Markets Fund, up 1.3 percent, and the Harding Loevner Frontier Emerging Markets Fund, up 1 percent. Credit managers have been selling out of local currency bonds - a big loser for long-only funds in January - in favor of dollar-denominated assets, reckoning the risk of further currency falls had grown, several investors in credit hedge funds said. A handful of macro funds, which profit from speculating on shifts in the global economy, have even made money after betting on the U.S. dollar rising. The flagship fund of Pharo Management, which runs around $3 billion in assets, had gained 2.2 percent by January 17, according to data seen by Reuters. Some currency funds also performed well, thanks largely to bets the U.S. dollar would strengthen. Boston-basedP/E Investments rose about 10 percent in the first month of the year, one of its investors said. Clem Miller, investment strategist at Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors, cautioned, however, that investors might not be ready to stop dumping emerging markets just yet: "Panic plays a big role when it comes to emerging markets." (Editing by Jennifer Ablan and Grant McCool) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Toru HanaiSony Corp President and CEO Kazuo Hirai (C) speaks as TV cameramen film during a news conference at the company's headquarters in Tokyo February 6, 2014.TOKYO (Reuters) - Sony Corp stepped up efforts to turn around its unprofitable electronics operations, quitting the personal computers business and splitting its TV division into a separate unit as it warned it expects steep losses this year. The Japanese company said on Thursday the restructuring will cut 5,000 jobs and trim 100 billion yen ($988 million) a year from fixed costs in the longer term. Losses in the TV business have long dogged its efforts to compete with global consumer electronics giants like Apple Inc and Samsung Electronics Co. With restructuring costs rising at the same time as core mobile and home entertainment businesses fall short of its expectations, Sony said it now forecasts a net loss of 110 billion yen ($1.1 billion) in the fiscal year ending in March. It previously expected a net profit of 30 billion yen. The job cuts, which will come in both TV and PC divisions, are to be implemented by March 2015. The cost savings are to kick in by the 2015-2016 financial year, Sony said. Sony said the Vaio PC division, as widely expected, will be sold to investment fund Japan Industrial Partners, which will set up a separate company to take over the operations. Financial terms of the sale weren't disclosed, but Sony will initially hold a 5 percent stake in that company. The TV operations will be spun off into a separate unit by July 2014, Sony said. Having last turned an annual operating profit in the 12 months ended March 2004, Sony's TV business piled up losses of 761.9 billion yen ($7.5 billion) in the nine fiscal years before the current one. Sony officials on Thursday said they expect to lose another 25 billion yen on TVs this year. Buoyed by a strong performance in its financial services unit in the October-December quarter, Sony posted an operating profit for the three months of 90.3 billion, up from 46.43 billion yen a year earlier. That was above a consensus forecasts of 71.9 billion yen, the average of estimates from six analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. But with core businesses like its smartphone, PCs, TVs and audio operations weaker than it expected through the first nine months of the fiscal year, Sony slashed its full-year operating profit forecast to 80 billion yen from the 170 billion yen it previously expected.          (Reporting by Sophie Knight and Reiji Murai; Editing by Kenneth Maxwell) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Francois LenoirMario Draghi.At 7:45 AM ET, the European Central Bank will announce its latest policy decision. At 8:30 AM, ECB president Mario Draghi will hold his monthly press conference. 62 of the 66 market economists polled by Bloomberg is that the ECB will leave its benchmark refinancing rate unchanged at 0.25%. Four of those economists, however — from BNP Paribas, Barclays, Danske Bank, and RBS — predict the ECB could reduce this rate by 15 basis points to 0.10%. Many are concerned about disinflation in the eurozone — the latest data released last week revealed an unexpected drop in year-on-year inflation to 0.7% — but cutting rates to combat it probably isn't worthwhile. "It is hard to make an argument for the decidedly marginal improvement that a 0.1-0.15 percentage point change would make," says Lorcan Roche Kelly, a strategist at Agenda Research. "It also would do very little to improve the one short-term problem the ECB is more likely to be worried about — liquidity." The ECB could do a few things to improve excess liquidity in the system, like reducing banks' reserve requirements or ceasing to sterilize the bond purchases it makes under its SMP program. Martin Enlund, a senior fixed income and foreign exchange strategist at Handelsbanken Capital Markets, believes additional measures such as these are unlikely to be announced this month. "We think the market is going to far in expecting a super-soft (mushy?) ECB," says Enlund. "The macro situation is not as clear-cut, and dreary, as commonly believed. The ECB could easily take a wait-and-see stance: 1) Fed tapering and rate hikes will eventually trigger a weaker EUR; 2) the V-shaped recovery in household sentiment suggests rapid improvement in consumption growth (from -1.5% yoy to +1.5% yoy) as well as an upturn in inflation to 1.6% by early 2015; 3) IFO suggests German GDP growth at 4% later this year; while 4) PMI composite are at levels where the ECB has never cut rates." Kelly believes the ECB will refrain from announcing anything new Thursday as well. "At the moment there just isn't enough crisis for even Draghi to act," says Kelly. "He is likely to talk about options for increasing liquidity tomorrow — he certainly will be questioned on them — but we feel he will wait a little longer before acting." FREE AppDownload
Warner Bros. PicturesThe only reason Guillermo del Toro's "Pacific Rim" would warrant a sequel is because of its popularity overseas.It's no secret Hollywood is becoming more and more dependent on the foreign box office to make a profit on films. China is currently the largest source of international box office earnings, and by 2018, it's predicted to be the number one source for box-office income. Thus it's no surprise that "Iron man 3" had alternate scenes for Chinese audiences and upcoming sequel "Transformers: Age of Extinction" was filmed in China. Which films received the biggest boost overseas last year? We looked at the top 100 grossing movies of 2013 from the biggest studios and narrowed it down to films where the overseas gross accounted for 70% or more of the film’s box-office gross. These films are ordered by increasing dependence on foreign earnings. FREE AppDownload
